—
MAH [ 401 ] MAH
MaKo fiderable time, and fupply them with food when no
H ripe fruit is to be had. When therefore they fee a
t. a °met*< great fhovv of new fruit on the trees, they ftrip them
all at once of their former crop, of which they make
mahie. This fuccedaneum for ripe bread-fruit is thus
made. They gather the fruit before it be perfedfly
ripe, and laying it in heaps, cover it clofely with leaves.
In this ftate it ferments, and becomes difagreeably
fweet; the core is then taken out entire, and the reft
of the fruit thrown into a hole in their houfes, dug
on purpofe, and neatly lined in the bottom and fides
with grais. The whole is then covered with leaves,
and heavy ftones are laid upon it. In this ftate it
undergoes a fecond fermentation, and becomes four;
after which it will fuffer no change for many months.
It is taken out of this hole as it is wanted for ufe, and
being made into balls, it is wrapped up in leaves and
baked, and thus drefled it will keep for five or fix
weeks. It is eaten, both cold and hot, and the natives
of thofe countries feldom make a meal without it 5 but
to Captain Cook and his company the tafte was as dif-
agreeable as that of a pickled olive generally is the firft
time it is eaten.
M AHO. See Hibiscus, Botant Index.
MAHOGANY. See Swietenia, Botany Index.
MAHOMET, or Mohammed, ftyled the Impo/lor,
was born in the reign of Anufhirwan the Juft, empe¬
ror of Perfia, about the end of the 6th century of the
Chriftian era. He came into the world under fome
difadvantages. His„ father Abd’allah was a younger
fon of Abd’almotalleb *, and dying very young, and in
his father’s lifetime, left his widow and infant fon in
very mean circumftances, his w’hole fubftance confift-
ing but of five camels and one Ethiopian (he-flave.
Abd’almotalleb was therefore obliged to take care of
his grandchild Mahomet •, which he not only did during
his life, but at his death enjoined his eldeft fon Abu
Taleb, who was brother to Abd’allah by the fame mo¬
ther to provide for him for the future j which he very
affeftionately did, and inftrufted him in the bufinefs of
* a merchant, which he followed j and to that end he
took him into Syria when he was but 13. He after¬
wards recommended him to Khadijah, a noble and"
rich widow, for her fatftor j in w'hofe fervice he be¬
haved himfelf fo wTell, that by making him her hulband
ftie foon raifed him to an equality with the richeft in
Mecca.
After he began by this advantageous match to live
tt his eafe, it wasf that he formed the fcheme of efta-
bliiTring a new religion, or, as he expreffed it, of replant¬
ing the only true and ancient one profeffed by Adam,
Noah, Abraham, Mofes, Jefus, and all the prophets,
by deftroying the grofs idolatry into which the gene¬
rality of his countrymen had fallen, and weeding out
the corruptions and fuperftitions which the latter
Jews and Chriftians had, as he thought, introduced
into their religion, and reducing it to its original pu¬
rity, which confifted chiefly in the worftiip of one
only God.
Before he made any attempt abroad, he rightly
judged that it was neceffary for him to begin with the
converfion of his own ho'ufehold. Having therefore
retired with his family, as he had done feveral times
before, to a cave in Mount Hara, he there opened the
fccret of his miflion to his wife Khadijah 5 and ac-
Vde. XII. Part II.
quainted her, that the angel Gabriel had juft before ap- Mahomet*
peared to him, and told him that he was appointed'
the apoftle of God : he alfo repeated to her a paffage
which he pretended had been revealed to him by the
miniftry of the angel, with thofe other circumftances
of this firft appearance, which are related by the Ma¬
hometan wuiters. Khadijah received the news with
great joy j fwearing by him in whofe hands her foul
was, that fhe trufted he would be the prophet of his
nation; and immediately communicated what ftie had
heard to her coufin Warakah Ebn Nawfal, who, be¬
ing a Chriftian, could write in the Hebrew chara&er,
and wTas tolerably well verfed in the fcpiptures 5 and he
as readily came into her opinion, affurihg her that tho>
fame angel w'ho had formerly appeared unto Mofes was
now fent to Mahomet. The firft overture the prophet
made was in the month of Ramads^i, in the 40th year
of his age, which is therefore ufually called the year of
his million.
Encouraged by fo good a beginning, he refolved to
proceed, and try for fome time what he could do by-
private perfuafion, not daring to hazard the whole af¬
fair by expofing it too fuddenly to the public. He foon
made profelytes of thofe under his own roof, viz. his
wife Khadijah, his fervant Zeid Ebn Haretha, to whom
he gave his freedom on that occafion, (which after¬
wards became a rule to his followers), and his coufin
and pupil Ali, the fon of Abu Taleb, though then
very young : but this laft, making no account of the
other two, ufed to ftyle himfelf the Jirjl of believers.
The next perfon Mahomet applied to was Abd’allah
Ebn Abi Kohafa, furnamed Abu Beer, a man of great
authority among the Koreilh, and one whofe intereft
he wxll knew would be of great fervice to him j as it
foon appeared : for Abu Beer, being gained over, pre¬
vailed alfo on Otbman Ebn Affan, Abd’alraham Ebn.
Awf, Saad Ebn Abbi Wakkas, A1 Zobeir Ebn al
Awam, and Telha Ebn Obeid’allah, all principal men
of Mecca, to follow* his example. Thefe men were
the fix chief companions, who, with a few more, w’ere
converted in the fpace of three years: at the end of
which, Mahomet having, as he hoped, a fufficient in¬
tereft to fupport him, made his miflion no longer a fe-
cret, but gave out that God had commanded him to
admonilh his near relations ; and in order to do it with
more convenience and profpefl of fuccefs, he dire&ed
Ali to prepare an entertainment, and invite the fons
and defeendants of Abd’almotalleb, intending then to
open his mind to them. This was done, and about 40
of them came 5 but Abu Laheb, one of his uncles,
making the company break up before Mahomet had
an opportunity of fpeaking, obliged him to give them
a fecond invitation the next day; and when they were
come he made them the following fpeech : “ I know
no man in all Arabia who can offer his kindred a more
excellent thing than I now do you ; I offer you happi-
nefs both in this life, and in that which is to come; God
Almighty hath commanded me to call you unto him :
Who, therefore, among you will be afliftant to me
herein, and become my brother and my vicegerent ?”
All of them hefitating, and declining the matter, AH
at length rofe up, and declared that he would be his
afliftant ; and vehemently threatened thofe who (hould
oppofe him. Mahomet upon this embraced Ali with
great demonftrations of affeftion, and defired all who
3 ^ w’ere
MAH [ 4°2
Mahomet, were prefent to hearken to and obey him as his depu- his
v " ty } at which the company broke out into a great
laughter, telling Abu Taleb that he mult now pay
obedience to his fon.
This repulfe, however, was fo far from difcouraging
Mahomet, that he began to preach in public to the
people 5 who beard him with fome patience, till he carne
to upbraid them with the idolatry, obitinacy, and per-
verfenefs of themfelves and their fathers : which fo
highly provoked them, that they declared themlelves
his enemies •, and would foon have procured his ruin,
had he not been protected by Abu Taleb. The chief
of the Koreilh warmly folicited this perfon to defert
his nephew, making frequent remonftrances againft
the innovations he was attempting; which proving in-
effeftual, they at length threatened him with an open
rupture, if he did not prevail on Mahomet to delill.
At this Abu Taleb was fo far moved, that he earneft-
ly diffuaded his nephew from purfuing the affair any
farther, reprefenting the great danger he and his friends
muff otherwife run. But Mahomet was not to be in¬
timidated *, telling his uncle plainly, t/uit if theij Jet the
fun again)} him on his right hand, and the moon on his
left, he mould not leave his enlerprife : And Abu T aleb,
feeing him fo firmly refolved to proceed, ufed no fur¬
ther arguments, but promifed to Hand by him againll
all his enemies.
The Koreilh, finding they could prevail neither by
fair words or menaces, tried what they could do by-
force and ill treatment } ufing Mahomet’s followers fo
very injurioufly, that it was not fafe for tnem to con¬
tinue at Mecca any longer : whereupon Mahomet gave
leave to fuch of them as had not friends to protedl
them to feek for refuge elfewhere. And accordingly
in the fifth year of the prophet’s million, 16 of them,
four of whom were women, fled into Ethiopia } and
among them Othman Ebn Affan and his wife Rakiah,
Mahomet’s daughter. This was the firft flight j but
afterwards feveral others followed them, retiring one
after another, to the number of 83 men and 18 wo¬
men, befides children. Thefe refugees were kind¬
ly received by the Najalhi, or king of Ethiopia j
who refufed to deliver them up to thofe whom the
Koreilh fent to demand them, and, as the Arab wri¬
ters unanimoully atteft, even profeffed the Mahometan
* religion.
In the fixth year of his million, Mahomet had the
pieafure of feeing his party lengthened by the con-
verfion of his uncle Hamza, a man of great valour and
merit} and of Omar Ebn al Kattab, a perfon highly
effeemed, and once a violent oppofer of the prophet.
As perfecution generally advances rather than obllrudls
the fpreading of a religion, Illamifm made fo great a
progrefs among the Arab tribes, that the Koreilh, to
fupprefs it effeftually if poffible, in the feventh year of
Mahomet’s million, made a folemn league or covenant
againft the Halhemites and the family of Abd’almo-
talleb, engaging themfelves to contraft no marriages
with any of them, and to have no communication with
them ; and, to give it the greater fanftion, reduced it
into writing, and laid it up in the caaba. Upon this
the tribe became divided into two fa<Tions; and the
family of Halhem all repaired to Abu Taleb, as their
head : except only Abd’al Uzza, furnamed Abu La-
hebt who, out of inveterate hatred to his nephew and
] MAH
doarine, went over to the oppofite party, whofe Mahomet^
chief wras Abu Sofian Ebn Harb, of the family of v
Ommeya.
The families continued thus at variance for three
years ; but in the tenth year of his million, Mahomet
told his uncle Abu Taleb, that God had mamlellly
Ihowed his difapprobation of the league which the Ko¬
reilh had made againft them, by fending a worm to
eat out every word of the inftrument except the name
of God. Of this accident Mahomet had probably fome
private notice : for Abu Taleb went immediately to.
the Koreilb, and acquainted them with it ; offering, it
it proved falfe, to deliver his nephew up to them j but
in cafe it were true, he infilled that they ought to lay
afide their animofity, and annul the league they had
made againft the Halhemites. To this they acquielced;
and going to infpeft the writing, to their great afto-
nifhment found it to be as Abu i aleb had faid j and
the league -was thereupon declared void.
In the fame year Abu Taleb died, at the age of
above fourfccre, and it is the general opinion that he
died an infidel: though others lay, that when he was
at the point of death he embraced Mahometanifm ; and
produce fome paffages out of his poetical compolitions
to confirm their affertion. About a month, or, as fome
write, three days after the death of this great benefac¬
tor and patron, Mahomet had the additional mortifi¬
cation to lofe his wfife Khadijah, who had lo generous¬
ly made his fortune. For which reafon this year is
called the year of mourning.
On the death of thefe two perfons, the Koreilh be¬
gan to be more troublefome than ever to their prophet,
and efpecially fome who had formerly been his inti¬
mate friends; infomuch that he found himfeli obliged
to feek for fhelter elfewhere, and firft pitched upon
Tayef, about 60 miles eaft from Mecca, for the place
of his retreat. Thither therefore he went, accompa¬
nied by his fervant Zeid, and applied himfelf to. two
of the chief of the tribe of Fhakif who were the inha¬
bitants of that place 5 but they received him very cold¬
ly. Hoxvever, he ftaid there a month ; and fome of
the more confiderate and better lort of men treated
him with a little refpea : but the Haves and inferior
people at length rofe againft him } and bringing him
to the wall of the city, obliged him to depart and re¬
turn to Mecca, where he put himfelf under the protec¬
tion of Al Motaam Ebn Adi.
This repulfe greatly difeouraged his followers. How¬
ever, Mahomet\vas not wanting to himfelf j but boldly
continued to preach to the public affemblies at the pil¬
grimage, and gained feveral profelytes } and among
them fix of the inhabitants of Yathreb of the Jewilh
tribe of Khazraj $ who, on their return home, failed
not to fpeak much in commendation of their new re¬
ligion, and exhorted their fellow citizens to embrace
the fame.
In the 12th year of his million it was that Mahomet
gave out that he had made his night-journey from
Mecca to Jerufalem, and thence to heaven, fo much
fpoken of by all that write of him. Dr Prideaux
thinks he invented it, either to anfwer the expeditions
of thofe who demanded fome miracle as a proof of his
million 5 or elfe, by pretending to have converfed with
God, to eftablilh the authority of whatever he (hould
think fit to leave behind by way of oral tradition, and
MAH
Mahomet, make kis layings to ferve the fame pnrpofe as the oral
" v ^aw °f the jews. But it does not appear that Maho¬
met himfelf ever expeded To great a regard ihould be
paid to his fayings, as his followers have fince done 5
and feeing he all along difclaimed any power of per¬
forming miracles, it feems rather to have been a fetch
of policy to raife his reputation, by pretending to have
adfually ccnverfed with God in heaven, as Mofes had
heretofore done in the Mount, and to have received fe*
veral inftitutions immediately from him, whereas be¬
fore he contented himfelf with perfuading them that
he had all by the miniftry of Gabriel.
However, this idory feemed fo abfurd and incredible,
that feveral of his followers left him upon it 5 and h?d
probably ruined the whole defign, had not Abu Beer
vouched for his veracity, and declared, that, if Maho¬
met affirmed it to be true, he verily believed the whole.
Which happy incident not only retrieved the prophet’s
credit, but increafed it to fuch a degree, that he was
feeure of being able to make his difciples fwallow
whatever he pleafed to impofe on them for the future.
And this ficHon, notwithftanding its extravagance, was
one of the rnoft artful contrivances Mahomet ever put
in practice, and what chiefly contributed to the railing
of his reputation to that great height t@ which it af¬
terwards arrived.
In this year, called by the Mahometans the accepted
year, 1 2 men of Yathreb or Medina, of whom 10 were
of the tribe of Khazraj, and the other two of that of
Aws, came to Mecca, and took an oath of fidelity to
Mahomet at A1 Akaba, a hill on the north of that city.
I his oath was called the women’1 s oath ; not that any
tvomen were prefent at this time, but becaufe a man
was not thereby obliged to take up arms in defence of
Mahomet or his religion ; it being the fame oath that
was afterwards exafted of the women, the form of
which we have in the Koran, and is to this effect : viz.
That they ffiould renounce all idolatry $ that they
fhould not fleal, nor commit fornication, nor kill their
children (as tne Pagan Arabs ufed to do when they
apprehended they fhould not be able to maintain them),
nor forge calumnies j and that they fliould obey the
prophet in all things that were reafonable. When they
had foiemnly engaged to all this, Mahomet fent one of
his diiciples, named Mafab Ebn Omair, home with
them, to inffruft them more fully in the grounds and
ceremonies of his new religion.
Mafab being arrived at Medina, by the affifiance of
thole who had been formerly converted, gained feveral
profelytes, particularly Ofaid Ebn Hodeira, a chief
man of the city, a,nd Saad Ebn Moadh, prince of the
tribe of Aws ; Mahometanifm fpreading fo faft, that
there was fcarce a houfe wherein there were not feme
who had embraced it.
1 he next year, being the 13th of Mahomet’s mif-
fion, iVTaiab returned to Mecca, accompanied by 73
men and two women of Medina who had profefied Ifla-
mifm, befides fome others who were as yet unbelievers.
On their arrival, they immediately fent to Mahomet,
and offered him their affiftance, of which he was now
in great need 5 for his adverfaries were by this time
grown fo powerful in Mecca, that he could not flay
there much longer without imminent danger. Where¬
fore he accepted their propofal, and met them one
night, by appointment, at A1 Akaba above mentioned,
[ 403 ]
M A H
attended by his uncle A1 Abbas; who, though he was Mahomet,
not then a believer, wifhed his nephew well, and made —*“
a fpeech to thofe of Medina, wherein he told them,
that as Mahomet was obliged to quit his native city,
and feek an afyliim elfewhere, and they had offered
him their proteftion, they would do well not to de¬
ceive him $ that if they were not firmly refolved to de¬
fend, and not betray him, they had better declare their
minds, and let him provide for his fafety in fome other
manner. Upon their protefting their fincerity, Ma¬
homet fwore to be faithful to them, on condition that
they ffiould protefl him againff all infults as heartily
as they would their own wives and families. They
then alked him what recompenfe they were to expert
if they ffiould happen to be killed in his quarrel ; he
anfwered, . Paradife. Whereupon they pledged their
faith to him, and fo returned home j after Mahomet
had chofen 1 2 out of their number, who were to have
the fame authority among them as the 12 apoftles of
Chrifl had among his difciples.
Hitherto Mahomet had propagated his religion by
.tair means 5 fo that the whole luccefs of his enterprife
beiore his flight to Medina, muft be attributed to per-
fuafion only, and not to compulfion. For before this
fecond oath of fealty or inauguration at A1 Akaba, he
had no permiflion to ufe any force at all j and in feve¬
ral piaces cf the Koran, which he pretended were re¬
vealed during his flay at Mecca, he declares his bufi-
nefs was only to preach and admonilh ; that he had
no^ authority to compel any perfon to embrace his re-
bgion ; and that, wffiether people believe or not, was
none of his concern, but belonged folely unto God.
And he was fo far from allowing his followers to ufe
force, that, he exhorted them to bear patiently thofe
injuries which were offered them on account of their
faith ; and, when perfecuted himfelf, chofe rather to
quit the place of his birth and retire to Medina, than
to make any refiflance. But this great paffivenefs and
moderation feem entirely owing to his want of power
and the great fuperiority of his oppofers for the firfl
12 years of his miffion ; for no fooner was he enabled
by the affiftance of thofe of Medina, to make head’
againft his enemies, than he gave out, that God had
allowed him and his followers to defend themfelves
againfl: the infidels ; and at length, as his forces increaf¬
ed, he pretended to have the divine leave even to at¬
tack them, and to deftroy idolatry, and fet up the
true faith by the fvvord ; finding, by experience, that
his defigns would otherwife proceed very flowly, if
they were not utterly overthrown ; and, knowing/ 011
the other hand, that innovators, when they depend
folely on their own ftrength, and can compel, feldom
run any rifk ; from whence, fays Machiavel, it fol¬
lows, that all the armed prophets have fucceeded, and
the unarmed ones have failed. Mofes, Cyrus, Thefeus
and Romulus, would not have been able to eftabliffi the’
observance of thfir inftitutions for any length of time
had they not been armed. The firft paffage of the
Koran, which gave Mahomet the permiffion of defend¬
ing himfelf by arms, is faid to have been that in the
22d chapter ; after which a great number to the fame
purpofe were revealed.
That Mahomet had a right to take up arms for his
own defence againfl his unjuft perfecutors, may per¬
haps be allowed j but whether he ought afterwards to
3 2 have
MAH r 404 1 M A H
have made u.'e of that mearvs for the eflablhhing of his
religion, it is not fo eafy to determine, flow far the
fecuiir power may or ought to interpofe in affairs of
this nature, mankind are not agreed. The method of
converting by the fword gives no very favourable idea
of the faith which is^ fo propagated, and is difallowed
by every body in thofe of another religion, though the
fame perfons are willing to admit of it for the advance¬
ment of their own : fuppofing that, though a falfe re¬
ligion ought not to be eftablithed by authority, yet a
true one may : and accordingly force is almoit as con-
ftantly employed in thefe cales by thofe who have the
powder in their hands, as it is conftantly complained of
by thofe who fuffer the violence. It is certainly one
of the moft convincing proofs that Mahemetanilm was
no other than a human invention, that it ow^ed its pro-
grefs and effablhhment almoft entirely to the fword ;
and it is one of the ftrongeft demon ft rations of the di¬
vine original of Chriftianity, that it prevailed againft
all the force and powers of the world by the mere dint
of its own truth, after having flood the affaults of all
manner of perfecutions, as well as other oppofitions,
for 300 years together, and at length made the Roman
emperors themfelves fubmit thereto ; after which time,
indeed, this proof feems to fail, Chriflianity being then
eflablifhed, and Paganifm aboliihed, by public autho¬
rity, which has had great influence in the propagation
of the one and deftrudlion of the other ever fince. But
to return.
Mahomet, halving provided for the fecurity of his
companions as well as his own, by the league offenfive
and defenfive which he had now concluded with thofe
of Medina, directed them to repair thither, which they
accordingly did j but himfelf w'ith Abu Beer and AH
ftaid behind, having not yet received the divine per-
miflion, as he pretended, to leave Mecca. The Koreifti
fearing the confequence of this new alliance, began to
think it abfolutely neceffary to prevent Mahomet’s
efcape to Medina •, and having held a council thereon,
after feveral milder expedients had been rejected, they
came to a refolution that he fhould be killed j and
agreed that a man fhould be chofen out of every tribe
for the execution of this defign j and that each man
fhould have a blow at him with his fword, that the
guilt of his blood might fall equally on all the tribes,
to whofe united power the Halhemites wrere much in¬
ferior, and therefore durft not attempt to revenge their
k'infman’s death.
This confpiracy was fcarce formed, when, by fome
means or other, it came to Mahomet’s knowledge j and
he gave out that it wTas revealed to him by the angel
Gabriel, wrho had now ordered him to retire to Me¬
dina. Whereupon, to amufe his enemies, he diredled
Ali to lie down in his place, and wvap himfelf up in
his green cloak, which he did j and Mahomet efcaped
miraculoufly, as they pretend, to Abu Beer’s houfe,
unperceived by the confpirators, who had already af-
fembled at the prophet’s door. They, in the mean
time, looking through the crevice, and feeing Ali,
whom they took to be Mahomet himfelf, afleep, con¬
tinued watching there till morning, when Ali arofe,
and they found themfelves deceived.
From Abu Beer’s houfe Mahomet and he went to
a cave in Mount Thur, to the fouth-eaft of Mecca,
accompanied only by Amer Ebn Foheirah, Abu Beer’s
fervant, and Abd’allah Ebn Oreitah, an idolater wdiom i^-ahon:
they had hired for a guide. In this cave they Jay
hid three days, to avoid the fearch of their enemiesj
which they very narrowly efcaped, and not without
the afliftance of more miracles than one : for fome lay
that the Koreilh were {truck with blindnefs, fo that
they could not find the cave 5 others, that after Ma¬
homet and his companions were got in, two pigeons
laid their eggs at the entrance, and a fpider covered
the mouth of the cave with her web, which made
them look no farther. Abu Beer, feeing the prophet
in fuch imminent danger, became very forrowful ;
whereupon Mahomet comforted him with thefe words,
recorded in the Koran, Be not grieved, for God is with
us. Their enemies being retired, they left the cave,
and fet out for Medina, by a by-road j and having
fortunately, or, as the Mahometans tell us, miracu¬
loufly, efcaped fome who were lent to purfue them,
arrived fafely at that city \ whither Ali followed them
in three days, after he had lettled fome affairs at
Mecca.
The firft thing Mahomet did after his arrival at
Medina, was to build a temple for his religious wor-
fliip, and a houfe for himfelf, which he did on a parcel
of ground which had before ferved to put camels in,
or, as others tell us, for a burying-ground, and be¬
longed to Sahal and Soheil the fons of Amru, who
were orphans. This aflion Dr Pndeaux exclaims
againft, reprefenting it as a flagrant inftance of in-
juftice j for that, fays he, he violently difpoflefled
thefe poor orphans, the fons of an inferior artificer
(whom the author he quotes calls a carpenter'), of this
ground, and fo founded the firft fabric of his worihip
with the like wickednefs as he did his religion. But,
to fay nothing of the improbability that Mahomet
fhould aft in fo impolitic a manner at his firft coming,
the Mahometan writers fet this affair in a quite differ¬
ent light : one tells us that he treated with the lads
about the price of the ground, but they defired he
would accept it as a prefent : however, as hiftorians
of good credit affure us, he aftually bought it j and
the money was paid by Abu Beer. Befides, had
Mahomet accepted it as a prefent, the orphans were
in circumftances fufficient to have afforded it : for
they were of a very good family, of the tribe of Naj-
jer, one of the moft illuftrious among the Arabs $ and
not the fons of a carpenter, as Dr Prideaux’s author
writes, who took the word Najjer, which fignifies “ a
carpenter,” for an appellative, whereas it is a proper
name.
Mahomet, being fecurely fettled at Medina, and
able not only to defend himfelf againft the infults of
his enemies, but to attack them, began to fend out
fmall parties to make reprifals on the Koreifh ; the
firft party confifting of no more than nine men, who
intercepted and plundered a caravan belonging to that
tribe, and in the aftion took two prifoners. But what
eftahliftied his affairs very much, and was the founda¬
tion on which he built all his fucceeding greatnefs,
was the gaining of the battle of Bedr, which was
fought in the fecond year of the Hegira, and is fo fa¬
mous in the Mahometan hiftory. Some reckon no lefs
than 27 expeditions wherein Mahomet was perfonally
prefent, in nine of which he gave battle, befides feve¬
ral other expeditions in which he was not prefent.
Hxs.
MAH [ 405 ] MAH
Mahomet. His forces he maintained partly by the contributions
v of his folknvers for this purpofe, which he called by
the name of zacat or alms, and the paying of which he
very artfully made one main article of his religion j
and partly by ordering a fifth part of the plunder to
be brought into the public treafury for that purpofe,
in which matter he likewife pretended to act by the
divine diredlion.
In a few years, by the fuccefs of his arms (not-
withftanding he fometimes came off by the wmrfl) he
confiderably raifed his credit and power. In the fixth
year of the Hegira he fet out wdth 1400 men to vifit
the temple of Mecca, not wdth any intent of commit¬
ting hoililities, but in a peaceable manner. However,
when he came to A1 Hodeibiya, which is fltuated partly
within and partly without the facred territory, the
Koreifh fent to let him know that they would not
permit him to enter Mecca, unlefs he forced his way;
whereupon he called his troops about him, and they
ail took a folemn oath of fealty or homage to him,
and he refolved to attack the city ; but thofe of Mec¬
ca fending Anva Hbn Mafun, prince of the tribe of
Thakif, as their ambaflador to defire peace, a truce
W'as concluded between them for ten years, by which
any perfon was allowed to enter into league either
with Mahomet, or wdth the Koreilh, as he thought
fit.
It may not be improper, in order to fliow the incon¬
ceivable veneration and refpeft the Mahometans by this
time had for their prophet, to mention the account
wdiich the above-mentioned ambaflador gave the Koreifh,
at his return, of their behaviour. He faid he had been
at the courts Isoth of the Roman emperor and of the
king of Perfia, and never faw any prince fo highly re-
fpedfed by his fubjedfs as Mahomet was by his compa¬
nions ; for, whenever he made the ablution, in order
to fay his prayers, they ran and catched the w’ater that
he had ufed j and, whenever he fpit, they immediately
licked it up, and gathered every hair that fell from him
wdth great fuperftition.
In the feventh year of the Hegira, Mahomet began
to think of propagating his religion beyond the
bounds of Arabia ; and lent meffengers to the neigh¬
bouring princes, with letters to invite them to Maho-
metanifm. Nor was this projedt without fome fuccefs.
Khofru Parviz, then king of Perfia, received his let¬
ter with great difdain, and tore it in a paffion, fend¬
ing away the meffenger very abruptly •, wdiich when
Mahomet heard, he faid God foall tear Ins kingdom.
And foon after a meflenger came to Mahomet from
Badhan king of Yaman, who w?as a dependant on the
Perfians, to acquaint him that he had received orders
to fend him to Khofru. Mahomet put off his anfwer
till the next morning, and then told the meffenger it
had been revealed to him that night that Khofru w-as
flain by his fon Shiruyeh : adding that he was well
affured his new’ religion and empire fhould rife to as
great a height as that of Khofru 5 and therefore bid
him advife his mafter to embrace Mahometanifm. The
meffenger being returned, Badhan in a few days re¬
ceived a letter from Shiruyeh, informing him of his
father’s death, and ordering him tp give the prophet
no further^ diflurbance. Whereupon Badhan and the
Perfians wfith him turned Mahometans.
The emperor Heraclius, as the Arabian hiilorians
ailure us, received Mahomet’s letter with great refpedl, Malromet.
laying it on his pillow, and difmilTed the bearer ho-  
nourably. And fome pretend that he would have pro-
feffed this new faith, had he not been afraid of lofing
his crown.
Mahomet wwote to the fame effedt to the king of
Ethiopia, though he had been converted before, ac¬
cording to the Arab writers ; and to Mokawkas, go¬
vernor of Egypt, who gave the meflenger a very fa¬
vourable reception, and fent feveral valuable prefents
to Mahomet, and among the reft two girls, one of
which, named Mary, became a great favourite with
him. He alfo fent letters of the like purport to fe¬
veral Arab princes j particularly one to A1 Hareth Ebn
Abi Shamar king of GhaiTan, wrho returning for an¬
fwer that he would go to Mahomet himfelf, the pro¬
phet faid, May his kingdom perijh ; another to Hawd-
ha Ebn Ali, king of Yamama, who was-a ChrifHan,
and, having fome time before profefled Iflamifm, had
lately returned to his former faith •, this prince fent
back a very rough anfwer, upon which Mahomet curb¬
ing him, he died foon after : and a third to A1 Men¬
der Ebn Sawa, king of Bahrein, who embraced Ma¬
hometanifm, and all the Arabs of that country followed
his example.
The eighth year of the Hegira was a very fortu¬
nate year to Mahomet. In the begirming of it, Kha-
led Ebn ^1 Walid and Amru Ebn al As, both excel¬
lent foldiers, the firfl: of whom afterwards conquered
Syria and other countries, and the latter Egypt, be¬
came profelytes to Mahometanifm. And foon after the
prophet fent 300c men againft the Grecian forces, to
revenge the death of one of his ambaffadors, who, be¬
ing fent to the governor of Bofra on the fame errand
as thofe who wrent to the above-mentioned princes,
was flain by an Arab, of the tribe of Ghaflan, at
Muta, a towm in the territory of Balka in Syria,
about three days journey eaftward from Jerufalem,
near which town they encountered. The Grecians
being vaflly fuperior in number (for, including the
auxiliary Arabs, they had an army of 100,000 men),
the Mahometans were repulfed in the firll attack,
and loft fucceflively three of their generals, viz, Zeid
Ebn Haretha Mahomet’s freedman, Jaafar the fon of
Abu daleb, and Abdallah Ebn Rawaha : but Khaled
Ebn al Walid fucceeding to the command, overthrew
the Greeks with a great daughter, and brought away
abundance of rich fpoil ; on occafion of which aflion
Mahomet gave him the title of Seif min foyuf Allah,
“ one of the fwords of God.”
In this year alfo Mahomet took the city of Mecca,
the inhabitants whereof had broken the truce con¬
cluded on two years before. For the tribe of Beer
who were confederates with the Koreifh, attacking
thofe of Khozaah, who were allies of Mahomet, killed
feveral of them, being fupported in the action by a
party, of the Koreifh themfelves. The confequence
of this violation was foon apprehended ; and Abu So-
fian himfelf made a journey to Medina on purpofe to
heal the breach and renew thetruce : bnt in vain $
for Mahomet, glad of this opportunity, refufed to fee
him : whereupon he applied to Abu Beer and Ali; but
they giving him no anfwTer, he was obliged to return
to Mecca as he came.
Mahomet immediately gave orders for preparations
to
MAH [ 406 ] MAH
'Mahcmet. to be madq, that be might furprife the Meccans while
they were unprovided to receive him : in a little time
he began his march thither j and by that time he came
near the city, his forces were increafed to 10,000 men.
Thofe of Mecca, being not in a condition to defend
themfelves againif fo formidable an army, furrendered
at diferetion j and Abu Sofian faved his life by turning
Mahometan. About 28 of the idolaters were dcilled
by a party under the command of Khaled •, but this
happened contrary to Mahomet’s orders, who, when
he entered the town, pardoned all the Koreifh on
their fubmiflion, except only fix men and four ivo-
men, who were more obnoxious than ordinary (fome
of them having apoftatized), and were folemnly pro-
feribed by the prophet himfelf j but of thefe no more
than three men and one woman were put to death,
the reft obtaining pardon on their embracing Maho-
metanifm, and one of the women making her efcape.
The remainder of this year Mahomet employed in
deftroying the idols in and round Mecca, fending fe-
veral of his generals on expeditions for that purpofe,
and to invite the Arabs to Iflamifm : wherein it is no
wonder if they now met with fuccefs.
The next year, being the ninth of the Hegira, the
Mahometans call the year of emhajjies : for the Arabs
had been hitherto expelling the iffue of the war be¬
tween Mahomet and the Koreifh : but, fo foon as that
tribe, the principal of the whole nation, and the ge¬
nuine defeendants of Iftimael, whofe prerogatives none
offered to difpute, had fubmitted, they w’ere fatisfied
that it was not in their power to oppofe Mahomet 5
and therefore began to come in to him in great num¬
bers, and to fend embaflies to make their fubmiflions
to him, both to Mecca, while he ftaid there, and alfo
to Medina, whither he returned this year. Among
the reft, five kings of the tribe of Hamyar profef-
fed Mahometanifm, and fent ambaffadors to notify the
fame.
In the 10th year, Ali was fent into Yaman to
propagate the Mahometan faith there ; and, as it is
faid, converted the whole tribe of Hamdan in one
day. Their example was quickly followed by all the
Inhabitants of that province, except only thofe of
Najran, who, being Chriftians, chofe rather to pay
tribute.
Thus was Mahometanifm eftablifhed, and idolatry
rooted out, even in Mahomet’s lifetime (for he died
the next year), throughout all Arabia, except only
Yamama, where Mofeilama, who fet up alfo for a pro¬
phet as Mahomet’s competitor, had a great party, and
was not reduced till the caliphate of Abu Beer: and the
Arabs being then united in one faith, and under one
prince, found themfelves in a condition of making thofe
conquefts which extended the Mahometan faith over
fo great a part of the world.
Mahomet, the name of feveral emperors of the
Turks } of whom the moft celebrated is,
Mahomet II. furnamed the Great, their feventh
fultan. See Turkey.
He was born at Adrianople the 24th of March
1430 •, and is to be remembered chiefly by us for tak¬
ing Conftantinople in 1453, and thereby driving ma¬
ny learned Greeks into the weft, which was a great
caufe of the reftoration of learning in Europe, as the
Greek literature was then introduced here. He was Mahomet,
one of the greateft men upon record, with regard to Mahome-
the qualities neceffary to a conqueror; for he con-, laniim- |
quered two empires, twelve kingdoms, and two hun¬
dred confiderable cities. He was very ambitious of
the title of Great, and the Turks gave it him ; even
the Chriftians have not difputed it with him *, for he
was the firft of the Ottoman emperors whom the Weft-
ern nations dignified with the title of Grand Seig¬
nior or Great Turk, which pofterity has preferved to
his defeendants. Italy had fuffered greater calamities,
but (he had never felt a terror equal to that which this
fultan’s viflories ijnprinted. The inhabitants feemed
already condemned to wear the turban : it is certain,
that Pope Sixtus IV. reprefented to himfelf Rome as
already involved in the dreadful fate of Conftanti¬
nople ; and thought of nothing but efcaping into Pro¬
vence, and once more transferring the holy fee to A-
vignon. Accordingly, the news of Mahomet’s death,
which happened the 3d of May 1481, was received at
Rome wdth the greateft joy that ever wras beheld there.
Sixtus caufed all the churches to be thrown open,
made the trades people leave off their wmrk, ordered a
feaft of three days, with public prayers and procef-
fions, commanded a difeharge of the whole artillery
of the caftle of St Angelo ail that time, and put a
flop to his journey to Avignon.
He appears to be the firft lultan who was a lover of
arts and fciences j and even cultivated polite letters.
He often read the Hiftory of Auguftus, and the o-
ther Ccefars 5 and he perufed thofe of Alexander,
Conftantine, and Theodofius, with more than ordi¬
nary pleafure, becaufe thefe had reigned in the fame
country with himfelf. He was fond of painting, rou-
fic, and fculpture •, and he applied himfelf to the ftudy
of agriculture. He was much addicled to aftrology j
and ufed to encourage his troops by giving out, that
the motion and influence of the heavenly bodies pre-
mifed him the empire of the world. Contrary to the
genius of his country, he delighted fo much in the
knowledge of foreign languages, that he not only
fpoke the Arabian, to which the Turkish laws, and
the religion of their legiilator Mahomet, are appropri¬
ated, but alfo the Perfian, the Greek, and the French,
that is, the corrupted Italian. Landin, a knight of
Rhodes, colledfed feveral letters which this fultan
wrote in the Syriac, Greek, and Turkifli languages,
and tranflated them into Latin. Where the originals
are, nobody knows } but the tranflation has been pub-
liflied feveral times j as at Lyons 1520, in 4to ; at
Bafil 1554, 1 2mo ; in a colleftion publilhed by Opo-
rinus, at Marpurg 1604, in 8vo 5 and at Leipfic 1690,
in i2mo. Melchior Junius, profeffor of eloquence at
Strafburg, publifhed at Montbeliard, 1595, a collec¬
tion of letters, in which there are three written by
Mahomet II. to Scanderbeg. One cannot difeover
the leaft air of Turkifti ferocity in thefe letters : they
are written in as civil terms, and as obliging a man¬
ner, as the moft polite prince in Chriftendom could
have written.
MAHOMETANISM, or Mahometism, the fy-
ftem of religion broached by Mahomet, and ftill ad¬
hered to by his followers. See Mahomet, and Al¬
coran.
2
Mahometanifm
MAH [ 407 ] MAH
Mahome- Mahometanifm is profeffed by tbe Turks, Perfians,
taniim. an(j feVeral natioirs among the Africans, and many
v among tbe Eaft Indians.
The Mahometans divide their religion into two ge¬
neral parts, faith and pra&ice : of which the firft is
divided into fix difiinfl branches : Belief in God, in
his angels, in his fcriptures, in his prophets, in the
refurredion and final judgement, and in God’s abfolute
decrees. The points relating to pra&ice are, prayer,
with waihings, &c. alms, falling, pilgrimage to Mecca,
and circumcifion.
1. Of the Mahometan Faith.'] 1. That both Maho¬
met, and thofe among his followers who are reckoned
orthodox, had and continue to have juft and true no¬
tions of God and his attributes, appears fo plain from
the Koran itfelf, and all the Mahometan divines, that
it would be lofs of time to refute thofe who fuppofe
the God of Mahomet to be different from the true
God, and only a fiiSUtious deity or idol of his own
creation.
2. The exiftence of angels, and their purity, are
abfolutely required to be believed in the Koran ; and
he is reckoned an infidel who denies there are fuch
beings, or hate^ any of them, or afferts any diftinflion
of fexes among them. They believe them to have pure
and fubtle bodies, created of fire ; that they neither
eat not drink, nor propagate their fpecies ; that they
have various forms and offices, fome adoring God in
different poftures, others finging praifes to him, or
interceding for mankind. They hold, that fome of
them are employed in writing down the a&ions of
men ; others in carrying the throne of God, and other
fervices.
The four angels, whom they look on as more emi¬
nently in God’s favour, and often mention on account
of the offices affigned them, are, Gabriel, to whom
they give feveral titles, particularly thofe of the holy
fpirit, and the angel of revelations, fuppofing him to
be honoured by God with a greater confidence than
any other, and to be employed in writing down the
divine decrees *, Michael, the friend and proteftor of
the Jewrs; Azrael, the angel of death, who feparates
men’s fouls from their bodies j and Ifrafil, whofe office
it will be to found the trumpet at the refurredlion.
The Mahometans alfo believe, that two guardian an¬
gels attend on every man, to obferve and write down
his a&ions, being changed every day, and therefore
called al Moakhibat, or “ the angels who continually
fucceed one another.”
The devil, whom Mahomet names Eblis, from his
defpair, was once one of thofe angels who are neareft
to God's prefence, called Asoatoil; and fell, according
to the do&rine of the Koran, for refufing to pay ho¬
mage to Adam at the command of God.
Befides angels and devils, the Mahometans are
taught by the Koran to believe an intermediate order
of creatures, which they call jin or genii, pfeated alfo
of fire, but of a groffer fabric than angels, fince they
eat and drink, and propagate their fpecies, and are
fubjeft to death. Some of thefe are fuppofed to be
good and others bad, and capable of future falvation
or damnation, as men are ; whence Mahomet pre¬
tended to be fent for the converfion of genii as well
as men.
3. As to the Scriptures, the Mahometans are taught
by the Koran, that God, in divers ages of the world, Mahome-
gave revelations of his will in waiting to feveral pro-,
phets, the whole and every one of which it is abfo- y
lutely neceffary for a good Moflem to believe. The
number of thefe facred books was, according to them,
104. Of which 10 were given to Adam, 50 to Seth,
30 to Edris or Enoch, 10 to Abraham } and the other
four, being the Pentateuch, the Pfalms, the Gofpel,
and the Koran, were fucceflively delivered to Mofes,
David, Jefus, and Mahomet *, which laft being the
fe^l of the prophets, thofe revelations are nowr clofed,
and no more ars to be expefted. All thefe divine
books, except the four laft, they agree to be now en¬
tirely loft, and their contents unknown j though the
Sabians have feveral books which they attribute to
fome of the antediluvian prophets. And of thofe four,
the Pentateuch, Pfalms, and Gofpel, they fay, have
undergone fo many alterations and corruptions, that,
though there may poflibly be fome part of the true
word of God therein, yet no credit is to be given to
the prefent copies in the hands of the Jew’s and Chri-
ftians. The Mahometans have alfo a gofpel in Arabic,
attributed to St Barnabas j wherein the hiftory of
Jefus Chrift is related in a manner very different from
what we find in the true gofpfels, and correfpondent to
thofe traditions which Mahomet has followed in his
Koran. Of this gofpel the Morifcoes in Africa have'
a tranflation in Spaniih j and there is, in the library
of Prince Eugene of Savoy, a manufcript of fome an¬
tiquity', containing an Italian tranflation of the fame
gofpel ; made, it is to be fuppofed, for the ufe of re¬
negades. This book appears to be no original forgery
of the Mahometans; though they have, no doubt, in¬
terpolated and altered it fince, the better to ferve their
purpofe ; and in particular, inftead of the Paraclete,
or Comforter, they have in this apocryphal gofpel in-
ferted the word Periclyte, that is, the “ famous,” or
“ illultrious by W'hich they pretend their prophet
wras foretold by name, that being the fignification of
Mohammed in Arabic : and this they fay to juftify
that paffage of the Koran, w’here Jefus Chrift is for¬
mally afferted to have foretold his coming, under his
other name of Ahmed, which is derived from the fame
root as Mohammed, and of the fame import. From
thefe, or fome other forgeries of the fame ftamp, it
is that the Mahometans quote leveral paffages, of
which there are not the leaft footfteps in the New
Teftament.
4. The number of the prophets, which have been
from time to time fent by God into the world
amounts to no lefs than 224,000, according to one
Mahometan tradition •, or to 124,000, according to
another 5 among whom 313 were apoftles, fent with
fpecial commiffions to reclaim mankind from infidelity
and fuperftition *, and fix of them brought new lav. i
or difpenfations, w’hich fucceflively abrogated the pre¬
ceding •, thefe were Adam, Noah, Abraham, Mofes.
Jefus, and Mahomet. All the prophets in general,
the Mahometans believe to have been free from great
fins and errors of confequence, and profeffors of one
and the fame religion, that is, Iflarn, notwithftanding
the different laws and inftitutions which they ob-
ferved. They allow of degrees among them, and hold
fome of them to be more excellent and honourable
than others. The firft place they give to. the revealers
and ;
MAH [ 408 1 M A H '
Mahoma- and efU’alifhers of new difpenfations, and tlie next to the
, tart^m> i apoftles*
In this great number of prophets, they not only
reckon divers patriarchs and perfons named in fcrip-
ture, but not recorded to have been prophets, (where¬
in the Jewifli and Chriflian writers have fometimes led
the way), as Adam, Seth, Lot, Hhmael, Nun, Jolhua,
&c. and introduce fome of them under different names,
as Enoch, Heber, and Jethro, who are called, ia the
Koran, Edris, Hud, and Shoaib: but feveral others
whofe very names do not appear in Scripture (though
they endeavour to find fome perfons there to fix them
on), as Saleh, Khedr, Dhu’lkefi, &c.
5. The belief of a general refurrecHon and a future
judgement.
When a corpfe is laid in the grave, they fay he is
received by an angel, who gives him notice of the
coming of the two examiners j W’ho are two black livid
angels, of a terrible appearance, named Monher and
Nakir. Thefe order the dead perfon to fit upright; and
examine him concerning his faith, as to the unity of
God, and the miffion of Mahomet: if he anfwer right¬
ly, they fuffer the body to reft in peace, and it is re-
freftied by the air of paradife $ but, if not, they beat
him on the temples with' iron maces, till he roars out
for anguifh fo loud, that he is heard by all from eaft to
weft, except men and genii. They then prefs the
earth en the corpfe, which is gnawed and ftung till
the refurre&ion by 99 dragons, with feven heads
each ; or, as others fay, their fins wdll become venom¬
ous beafts, the grievous ones flinging like dragons,
the fmaller like fcorpions, and the others like lerpents ;
circumftances which fome underftand in a figurative
fenfe.
As to the foul, they hold, that, when it is feparated
from the body by the angel of death, who performs his
office with eafe and gentlenefs towards the good, and
with violence towards the wicked, it enters into that
which they call al bertzahh, or the interval between
death and the refur region. If the departed perfon
was a believer, they fay two angels meet it, who con¬
vey it to heaven, that its place there may be affigned,
according to its merit and degree. For they diftin-
guifh the fouls of the faithful into three claffes : The
firft of prophets, whofe fouls are admitted into para-
dife immediately j the fecond of martyrs, whofe fpirits,
according to a tradition of Mahomet, reft in the crops
of green birds, wdiich eat of the fruits and drink of the
rivers of paradife j and the third of other believers, con¬
cerning the ftate of whofe fouls before the refurreclion
there are various opinions.
Though fome among the Mahometans have thought
that the refurredlion will be merely fpiritual, and no
more than the returning of the foul to the place
wherxe it firft came (an opinion defended by Ebn Si-
na, and called by fome the opinion of the philofophers) ;
and others, wrho allow7 man to confift of body only,
that it will be merely corporeal j the received opinion
is, that both body and foul-will be raifed : -and their
doftors argue ftrenuoully for the poftibility of the re-
furreclion of the body, and difpute with great fubtility
concerning the manner of it. But Mahomet has taken
care to preferve cne part of the body, whatever be¬
comes of the ref, to ferve for a bafis of the future edi¬
fice, or rather a leaven for the mafs which is to be join-
4
ed to it. For he taught, that a man’s body was entire- Mahome-
ly confumed by the earth, except only the bone called , tfln'^:T1, ,
al ajb, which wre name the os coccygis, or rumpbone j v ’
and that, as it was the firft formed in the human body,
it will alfo remain uncorrupted till the laft day, as a
feed from whence the whole is to be renewed ; and this,
he faid, would be effedled by a forty years rain, which
God Ihould fend, and which w7ould cover the earth to
the height of 12 cubits, and caufe the bodies to fprout
forth like plants. Herein, alfo, is Mahomet beholden
to the Jews ; who fay the fame things of the bone Luz,
excepting that what he attributes to a great rain, will
be effedted, according to them, by a dew impregnat¬
ing the dull of the earth.
The time of the refurreftion the Mahometans allow
to be a perfect fecret to all but God alone ; the angel
Gabriel himfelf acknowledging his ignorance in this
point, when Mahomet alked him about it. How¬
ever, they fay, the approach of that day may be
known from certain figns wdiich are to precede it.
Thefe figns they diftinguilh into two forts, the leffer
and the greater.
The leffer figns are, 1. The decay of faith among
men. 2. The advancing of the meaneft perfons to
eminent dignity. 3. That a maid fervant lhall become
the mother of her miftrefs (or mafter) j by which is
meant, either that towards the end of the w-orld men
ftiall be much given to fenfuality, or that the Maho¬
metans lhall then take many captives. 4. Tumults
and feditions. 5. A war with the Turks. 6. Great
diftrefs in the world, fo that a man, when he paffes by
another’s grave, {hall fay, Would to God I were in
his place ! 7. That the provinces of Irac and Syria
{hall refufe to pay their tribute. And, 8. That the
buildings of Medina {hall reach to Ahab, or Yahab.
The greater figns are, 1. The fun’s riling in the
u7eft; which fome have imagined it originally did.
2. The appearance of the beaft, which {hall rife out of
the earth, in the temple of Mecca, or on Mount Safa,
or in the territory of Tayef, or fome other place. This
beaft, they fay, is to be 60 cubits high 5 though
others, not fatisfied with fo fmall a fize, will have her
reach to the clouds and to heaven, w hen her head only
is out j and that {lie will appear for three days, but
ftiow only a third part of her body. They deferibe
this monfter, as to her form, to be a compound of
various fpecies ; having the head of a bull, the eyes of
a hog, the ears of an elephant, the horns of a flag,
the neck of an oftrich, the breaft of a lion, the colour
of a tiger, the back of a cat, the tail of a ram, the
legs of a camel, and the voice of an afs. Some fay
this beaft is to appear three times in feveral places,
and that {he will bring with her the rod of Mofes and
the feal of Solomon *, and, being fo fvvift that none
can overtake or efcape her, will with the firft ftrike all
the believers on the face, and mark them with the
word fnumen, i. e. believer 5 and with the latter will
mark the unbelievers on the face likewife, with the
word fis/rr, i. e. infidel, that every perfon may be
known for what he really is. They add, that the fame
beaft is to demonfirate the vanity of all religions ex¬
cept I flam, and to fpeak Arabic. All this fluff feems
to be the refult of a confufed idea of the beaft in the
Revelation. 3. War with the Greeks, and the taking
Conftantinople by 70,000-of the nefterity of Ifaac, who
{hall
M AH [ 409 ] MAH
Mahome- fhail not win that city by force of arms, but the walls
tanifnl- lhall fall down while they cry out, There it no God but
v ~ " God, God is moji great ! As they are dividing the fpoil,
news will come to them of the appearance of Anti-
chrift j whereupon they (hall leave all, and return
back. 4. The coming of Antichriil, whom the Ma¬
hometans call Majib al Dajjal, i. e. the falfe or lying
Chriil, and al Dajja/. He is to be one-eyed,
and marked on the forehead with the letters C. F. R.
lignifying or infidel. They fay that the Jews,
give him the name of MeJJiah Ben David; and pretend
he is to come in the laft days, and to be lord both of
land and lea, and that he will reltore the kingdom to
them. 5. The defcent of Jefus on earth. They pre¬
tend that he is to defcend near the white tower to the
eaft of Damafcus, when the people are returned from
the taking of Conftantinople : that he is to embrace
the Mahometan religion, marry a wife, get children,
kill Antichrift 5 and at length die after 40 years, or,
according to others, 24 years continuance on earth.
Under him, they fay, there will be great fecurity
and plenty in the world, all hatred and malice being
laid afide ; when lions and camels, bears and Iheep,
fhall live in peace, and a child (hall play with ferpents
unhurt. 6. War with the Jews; of whom the Ma¬
hometans are to make a prodigious [laughter, the
very trees and ftones difcovering fuch of thdm as hide
themfelves, except only the tree called gharkad, which
is the tree of the Jews. 7. The irruption of Gog and
Magog, or, as they are called in the eaft, Tajuj and
Majuj; of whom many things ate related in the Koran
and the traditions of Mahomet. Thefe barbarians,
they tell us, having paffed the lake of Tiberias, which
the vanguard of their vail army will drink dry, will
come to Jerufalem, and there greatly diftrefs Jefus and
his companions) till, at his requeft, God will dellroy
them, and fill the earth with their carcafes, which,
after fome time, God will fend birds to carry away, at
the prayers of jefus and his followers. Their bows,
arrows, and quivers, the Moflems will burn for feven
years together; and at laft, God will fend a rain to
cleanfe the earth and to make it fertile. 8. A fmoke
which fhall fill the whole earth. 9. An eclipfe of the
moon. Mahomet is reported to have faid, that there
would be three ecliples before the laft hour •, one to be
been in the eaft, another in the weft, and the third in
Arabia. 10. The returning of the Arabs to the wor-
fhip of Allat and Al Uzza, and the reft of their an¬
cient idols, after the deceafe of every one in w'hofe
heart there was faith equal to a grain of muftard feed,
none but the very worft of men being left alive. For
God, they fay, will fend a cold odoriferous wind, blow¬
ing from Syria Damafcena, which fhall fweep away the
fouls of all the faithful, and the Koran itfelf, fo that
men will remain in the groffeft ignorance for 100 years.
11. The difcovery of a valt heap of gold and filver by
the retreating of the Euphrates, which will be the de-
ftru&ion of many. 12. The demolition of the Caaba,
or temple of Mecca, by the Ethiopians. 13. The
fpeaking of beafts and inanimate things. 14. The
breaking out of fire in the province of Hejaz j or, ac¬
cording to others, in Yaman. 15. The appearance of
a man of the defcendants of Kahtan, who fhall drive
men before him with his ftaff. 16. The coming of the
Mobdi, or direftor; concerning whom Mahomet pro-
Vol. XII. Part IL
phefied, that the world fhould not have an end till one Mahome-
of his own family fhould govern the Arabians, whofe ,
name fhould be the fame with his owm name, and
whofe father’s name fhould alfo be the fame with his
father’s name ; and who fhould fill the earth with
righteoufnefs. This perfon the Shiites believe to be
now alive, ancf concealed in fome fecret place till the
time of his manifeftation j for they fuppofe him no other
than the laft of the 1 2 imams, named Mahomet A-
bidlhafem, as their prophet was *, and the fon of Haffan
al Afkeri, the 11th of that fucceflion. He was born
at Sermanrai, in the 255th year of the Hegira. From
this tradition, it is to be prefumed, an opinion pretty
current among the Chriftians took its rife, that the
Mahometans are in expedlation of their prophet’s re¬
turn. 17. A wind which fhall fweep awray the fouls of
all who have but a grain of faith in their hearts, as has
been mentioned under the tenth fign.
Thefe are the greater figns, which, according to
their doftrine, are to precede the refurreftion, but itill
leave the hour of it uncertain : for the immediate fign
of its being come will be the firft blaft of the trumpet,
which they believe will be founded three times. The
firft they call the blajl of conjlernation ; at the hearing
of which all creatures in heaven and earth (hall be
ftruck with terror, except thofe whom God lhall pleafe
to exempt from it. The effe£ls attributed to this firft;
found of the trumpet are very wonderful : for they fay
the earth will be fhaken, and not only all buildings,
but the very mountains levelled j that the heavens fhall
^nelt, the fun be darkened, the ftars fall, on the death
of the angels, who, as fome imagine, hold them fu-
fpended betrveen heaven and earth j and the fea ftiall be
troubled and dried up, or, according to others, turned ‘
into flames, the fun, moon, and ftars being thrown in¬
to it : the Koran, to exprefs the greatnefs of the ter¬
ror of that day, adds, that women who give fuck (hall
abandon the care of their infants, and even the (Ire ca¬
mels which have gone 10 months with young (a molt
valuable part of the fubftance of that nation) fhall be
utterly neglected. A farther effeft of this blaft will be
that concourfe of beafts mentioned in the Koran, though
fome doubt whether it be to precede the refurreffion or
not. They who fuppofe it will precede, think that all
kinds of animals, forgetting their refpedtive natural
fiercenefs and timidity, will run together into one place,
being terrified by the found of the trumpet and the hid¬
den (hock of nature.
The Mahometans believe that this firft blaft will be
followed by a fecond, which they call the blajl of exina¬
nition ; by which all creatures both in heaven and earth
(hall die or be annihilated, except thofe w'hich God
fhall pleafe to exempt from the common fate j and this,
they fay, (hall happen in the twinkling of an eye, nay
in an inftant 5 nothing furviving except God alone,
with paradife and hell, and the inhabitants of thofe two
places, and the throne of glory. The laft who fhall
die will be the angel of death.
Forty years after this will be heard the blajl of re-
furreBion, when the trumpet ihall be founded the third
time by Ifrafil, who, together with Gabriel and Mi¬
chael, will b& previoufly reftored to life, and, (landing
on the rock of the temple of Jerufalem, (hall, at God’s
command, call together all the dry and rotten bones,
and other difperfed parts of the bodies, andj;he very '
3 F hairs
MAH [41
Mahosie- hairs to judgement.. This angel having, by the divine
^ taiiifoi. order, fet the trumpet to his mouth, and called toge-
^ " ther all the fouls from all parts, will throw them into
his trumpet, from whence, on his giving the lad found,
at the command of God, they will fly forth like bees,
and fill the whole fpace between heaven and earth, and
then repair to their refpe&ive bodies, which the open¬
ing earth will fuffer to arife ; and the firfl: who fhall
io arife, according to a tradition of Mahomet, will be
himfelf. For this birth the earth will be prepared by
the rain above mentioned, which is to fall continually
for 40 years, and will referable the feed of a man, and
be fupplied from the water under the throne of God,
which is called living water ; by the efficacy and vir¬
tue of which the dead bodies lhall fpring forth from
their graves as they did in their mother’s womb, or
as corn fprouts forth by common rain, till they become
perfe&} after which breath will be breathed into them,
and they will fleep in their fepulchres till they are raifed
to life at the lafl: trumpet.
When thofe who have rifen (hall have waited the li¬
mited time, the Mahometans believe God will at length
appear to judge them *, Mahomet undertaking the of¬
fice of interceffor, after it (hall have been declined by
Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Jefus, who fliall beg de¬
liverance only for their own fouls. They fay, that on
this folemn occafion God will come in the clouds fur-
rounded by angels, and will produce the books where¬
in the aflions ef every perfon are recorded by their
guardian angels, and will command the prophets to
bear witnefs againft thofe to whom they have been re-
fpeflively fent, Then every one will be examined con¬
cerning all his words and ablions uttered and done by
him in this life j not as if God needed any information
in thefe refpefls, but to oblige the perfon to make pu¬
blic confeffion and acknowledgment of God’s jufiice.
The particulars, of which they lhall give an account,
as Mahomet himfelf enumerated them, are, of their
time, how they fpent it ; of their wealth, by what
means they acquired it, and how they employed it $ of
their bodies, wherein they exercifed them ; of their
knowledge and learning, what ufe they made of them.
To the queftions we have mentioned each perfon ffiall
anfwer, and make his defence in the beft manner he
can, endeavouring to excufe himfelf by calling the
blame of his evil deeds on others ; fo that a difpute
(hall arife even between the foul and the body, to which
of them their guilt ought to be imputed : The foul fay¬
ing, 0 Lord, tm/ body I received from thee; for thou
createdf me without a hand to lay hold with, a foot to
walk with, an eye to fee with, or an undemanding to
apprehend with, till I came and entered into this bodyg
therefore punifh it eternallyy hut deliver me. The body,
on the other fide, will make this apology : 0 Lord,
thou created]} me like a fock of wood, having neither
hand that I could lay hold with, nor foot that 1 could
walk with, till this foul, like a ray of light, entered into
me, and my longue began tofpeak, ?ny eye to fee, and my
foot to walk; therefore punifh it eternally, but deliver
me. But God will propound to them the following
parable of the blind man and the lame man, which, as
well as the preceding difpute, was borrowed by the
Mahometans from the Jews. A certain king, having
a pleafant garden, in which were ripe fruits, fet two
perfons to keep it, one of whom was blind, and the
o ] M A H
other lame ; the former not being able to fee the fruit, Mahcme-
nor the latter to gather it; the lame man, however, tanifrn. ^
feeing the fruit, perfuaded the blind man to take him ' " v
upon his ffioulders, and by that means he eafily gather¬
ed the fruit, which they divided between them. The
lord of the garden coming fome time after, and inquir¬
ing after his fruit, each began to excufe himfelf: the
blind man faid he had no eyes to lee with j and the
lame man, that he had no feet to approach the trees.
But the king, ordering the lame man to be fet on the
blind, palled fentence on and punilhed them both.
And in the fame manner will God deal with the body
and the foul. As thefe apologies will not avail on that
day, fo it will be in vain for any one to deny his evil
aftions $ fince men and angels, and his own members,
nay, the very earth itfelf, will be ready to bear witnefs
againll him.
At this examination, they alfo believe, that each per¬
fon will have the book wherein all the aftions of ’his
life are written delivered to him: which books the righ¬
teous will receive into their right hand, and read with
great pleafure and fatisfadlion ; but the ungodly will
be obliged to take them, againft their wills, in their
left, which will be bound behind their backs, their
right hand being tied up to their necks.
To ftrow the exaft juftice which wdll be obferved on
this great day of trial, the next thing they deferibe is
the balance, wherein all things fliall be weighed. They
fay it will be held by Gabriel j and that it is of fo vaft
a fize, that its two feales, one of which hangs over pa-
radife, and the other over hell, are capacious enough
to contain both heaven and hell. Though fome are
willing to underftand what is faid in the Koran con¬
cerning this balance allegorically, and only as a figura¬
tive reprefentation of God’s equity j yet the more an¬
cient and orthodox opinion is, that they are to be ta¬
ken literally j and fince words and actions, being mere
accidents, are not capable of being themfelves weigh¬
ed, they fay that the books wherein they are written
will be thrown into the feales, and according as thofe
wherein the good or evil aftions are recorded ftiall
preponderate, fentence will be given : thofe whofe
balances laden with good works fhall be heavy, will
be faved ; but thofe whofe balances are light, will be
condemned. Nor will any one have caufe to complain
that God faff.-rs any good aftion to pafs unrewarded,
becaufe the wicked for the good they do have their
reward in this life, and therefore can expert no favour
in the next.
This examination being paft, and every one’s works
weighed in a juft balance, that mutual retaliation will
follow, according to which every creature will take ven¬
geance one of another, or have fatisfaflion made them
lor the injuries which they have fuffered. And, fince
there will then be no other way of returning like for
like, the manner of giving this fatisfadtion will be by
taking away a proportional part of the good works of
him who offered the injury, and adding it to thofe of
him who fullered it. Which being done, if the angels
(by whofe miniftry this is to be performed) fay, Lord,
we have given to every one his due, and there remainetk
of this perfon's good works fo much as equallcth the
weight of an ant, God will, of his mercy, caufe it be
doubled unto him, that he may be admitted into para-
dife} but if, on the contrary, _his good works be ex-
bayited,
MAH [411] MAH
Mahome- haufted, and there remain evil works only, and there be
tanifm. any have not yet received fatisfaftion from him,
God will order that an equal weight of their fins be add¬
ed unto his, that he may be punifhed for them in their
ftead, and he will be fent to hell laden with both.
'I his will be the method of God’s dealing with man¬
kind. As to brutes, after they (hall have likexvife taken
k vengeance of one another, he will command them to
be changed into duft j wicked men being referved
to more grievous punifiiment, fo that they (hall cry out,
on hearing this fentence palled on the brutes, Would
to God that we were dujl alfo ! As to the genii, many
Mahometans are of opinion, that fuch of them as are
true believers, will undergo the fame fate as the irra¬
tional animals, and have no other reward than the fa¬
vour of being converted into duft : and for this they
quote the authority of their prophet.
The trials being over, and the aflembly diflblved, the
Mahometans hold, that thofe who are to be admitted
into paradife will take the right-hand way, and thofe
who are deftined to hell-fire will take the left \ but
both of them muft firft pafs the bridge called in Arabic
al Sirat, which they fay is laid over the midft of hell,
and de(cribe to be finer than a hair, and (harper than
the edge of a fword 5 fo that it feems very diihcult
to conceive how any one (hall be able to (land upon it ;
for which reafon, moft ot the feft of the Motazalites
rejedt it as a fable 5 though the oithodox think it a
fufficient proof of the truth of this article, that it was
ferioufly affirmed by him wdro never afterted a falfe-
hood, meaning their prophet : w’ho, to add to the
difficulty of the pafiage, has likewife declared, that
this bridge is befet on each fide with briars and hook¬
ed thorns : which will however be no impediment to
the good ; for they (hall pafs with wonderful eafe and
fwiftnefs, like lightning, or the wind, Mahomet and
his Modems leading the way, whereas the wdeked,
what with the dipperinefs and extreme narrowmefs of
the path, the entangling of the thorns, and the extinc¬
tion of the light which direcled the former to para"dife,
will foon mils their footing, and fall down headlong in¬
to hell, which is gaping beneath them.
As to the punilhment of the wicked, the Mahome¬
tans are taught, that hell is divided into (even (lories
or apartments, one below’ another, defigned for the re¬
ception of as many diftinft clatles of the damned.
The firft, which they call Jehennam, they fay, will be
the receptacle of thofe who acknowledge one God,
that is, the wicked Mahometans } who, alter having
there been punilhed according to their demerits, tvill
,at length be releafed. The fecond, named Ladha,
they affign to the Jews 5 the third, named al Hotcma,
to the Chriftians; the fourth, named al Hair, to the
Sabians ; the fifth, named Sakar, to the Magians j
the fixth, named al Jahim, to the idolaters; and the
feventh, which is the lowed and word of all, and is
called al Hawyat, to the hypocrites, or thofe who
outwardly profelfed fome religion, but in their hearts
were of none. Over each of thefe apartments they
believe there will be fet a guard of angels, ip in num¬
ber ; to whom the damned will confefs the juft judge¬
ment ot God, and beg them to intercede with him for
(erne alleviation of their pain, or that they may be deli¬
vered by being annihilated.
Mahomet has, in his Koran and traditions, been
very exaft in deferibing the various torments of hell, Mahome-
which, according to him, the wicked will iufter both tamfm-
from intenfe heat and excelhve cold. We (hall, how- ” v—”*
ever, enter into no detail of them here j but only ob-
ferve, that the degrees of thefe pains will alio vary
in proportion to the crimes of the fufferer, and the
apartment he is condemned to j and that he who is
punifhed the moft lightly of all will be (hod with (hoes
of fire, the fervour of which will caufe his (kull to boil
like a cauldron. The condition of thele unhappy
wretches, as the fame prophet teaches, cannot be pro¬
perly called either life or death ; and their mifery will
be greatly increafed by their defpair of being ever de¬
livered from that place, fince, according to that fre¬
quent expreflion in the Koran, they tnujl remain therein
for ever. It mull be remarked, however, that the in¬
fidels alone will be liable to eternity of damnation j
for the Modems, or thole who have embraced the true
religion, and have been guilty of heinous fins, will be
delivered thence after they (hall have expiated their
crimes by their fufferings. The time which thefe be¬
lievers drall be detained there, according to a tradition
handed down from their prophet, will not be lefs than
900 years, nor more than 7000. And, as to the man¬
ner of their delivery, they dry that they (hall be di-
ftinguilhed by the marks of prod ration on thofe parts
of their bodies with which they ufed to touch the
ground in prayer, and over which the fire will there¬
fore have no power; and that, being known by tl is
charafleilftic, they will be releafed by the mercy of
God, at the interceffion of Mahornet and the blelied:
w'hereupon thofe who (hall have been dead, will be re-
ftored to life, as has been faid ; and thofe whofe bodies
(hall have contrafted any footinefs or filth from the
(lames and fmoke of hell, will be immeri’ed in one of
the rivers of paradife, called the river of life, which will
w?afh them whiter than pearls.
The righteous, as the Mahometans are taught ta
believe, having (urmounted the difficulties, and palled
the (harp bridge above mentioned, before they enter
paradife, will be refreffied by drinking at the pond of
their prophet, who deicribes it to he an exact fquare.
of a month’s journey in compafs; its water, which is
fupplied by tw'o pipes from Al Cawthar, one of the
rivers of paradife, being whiter than milk or (ilver,
and more odoriferous than mufk, with as many cups
fet around it as there are ftars in the firmament; of
wffiich water whoever drinks will third no more for
ever. This is the firft taile wffiich the blelTed will
have of their future and now’ near-approaching felicity.
Though paradife be fo very frequently mentioned
in the Koran, yet it is a difgute among the Maho¬
metans whether it be already created, or to be created
hereafter; the Motazalites and fome other fe£laries
aflerting, that there is not at prefent any fuch place
in nature, and that the paradife which the righteous
will inhabit in the next life will be different from that
from which Adam was expelled. However, the ortho¬
dox profefs the contrary, maintaining that it was created
even before the world, and deferibe it, from their pro¬
phet’s tra itions, in the following manner:
I hey (ay it is fituated above the leven heavens (or
in the feventh heaven), and next under the throne of
God ; and, to exprefs the amanity of the place, tell
us, that the earth of it. is of the fineft wheat dour, or
3 F 2 of
MAH [41
Mahome- of the pureft: mufk, or, as others will have it, of faf-
fron : that its flones are pearls and jacinths, the walls
of its buildings enriched with gold and filver j and
that the trunks of all its trees are of gold, among
which the moil remarkable is the tree call Tuba, or
the tree of happinefs. Concerning this tree, they fable,
that it ilands in the palace of Mahomet, though a
branch of it will reach to the houfe of every true be¬
liever j that it will be laden with pomegranates, grapes,
dates, and other fruits, of furpriling bignefs, and of
taftes unknown to mortals. So that if a man defire
to eat of any particular kind of fruit, it will imme¬
diately be prefented him 5 or, if he choofe tlefir, birds
ready drefied will be fet before him, according to his
wifli. They add, that the boughs of this tree will
fpontaneoufly bend down to the hand of the perfon
who would gather of its fruits, and that it will fupply
the bleffed not only with food, but alfo with filken gar¬
ments, and beafts to ride on ready faddled ahd bridled,
and adorned with rich trappings, which will burft forth
z from its fruits j and that this tree is fo large, that a
perfon, mounted on the fleeteft horfe, would not be
able to gallop from one end of its Ihade to the other in
ico years.
As plenty of water is one of the greateft additions
to the pleafantnefs of any place, the Koran often fpeaks
of the rivers of paradife as a principal ornament there¬
of : fome of thefe rivers, they fay, flow with w'ater,
feme with milk, fome with wine, and others with
honey 5 all taking their rife from the root of the tree
Tuba.
But all thefe glories will be eclipfed by the refplend-
ent and ravilhing girls of paradife, called from their
large black eyes Hur al oi/un, the enjoyment of whofe
company will be a principal felicity of the faithful.
Thefe, they fay, are created, not of clay, as mortal
women are, but of pure mufk ; being, as their pro¬
phet often aihrms in his Koran, free from all natural
impurities, defects, and inconveniences incident to the
fex, of the ftricteft modefty, and fecluded from public
view7 in pavilions of hollow pearls, fo large, that as
fome traditions have it, one of them will be no lefs
than four parafangs (or, as others fay, 60 miles) long,
and as many broad.
The name wdiich the Mahometans ufually give to
this happy manfion, is al Jannat, or “ the garden
and fometimes they call it, with an addition, Jannat
al Terdaws, “ the garden of paradife j” 'jannat Aden,
“ the garden of Eden,” (though they generally in¬
terpret the wmrd Eden, not according to its accepta¬
tion in Hebrew, but according to its meaning in their
own tongue, wherein it fignifies “ a fettled or perpe¬
tual habitation ;”) Jannat al Mawa, “ the garden of
abode 5” Jannat al Naim, “ the garden of pleafure
and the like : by which feveral appellations fome un-
derttand fo many different gardens, or at leaft places
of different degrees of felicity (for they reckon no
lefs than 100 fuch in all), the very meaneft w'hereof
wall afford its inhabitants fo many pleafures and de¬
lights, that one umuld conclude they muff even fink
under them, had not Mahomet declared, that, in
crdei to qualify the bleffed for a full enjoyment of
them, God will give to every one the abilities of 100
men.
6. God’s abfolute decree and predeftination both of
2 ] MAH
good and evil. The orthodox doffrine is, that wdiat- Mahome-
ever hath or fliall come to pafs in this world, whether tamini*
it be good, or whether it be bad, proceedeth entirely
from the divine will, and is irrevocably fixed and re¬
corded from all eternity in the preferved table : God
having fecretly predetermined not only the adverfe and
profperous fortune of every perfon in this world, in the
moft minute particulars, but alfo his faith or infidelity,
his obedience or dilobedience, and confequently his
everlaiting happinefs or mifery after death •, which fate
or predeftination it is not poffible by any forefight or
wifdom to avoid.
Of this do£lrine Mahomet 'makes great ufe in his
Koran for the advancement of his defigns j encourag¬
ing his followers to fight wuthout fear, and even def-
perately, for the propagation of their faith, by re-
prefenting to them, that all their caution could not
avert their inevitable deftiny, or prolong their lives for
a moment; and deterring them from difobeying or re-
jefling him as an impoftor, by fetting before them the
danger they might thereby incur of being, by the juil
judgement of God, abandoned to feduiffion, hardnefs of
heart, and a reprobate mind, as a punilhment for their
obftinacy.
II. Religious pradiicc. 1. The firfl: point is prayer,
under which are alio comprehended thofe legal w7afil¬
ings or purifications which are neceflary preparations
thereto.
Of thefe purifications there are two degrees, one
called ghoj}, being a total immerfion or bathing of the
body in water; and the other called wodu (by the
Perfians, abdefe'), which is the wafiiing of their faces,
hands, and feet, after a certain manner. The firft is
required in fome extraordinary cafes only, as after hav¬
ing lain with a woman, or being polluted by emifiion
of feed, or by approaching a dead body ; women alfo
being obliged to it after their courfes or childbirth.
The latter is the ordinary ablution in common cafes,
and before prayer, and muff neceffarily be ufed by
every perfon before he can enter upon that duty. It
is performed wfith certain formal ceremonies, which
have been deferibed by fome writers, but much eafier
apprehended by feeing them done, than by the belt de-
feription.
That his followers might be more punddual in this
duty, Mahomet is faid to have declared, that the prac¬
tice of religion is founded on clcanlinefs, which is the one
half of the faith, and the hey of prayer, without which
it will not be heard by God. That thefe expreflions
may be the better underftood, Al Ghazali reckons four
degrees of purification 5 of which the firft is the cleanf-
ing of the body from all pollution, filth, and excre¬
ments ; the fecond, the cleanfing of the members of
the body from all wickednefs and unjuft aftions; the
third, the cleanfing the heart from all blameabie in¬
clinations and odious vices j and the fourth, the pur¬
ging a man’s fecret thoughts from all affeflions which
may divert their attendance on God ; adding, that the
body is but as the outward Ihell, in refpedft to the heart,
which is as the kernel.
Circumcifion, though it be not fo much as once
mentioned in the Koran, is yet held by the Mahome¬
tans to be an ancient divine inftitution, confirmed by
the religion of Illam, and though not fo abfolutely
neceffary but that it may be difpenfed with in fome
cafes,
M AH C 4i3 ] MAH
Mahr-ne- cafes, yet fiighly proper and expedi'ent. The Arabs
tar‘lf'JT1’ u.’ed this rite for many ages before Mahomet, having
r probably learned it from Ilhmael, though not only his
defcendants, but the Hamyarites and other tribes prac-
tifed the fame. The Ilh’maelites, we are told, ufed to
circumcife their children, not on the eighth day, as is
the cuflom of the Jews, but when about 12 or 13 years
old, at which age their father underwent that opera¬
tion ; and the Mahometans imitate them fo far as not
to circumc/fe children before they may be able at lead:
diitin&ly to pronounce that profeiiion of their faith,
There is no God but God, Mahomet is the npoJUe of
God ; but pitch on what age they pleafe for the pur-
pofe, between 6 and 16 or thereabouts.
Prayer was by Mahomet thought fo neceffary a du-
ty, that he ufed to call it the pillar of religion and the
key of paradife; and when the Thakifites, who dwelt
at Tayef, fending, in the ninth year of Yhe Hegira, t6
make their fubmifficn to the prophet, after the keeping
of their favourite idol had been denied them, begged
at lead |hat they might be difpenfed with as to their
faying of their appointed prayers, he anfwered, That
there could be no good in that religion wherein was no
prayer.
That fo important a duty, therefore, might not be
regle&ed, Mahomet obliged bis followers to pray five
times every 24 hours, at certain dated times; viz.
I. In the morning before funrife : 2. When noon is
pad, and the fun begins to decline from the meridian :
3. In the afternoon, before funfet; 4. In the evening,
after funfet, and before the day be dmt in ; and,
5. After the day is dmt in, and before the fird watch
of the night. For this inditution be pretended to have
received the divine command from the throne of God
himfelf, when he took his night-journey to heaven ;
and the obferving of the dated times of prayer is fre¬
quently infided on in the Koran, though they be not
particularly preferibed therein. Accordingly, at the
aforefaid times, of which public notice is given by the
Muedhdhins, or Criers, from the deeples of their
mcfques (for they ufe no bells), every confcientious
Modem prepares himfelf for prayer, which he per¬
forms either in the mofque or any other place, provid¬
ed it be clean, after a preferibed form, and with a cer¬
tain number of praifes or ejaculations (which the more
fcrupulous count by a dring of beads), and ufing cer¬
tain podures of wordiip ; all which have been particu¬
larly fet down and deferibed, though with fome few mif-
takes, by other writers, and ought not to be abridged,
unlefs in fome fpecial cafes, as on a journey, on prepar¬
ing for battle, &c.
For the regular performance of the duty of prayer
among the Mahometans, befides the particulars above
ment'oned, it is alio requifite that they turn their
faces, while they pray, towards the temple of Mecca ;
the quarter where the fame is dtuated, being, for that
reafon, pointed out within their mofques by a niche,
which they call al Mehirab ; and without, by the fitu-
ation of the doors opening into the galleries of the
deeples : there are alfo tables calculated for the
ready finding out their Keblah, or part towards which
thev ought to pray, in places where they have no other
direftion.
2. Alms are of two forts, legal and voluntary. The
legal alms are of indifpenfable obligation, being com¬
manded by the law, which diredls and determines both Mahonae-
the portion which is to be given, and of what things taakm-
it ought to oe given j but the voluntary alms are left v -
to every one’s liberty, to give more or lefs, as he {hall
fee fit. The former kind of alms fome think to be pro¬
perly called %acaty and the latter fadakat; though this
name be alfo frequently given to the legal alms. They
are called %acat, either becaufe they increase a man’s
dore by drawing down a bleding thereon, and produce
in his foul the virtue of liberality ; or becaufe they pu¬
rify the remaining part of one’s fubdance from pollu¬
tion, and the foul from the filth of avarice ; and fadakat,
became they are a proof of a man’s dneerity in the
w'ordiip of God. Some writers have called the legal
a'ins tithes, but improperly, fince in fome cafes they
fall diort, and in others exceed that proportion.
3. Fajling is a duty of fo great moment, that Ma¬
homet ufed to fay it was the gate of religion and that
tne odour of the mouth of him who fafteth is snore grate¬
ful to God than that of mujk ; and Al Ghazali reckons
fading one fourth part of the faith. According to the
Mahometan divines, there are three degrees of fading :
1. The redraining the belly and other parts of the bo¬
dy from fatisfying their luds : 2. The redraining the
ears, eyes, tongue, hands, feet, and other members,
from fin 3 and, 3. The fading of the heart from world¬
ly cares, and redraining the thought from every thing
beiides God.
The Mahometans are obliged, by the exprefs com¬
mand of the Koran, to fad the whole month of Rama¬
dan from the time the new moon fird appears, till the
appearance of the next new moon 3 during which time
they mud abdain from eating, drinking, and women,
from daybreak till night or funfet. And this injunfUon
they obferve fo dri&ly,. that, while they fad, they dif¬
fer nothing to enter their mouths, or other parts of their
body, edeeming the fad broken and null, if they fmell
perfumes, take a clyder or injefhon, bathe, or even
purpoiely fwallow their fpittle 3 fome being fo cautious,
that they will not open their mouths to fpeak led they
lliould breathe the air too freely : the fad is alfo deem¬
ed void, if a man kifs or touch a woman, or if he vo¬
mit defignedly. But after funfet they are allowed to
refredi tliemfelves, and to eat and drink, and enjoy the
company cf tneir wives till daybreak 3 though the more
rigid begin the fad again at midnight. This fad is ex¬
tremely rigorous and mortifying when the month of Ra-
macan happens to fall in dimmer (for the Arabian year
being lunar, each month runs through all the different
lealons in the courfe of 33 years), the length and heat
of the days making the obfervance of it much more dif¬
ficult and uneafy than in winter.
. Thc reafon given why the month of Ramadan was
pitched on for this purpofe is, that on that month the
Koran was lent down from heaven. Some pretend,
that Abraham, Moles, and Jefus, received their refpec-
tive revelations in the fame month.
4. The pilgrimage to Mecca is fo neceffary a point
of practice, that, according to a tradition of Mahomet,
he who dies without performing it may as well die a’
Jew or a Cnriflian ; and the fame is exprefsly command¬
ed in the Koran.
The temple of Mecca {lands In the midd of the city,
and is honoured with the title of Masjad al elharam,
1. e. the facred or inviolable temple. What is principal¬
ly
MAH [ 4*4 l MAH
Mahome- ly reverenced in tljis place, and gitfes fan£Uty to the
tanifm' . whole, is a fquare ftone building, called the Caaba j
(fee that article).
To this temple every Mahometan, who has health
and means fufficient, ought, once at leaft in his life,
to go on pilgrimage nor are womerj excufed from the
performance of this duty. The pilgrims meet at differ¬
ent places near Mecca, according to the different parts
from whence they come, during the months of Shawal
and Dhu’lkaada •, being obliged to be there by the be¬
ginning of Dhu’lhajja ; which month, as its name im¬
ports, is peculiarly fet apart for the celebration of this
folemnity.
At the place above mentioned the pilgrims properly
commence fuch ; when the men put on the Ibram or
facred habit, which cenfifts cnly of two w'oolkn wrap¬
pers, one wrapped about their middle to cover their
privities, and the other thrown over their {boulders,
having their heads bare, and a kind of flippers which
cover neither the heel nor the inilep, and fo enter the
facred territory in their wray to Mecca. While they
have this habit on, they muft neither hunt nor fowl,
(though they are allowed to fifh) ; which precept is
fo pundlually oblerved, that they will not kill even a
loufe or flea if they find them on their bodies : there
are fome noxious animals, however, which they have
permiflion to kill during the pilgrimage, as kites, ra¬
vens, fcorpions, mice, and dogs given to bite. Dur¬
ing the pilgrimage, it behoves a man to have a conftant
guard over his .words and a&ions j to avoid all quarrel¬
ling or ill language, all converfe with women, and all
obfcene difcourfe j and to apply his whole attention to
the good w’ork he is engaged in.
The pilgrims, being arrived at Mecca, immediately
vifit the temple ; and then enter on the performance of
the prefcribed ceremonies, which confift chiefly in go¬
ing in proceflion round the Caaba, in running between
the mounts Safa and Merwa, in making the ilation on
Mount Arafat, and flaying the victims, and {having
their heads in the valley of Mina.
In compaffing the Caaba, which they do feven
times, beginning at the corner where the black, ftone
is fixed, they ufe a fhort quick pace the three firft
times they go round it, and a grave ordinary pace the
four laft ; which, it is faid, was ordered by Mahomet,
that his followers might fhow themfelves ftrong and
a£Hve to cut off the hopes of the infidels, who gave
out that the immoderate heats of Medina had rendered
them weak. But the aforefaid quick pace they are not
obliged to ufe every time they perform this piece of de¬
votion, but only at fome paiticular times. So often as
they pafs by the black fione, they either kifs it, or
touch it with their hand, and kifs that.
The running between Safa and Merwa is alfo per¬
formed feven times, partly with a flow7 pace and partly
running: for they walk gravely till they come to a
place between tw o pillars ; and there they run, and
afterwards walk again ; fcmctirnes looking back, and
fometimes {looping, like one who had loft fomething,
to reprefent Hagar ferking water for her fon : for th$
ceremony is faid to be as ancient as her time.
On the ninth of Dhu’lhajjfl, after morning prayer,
the pilgrims leave the valley of Mina, whither they
come the day before ; and proceed in a tumultuous and
ruftiing manner to Mount Arafat, where they ftay to
3
perform their devotions till funfet : then they go to Mahome.
Mozdalifa, an oratory between Arafat and Ml .a •, and tan^”V.
there fpend the night in prayer and reading the Ko-
ran. The next morning by daybreak they vifit a/
Majher al Karam, or “ the facred monuments .d,
departing thence before funrife, hafte by Batn Mohaf-
fer to the valley of Mina, where they throw feven {tones
at three marks or pillars, in imitation of Abraham,
who, meeting the devil in that place, and being by him
difturbed in his devotions, or tempted to difobedience
when he was going to facrifice bis fon, was commanded
by God to drive him away by throwing {tones at him j
though others pretend this rite to be as old as Adam,
who alfo put the devil to flight in the fame place, and
by the fame means.
This ceremony being over, on the fame day, the
tenth of Dhu’lhajj*, the pilgrims flay their vitlims in
the faid valley of Mina $ of which they and their
friends eat part, and the reft is given to the poor.
Thefe victims muft be either Iheep, goats, kine, or
camels : males, if of either of the two former kinds j
and females if of either of the latter j and of a fit
age. The facrifices being over, they {have their heads
and cut their nails, burying them in the fame place ;
after w7hich_the pilgrimage is looked on as completed :
though they again vifit the Caaba, to take their leave
of that facred building.
The rapid fuccefs wriiich attended the propagation
of this new religion was owing to caufes that are plain
and evident, and muft remove, or rather prevent, our
furprife, wdien they are attentively confidered. The
terror of Mahomet’s arms, and the repeated viftories
which were gained by him and his fucceffors, were,
no doubt, the irrefiftible arguments that perfuaded
fuch multitudes to embrace his religion and fubmit to
his dominion. Befides, his law was artfully and mar-
velloufly adapted to the corrupt nature of man ; and,
in a more particular manner, to the manners and opi¬
nions of the eaftern nations, and the vices to which
they were natftrally addifled : for the articles of faith
wrifich it propofed w'ere few in number, and extremely
fimple ; and the duties it required w7ere neither many
nor difficult, nor fuch as were incompatible with the
empire of appetites and paflions. It is to be oblerved
farther, that the grofs ignorance, under which the A-
rabians, Syrians, Perfians, and the greateft part of
the eaftern nations, laboured at this time, rendered
many an eafy prey to the artifice and eloquence of this
bold adventurer. To thefe caufes of the progrefs of
Mahometaniim, we may add the bitter diffenfions and
cruel animofities that reigned among the Chriftian
fe£b, particularly the Greeks, Neftorians, Eutychians,
and Monophyfites; diffenfions that filled a great part
of the eaft v\ ith carnage, affaflinations, and fuch deteft-
able enormities as rendered the very name of Chriftia-
nity odious to many. We might add here, that the
Monophyfites and Neftorians, full of refentment againft
the Greeks, from whom they had fuffered the bittereft
and moft injurious treatment, aflifted the Arabians in
the conqueft of feveral provinces, into w7hich, of confe-
quence, the religion of Mahomet was afterwards intro¬
duced. Other caufes of the fudden progrefs of that re¬
ligion will naturally occur to fuch as confider attentive¬
ly its fpirit and genius, and the ftate of the world at
this time.
MAHOMETANS,
MAH [4
Mahome- MAHOMETANS, thofe who believe In the reli-
tans gion and divine miffion of Mahomet. See Mahomet,
J! . Mahometanism, and Alcoran.
t-—-y - ■ MAHR AITA. See Marhatta.
MAHWAH, or Mawee, in Botany ; an Eafi: In¬
dian tree, fo called by the natives of Bahar and the
neighbouring countries, but of which the Shanfcrit
name is Madhuca or Madhudruma. According to
Lieut. C. Hamilton, by whom a very particular account
-* Vol. I. of this tree is given in the Anatic Refearches *, it is of
art. xiv. the clafs of the polyandria-mcnogynia of Linnaeus, but
of a genus not defcribed by him.
The tree, when full grown, is about the fize of a
common mango tree, with a bulhy head and oval leaves
a little pointed •, its roots fpreading horizontally, are
funk but little in the earth ; the trunk, which is of¬
ten of a confiderable thicknefs, rifes feldom to any
great height, without giving off branches ; it is, how¬
ever, not uncommon to fee it fhoot up clear to the
length of eight or ten feet: the wood itfelf is mode¬
rately hard, line grained, and of a reddilh colour. By
incifion the tree affords a relinous gum from the
bark.
The florvers are of a nature very extraordinary,
“ differing effentially (fays Mr Hamilton) from thofe
of any other plant with which I am acquainted, as they
have not, in any refpefl, the ufual appearance of fuch,
but rather refemble berries; and I, like many others,
had long conceived them to be the fruit of the Mah¬
wah.1’ The tree drops its leaves in the month of Fe¬
bruary, and early in March thefe flowers begin to come
out in duffers of thirty, forty, or fifty, from the extre¬
mity of every fmall branch ; and, from this period till
the latter end of April, as the flowers come to maturi¬
ty (for they never open or expand), they continue fail¬
ing off, with their anther*, in the mornings, a little af¬
ter funrife 5 when they are gathered 5 and afterwards
dried by an expofure of a few days in the fun : when
thus prepared, they very much refemble a dried grape,
both in tafte and flavour. Immediately after the flowers
drop off, frefh fhoots are made for the new leaves, which
fjjqn make their appearance, coming prefently to their
full growth.
The fruit {properly fo called) is of two forts in fhapej
the one refembling a fmall walnut, the other fome-
what larger and pointed : it is ripe towards the middle
of May ; and continues dripping from the tree till the
whole fall, which is generally about the beginning or
towards the miciule of June. J. he outer covering, or
pencarpium, which is of a foft texture, commonly burfts
in the fall, fo that the feeds are very eafily fqueezed
out of it : the feeds are fomewhat of the ffiape, but
longer than an olive. Thefe feeds are replete with a
thick oil, of the confiflence of butter or ghee, which is
obtained by expreffion.
!rom tins defcription it may eafily be conceived,
that the Mahwah tree and its produflions are of fingu-
lur and general ufe, efpecially in thofe dry and barren
countries, which, from the nature of their fituation,
are not fo well calculated for producing in plenty or
perfection the other neceffaries of life.
J he coiolla or flowers, after being dried as before
deferibed, are eaten by the natives raw or dreffed with
their curries; and, when even limply boiled with rice,
they afford a llrengthening and wholefome nourilh-
[5 ] 'MAI
raent. They are indeed, our author tells us, often ap- Mahwab,
plied to a lefs laudable purpofe ; for being fermented, , Ma'den.
they yield by ditlillation a ftrong fpirit, v.’hich the peo-
pie here fell fo very cheap, that for one pice (about a
halfpenny) may be purchafed no lefs than a culcha-feer
(above a pint Englith) with which any man may get
completely drunk. Thefe flowers make an article of
trade ; being exported from this country to Patna and
elfewhere in no inconfiderable quantities.
The oil yielded by the fruit, as before mentioned,
refembles ghee fo much, that, being cheaper, the na¬
tives often mix it with that commodity. They ufe it
the lame as ghee in their victuals, and in the compofi-
tion of fome forts of fweetmeats j and burn it in their
lamps. It is alfo regarded as a {a’utary remedy, ap¬
plied exteriorly to wounds and all cutaneous eruptions.
It is at firfl: of the confidence of common oil, but foon
coagulates: after being kept for fome time, it acquires
a bitterifli taffe and rancid fmell, which renders it fome¬
what lefs agreeable as an article of food : but this is
an inconvenience which, by the oil being properly cla¬
rified and prepared at firil, might be perhaps avoided, .
This oil is alfo exported both in its adulterated and ori¬
ginal Hate to Patna and other parts of the low country.
'1 he gum has not been applied to any ufe : but might
be celleHed in large quantities in the months of March
and April, about the time the flowers come out.
MAI A, in fabulous hi dory, the daughter of Atlas
and Pleione. She was the mother of Mercury by Jupi¬
ter. She was one of the Pleiades, the mod luminous -
of the feven fiders; (fee Pleiades). Alio, a furname
of Cybele.
MAIDEN, an indrument for beheading criminals.
Of the ufe and form of this indrument Mr Pennant
gives the following account : “ It feems to have been,
confined to the limits of the fored of Hardwick, or
the 18 towns and hamlets within its precinfts. The
time when this cudom took place is unknown j ■whe¬
ther Earl Warren, lord of this fored, might have eda-
blidied it among the fangninary laws then in ufe asraind
the invaders of the hunting rights, or whether it might
not take place after the w'oollen manufadtures at Hali¬
fax began to gain drength, is uncertain. The lad is
very probable ; for the wild country around the town
was inhabited by a lawlefs fet, whole depredations on
the cloth-tenters might foon difle the efforts of infant
indudry. For the proteflion of trade, . and for the
greater terror of offenders by fpeedy execution, this cuf-
tom feems to have been edablidied, fo as at lad to re¬
ceive the force of law, which was, ‘ That if a felon be
taken within the liberty of the fored of Hardwick,with
goods dolen out, or within the faid precin&s, either
hand-habend, back-berand, or confedion’d, to the va¬
lue.of thirteen pence halfpenny, he lhall, after three
market days or meeting-days within the town of Hali¬
fax, next after fuch his apprehenfion, and being con¬
demned, be taken to the gibbet, and there have his -
head cut from his body.”
“ The offender had always a fair trial ; for as foon .
as he was taken, he was brought to the lord’s bailiff at
Halifax : he was then expofed on • the three markets
(which here were held thrice in a week), placed in a
docks, with the goods dolen on his back, or, if the
theft was of the cattle kind, they were placed by him 3 -
and this was done both to drike terror into ethers,
and
MAI [4
Maiden and to produce new informations agaiiift him. The
bailiff then fummoned four freeholders of each town
head " foreft to form a jury. The felon and pro-
——y—fecutors were brought face to face •, and the goods, the
cow or horfe, or whatfoever was ftolen, produced. If he
was found guilty, he was remanded to pxifbn, had a
wreck’s time allowed for preparation, and then wras con¬
veyed to this Ipot, where his head was (truck off by
this machine. I (hould have premifed, that if the cri¬
minal, either after apprehenfion, or in the way to exe¬
cution, could efcape out of the limits of the foreft (part
being clofe to the town), the bailiff had no farther
power over him $ but if he ihould be caught w ithin the
precin&s at any time after, he was immediately execu¬
ted on his former fentence.
“ This privilege was very freely ufed during the
reign of Elizabeth : the records before that time w^ere
loft. Twenty-five fuffered in her reign, and at leaft 12
from 1623 to 16505 after which I believe the privi¬
lege was no more exerted.
“ This machine of death is now deftroyed 5 but I
faw one <^f the fame kind in a room under the parlia¬
ment houfe at Edinburgh, where it was introduced by
the regent Morton, who took a model of it as he paffed
through Halifax, and at length fuffered by it himfelf.
It is in form of a painter’s eafel, and about ten feet
high : at four feet from the bottom is a crofs bar on
which the felon lays his head, which is kept down by
another placed above. In the inner edges of the
frame are grooves 5 in thefe is placed a (harp axe, with
a vaft weight of lead, lupported at the very fummit
with a peg : to that peg is faftened a cord, wdiich the
executioner cutting, the axe falls, and does the affair
effeblually, without fuffering the unhappy criminal to
undergo a repetition of ftrokes, as has been the cafe in
the common method. I muft add, that if the fufferer
is condemned for ftealing a horfe or a cow, the firing
is tied t'o the bead, which, on being whipped, pulls out
the peg, and becomes the executioner.” This appara¬
tus is now in poffeflion of the Scottifti Antiquarian So¬
ciety.
Maiden is alfo the name of a machine firft ufed in
Yorkftiire, and fince introduced into other places, for
wafliing linen 5 confiding of a tub 19 inphes high,
and 27 in diameter at the top, in which the linen is
put, with hot water and foap, to which is adapted a
cover, fitting it very clofely, and faftened to the tub
by two wedges; through a hole in the middle of the
cover pafles an upright piece of wood, kept at a pro¬
per height by a peg above, and furniftied with two
handles, by which it is turned backward and forward :
to the lower end of this upright piece is faftened a
round piece of wood, in which are fixed feveral pieces,
like cogs of a wheel. The operation of this machine
is to make the linen pafs and repafs quick through
the wfa*er.
MAiDEN-Rents, in our old writers, a noble paid by
the tenants of fome manors on their marriage. This
was faid to be given to the lord for his omitting the
cuftom of marcheta, w’hereby he was to have the firft
»night’s lodging with his tenant’s wife 5 but it feems
more probably to have been a fine for a licenfe to
marry a daughter.
MAIDENHEAD, a town of Berks, 26 miles from
Tondon, ^ith a itpne bridge over the Thames. It is
2
6 ] MAI
governed by a high fteward, a mayor, a Reward, and Maidftone
10 aldermen, out of which laft two bridgemafters are ;j|
chofen every year. Here is a gaol both for debtors and / aiSnan’„1
felons. The town (lands partly in. the parilh of Bray
and partly in that of Cookham ; and here is a chapel
peculiar to the corporation, the minifter whereof is ^
chofen by the inhabitants, and not obliged to attend
the biftiop’s vifitation. Here are feveral alms-houfes
and charities. This town, now fo confiderable, did not
begin to flourilh till, by the’ building of its bridge, tra¬
vellers were brought this way, who before ufed a ferry
at that called Babhatn's End, two miles north of it.
The barge pier bridge is maintained by the corporation,
for which they are allowed the tolls both over and un¬
der it. The bridge-pier divides Berks from Bucks.
There is a great trade here in malt, meal, and timber,
which they carry in their barges to London. As this
is the great thoroughfare from thence to Bath, Briftol,
and other fouth-weft parts of England, the adjacent
wood or thicket has been noted for' many robberies.
The market here is on Wednefdays } there are three
fairs; and here are frequent horfe races.
MAIDSTONE, a town of Kent, in England, 36
miles from London, feated on the river Medway, a
branch of which runs through it. It is a corporation,
and fends two members to parliament. Its chief trade,
befides linen-thread, which is made in great perfedlion,
is in hops 5 of which there are great plenty of plantation^
about the town, as well as orchards of cherries. The
tide flows quite up to the town, and brings up barges,
&c. of 50 or 60 tons. It has a fine (lone bridge. One
of the public gaols for the county is kept in this town ;
and the cuftody of weights and meafures, renewed by
the ftandard of King Henry VII. was committed to
it by parliament, as being in the centre of Kent : for
which reafon the knights of the (hire are always defi¬
ed, and the courts of juftice ahvays held here, and
generally the aftizes. The archbifhop of Canterbury is
conftant parfon of this parilh, -which is his peculiar,
and ferved by his curate. Here are four charity-
fchools, in which are above 100 boys and girls, who
are vifited once a-week and catechifed by the mini-
Her. This, is fach a plentiful country, and the lands
hereabouts are fo rich, that London is fupplied with
more commodities from hence than from any market-
town in England 5 particularly with the large hul-
vlocks that come from the Weald of Kent, which be¬
gins but fix miles off 5 with timber, wheat, and great
quantities of hops, apples, and cherries 5 with a fort
of paving-ftone, eight or ten inches fquare, that is ex¬
ceeding durable ; and with the fine wdiite fand for glafs-
houfes and (lationers. There are fo many gentlemen’s
feats within 10 miles, that it is rare to find a town of
fo much trade and bufinefs, fo full of gentry and good
company.
MAIENNE, a confiderable, handfome, and popu¬
lous towm in France, formerly having the title of a du¬
chy 5 feated on a river of the fame name, in W. Long,
o. 35 N. Lat. 48. 18.
MAfGNAN, Emanuel, a religious Minim, and
a philofopher of confiderable eminence, was born of
an atfcient and noble family at Thouloufe in 1601.
Like the famous Pafcal, he became a complete mathe¬
matician without the afliftance of a teacher 5 and filled
the profeffor’s chair at Rome in 1636, where, at the
expence
MAI [ 4*7 ] MAI
Majefty, expence of Cardinal Spada, he publifhed his book De
Mail Verfpeftiva Horaria. He returned to Thouloufe in
J"' ' *' 1650, and was created provincial: the king who in
1660 entertained himfelf with the machines and curioli-
ties in his cell, made him offers by Cardinal Mazarine,
to draw him to Paris 5 but he humbly defired to fpend
the remainder of his days in a cloifter. He publifhed
a courfe of philofophy, 4 vols 8vo, at Thouloufe j to
the fecond edition of wdiich he added two treatiies, one
againft the vortices of Defcartes, and the other on the
fpeaking trumpet invented by Sir Samuel Morland.
He is faid to have ftudied even in his fleep, his very
dreams being employed in theorems, the demonftra-
tions of which would awaken him with joy. He died
in 1676.
MAJESTY, a title given to kings, which frequent¬
ly ferves as a term of diftindlion. The word leems
compofed of the two Latin words, major “ greater,”
an& Jlatus “ date.” The emperor is called Sacred Ma-
jejly. Imperial MajeJhj, and Ceefarean Majejly: The
king of Hungary is ityled His Apojfolic MajeJhj. The
king of Spain is termed His mq/l Catholic MajeJlij: and
the king of Portugal, His moj} Faithful Majejly. The
king of France ufed to be called His mojl Chrif ian Ma-
jefly ; and when he treated with the emperor, the word
Sacred was added: He was afterwards called limply, King
of the French. Bonaparte affumed the title oi Emperor
and King of France.—With refpect to other kings, the
name of the kingdom is added j as His Britannic Ma-
jjhj, His Fruffian Majefy, &c. Formerly princes were
more fparing in giving titles, and more modeft in claim¬
ing them : before the reign of Charles V. the king of
Spain had only the title of Highncfs; and before that of
Henry VIII, the kings of England were only addreffed
under the titles of Grace and Highnefs.
Under the Roman republic, the title Majefy, {majejlas')
belonged to the wdtole body of the people, and to the
principal magiflrates ; fo that to diminifh or wound the
majefty of the commonwealth, was to be wanting in
refpedt to the ftate or to its minifters. But the power
afterwards palling into the hands of a lingle perfon,
the appellation of Majefy was transferred to the em¬
peror and the imperial family. Pliny compliments
Trajan on his being contented with the title of Great-
nefs; and fpeaks very invidioufly of thofe who affefted
that of Majefy. And yet this laft feems to be the moft
modeft and juft title that can be attributed to fove-
reigns, fince it lignifies no more than the royalty or fo-
vereign power.
MAII INDUCTIO, an ancient cuftom for the prieft
and people of country-villages to go in proceftion to
fome adjoining wood on a May-day morning; and
return in a kind of triumph, with a May pole,
boughs, flowers, garlands, and other tokens of the
fpring. This May-game, or rejoicing at the coming
of the fpring, was for a long time obferved, and ftill
is in fome parts of England *, but there was thought
to be fo much heathen vanity in it, that it was con¬
demned and prohibited within the diocefe of Lincoln
by the good old Bifhop Grofthead.
MAIL {inaillej, a term primarily applied to the
meflies or holes in net-work.
Coat of Mail. See Coat. It is called alfo a ha¬
bergeon. Anciently they alfo wore Hurts of mail un-
Vot. XII. Part II.
der the waiftcoat, to ferve as a defence againft fwords Mail
and poniards. We alfo read of gloves of mail. Ij
Mail, or Mall, alfo fignifies a round ring of ironj
whence the play of pall-mall, from palla “ a ball,”
and maille “ the round ring through which it is to
pafs.”
Mail, or Maille, in our old writers, a fmall kind
of money. Silver halfpence were likewife termed
Mailles, 9 Henry V. By indenture in the mint, a pound
weight ot old fterling liver was to be coined into 360
fterlings or pennies, or 720 mails or half-pennies, or
1440 farthings. Hence the word mail was derived,
which is now vulgarly ufed in Scotland to lignify an
annual rent.
Mail, or Maill, on fhip-board, a fquare machine
compofed of a number of rings interwoven net-wife, and
ufed for rubbing off the loofe hemp which remains on
lines or white cordage after it is made.
Mail is likewife ufed for the leather bag wherein
letters are carried by the poll.
MAit-Coaches. See Coach.
A cl ion of Mails and Duties, in Scots Law. See
Law, p. 689, $ 20.
Mail, Black. See BlaccMoH.
MAILLA,Joseph-Anne-Marie de Moyriac de,
a learned Jefuit, was born in the caftle of Maillac in
the Bugey, and appointed a miftionary to China,
whither he went in 1703. At the age of 28 he had
acquired fo great a Ikill in the characters, arts, fciences,
mythology, and ancient books of the Chinefe, as to
aftonilh even the learned. He was greatly beloved
and efteemed by the emperor Kham-Hi, who died in
1722. He, together with other mifftonaries, was
employed by that prince to drawr a chart of China
and Chinefe Tartary, which was engraven in France
in the year 1732. He drew likewife particular charts
of fome of the provinces of this vaft empire ; with
which the emperor wras fo pleafed, that he fettled the
author at his court. The great annals of China were
alfo tranflated into French by Father Mailla, and his
manufcript was tranfmitted to France in 1737. This
work wms publilhed in 1 2 volumes quarto, under the
infpe&ion ot M. Grofier, and is the firft complete
hiitory of that extenfive empire. The ftyle, which
was full of hyperbole and bombaft, has been revifed
by the editor, and the fpeeches which extended to
too great a length, and had too much famenefs in
them, have been omitted. Father Miilla, after having
refided 45 years in China, died at Pekin on the 28 h
of June 1748, in the 79th year of his age. Kien-Lung
the reigning emperor paid the expences of his funeral.
He was a man of a lively and gentle character, capable
of the moft perfevering labour and the moft unremit¬
ting aClivity.
MAILLET, Benoit de, defcended from a noble
family in Lorrain, was born in 1659, and appointed
at the age of 33, conful general for Egypt. He ful¬
filled this office for 16 years with great ability, fup-
ported the king’s authority againft the janizaries, and
greatly extended the trade of France into that part of
Africa. As a recompenfe fot his fervices, the king
bellowed upon him the confullhip of Leghorn, which
is the firft and moft conliderable confulfhip in his
gift. Being at laft appointed in 1715 to viiit the
3 Gr fea-ports
MAI [4
Martlet, fea-ports In the Levant and on the coaft of Barbary,
Maim‘ he was fo fuccefsful in the execution of his commif-
fion, that he obtained permiffion to retire with a confi-
derable penfion. He fettled at Marfeilles; where he
died in 1738, in the 79th year of his age. He was a
man of a lively imagination, and gentle manners •, in
fociety he was very amiable, and he poileffed the
ftri£ieit probity. He was fond of praife, and very
anxious about the reputation of genius. During the
whole of his life he paid particular attention to the
fludy of natural hiftory ; and his principal objedt was
to become acquainted with the origin of our globe.
On this important fubject he left fome curious ob-
fervations, which have been publiihed in oftavo under
the title of Telliamed, which is the name de Maillet
written backwards. The editor Abbe Mafcrier has
given to this work the form of dialogue. An Indian
philofopher is introduced as explaining to a French mif¬
fionary his opinion concerning the nature of the globe,
and the origin of mankind ; and, which is very in¬
credible, he fuppofes it to have come out of the wa¬
ters, and makes an abode uninhabitable by man the
birthplace of the human race. His great object is
to prove, that all the ftrata of which this globe is
compofed, even to the tops of the higheft mountains,
have come from the bofom of the waters •, that they
are the work of the fea, which continually retires to
allow them gradually to appear. Telliamed dedicated
his book to the illuftrious Cyrano de Bergerac, author
of the imaginary “ Travels to the fun and moon.”
In the humorous epiftle which is addreffed to him,
the Indian philofopher informs us that thefe dialogues
are nothing but a collection of dreams and fancies.
He cannot be accufed of having broken his word j
but he may well be reproached with not having wTrit-
ten them in the fame ftyle with his letter to Cy¬
rano, and with not having difplayed equal livelinefs
and humour. A fubjeft the moft extravagant is hand¬
led in the graveft manner, and his ridiculous opinion
is delivered with all the ferious air of a philofopher. Of
the fix dialogues which compofe the wrork, the four
firit .contain many curious obfervations truly philofo-
phical and important : in the other two we find no¬
thing but conjectures, fancies, and fables, fometimes
amufing, but always abfurd. To Maillet we are in¬
debted alfo for “ A Defcription of Egypt,” collected
from his memoirs by the editor of Telliamed, 1743,
qto, or in 2 vols. 1 2mo.
MAIM, Maihem, or Mayhem, in law, a wound by
which a perfon lofes the ufe of a member that might
have been a defence to him 5 as when a bone is broken,
a foot, hand, or other member cut off, or an eye put
outthough the cutting off an ear or nofe, or break¬
ing the hinder-teeth, was formerly held to be no maim.
A maim by caftration -was anciently punilhed with
death, and other maims with lofs of member for mem¬
ber ; but afterwards they were only punifhed by fine
and impiifonment. It is now enaCted by the fiatute
22 and 23 Car. II. that if any perfon, from malice
aforethought, fhall difable any limb or member of any
of the king’s fubjeds with an intent to disfigure him,
the offender, with his aiders and abettors, {hall be guilty
of felony without benefit of clergy j though no fuch
attainder (hall corrupt the blood, or occafion forfeiture
of lands, &c.
18 ] MAI
MAIMONIDES, Moses, or Moses the som of Maimo-
Maimon, a celebrated rabbi, called by the Jews the nllies
eagle of the dodlors, was born of an illuffrious family at Mamprize.
Cordova in Spain, in 1131. The early part of his edu- —'—J——^
cation was undertaken by his father, who afterwards
placed him under the tuition of Rabbi Jofeph, the fon
of Megas, a perfon on whofe profound learning he has
bellowed the higheft praife; and, according to Le r A-
fricanus, he had alfo among his tutors the learned Ara¬
bians Ibn I hophail and Averroes. Pie is commonly
named Mofes Mgyptius, becaufe he fettled in Egypt,
where he (pent his whole life in quality of phyfician to
the fultan. Here lie opened a fchool, which was foon
filled with pupils from all parts, from Alexandria
and Damafcus efpecially, whofe proficiency under him
fpread his fame all over the world. He was no lefs
eminent in philofophy, mathematics, and divinity,
than in medicine. Caiaubon affirms it may be truly
faid of him, as Pliny of old faid of Diodorus. Siculus,
that “ he was the firft of his tribe who' ceafed to be
a trifler,” It wmiild be tedious to enumerate all the
works of Maimonides ; fome wrere written originally
in Arabic, but are now' extant only in Hebrew tranf-
lations. “ Thofe (fays Collier) who defire to learn
the doftrine and the canon law contained in the Tal¬
mud, may read Maimonides’s compendium of it in
good Hebrew, in his book entitled lad; wherein they
will find great part of the fables and impertinencies
in the Talmud entirely difcarded. But the More Ne-
vochim is the moft valued of all his works $ defigned
to explain the obfcure words, phrafes, metaphors, &c.
in fcripture, which, when literally interpreted, have
either no meaning or appear abfurd.
MAIN, an epithet ufually applied by failors to
whatever is principal, as oppofed to whatever is infe¬
rior or fecondary. Thus the main land is ufed in con-
tradiftinftion to an illand or peninfula 5 and the main
mart, the main wale, the main keel, and the main
hatchway, are in like manner diftinguiihed from the
fore and mizen mafts, the channel whales, the falfe keel,
and the fore and after hatchways, &c.
MAINOUR, Manour, or Meinour (from the
French, manier, i. e. manu traBare'), in a legal fenfe
denotes the thing that a thief taketh away or ftealeth :
As to be taken with the mainour {PL Cor. fol. j 79.),
is to be taken with the thing ftolen about him : And
again (fol. 194.) it was prefented, that a thief was de¬
livered to the flieriff or vifeount, together with the
mainour: And again (fol. 186.), if a man be indict¬
ed, that he felonioufly ftole the goods of another,
where, in truth, they are his own goods, and the
goods be brought into the court as the mainour j and
if it be demanded of him, what he faith to the goods,
and he difclaim them ; though he be acquitted of the
felony, he ftiall lofe the goods : And again (fol. 149.),
if the defendant were taken with the mainour, and the
mainour be carried to the court, they, in ancient times,
would arraign him upon the mainour, without any ap¬
peal or indictment. Cowel. See Blach/1. Comment,
vol. iii. p. 71. vol. iv. p. 303.
MAINPRIZE. See Falfe iMtRisoNMENT.
The writ of mainprize, manucaptio, is a writ direct¬
ed to the Iheriff (either generally, when any man is
imprifoned for a bailable offence, and bail hath been
refufed j or fpecially, when the offence or caufe of
commitment.
MAI [ 4x9 ] MAI
Mainte- commitment is not properly bailable below), command-
nance, jng tQ take fureties for tbe prifoner’s appearance,
Aiaint.r.on. ufua^y called mainpernors, and to fet him at large.
Mainpernors differ from bail, in that a man’s bail may
imprifon or furrender him up before the llipulated
day of appearance *, mainpernors can do neither, but
are barely fureties for his appearance at the day : bail
are only fureties that the parties be anfwerable for the
fpecial matter for which they ftipulate, mainpernors
are bound to produce him to anfwer all charges what¬
ever. See Habeas Corpus.
MAINTENANCE, in Law, bears a near relation
to Barretry ; being an officious intermeddling in a
fuit that no way belongs to one, by maintaining or af-
fifting either party with money or otherwife, to pro-
fecute or defend it : a practice that was greatly encou¬
raged by the firft introdudlion of ufes. This is an of¬
fence againft public juftice, as it keeps alive ftrife
and contention, and perverts the remedial procefs of
the law into an engine of oppreffion. And therefore,
by the Roman law, it was a fpecies of the crimen fa/Ji,
to enter into any confederacy, or do any a& to fup-
port another’s law fuit, by money, witneffes, or patron¬
age. A man may, however, maintain the fuit of his
near kinfman, fervant, or poor neighbour, out of cha¬
rity and compaffion, with impunity. Otherwife the
puniffiment by common law is fine and imprifonment;
and by the ftatute 32 Henry VIII. c. 9, a forfeiture of
lol.
MAINTENON, Madame de, a French lady of
extraordinary fortune, defcended from an ancient fa¬
mily, and whofe proper name was Frances d'Aubigne,
was born in 1635. Her parents by misfortunes being
ill able to fupport her, {he fell to the care of her mo¬
ther’s relations ; to efcape which ftate of dependence,
{he was induced to marry that famous old buffoon the
Abbe Scarron, who fubllfted himfelf only on a penfion
allowed him by the court for his wit and parts. She
lived with him many years, wdiich Voltaire makes no
fcruple to call the happieft years of her life ; but when
be died in 1660, fine found herfelf as indigent as ffie
had been before her marriage. Tier friends indeed en¬
deavoured to get her hufband’s penfion continued to her,
and prefented fo many petitions to the king about it,
all beginning with “ The widow Scarron molt humbly
prays your majefty’s,” &c. that he was quite wxary
of them, and has been heard to exclaim, “ Muft I al-
wrays be peftered with the widow Scarron ?” At laff,
however, through the recommendation of Madame de
Montefpan, he fettled a much larger penfion on her,
with a genteel apology for making her w'ait fo long ;
and afterward made choice of her to take care of the
education of the young duke of Maine, his fon by Ma¬
dame de Montefpan. The letters ffie wrote on this
occafion charmed the king, and were the origin of her
advancement •, her perfonal merit effeiffed all the reff.
He bought her the lands of Maintenon, the only eftate
{lie ever had ; and finding her pleafed with the acqui-
fition, called her publicly Madame de Maintenon j which
was of great fervice to her in her good fortune, by re-
leafing her from the- ridicule attending that of Scar¬
ron. Her elevation was to her only a retreat ; the
king came to her apartment every day after dinner,
before and after fupper, and continued thei-e till mid¬
night : here he did bufinefs with his minitlei's, while
Madame de Maintenon, employed in.reading or needle* Vaintenon,
wmrk, never ffiowfed any defire to talk of ftate affairs, Major,
and carefully avoided all appearance of cabal or in- '
trigue } fire did not even make ufe of her power to
dignify her own relations. About the latter end of
the year 1685, Louis XIV. married her, he being
then in his 48th and {he in her 50th year j and that
piety with wdiich ffie infpired the king to make her a
wife inftead of a miftrefs, became by degrees a fettled
difpofition of mind. She prevailed on . Louis to found
a religious community at St Cyr, for the education of
300 young ladies of quality; and here ffie frequently re¬
tired from that melancholy of wdiich the complains fo
pathetically in one of her letters, and which few la¬
dies will fuppofe ffie ftiould be liable to in luch an
elevated fituation. But, as M. Voltaire fays, if any
thing could ffiow the vanity of ambition, it w'ould
certainly be this letter. Madame de Maintenon could
have no other uneafinefs than the uniformity of her
manner of living with a great king ; and this made
her once fay to the count D’Aubigne her brother, “ I
can hold it no longer; I wdffi I waS dead.” The an¬
fwer he made to her was, “ Yoi4 have then a promife
to marry the Almighty !” Louis, however, died be¬
fore her in 1715 } wdien {he retired wholly to St Cyr,
and fpent the reft of her days in a£ts of devotion; and
what is mold furprifing is, that her huffiand left no
certain provifion for her, recommending her only to
the duke of Orleans. She would accept no more than
a penfion of 80,000 livres, which was punctually paid
her till ffie died in 1719. A collection of her letters
has been publiftied, and tranflated into Engliffi j from
which familiar intercourfes her character will be better
known than from defcription.
MAJOR, in the art of war, the name of feveral
officers of very different ranks and functions.
MAjoR-general. See General.
Major of a Regiment of Foot, the next officer to the
lieutenant-colonel, generally promoted from the eldeft
captain : he is to take care that the regiment be well
exercifed, to fee it march in good order, and to rally
it in cafe of being broke in aCtion : he is the only of¬
ficer among the infantry that is allowed to be on horfe-
back in time of aCtion, that he may the more readily
execute the colonel’s orders.
Major of a Regiment ofHorfe, as well as foot, ought
to be a man of honour, integrity, underitanding, cou¬
rage, activity, experience, and addrefs : he ffiould be
matter of arithmetic, and keep a detail of the regi¬
ment in every particular : he ffiould be {killed in horfe-
manfliip, and ever attentive to his bufinefs: one of his
principal functions is, to keep an exaCt rofter of the
officers for duty : he ffiould have a perfeCt knowledge
in all the military evolutions, as he is obliged by his
poll to inftruCt others, &c.
Towu-Major, the third officer in order in a garri-
fon, and next to the deputy-governor.. He ffiould un-
derftand fortification, and has a particular charge of
the guards, rounds, patroles, and centinels.
Bngade-MAjoR, is a particular officer appointed for
that purpofe only in camp : he goes every day to head¬
quarters to receive orders from the adjutant-general:
there he writes exaCtly whatever is didated to him :
from thence he goes and gives the orders, at the place
appointed for that purpofe, to the different majors or
3 G 2 adjutants
M A J [ 42
adjutants of the regiments which compofe that brigade,
and regulates with them the number of officers and
men which each are to furniffi for the duty of the army ;
taking care to keep an exadl ruder, that one may not
give more than another j and that each march in their
tour : in Ihort, the major of brigade is charged with
the particular detail in his own brigade, in much the
iame way as the adjutant-general is charged with the
general detail of the duty of the army, hie fends every
morning to the adjutant-general an exadl return, by
battalion and company, of the men of his brigade mif-
ling at the retreat, or a report expreffing that none are
abfent: he alfo mentions the officers abfent with or
without leave.
As all orders pafs through the hands of the majors
of brigade, they have infinite occafions of making
known their talents and exadlnefs.
Major of Artillery, is alfo the next officer to the
lieutenant-colonel. His poll is very laborious, as the
whole detail of the corps particularly refts with him ;
and for this reafon all the non-commiffioned officers
are fubordinate to him, as his title of ferjeanl-major im¬
ports : in this quality they muft render him an exadl
account of every thing which comes to their know¬
ledge, either regarding the duty or wants of the artil¬
lery and foldiers. He ffiould poffefs a perfedl know^-
ledge of the power of artillery, together with all its
^evolutions. In the field he goes daily to receive orders
trom the brigade-major, and communicates them with
the parole to his fuperiors, and then didlates them to
the adjutant. He Ihould be a very good mathemati¬
cian, and be well acquainted with every thing belong¬
ing to the train of artillery, &c.
Major of Engineers, commonly with us called Sub-
direBor, ffiould be very w'ell fkilled in military archi-
te61ure, fortification, gunnery, and mining. He ffiould
know how to fortify in the field, to attack and defend
all forts of polls, and to conduft the works in a fiege,
&c. See Engineer.
AMMajor, is on fundry occafions appointed to a£t
as major, who has a pre-eminence above others of the
fame denomination. Our horfe and foot guards have
their guidons, or fecond or third majors.
Serjeant-MAjoR, is a non-com million ed officer, of
great merit and capacity, fubordinate to the adjutant as
he is to the major. See Serjeant.
Drum Major, is not only the firfl drummer in the
regiment, but has the fame authoiity over his drummers
as the corporal has over his fquad. He inftru&s them
in their different beats; is daily at orders with the ler-
jeants, to know the number of drummers for duty. He
inarches at their head when they beat in a body. In
the day of battle, or at exercife, be muff be very atten¬
tive to the orders given him, that he may regulate his
beats according to the movements ordered.
Fife-Major, is he that plays the bell on that inllru-
ment, and has the fame authority over the lifers as the
drum-major has over the drummers. He teaches them
their duty, and appoints them for guards, &c.
Major, in Law, a perfon who is of age to manage
his own affairs. Ily the civil law a man is not a major
till the age of 25 years j in England, he is a major at
21, as in Normandy at 20.
Major, in Logic, is underlfood of the firfl; propo¬
rtion of a regular lyllogifm. It is called major^ bepaufe
o ] M A J
it has a more extenfive lenfe than the minor propofition, Major,
as containing the principal term. See Logic. ——y—J
Major and Minor, in Mufc, are applied to concords
which differ from each other by a femi-tone. See Con¬
cord.
Major tone is the difference between the fifth and
fourth and major iemi-tone the difference between the
major fourth and the third. The major tone furpaffes
the minor by a comma.
MAjoR-Domo, an Italian term, frequently ufed to
fignify a fteward or mafter of the houfehold. The
title of major-domo w^as formerly given in the courts
of princes to three different kinds of officers. 1. To
him who took care of what related to the prince’s
table, or eating ; otherwife called eleater, praefeBus
metfcc, architriclinus, dapifer, and princeps coquorum.—
2. Major-domo was alfo applied to the fteward of the
houfehold.—3. The title of major-domo wTas alfo given
to the chief minifier, or him to whom the prince de¬
puted the adminiftration of his affairs, foreign and
domeflic, relating to war as wrell as peace. Inftances
of major demos in the two firfl fenfes are frequent in
the Englilh, French, and Norman affairs.
Major, John, a fcholaftic divine and hiftorian,
was born at Haddington, in the province of Eaft Lo¬
thian in Scotland. It appears from fome paffages in
his writings, that he refided a while both at Oxford
and Cambridge. He went to Paris in 1493, and flu-
died in the college of St Barbe, under the famous John
Boulac. Thence he removed to that of Montacute,
where he began to ftudy divinity under the celebrated
Standouk. In the year 1498, he was entered of the
college of Navarre. In 1505, he was created doflor
in divinity 5 returned to Scotland in 1519, and taught
theology during feveral years in the univerfity of St
Andrew’s. But, at length, being difgufted with the
quarrels of his countrymen, he went back to Paris, and
refumed his leflures in the college of Montacute,
where he had feveral pupils who afterwards became
men of great eminence. About the year 1530, he re¬
turned once more to Scotland, and was chofen profef-
for of theology at St Andrew’s, of which he after¬
wards became provoft ; and there died in 1547, aged
78. His logical treatifes form one immenfe folio j his
commentary on Ariftotle’s phyfics makes another ; and
his theological works amount to feveral volumes of the
fame fize. Thefe maffes of crude and ufelefs difqui-
fition were the admiration of his contemporaries. A
work, lefs prized in his own age, was to make him
known to pofterity. His book De Gif is Scotorum,
was firfl publifhed at Paris by Badius Afcenfius, in
the year 1521. He rejefls in it fome of the fiftions
of former hiftorians 5 and would have had greater me¬
rit if he had rejedled more. He intermingles the hi-
ftory of England with that of Scotland 5 and has in¬
curred the cenfure of fome partial writers, for giving
an authority to the authors of the former nation, which,
he refufes to thofe of his own. Bede, Caxton, and
Froiffard, were exceedingly ufeful to him. What does
the greatell honour to this author is, the freedom
with which he has cenfured the rapacity and indolence
of ecclefiaftics, and the ftrain of ridicule with which he
treats the pope’s fupremacy. The ftyle in which he
wrote does not deferve commendation. Biftiop Spot-
tifwood calls it Sorbontiic and barbarous.
MAJORCA,
M A 1 [42
Majorca, MAJORCA, an ifland of the Mediterranean, lying
Mahan, between Yvica on the weft and Minorca on the ealt.
Xhefe three iilands were anciently called Balcares, fup-
pofed to be from the Ikill of their inhabitants in fling¬
ing, for which they were very remarkable. Originally
they belonged to the Carthaginians j but during the
wars bf that people with the Romans they feem to
have regained their liberty. In 122 B. C. they were
fubdued by Metellus the Roman conful, who treated
the inhabitants with fuch cruelty, that out of 30,000
he fcarce left 1000 alive. He then built two cities on
Majorca j one called Palma, now Majorca, to the eaft j
the other to the weft, named Pollentia, now no longer
in being. The ifland continued fubjeft to the Ro¬
mans, and to the nations who overran the weftern
part of the empire, for many ages. At laft it was fub¬
dued by the Moors about the year 800. By them the
ifland was put in a much better condition than it ever
was before or fmce. The Moors being very induftri-
ous, and alfo populous, furrounded the whole coaft
with fortifications, that is, with a kind of towers and
lines between them; cultivated every fpot in the ifland
that was not either rock or fand j and had no fewer
than 15 great towns, whereas now there are not above
three. Neither was it at all difficult for the Moorifti
monarch to bring into the field an army much fuperior
in number to the inhabitants that are now upon it,
taking in all ranks, fexes, and ages. In 1229, the ifland
was fubdued by the king of Arragon, who eftablifhed
in it a new kingdom, feudatory to that of Arragon,
which was again deftroyed in 1341 by the fame mo-
narchs 3 and ever fince, the ifland hath been fubjedt to
Spain, and hath entirely loft its importance. It is
about 60 miles long, and 45 broad. The air is clear
and temperate ; and, by its fituation, the heat in fum-
mer is fo qualified by the breezes, that it is by far the
moft pleafant of all the iflands in the Mediterranean.
There are fome mountains 3 but the country is gene¬
rally flat, and of fuch an excellent foil, that it produces
great quantities of corn as good in its kind as any in
Europe. Oil, wane, and fait, are very plentiful, as al¬
fo black cattle and fneep 3 but deer, rabbits, and wild¬
fowl, abound fo much, that they alone are fufficient
for the fubfiftence of the inhabitants. There are no
-rivers, but a great many fprings and wells, as well as
feveral good harbours. The inhabitants are robuft,
aflive, and good feamen.
Majorca, a handfome, large, rich, and ftrong town,
in the ifland of the fame name, with a bifhop's fee. It
contains about 6000 houfes, and 22 churches, befides
the cathedral. The fquares, the cathedral, and the
royal palace, are magnificent ftruflures. A captain-
general refides there, who commands the whole ifland 3
and there is a garrifon againft the incurfion of the
Moors. It was taken by the Englilh in 17063 but
was retaken in 1715, fince which time it has been in
the hands of the Spaniards. It is feated on the fouth-
weft part of the ifland, where there is a good harbour,
70 miles north-eaft of Yvica, 1 20 fouth-eaft of Barce¬
lona, 140 eaft of Valencia, and 300 from Madrid. E.
Long. 2. 55. N. Lat. 39. 36.
MAIRAN, Jean-Jacques d’Ortous de, defend¬
ed from a noble family at Befiers, was born in that city
in 1678, and died at Paris of a defluxion on the lungs
on the 20tb of February 1771, at the age of 93. He
i ] MAI
wras one of the moft illuftrious members of the Academy Mairao*
of Sciences and of the French Academy. Being early '
connedfed with the former fociety, he, in the year
1741, fucceeded Fontenelle in the office of fecre-
tary. This ftstion he filled with the moft diftin-
guilhed fuccefs till the year 1744; and, like his pre-
deceffor, poflefled the faculty of placing the moft ab-
ftrafl iubjefts in the cleareft light 3 a talent which is
very rare, but which appears confpicuous in all his
works. The chief of them are, 1. Dijfertation fur la
Glace, the laft edition of which was printed in 1749,
1 2mo. This excellent little tradf has been tranflated
into German and Italian. 2. Dijfertation jrur la caufe
de la lumiere des Phofpliores, 1717, i2mo. 3. Traite
hiforiqne et plvfiquc de PAurora Boreale, firft publifti-
ed in 1 2mo, 1733, and afterwards much enlarged and
printed in 4to in 1 754. The fyftem embraced by the au¬
thor is liable to be controverted 3 but the book difplays
great tafte and erudition. 4 Lettre au Fere Parennin,
contenant diverfes quejlions fur la Chine, i2mo. This is
a very curious wTork, and is full of that philofophical
fpirit which charaflerizes the author’s other publica¬
tions. 5. A great number of papers in the memoirs of
the Academy of Sciences (fince 1719), of which he
publiftied fome volumes. 6. Several Differtations on
particular fubjedfs, which form only fmall pamphlets.
7. The Eloges of the Academicians of the Academy of
Sciences, who died in 1741, 1742, I743> i2mo,
1747. Without imitating Fontenelle, the author at¬
tained almoft equal excellence by his talent of difcri-
minating charafters, appreciating their worth, and giv¬
ing them their due (hare of praife, without at the fame
time concealing their defedls.
Mairan’s reputation extended itfelf into foreign
countries. He was a member of the Imperial Academy
at Peterfburgh, of the Royal Academy of London, of
the inftitution at Bologna, of the royal focieties of
Edinburgh and Upfal, &c. The gentlenefs and fweet-
nefs of his manners made him be confidered as a per-
fedl model of the focial virtues. He poflefled that
amiable politenefs, that agreeable gaiety, and that
fteady firmnefs, which never fail to procure love and
efteern. But we muft add, fays M. Saverien, that
every thing had a reference to bimfelf 3 felf-love and
a regard to his own reputation were the motives of all
his adlions. He was deeply affedted with cenfure or
applaufe, and yet he had many friends. Uniting
much gentlenefs of difpofition to an ingenious and
agreeable expreffion of countenance, he pofleffed the
art of infinuating himfelf into the good graces of
others, fo as to pave the way to elevation and fuccefs.
lie was honoured with protedlion and particular marks
of regard by the duke of Orleans the regent, who be¬
queathed to him his watch in his will. The prince
of Conti loaded him with favours 3 and the chancel¬
lor Daguefleau, obferving in him great originality and
ingenuity of thought, appointed him prefident of the
Journal des Spavans : a ftation which he filled very
much to the fatisfadlion of the public and of the learn¬
ed. The private and felfilh views imputed to him by
M. Saverien never made him deficient in what was
due to the ftridfeft probity. An exprefiion of his is
remembered, which could have proceeded only from
fentiment 3 “ An honeft man (faid hej is one whofe
blood is refreftied with the recital of a good action.”
He
%
MAI [ 422 ] MAI
Maire, He W3S ready at repartee. One day lie happened to
iJaube. ^ k£ company with a gentleman of the gown, and to
ditter with him in opinion upon fome point which
had no more connexion with jurifprudence than with
geometry. “ Sir (faid the magiflrate, who fuppofed
that a learned man wras a peffeft idiot out of his own
fphere), we are not now talking of Euclid or Archi¬
medes.”—“ No, nor of Cujas nor Barthole !” replied
the academician.
MAIRE, Streights LE, a paffage to Cape Horn,
fituated between Terra del Fuego and Staten ifland 5
which, being difcovered by Le Maire, obtained his
name. If is now, however, lefs made ufe of than for¬
merly, fhips going round Staten ifland as well as Terra
del Fuego.
MAISTRE, Louis-Isaac LE, better known by
the name of Sacy. was born at Paris in 1613. His ge¬
nius very early difcovered itfelf. After an excellent
courfe of ftudy under the direftion of the abbot of
Saint Cyran, he was raifed to the priefthood in 1648,
and foon after was chofen, on account of his virtues,
to be direftor of the religious of Port Royal des
Champs. As this monaltery bore the reputation of
Janfenifm, their enemies were furnilhed with a pre¬
tence for perfecuting them. In 1661 the dire&or
was obliged to conceal himfelf ^ and in 1666 he was
committed to the Baflile. During his confinement
lie compofed the book Figures de la Bible; in which,
according to the Molinifts, allufions are made to the
fufferings endured by the Janfenifts. If we may be¬
lieve a Jefuit writer, the gentlemen of Port Royal and
thofe wTho oppofed their errors are reprefentcd in the
9 2d figure, the former by David, the latter by Saul.
Rehoboam in the 116th figure, Jezebel in the 130th,
Ahafuerus in the 148th and 150th, and Darius in the
160th, in the opinion of this author, reprefent Louis
XIV. The writer of thefe anecdotes, of which we do
not anfwer for the authenticity, adds, that when Sacy
wiflied to reproach his perfecutors, he always did it by
means of the holy fathers. If this is the key to thofe
enigmatical portraits and allufions, which it is pretend¬
ed are to be found in that book, certain we are it wras
not difcovered by the fpirit of charity. Befides, it is
not certain that Sacy was the author of that book •, for
it is much more probable that it was compofed by Nico¬
las Fontaine his fellow prifoner.
To Sacy’s confinement the public are indebted for a
French tranflation of the Bible. This work was finifiied
in 1668, the evening before the feaft of All Saints j
on which day he recovered his liberty, after an impri-
fonment of two years and a half. He was prefented
to the king and the minifler ; and all the favour he
aiked from them was, that they would fend feveral
times a year to examine the ftate of the prifoners in
the Baftile. Le Maiflre continued at Paris till 1675,
when he retired to Port Royal, which he was obliged
to leave in 1679. He went to fettle at Pompone,
where he died January 4. 1684, at the age of 71.
From him we have, i. La Tradu&ion de la Bible, with
explanations of the fpiritual and literal meaning taken
from the fathers, the greater part of which was done
by Du Foffe, Hure, and Tourneux. This is the bed;
French tranflation which has yet appeared, and the
fnoft efleemed edition is that of Paris in 3 2 volumes
,8vo, 1682 and following years. The author tranf-
'l
lated the New Teflament three times, becaufe the
firlt time the ftyle of it appeared too much laboured
and too refined, and the fecond too Ample. A coun¬
terfeit of the edition in 32 vols. 8vo, was publifhed at
Bruflels in 40 vols. i2mo. The belt editions of this
verfion have been publifhed at Bruffels, 1700, in 3 vols.
4to ; at Amfterdam, under the name of Paris, 1711,
8. vols 12mo 5 at Paris 1713, in 2 vols 4to j and in
I7I5» with notes and a concordance, 4 vols folio. 2.
Une Traduction des Pfeaumes felon PHebreu et la Vul¬
gate, in j 2 mo. 3. Une verfion des Home lies de St Chry-
fofomefur St Matthieu, in 3 vols 8vo. 4. La Traduc¬
tion de Limitation de Jtfus Chrif {fous le nom de Beuil,
prieur de Saint-Val), Paris 1663, 8vo. 5. Celle de
Phedre, 1 2mo, (fous le nom de Saint-Aubinf 6. De
trois Comedies de Terence, in 1 2mo. 7. Des Lettres de
Bongars (fous le nom de Brianville). 8. Du Pbeme de
St Profper fur les ingrates, \ 2m o, en verfe et en profe.
9. Les Enluminures de LAlmanack des fefuites, 1654,
12mo, reprinted in 1733. In 1653 there appeared
a print reprefenting the overthrow of Janfenifm ana¬
thematized by the two powers, and the confufion of
the difciples of the bifhop of Ypres, who are going
to feek refuge with the Calvinifts. The monks of
Port-Royal were greatly provoked at this print, and
Sacy thought that he would lower its reputation by
means of his Enluminures, which Racine has ridiculed
in one of his letters. It is indeed very ftrange that
men of tafle and piety fhould write fatires to the in¬
jury of one another. 10. Heures de Port-Royal, izrao.
H. Lettres de Piete, Paris 1690, 2 vols. 8vo.
MAITTAIRE, Michael, a learned Englifh wri¬
ter, was born in 1668. Dr South, canon of Chrift-
Church, made him a ftudent of that houfe, where he
took the degree of M. A. March 23. 1696. From
1695 till 1699 he was fecond mafler of Weftminfler
fchool j which was afterwards indebted to him for
Greece Lingua; DialeBi, in ufum Sc hole Wefrnonafe-
rienfs, 1706, 8vo j and for “ The Englifh Grammar,
applied to, and exemplified in, the Englifh Tongue,
1712,” 8vo. In 1711, he publifhed “Remarks on Mr
Whifton’s Account of the Convocation’s proceedings
with relation to himfelf, in a Letter to the right reve¬
rend Father in God George Lord Bifhop of Bath and
Well’s,” 8vo; alfo “ An EflTay againfi: Arianifm,
and fome other Herefies ; or a Reply to Mr William
Whifton’s Hiftorical Preface and Appendix to his
Primitive Chriftianity revived,” 8vo. In 1709 he gave
the firft fpecimen of his great fkill in typographical
antiquities, by publifhing Stephanorum Hi/loria, vitas ip-
forum ac libros compleciens, 8vo ; which was followed
in 1717 by Hi/loria Typographorum aliquot Parifen-
fum, vitas et hbros compleBens, 8vo. In 1719, An¬
nates Typographici ab artis inventce origine ad annum
md, 4to. The fecond volume, divided into two parts,
and continued to the year 1536, was publifhed at the
Hague in 17025 introduced by a letter of John Toland,
under the title of ConjeSiura verif mills de prima Typo-
graphue Inventione. The third volume, from the fame
prefs, in two parts, continued to 1 J57, and (by an
Appendix) to 1664, in 1725. In 1733 was publifh¬
ed at Amfterdam what is ufually confidered as the
fourth volume, under the title of Annales Typographici
ab artis invent# origine, ad annum mtocls.iv, opera
Mich. Mail lair e, A. M. editio nova, auclior et emendatior;
iotni
Maiflre,
Maittajre-
MAI [ 423 } M A L
Maittaire. tomipriinipars pojlerior (a.) In 1741 the work was
v clofed at London, by Annaiium Typographicorum Ta¬
mils quintus et ultimus, indicem in tomos quatuor prceeun-
tes compleBens; divided, like the two preceding volumes,
into two parts. In the intermediate years, Mr Mait¬
taire was diligently employed on various works of value.
In 17)3 he publifhed by fubfcription Opera et Yragmen-
ta Veterum Poetarum, 1713, two volumes in folio : the
title of fome copies is dated 1721. In 1714, he was
the editor of a Greek Teitament, in 2 vols. The La¬
tin writers, which he publilhed feparately, moll of them
with good indexes, came out in the following order :
In 1713, Chrijius Paliens ; J/Jlin ; Lucretius; Phai-
drus ; Sallujl; Terence. In, 1715, Catullus ; Tibullus ;
Propertius ; Cornelius Nepos ; Florus ; Horace; Ju¬
venal; Ovid, 3 vols j Virgil. In 1711, Cajar's
Commentaries; Martial; Quintus Curtius. In 1718
and 1725, Velleius Paterculus, In 1719, Lucan. In
1720, Bonefonii Carmina. In 1721 he publiihed, Ba-
trachomyomachia, Greece, ad veterum exemplarium Jidem
recufa ; glojja Greeca, variantibus leBionibus, verjionibus
Latinis, commentariis et indicibus, illujlrata, 8vo. In
1722, Mifcellanea Greecorum aliquot Scriptorum Car¬
mina, cum verjione Latina et notis, 4to. In 1724 he
compiled, at the requeft of Dr John Freind (at whofe
expence it was printed), an index to the works of
Aretceus, to accompany the fplendid folio edition of
that author in 1723. In 1725 he publilhed an excel¬
lent edition of Anacreon in 410, of which no more than
loo copies were printed, and the few errata in each
copy corre&ed by his own hand. A fecond edition
of the like number was printed in 1741, with fix copies
on fine writing paper. In 17 2 6 he publiftied Petri Pe-
titi Medici Parijienjis in tres pnores Aretcei Cappadocis
Libros Commentarii, nunc primum editi, 410. This learn¬
ed commentary was found among the papers of Grse-
vius. From 1728 to 1733 he was employed in publifh-
ing Marmorum Arundelianorum, Seldenianorum, alio-
rumque Academice Oxonienji donatorum, una cum Com¬
mentariis et Indice, editio fecunda, folio 5 to which an Ap¬
pendix was printed in 1733. Epiftola D. Mich. Mait¬
taire ad D. P. Des Mai%eaux, in qua Indicis in Amwles
Typographicos methodus explicatur, &c. is printed in
“ The Prefent State of the Republic of Letters,” Au-
guft 1733, p. 142. The life of Robert Stephens in La¬
tin, revifed and corredted by the author, with a new and
complete lift of his works, is prefixed to the improved
edition of R. Stephens’s Thefaurus, 4 vols in folio, in
1734. In 1736 appeared Antiqiue Infcriptiones dua,
folio ; being a commentary on two large copper tables
difeovered near Heraclea, in the bay of Tarentum. In
1738 were printed at the Hague Greecce Lingua DialeBi
in Schola Regia Wejlmonajlerienfis ufum recogniti, opera
Mich. Maitlaire. In 1739 he addreffed to the emprefs
of Ruflia a fmall Latin poem, under the title of Car¬
men Epinicium Augujiifjima RuJJbrum Imperatricifacrum.
His name not having been printed in the title page,
it is not fo generally known that he was editor of Plu- Maize
larch’s Apophthegmata, 1741, 4to. I'he laft publica-
tion of Mr Maittaire was a volume of poems in 410, Malacc'1,
J742, under the title of Senilia, Jive Poetica aliquot in
argumentis variigeneris tentamina. Mr Maittaire died
in 1747, aged 79. His valuable library, which had
been 50 years colledling, was fold by audtion by Meffrs
Cock and Langford, at the clofe of the fame year, and
the beginning of the following, taking up in all 44
nights. Mr Maittaire, it may be added, was patronized
by the firft earl of Oxford, both before and after that
gentleman’s elevation to the peerage, and continued a
favourite with his fon the fecond earl. He was alfo
Latin tutor to Mr Stanhope, the earl of Chefterfield’s
favourite fon.
MAIZE, or Indian Corn. See Zea, Botany
Index.
MAKI. See Lemur, Mammalia Index.
MALABAR, the name given to a great part of
the weft coaft of the peninfula of Hindoftan on this fide
of the Ganges, extending from the kingdom of Baglala
to Cape Comorin, or from the north extremity of the
kingdom of Canara as far as Cape Comorin, and lying
between 90 and 140 N. Lat. It is bounded by the
mountains of Balagate on the eaft $ by Deccan on
the north 5 and on the weft and fouth is waftied by the
Indian fea.
MALAGA, in Ancit *: Geography, furnamed Ece-
deratorum by Pliny $ a maritime town of Bsetica:
a Carthaginian colony according to Strabo ; fo call¬
ed from Malach, fignifying “ fait j” a place noted
for pickled or lalted meat. Now Malaga, a port
towTn of Granada in Spain. W. Long. 4. 45. N. Lat,
36. 40.
MALACCA, the moft foutherly part of the great
peninfula beyond the Ganges, is about 6co miles in
length, and contains a kingdom of the fame name. It
is bounded by the kingdom of Siam on the north j by
the bay of Siam and the Indian ocean on the eaft}
and by the ftraits of Malacca, which feparate it from
the ifland of Sumatra, on the fouth-w^eft. This coun¬
try is more to the fouth than any other in the Eaft In¬
dies ; and comprehends the towns and kingdoms of
Patan, Pahan, Igohor, Pera, Queda, Borkelon, Ligorj
and to the north the town and kingdom of Tanailery,
where the Portuguefe formerly carried on a great trade.
This laft either does or did belong to the king of Siam.
The people of Malacca are in general fubje.6l to the
Dutch, who poffefs all the ftrong places on the coaft,
and compel them to trade on their own terms, excluding
all other nations of Europe from having any commerce
with the natives.
The Malays are governed by feudal laws. A chief,
who has the title of king or fultan, iffues his commands
to his great vaffals, who have other vaffals in fubje&ion
to them in a fimilar manner. A fmall part of the na¬
tion live independent, under the title of oranicai or no¬
ble.
(a) The awkwardnefs of this title has induced many colledtors to difpofe of their firft volume, as thinking it'
fuperfeded by the fecond edition : but this is by no means the cafe ; the volume of 1719 being equally neceflary
to complete the fet as that of 1733, which is a revifion of all the former volumes. The whole work when pro-
perly bound, confifts, ad libitum, either of five volumes or of nine.
MAL [424] MAL
Malacca, ble, and fell their fervices to thofe who pay them beft j
' while the body of the nation is compofed of {laves, and
live in perpetual fervitude.
The generality of thefe people are reftlefs, fond of
navigation, war, plunder, emigration, colonies, def-
perate enterprifes, adventures, and gallantry. They
talk inceffantly of their honour and their bravery *,
whilft they are univerfally conlidered by thofe with
whom they have intercourfe, as the moft treacherous,
ferocious people on earth. 1 his ferocity, which the
Malays qualify under the name of courage, is fo well
known to the European companies who have fettle-
ments in the Indies, that they have univerfally agreed
in prohibiting the captains of their Ihips who may put
into the Malay iflands, from taking on board any fea-
tnen from that nation, except in the greateft diftrefs,
and then on no account to exceed two or three. It
is not in the leafl uncommon for an handful of thefe
horrid favages fuddenly to embark, attack a veflel by
durprife, maffacre the people, and make themfelves
mailers of her. Malay batteaux, with 24 or 30 men,
have been known to board European fhips of 30 or 40
guns, in order to take poffeflion of them, and murder
with their poniards great part of the crew. Thofe
who are not {laves go always armed : they would think
themfelves difgraced if they went abroad without their
poniards, which they call crit. As their lives are a
perpetual round of agitation and tumult, they cannot
endure the long flowing garments in ufe among the
other Aflatics. Their habits are exadfly adapted to
their fhapes, and loaded with a multitude of buttons,
which faflen them clofe to their bodies.
The country poffefled by the Malays is in general
very fertile. It abounds with odoriferous woods, fuch
as the aloes, the fandal, and caflia. The ground
is covered with flowers of the greatefl: fragrance, of
which there is a perpetual fucceflion throughout the
year. There are abundance of mines of the moft precious
metals, faid to be richer even than thofe of Brazil or
Peru, and in fome places are mines of diamonds. The
fea alfo abounds with excellent fifli, together with
ambergrife, pearls, and thofe delicate birds-nefts fo
much in requell in China, formed in the rocks with
the fpawn of fifhes and the foam of the fea, by a
fpecies of fmall-flzed fvvallow peculiar to thofe feas.
Thefe are of fuch an exquiflte flavour, that the Chi-
nefe for a long time purchafed them for their weight
in gold, and ftiil buy them at an exceflive price. See
BiRDS-NeJi.
Notwithflanding all this plenty, however, the Ma¬
lays are m.iferable. The culture ot the lands, abandon¬
ed to Haves, is fallen into contempt. Thefe wretched
labourers, dragged inceflantly from their ruftic em¬
ployments by their reftlefs mailers, who delight in war
and maritime enterprifes, have never time or refolution
to give the neceiTary attention to the labouring of their
grounds •, of confequence the lands for the moft part
are uncultivated, and produce no kind of grain for
the fubfiftence of the inhabitants. The fago tree indeed
fupplies in part the defeft of grain. It is a fpecies of
the palm tree, which grows naturally in the woods to
ghe height of about 20 ®r 30 feet ; its circumference
being fometimes from five to flx. Its ligneous bark is
about an inch in thicknefs, and covers a multitude of
.long fibres, which being interwoven one with another
3
envelope a mafs of a gummy kind of meal. As foon Malacca
as this tree is ripe, a wdritifti duft, which tranfpires II
through the pores of the leaves, and adheres to their . a a^a‘
extremities, indicates that the trees are in a ftate of
maturity. The Malays then cut them down near the
root, and divide them into leveral fedlions, which they
fplit into quarters : they then {coop out the mafs of
mealy fubftance, which is enveloped by and adheres to
the fibres ; they dilute it in pure water, and then pafs
it through a {training bag of fine cloth, in order to
leparate it from the fibres. When this pafie has loft
part of its moifture by evaporation, the Malays throw’
it into a kind of earthen veffel of different {hapes,
where they allow it to dry and harden. This pafte
is wholelbme nouriftiing food, and preferves for many
years.
Malacca, the capital of the country of the fame
name, is fituated in a flat country clofe to the fea.
The walls and fortifications are founded on a folid
rock, and are carried up to a great height j the lower
part of them is wraflred by the lea at every tide, and
on the landfide is a wide canal or ditch, cut from the
fea to the river, which makes it an ifland. In 1641
it was taken from the Portuguefe by the Dutch, lince
wdiich time it has continued in their poffeflion. In this
city there are a great many broad ftreets j but they
are very badly paved. The houfes are tolerably well
built, and fome of them have gardens behind or on
one iide. The inhabitants confift of a few Dutch,
many Malayans, Moors, Chinefe, and other Indians,
wTho are kept in awe by a fortrefs, wrhich is feparated
from the city by a river, and by good walls and ba-
ftions, as well as by ftrong gates, and a drawbridge
that is on the eaftern fide. The city is well fituated
for trade and navigation. E. Long. 10 2. 2. N. Lat.
2. 12. ,
M A.LACHI, or the prophecy of Malachi, a
canonical book of the Old Teftament, and the laft of
the 12 leffer prophets. Malachi prophefied about 300
years before Chrift, reproving the Jews for their wick-
ednefs after their return from Babylon, charging them
with rebellion, facrilege, adultery, profanenefs, and in¬
fidelity ; and condemning the priefts for being fcanda-
loufly carelefs in their miniftry j at the fame time not
forgetting to encourage the pious few, wflio, in that
corrupt age, maintained their integrity. This prophet
diftinbtly points at the Mefliah, w’ho was fuddenly to
come to his temple, and to be introduced by Elijah the
prophet, that is, John the Baptift, who came in the
fpirit and power of Elias or Elijah.
M ABACI A, in Medicine, is a languilhing diforder
incident to pregnant w'omen, in which they long fome¬
times for one kind of food and fometimes for another, and
eat it with extraordinary greedinefs.
MALACOPTERYGEOUS, in Ichthyology, an ap¬
pellation given to fifties having the rays of their fins
bony at the extremities, but not pointed, like thofe of
acanthopterygeous fifties.
MAL ACOS I’OMOUS fishes, thofe deftitute of
teeth in the jaws, called in Englilh leather-mouthed, as
the tench, carp, bream, &c.
MALAGA, an ancient, rich, and ftrong town of
Spain, in the kingdom of Granada, with two caftles,
a biftiop’s fee, and a good harbour, which renders
it a place of confiderable commerce. The advantage
of
/
M A L
Malagrida. of this commerce, according to M. Bourgoanne, is
L v- -* entirely in favour of Spain, but almoft without any
to its navigation ; of 842 vefiels which arrived at this
port in 1782, from almoft every commercial nation,
fcarcely too were Spanilh, even reckoning the ftiips
of war w hich anchored there. The Englilh, who are
in poffedion of the greateft part of the trade, carry
thither woollens and great quantities of fmall ware j
the Dutch carry fpice, cutlery ware, laces, ribbons,
thread, &c. Thefe nations, thofe of the north, and
Italy, export to the amount of two millions and a
half of piaftres in wines, fruits, fumach, pickled an¬
chovies, oil, &c. and all they carry thither amounts
only to about a million and a half. The balance would
be ftill more advantageous for Malaga if the lilk and
vrool of the kingdom of Granada veere exported from
this port \ but thefe are employed in the country
where they are produced. The ftreets of Malaga are
narrow, but there are fome good fquares ; and the ca¬
thedral church is a fuperb building, faid to be as large
as St Paul’s. The only other building of note is the
bilhop’s palace ; which is a large edifice, but looks in-
fignificant from its being fituated near the other. Its
prelate enjoys a revenue of i6,oool. fterling. Ma¬
laga is feated on the Mediterranean fea, at the foot
of a craggy mountain. W. Long. 4. 10. N. Lat.
51.
MALAGRIDA, Gabriel, an Italian Jefuit, was
chofen by the general of the order to condudl millions
into Portugal. To great eafe and fluency of fpeech,
for which he was indebted to enthufiafm, he added
the moft ardent zeal for the intereft of the fociety to
which he belonged. He foon became the faftiionable
direftor; and every one, fmall cr great, placed him-
felf under his condufl. He was refpe6led as a faint,
and confulted as an oracle. When a confpiracy was
formed by the duke d’Aveiro againft the king of Por¬
tugal, it is afferted by the enemies of the fociety, that
three .lefuits, among whom was Malagrida, were con¬
fulted concerning the meafure. They add (what is
very improbable), that it was decided by thefe cafuifts,
that it was only a venial crime to kill a king who per-
fecuted the faints. At that Pme the king of Portu¬
gal, fpurred on by a minifter who had no favour for
the Jefuits, openly declared himfelf againft them, and
foon after baniihed them from his kingdom. Only
three of them were apprehended, Malagrida, Alexan¬
der, and Mathos, who wTere accufed of having ap¬
proved this murder. But either the trial could not be
proceeded in without the confent of the pope, which
was not granted, or no proof could be got fufficient
to condemn Malagrida 5 and therefore the king was
obliged to deliver him to the Inquifition, as being fu-
fpefted of having formerly advanced fome rafti propo-
iitions which bordered on herefy. Two publications
which ne acknowledged, and which give the fulleft
indications of complete infanity, were the foundation
of thefe fufpicions. 'I he one w^as w7ritten in Latin,
and entitled Tra&atus de vita et imptrio Antichrifti; the
other in Portuguefe, under the title of the “ Life of
Vanc’ comp°fed with the afliftance of the bleffed
Virgin Mary and her moft holy Son.” They are
0extravagance and abfurdity.—This enthufiaft
P >.;'d to have the gift of miracles. He confeffed
Ltnn the judges of the Inquifition. that God himfelf
Vox. XII. Part II.
425 ] M A L
had declared him his ambaffador, apoftle, and prophet ; Malagrkla
that he was united to God by a perpetual union ; and ^ H .
that the Virgin Mary, with the confent of Jefus Chrift , V' 'T
and of the whole Trinity, had declared him to be her
fon. In ftiort, he confeffed, as is pretended, that he felt
in the prifon, at the age of 72, fome emotions very un¬
common at that period of life, which at firft gave him
great uneaftnefs, but that it had been revealed to him
by God that thefe motions were only the natural effect
of an involuntary agitation, wherein there was the
fame merit as in prayer. It w^as for fuch extravagan¬
cies, that this unfortunate wretch was condemned by
the Inquifition : but his death was haftened by a vi-
fion which he eagerly revealed. Upon occafion of the
death of the marquis de Tancourt, commander in
chief of the province of Eftrernadura, mournful and
continued difeharges were made in honour of him by
the caftle of Lilbon, and by all the forts on the banks
of the Tagus. Thefe being heard by Malagrida in
his dungeon, he inftantly fuppofed, from their extra¬
ordinary nature, and from their happening during the
night, that the king was dead. The next day he de¬
manded an audience from the members of the Inquifi¬
tion : which being granted, be told them that he had
been ordered by God to ftiow the minifter of the holy
office that he was not a hypocrite, as was pretended ;
for the king’s death had been revealed to him, and he
had feen in a vifion the torments to which his majefty
wras condemned for having perfecuted the religious of
his order. This was fuflicient to accelerate his puniik-
ment: he was burnt on the 21ft of September 1761 ;
not as the accomplice of a parricide, but as a falfe pro¬
phet, for which he deferved to be confined in bedlam
rather than tied to the ftake. The acts of impiety
whereof he wras accufed were nothing more than extrava¬
gancies proceeding from a miftaken devotion and an over¬
heated brain.
MALDEN, a town ofEffex, 37 miles from Lon-.
don, fituated on an eminence at the conflux of the
Chalmer and Pant or Blackwater, where they enter the
fea. It was the firft Roman colony in Britain, and the
feat of fome of the old Britifh kings. It was befieged,
plundered, and burnt by Queen Boadicea ; but the Ro¬
mans repaired it. It was again ruined by the Danes,
but rebuilt by the Saxons. It has a convenient haven on
an arm of the fea for veffels of 400 tons; and a eonfi-
derable trade in coals, iron, corn, and deals. A little be¬
yond it begins Blackwater bay, famous for the Walfleet
oyfters. The channel called Malden water is naviga¬
ble to the town. King Edward the elder (of the Saxon
race) relided here whilft he built Witham and Hertford
caftles. On the weft fide of the town are the remains
of a camp.
MALALEUCA, the Cayputi tree, a genus of
plants belonging to the polyadelphia clafs. See Bo¬
tany Index. This plant, which is a native of the Mo¬
luccas, yields the oil called Cayputi.
M A EDI VIA islands, a clufter of fmall iflands
in the Indian ocean, 500 miles fouth-weft of the con¬
tinent of the ifland of Ceylon. They are about 1000
in number, and are very fmall 5 extending from the fe-
cond degree of fouth latitude to the feventh degree of
north latitude. They are generally black low lands,
furrounded by rocks and fands. The natives are of
the fame complexion with the Arabians, profefs the
3 H Mahometaa
M A L [ 426 ] M A L
Male, Mahometan religion, aiwl are fubjeft to one fovereign.
brairhe ^'^e c‘lanne^s between the iflands are very narrow7, and
— y fome of them are fordable. They produce neither rice,
corn, nor herbage ; but the natives live upon cocoa-
nuts, and other fruits, roots, and fith. They have
little or nothing to barter with, unlefs the {hells called
cowry, or blackmore's teeth, with which they abound :
and thefe ferve inftead of fmall coin in many parts of
India.
MALE, among zoologifls, that fex of animals which
has the parts of generation fituated externally. See Sex
and Generation.
The term mole has alfo, from fome fimilitude to that
fex in animals, been applied to feveral inanimate things;
thus v e fay, a male tlow7er, a male ferew, &c. See
Mas Planra, Masculus Flos, and Screw 5 alfo Fe¬
male and Flos.
MA LEBR A NCHE, Nicholas, an eminent French
metaphyfician, the Ion of Nicholas Malebranche, fe-
cretary to the French king, was born in 1638, and ad¬
mitted into the congregation of the oratory in 1660.
He at firrt applied himfeJf to the ftudy of languages
and hiftory : but aftenvards meeting with Des Cartes’s
Treatife of Man, he gave himfelf up entirely to the
fludy of philofophy. In 1699, was admitted an
honorary member of the Royal Academy of Sciences
at Paris. Notwitbftanding he was of a delicate con-
Ititution, he enjoyed a pretty good date of health till
his death, which happened in 1715, at the age of 77.
Father Malebranche read little, but thought a great
deal. He defpifed that kind of philofophy which
confifts only in knowing the opinions of other men,
fince a perfon may know7 the hiftory of other men’s
thoughts without thinking himfelf. He could never
read ten verfes together without difguft. He medita-
ed with his w’indow7s (hut, in order to keep out the
light, which he found to be a difturbance to him. His
converfation turned upon the fame fubjeefs as his books j
but was mixed with fo much modefty and deference to
the judegment of others, that it was extremely and
tiniverfally defired. His books are famous; particu¬
larly his Recherche de la Verite, i. e. “ Search after
truth his defign in which is, to point to us the er¬
rors into which we are daily led by our fenfes, imagina¬
tion, and paftions; and to preferibe a method for dif-
covering the truth, which he does, by ftarting the no¬
tion of feeing all things in God. And hence he is led
to think and fpeak merely of human knowledge, either
as it lies in written books, or in the book of nature,
compared with that light which difplays itfelf from
the ideal world ; and, by attending to which, with
pure and defecate minds, he fuppofes knowledge to be
moft eafily bad. The finenefs of this author’s fenti-
ments, together with his fine manner of exprefling
them, made every body admire his genius and abilities;
but he has generally pafled for a vifionary philofopher.
Mr Locke, in his examination of Malebranche’s opi¬
nion of feeing all things in God, ftyles him M an acute
and ingenious author and tells us, that there are “ a
great many very fine thoughts, judicious reafonings,
and uncommon refledlions in \n% Recherchesd'' But Mr
Locke, in that piece, endeavours to refute the chief
principles of his fyftem. He wrote many other pieces
befides that wTe have mentioned, all tending fome
way or other to confirm his main fyftem, eftabliftied
in the Recherche, and to clear it from the objections Male-
which were brought againft it, or from the confe-
quences w hich w7ere deduced from it ; and if he has not 'r~*
attained what he aimed at in theie feveral productions,
he has certainly drown great abilities and a vaft force
of genius.
MALESHERBES, Christian-William de La-
Moignon DE, wras born at Paris in 1721. Fie was
fon of the chancellor of France, William de Lamoig-
non, who w7as defeended of an illuftrious family. His
early education he received at the Jefuits college,
applying himfelf afterwards to the ftudy of the law
with great afliduity, as well as hiftory and political
economy. He was chofen a counfellor of the parlia¬
ment of Paris at the age of 24, and fucceeded his fa¬
ther as prefident of the court of aids in the year 1750.
With the prefidentihip of the court of aids he received
the fuperintendance of the prefs, in whofe hands it be¬
came the means of promoting liberty to a degree be¬
yond all former example in that country. As he firm¬
ly believed that defpotifm alone had any reafon to
dread the liberty of the prefs, he was anxious to give
it every extenfion confident w7ith found policy and the
ftate of public opinion. Through his favour the French
Encyclopaedia, the wmrks of Rouffeau, and many other
free fpeculations, iiTued from the prefs, in defiance of the
terrific anathemas of the Sorbonne. This had its own
w7eight in paving the way to the horrors of the revolu¬
tion, which Maleftierbes did not probably forefee ;
yet it had alfo the happy effeCI of freeing the minds
of men from the fetters of ignorance and fuperftition,
and of enlightening them refpedfing their rights and
duties in fociety.
The fuperintendance of the prefs having been taken
from him, to confer it on that tool of defpotifm Mau-
peoa, he was only the more intent on fulfilling the du¬
ties of his prefidentfhip, and oppofing arbitrary power
with all his vigour, being thus freed from a number
of other cares. When the proceedings of the court
of aids were to be prohibited, on account of the fpi-
rited conduft of Malefherbes in the cafe of one Mon-
nerat, who bad been moft unjuftly treated by the far¬
mers of the revenue, he prefented a remonftrance to
the king, containing a free proteft againft the enormous
abufes of lettres de cachet, by which every man’s liber¬
ty was rendered precarious, concluding with thefe me¬
morable words ; “ no one is great enough to be fecure
from the hatred of a minifler, nor little enough not to
merit that of a clerk.” Soon after this he was banifh-
ed to his country-feat by a lettre de cachet, and the
duke de Richelieu at the head of an armed force abo-
liflied the tribunal. In this ftate of retirement he com¬
mitted to paper a number of obfervations on the politi¬
cal and judicial ftate of France, on agriculture and
natural hiftory, which all periftied in the wreck of the
revolution.
On the acceflion of Louis XVI. to the throne in
1774, he received an order to appear at the place
where the court of aids had fat, and refume the pre-
fidentfliip of the tribunal thus reftored. He laid be¬
fore the new fovereign an ample memoir on the cala¬
mitous ftate of the kingdom, with a free expofure of the
faults by which it had been produced, from a firm con-
vi&ion that truth at all times (hould have'accefs to the
throne. His fentiments fo fully accorded with thofe of
the
UAL [ 427 ] M A L
Male- t’ne young king, whofe mind was not yet corrupted,
fherbes. he was chofen minifter of ftate in the year 1775,
"~~v in which elevated rank he was only ambitious to ex¬
tend the fphere of his ufefulnefs. His firlt care was to
vifit the prifons, and reftore to liberty the innocent vic¬
tims of the former reign. His adminiftration w7as alfo
diftinguilhed by the powerful encouragement of com¬
merce and agriculture, being fupported in his laudable
endeavours by the able and virtuous Turgot, at that
time comptroller-general of the revenue, who having
loft his place through the intrigues of financiers, Male-
ftierbes did not long retain his office after him. As
he failed in his benevolent endeavours to ameliorate the
condition of Proteftants refpedting the folemnization of
marriage and the legitimating of their children, he re-
figned his office in the month of May 1776.
Being fond of travelling, and refolved to mix freely
with people of every delcription, in order to acquire an
accurate knowledge of human nature, he aflumed the
humble title of M. Guillaume, and commenced his
journey in a fimple, frugal manner. He travelled
through France, Switzerland and Holland, frequently
on foot, and lodged in villages, to have a nearer furvey
of the ftate of the country. He made memorandums,
with the greateft care, of whatever he conceived to be
worthy of obfervation refpe£ting the produdlions of na¬
ture and the operations of induftryj and after an ab-
fence of fame years he returned to his favourite man-
fion, fully fraught with fuch a ftock of. valuable know¬
ledge as his age and experience qualified him to ap¬
preciate.
Finding on his return that his native country wras far
advanced in philofophical principles, he drew up two
elaborate memoirs to the king, one of them on the
condition of the Proteftants, and the other on civil li¬
berty and toleration in general; and the difficulties
with which minifters now found themfelves furrounded,
induced the king to call him to his councils, being a
man who flood high in the efteem of the whole nation,
but he received no appointment to any particular of¬
fice. In the critical ftate in which he clearly faw the
king flood, he made one effort for opening his eyes, by
means of two fuirited and energetic memoirs, “ On the
calamities of France, and the means of repairing them
but, as the queen’s party carried every thing before it,
he was not even permitted to read them, and alfo de¬
nied a private interview with the ill-fated monarch,
in confequence of which he took his final leave of the
court.
When by a decree of the national convention the
unfortunate Louis was to be tried for his life, Male-
fherbes generoufly offered to plead his caufe, nobly for¬
getting the manner in which he had been banifhed from
his councils. He was the petfon who announced to
him his cruel doom, and one of the laft who took leave
of him, when taken out to fuffer. After this eventful
period, he withdrew to his retreat with a deeply wound¬
ed heart, and refufed to hear any thing more of what
was acting on the bloody theatre of Paris. Walking
one morning in his garden, he perceived four men
coming towards his hcufe, fent by the convention to
arreft his daughter Mad. Lepelletier Roffambo and her
hufband, once prefident of the parliament of Paris; and
the accufation of Malefherbes wras followed, as a mat¬
ter of courfe, by the fentence of death. The truth
is, the convention never forgave his defence of the Malherbe,,
king ; an aftion, however, in which he himfelf always Ma''ce-
gloried. '*
On the fatal day, this great man left the prifon with
a ferene countenance j and, happening to ftumble
againft a ftone, he faid (with the pleafantry of Sir
Thomas More), “ a Roman w’ould have thought this
an unlucky omen, and wTalked back again.” He con-
verfed with his children in the cart, took an affedlion-
ate farewell, and received the ftroke in April 1794,
in the 73d year of his age. Thus fell, by the infati-
able cruelty of a monfter, whofe hatred to men of vir¬
tue and abilities was implacable, one of the moft fpot-
lefs and exemplary chara&ers of the period at w'hich
he lived. The government afterwards made fome re¬
paration for the injuftice done him, by ordering his buff
to be placed among thofe ol the great men who have
reflefted honour upon their country.
MALHERBE, Francis de, the heft French poet
of his time, was born at Caen about the year 1556, of
a noble and ancient family. He quitted Normandy at
17 years of agej and went into Provence, where he
attached himfelf to the family of Henry Angouleme,
the natural fon of King Henry II. and was in the fer-
vice of that prince till he wTas killed by Altoviti in
1586. At length Cardinal de Perron, being informed
of his merit and abilities, introduced him to Henry IV.
who took him into his fervice. After that monarch’s
death, Queen Mary de Medicis fettled a penfion of 500
crowns upon our poet, who died at Paris in 1628.
The beft. and moft complete edition of his poetical
works is that of 1666, with Menage’s remarks. Mal¬
herbe fo far excelled all the French poets who preced¬
ed him, that Boileau confiders him as the father of
French poetry : but he compofed with great difficulty,
and put his mind on the rack in correcting what he
wrote. He was a man of a Angular humour, and blunt
in his behaviour. When the poor ufed to promife him,
that, that they would pray to God for him, he hnfwer-
ed them, that “ he did not believe they could have any
great intereft in heaven, fince they were left in fuch a
bad condition upon earth j and that he ffiould be bet¬
ter pleafed if the duke de Luyne, or fome other
favourite, had made him the fame promife.” He
would often fay that “ the religion of gentlemen wTaS
that of their prince.” During his laft ficknefs he had
much ado to refolve to confefs to a prieft j for which
he gave this facetious reafon, that “ he never ufed to
confefs but at Eafter.” And fome few moments be¬
fore his death, when he had been in a lethargy two
hours, he awaked on a hidden to reprove his landlady,
who waited on him, for ufing a word that was not good
French j faying to his confeffor, who reprimanded him
for it, that “ he could not help it, and he would defend
the purity of the French language to the laft moment
of his life.”
MALICE, in Et/iics and Law, is S fofmed defign
of doing mifehief to another; it differs from hatred.
In murder, it is malice makes the crime •, and if a
man, having a malicious intent to kill another, in tire
execution of his malice kills a perfon not intended,
t ie malice fhall be connefted to bis perfon, and he
fhall be adjudged a murderer. The words ex malitia
prevcogitata are neceffary to an indiclment of murder,
&.c. And this malitia pracogitata, or malice prepenfe,
3 H 2 m:.y
M A L [4:
Malignant may be either exprefs or implied in law. Exprefs
, Jl, t malice is. when one, with a fedate, deliberate mind,
i-L'^ and formed defign, kills another ; which formed de-
fig:; is evidenced by external circumitances difcover-
ing that intention ; as lying in wait, antecedent me¬
naces, former grudges, and concerted fchemes to do
him fome bodily harm. Eefides, where no malice is
expreffed, the law will imply it ; as where a man wil¬
fully poifons another, in fuch a deliberate aft the law
prelumes malice, though no particular enmity can be
proved. And if a man kills another fuddenly, with¬
out any, or without a confiderable provocation, the
law implies malice *, for no perfon, unlefs of an aban¬
doned heart, would be guilty of fuch an aft upon a
flight or no apparent caufe.
MALIGNANT, among phyficians, a term ap¬
plied to difeafes of a very dangerous nature, and ge¬
nerally infeftious; fuch are the dyfentery, hofpital-
fever, &c. in their wmrft llages.
Malignity among phyficians fignifies much the fame
with contagion. See Contagion.
MALL, Sea-mall, or Sea-mew. See Larus, Or¬
nithology Index.
MALLARD. See Anas, Ornithology Index.
MALLEABLE, a property of metals, whereby
they are capable of being extended under the hammer.
MALLENDERS, See Farriery Index.
MALLEOLI, in the ancient art of war, were
bundles of combuftible materials, fet on fire to give
light in the night, or to annoy the enemy •, when
they were employed for the latter purpofe they were
fnot out of a bow, or fixed to a javelin, and thus
thrown into the enemies engines, fliips, &c. in order
to burn them. Pitch was always a principal ingredi¬
ent in the compofition. The malleoli had alio the
name of pijroboli.
MALLET, or Malloch, David, an Englifli poet,
but a Scotfman by birth, was born in that country
about 1700. By the penury of his parents, he was
compelled to be janitor of the high fchool at Edin¬
burgh ; but he furmounted the difadvantages of his
birth and fortune j for when the duke of Montrofe ap¬
plied to the college of Edinburgh for a tutor to educate
his fons, Malloch w’as recommended. When his pupils
went abroad, they were intruded to his care ; and ha¬
ving condufted them through their travels, he returned
with them to London. Here, refiding in their family,
be naturally gained admiflion to perfons of high rank
and charafter; and began to give fpecimens of his po¬
etical talents. In 1733, he publilbed a poem on ver¬
bal Criticifm, on purpofe to make his court to Pope.
In 1740, he wrote a Life of Lord Bacon, which was
then prefixed to an edition of his works*, but with fo
much more knowledge of hiftory than of fcience, that,
when he afterwards undertook the Life of Marl¬
borough, fome were apprehenfive left he fttould forget
that Marlborough was a general, as he had forgotten
that Bacon was a philofopher. The old duchefs of
Marlborough afligned in her will this talk to Glover
and Mallet, with a reward of loool. and a prohibition
to infert any verfes. Glover is fuppofed to. have rejeft-
ed the legacy with difdain, fo that the work devolved
upon Mallet; who had alfo a penfion from the late duke
of Marlborough to promote his induftry, and who w^as
continually talking of the dtfcoveries he made, hut left
i8 ] M A L ,
not when he died any hiftorical labours behind. When Mallet,
the prince of Wales was driven from the palace, and
kept a feparate court by w7ay of oppofition, to increafe
his popularity by patronizing literature, he made Mal¬
let his under fecretary, with a falary oi 200I. a year.—
Thomfon likewife had a peniion j and they were affo-
ciateu in the compofition of the Mafque ot Alfred,
which in its original ftate w7as played at Cliefden in
174®* L was afterwards almoft wholly changed by
Mallet, and brought upon the ftage of Drury Lane in
1751, but with no great fuccefs. He had before
publifhed two tragedies; Eurydice, afted at Drury
Lane in 1731; and Muftapha, afted at the fame
theatre in 1739* It was dedicated to the prince his
mafter, and was well received, but never was revived.
His next work was Amyntork and Theodora (1747),
a long ftory in blank verfe ; in which there is copiouf-
nefs and elegance of language, vigour of fentiment,
and imagery well adapted to take pofleffien of the
fancy. In 17535 mafque of Britannia was afted
at Drury Lane, and his tragedy of Elvira in 1763 *,
in which year he was appointed keeper of the book of
entries for (hips in the port of London. In the be¬
ginning of the laft war, when the nation was exafpe-
rated by ill fuccefs, he was employed to turn the pub¬
lic vengeance upon Byng, and wrote a letter of accu-
fation under the charafter of a Plain Man. The pa¬
per was with great induftry circulated and difperfed ;
and he for his feafonable intervention had a confider¬
able penfion bellowed upon him, whk* he retained to
his death. Towards the end of his life he went with
his wife to Trance *, but after a while, finding his
health declining, he returned alone to England, and
died in April 1765. He was twice married, and by
his firft wife had feveral children. One daughter, who
married an Italian of rank named Cilefia, wrote a tra¬
gedy called Almida, which was afted at Drury Lane.
His fecond wife was the daughter of a noblemanfs
fteward, who had a confiderable fortune, which (he
tock care to retain in her own hands. His ftature
was diminutive, but he was regularly formed *, his
appearance, till he grew corpulent, was agreeable,
and he fuffered it to want no recommendation that
drefs could give it. His converfation was elegant and
eafy.
Mallet, Edme, was born at Melun in 1713, and
enjoyed a curacy in the neighbourhood of his native
place till 1751, when he went to Paris to be profeffor
of theology in the college of Navarre, of which he
was admitted a doftor. Boyer, the late biihop of
Mirepoix, was at firft much prejudiced againft him ; but
being afterwards undeceived, he conferred upon him
the fee of Verdun as a reward for his doftrine and
morals. Janfenifm had been imputed to him by his
enemies with this prelate; and the gazette which went
by the name of Ecclejiq/iical, accufed him of impiety.
Either of thefe imputations was equally undeferved by
the abbe Mallet : as a Chriflian, he was grieved at
the difputes of the French church ; and, as a philofo¬
pher, he was aftoniftied that the government had not,
from the very beginning of thofe diffenfions impofed
filence on both parties. He died at Paris in 1755, at
the age of 42. The principal of his works are,
I. Principes pair la lellure des Poetes, 1745, i2mo,
2 vols. 2. Ejjai fur I Etude des Belles Let ires, 174/;’
12mo.
M A L [ 420 ] M A L
Mallet, j 2mo. 3. Ejfhifur les bienfeance oratoires, 1753, 1 2mo.
Mallicollo. 4^ Principes pour la leElures des Orateurs, 1 753, izmo.
3 vols. 5. Hi/hire des Guerres civiles de France fous les
repnes de Franpois II. Charles IX, Henri III. et
Henri/ IV. tranflated fiom the Italian of d’Avila.—
In Mallet’s work on the Poets, Orators, and the
Belles Lettres, his obje£I is no more than to explain
with accuracy and precifion the rules of the great
mailers, and to fupport them by examples from au¬
thors ancient and modern. The ftyle of his different
writings, to which his mind bore a great refemblance,
was neat, eafy, and unaffected. But what mull ren¬
der his memory eftimable, was his attachment to his
friends, his candour, moderation, gentlenefs, and mo-
defty. He was employed to write the theological and
belles lettres articles in the Encyclopedic ; and whatever
he wrote in that dictionary was in general well com-
pofed. Abbe Mallet was preparing two important
works when the world was deprived of him by death.
The firii was Une Hi/loiregenerate de nos Guerres depuis
le commencement de la Monarchic ; the fecond, Une Hi-
Jloirc de Concile de Trente, which he intended to fet in
oppofition to that of Father Paul tranflated by Father
le Courayer.
Mallet, a large kind of hammer made of wood j
much ufed by artificers who work with a chiffel, as
fculptors, mafons, and ftone-cutters, whole mallet is
ordinarily round •, and by carpenters, joiners, &c. who
ufe it fquate. There are leveral forts of mallets ufed
for different purpofes on fhip-board. The calking
mallet is chiefly employed to drive the oakum into the
feams of a Ihip, where the edges of the planks are
joined to each other in the fides, deck, or bottom.
The head of this mallet is long and cylindrical, being
hooped with iron to prevent it from fplitting in the
exercife of calking. There is alfo the ferving mallet,
ufed in ferving the rigging, by binding the fpun-yarn
more firmly about it than it could poffibly be done by
hand, wdrich is performed in the following manner j
the fpun-yarn being previoufly rolled up in a large
ball or clue, two or three turns of it are paffed about
, the rope, and about the body of the mallet, which for
this purjlofe is furnifhed with a round channel in its fur-
face, that conforms to the convexity of the rope intend¬
ed to be ferved. The turns of the fpun-yarn being
ffrained round the mallet, fo as to confine it firmly to
the rope, which is extended above the deck, one man
paffes the ball continually about the rope, whilft the
other, at the fame time, winds on the fpun-yarn by
means of the mallet, whofe handle afting as a lever
ftrains every turn about the rope as firm as poflible.
MALLICOLLO, one of the largeft of the New
Hebrides, in the Pacific ocean. It extends twenty
leagues from north to fouth. Its inland mountains are
very high, and clad with forefls. Its vegetable produc¬
tions are luxuriant, and in great variety *, cocoa-nuts,
breadfruit, bananas, fagar-canes, yams, eddoes, turme¬
ric, and oranges. Hogs and common poultry are the
domeflic animals. The inhabitants appear to be of a
race totally diftinfl from thofe of the Friendly and So¬
ciety iflands. Their form, language, and manners, are
widely different. They feem to correfpond in many
particulars with the natives of New Guinea, particularly
in their black colour and woolly hair. They go al-
mofl naked, are of a flender make, have lively but
very irregular ugly features, and tie a rope fall round Mallow-
their belly. They ufe bows and arrows as their prin- Malmfbury
cipal weapons, and the arrows are faid to be fometimes
poifbned. They keep their bodies entirely free from
pundlurcs, which is one particular that remarkably
dittinguiihes them from the other tribes of the Pacific
ocean.
The population, according to Mr Forfler, may a-
mount to 50,000, who occupy 600 fquare miles of
ground. The lame author inform us that very few wo¬
men were feen, but that thofe few were no lefs ugly
than the men, were of fmall ftature, and their heads,-
faces, and Ihoulders were painted red,. They had
bundles on their backs containing their children, and
the men feemed to have no kind of regard for them,
They appeared in faiff to be oppreffed, defpifed, and in
a Hate of fervility.
The men ufe bows and arrows, and a club about 30
inches long, which they hang on their right (boulder,
from a thick rope made of a kind of grafs. They live
chiefiy on vegetables, and apply themfelves to hul-
bandry. Their mufic had nothing remarkable in it,
either for harmony or variety, but feemed to Mr For-
fter to be of a more lively turn than that at the Ftiend-
ly iflapds. In fome of their countenances he thought
be could trace a milchievous, ill-natured difpofition,
but he confeffes that he might miftake jealoufy for
hatred. It is in 160 28' S. Lat. and 167° 56' E.
Long.
MALLOW, a manor, and alfo a borough town in
the county of Cork, and province of Munller, in Ire¬
land, above 118 miles from Dublin, pleafantly lituated
on the north bank of the Blackwater, over which there
is an excellent (lone bridge. Not far diflant is a fine
fpring of a moderately tepid water, which burfts out
of the bottom of a fine limeftone rock, and approaches
the neared in all its qualities to the hot-well wTaters of
Briftol of any that has been yet difeovered in this kingr
dom, which brings a refort of good company there fre¬
quently in the fummer months, and has caufed it to be
called the Irifh Bath.
Mallow. See Malva, Botany Index.
Marfh-MAiLoiv. See Althaea, Botany Index.
Indian-Mallow. See Sida, Botany Index.
MALMS BURY, a town of Wiltflrire in England,
95 miles from London. It (lands on a hill, with fix
bridges over the river Avon at the bottom; with which
and a brook that runs into it, it is in a manner en-
compaffed. It formerly had walls and a caftle, which
were pulled down to enlarge the abbey, which was the
biggeft in Wiltflrire, and its abbots fat in parliament.
The Saxon king Athelllan granted the town large
immunities, and was buried under the high altar of
the church, and his monument dill remains in the nave
of it. The memory of Aldhelm, its firfl: abbot, who
was the king’s great favourite, and whom he got to
be canonized after his death, is dill kept up by a
meadow near this town, called Aldhelm’s Mead. By
charter of King William III. the corporation conlids
of an alderman, who is chofen yearly, 1 2 capital bur-
gefles, and 4 adidants, landholders and common, rs.
Here is an alms-houfe for 4 men and 4 women, and
near the bridge an hofpital for lepers, where it is fun-
pofed there was formerly a nunnery. This town
drives a confiderable trade in the woollen manufaflory;
hbsv
M A L [ 430 1 M A L
^aS a mar^e^ 011 Saturday, and three fairs. It has
l—!- a’°' , fent members to parliament ever fince the 26th of Ed¬
ward I.
William of Malmsbury. See William.
MALO, St, a fea-port town of France, in the
province of Eritanny, fituated in the latitude of 48
degrees 38 minutes north, and 1 degree 57 minutes
to the weft. The town Hands upon a rock called the
iftand of St Aaron, furrounded by the fea at high
water, which is now joined to the continent, by means
of a fort of caufeway or dike, near a mile long, called
the Sillon, which has often been damaged by ftorms,
and was almoft quite ruined in the year 1 730. At the
end of this caufeway next the town is a caftle, flank¬
ed with large towers, a good ditch, and a large baftion.
The city nearly covers the whole furface of the ifland,
and is of an oblong form, furrounded with a ftrong
rampart, on which there is a number of cannon.—
There is always in it a good garrifon. The cathedral
church is dedicated to St Vincent, and Hands in the
fquare of the fam6 name, as do alfo the town-houfe
and the epifcopal palace. There are fome other fquares
in the place, but lefs remarkable 5 and as to the ftreets,
except two or three, they are all very narrow. There
being n© fprings of frelh water in St Malo, the in¬
habitants are at great pains to convey the rain which
falls on the roofs of their houfes into cifterns \ and of
this they have enough for all family ufes. There is
only one parifti church in the town, though it contain
between 9000 and 10,000 inhabitants 5 but there are
feveral convents of monks and nuns, and a general
hofpital. The two entrances into the harbour are de¬
fended by feveral forts, fuch as that of the ConchaT,
of the great and .the little bay j the forts of Me Re-
bours, Sezembre, Roteneuf; the caftle of Latte, and
Fort-Royal. Thefe are feveral little ifles near the
harbour, the moft confiderable whereof is that of St
Sezembre, which is near a quarter of a league in cir-
- cumference, and ferve as fo many outworks to the for¬
tifications of the city, and are ufeful as bulwarks, by
breaking the violence of the waves, which otherwife
•would beat with great force againft the walls of the
city. At the end of the caufeway next the continent
ftands the fuburb of St Servant, large and well built.
Here the merchants have their houfes and ftorehoufes.
Here is the dock-yard ; and a fecure harbour is form¬
ed by the river Ranee, where (hips of great burden
can ride at anchor very near the houfes. The harbour
is one of the beft in the kingdom, and moft frequent¬
ed by inerchant {hips ; but it is of very difficult and
dangerous accefs on account of the rocks which lie
round it. The town of St Malo is exceedingly well
fituated for trade *, and accordingly, in this refpetff, it
has fucceeded beyond moft towns in France. It main¬
tains a trade with England, Holland, and Spain.—
The commerce of Spain is of all the moft confider-
able, and moft profitable to the inhabitants of St
Malo, the flnps of the Malouins being frequently em¬
ployed as regifter (hips by the Spaniards, to carry
out the rich cargoes to Peru and Mexico, and bring
home treafure and plate from America. The inhabi¬
tants of St Malo carry on alfo a confiderable trade in
dry and falted cod to Newfoundland. They fend to
this fifhery a good many veffels from ico to 300 tons
■ burden, with fait for the fifb, and proviuons for fub-
1
filling the crews. They carry their fi(h to Italy, Spain,
and fome to Bourdeaux and Bayonne, and bring home
the returns in fruits, foap, oil, &c. which are difpofed
of to great advantage at Nantz. St Malo is the ca¬
pital of the bifhopric of that name, which is of con¬
fiderable extent j and the foil about it produces moft
kinds of grain and fruits in great abundance. The
moft remarkable towns in the di ft riff: and diocefe of
St Malo, are St Servand, Cancalle, Chateauneuf, Di-
nan, Tintiniac, Combourg, Montfort, Break Guer,
Ploermel, Joffelin, &c.
MALO, Maclou, or Mahout, Saint, the fon of
an Englifhman, and coufin to St Magloire, w’as edu¬
cated in a monaftery in Ireland, and afterwards chofen
biftrop of Gui-Caftel, a dignity which his humility pre¬
vented him from accepting. The people wiftiing to
compel him, he went to Britanny, and put himfelf'un¬
der the direction of a holy anchoret called Aaron, in
the neighbourhood of Aleth. Some time after, about
the year 541, he was chofen biftiop of that city, and
there cultivated piety and religion wdth great fuccefs.
He afterwards retired to a folitude near Xaintes, where
he died November 15. 565. From him the city of St
Malo derives its name j his body having been carried
thither, after the redu&ion of Aleth to a fmall village
called Guidalet or Guichalet, and the transference of
the epifcopal fee to St Malo.
MALOU1N, Paul-Jaques, born at Caen in 1701,
was profeffor of medicine in the royal college of Paris,
phyfician in ordinary to the queen, and a member of
the Royal Society of London, and of the Academy
of Sciences of Paris. Thefe ftations were a proper
reward for his very extenfive information in medicine
and chemiftry; and his amiable and fteady charafler
procured him many friends and protedlors. He was
very unlike fome modern phyficians, who put little
truft in medicine ; and was greatly difpleafed to hear
any ill fpoken of his profeffion. He obferved one day
to a young man who took this liberty, that all great
men had refpefted medicine : Ah ! faid the young fel¬
low, you mujl at leaf except from the if one Moliere.
But then, inftantly replied the dodlor, you fee he is
dead. He is faid to have believed the certainty of his
art as firmly as a mathematician does that of geometry.
Having preferibed a great many medicines for a cele¬
brated man of letters, who followed his direflions ex¬
actly, and was cured, Malouin eagerly embraced him,
faying, You deferve to be fick. As he valued the rules
of medicine ftill more on his own account than on that
of others, he obferved, efpecially in the latter part of
his life, a very auftere regimen. He ftriclly pradtifed
the prefervative part of medicine, which is much more
certain in its effedls than the reftorative. To this regi¬
men Malouin was indebted, for what many philofo-
phers have defired in vain, a healthy old age and an
eafy death. He was a ftranger to the infirmities of
age j and died at Paris of an apoplexy, the 3d of Ja¬
nuary 1778, in the 77th year of his age. By'his will
he left a legacy to the faculty of medicine, upon con¬
dition of their holding a public meeting every year
for the purpofe of giving the public an account of his
labours and difeoveries. Malouin was economical, but
at the fame time very difinterefted. After two years
of very lucrative pradlice, he left Paris and went to
Verfailles, Ydnere he faw very few1 patients, obferving
that
Malo,
Malouin.
[ 4
His principal works
M A L
Malpas, that he had retired to the court,
Malpla- are, I. Traite de Chimie, 1734, l2mo. 2. Chimie Me
<luet dicinalc, 2 vols. i2mo, 1755 j a b<>ok full of curious
obfervations, and written in a chafte and well adapted
flyle. He had the charadler of a laborious chemill;
and he was a well-informed and even a diftinguiflied
one for the age in which he lived : but his knowledge
of chemiftry, it mufl: be confeffed, was very imperfedf,
compared with the Hate of the fcience in the prefent
age, in which it has affumed a new face, that proba¬
bly will not be the laft. 3. Some of the articles
in the Colleftion publilhed by the Academy of
Sciences on the arts and profeffions. A circum-
ftance which happened at a meeting of the academy
does as much honour to his heart, as any of his works
do to his underflanding. A new treatife on the
art of baking, wherein ibme of Malouin’s ideas were
combated, was read by M. Parmentier before his fel¬
lows, among whom was the old dodtor. The young
academician, who knew how eafily felf-love is hurt,
was afraid to meet his locks : but no fooner was the
reading finiihed, than Malouin went up to him, and
embracing him, “ Receive my refpedls (faid he), you
have feen farther into the fubjedl than I did.” 4. Pie
was likewife the author of the chemical articles in the
Knci/clopedie.
Of the fame family was Charles Malouin, who gra¬
duated as a dodlor of medicine in the univerfity of
Caen, and died in 1718 in the flower of his age. He
publilhed a Treatife on Solids and Fluids, Paris 1718,
12mo.
MALPAS, a town of Cheflrire, 166 miles from
London. It Hands on a high hill, not far from the
river Dee, on the borders of Shropfhire 5 has a gram¬
mar fchool, and an hofpital, and had formerly a caftle.
It is called in Latin Mala P/atea, i. e. “ 111 Street,”
and was, for the fame reafon, by the Normans, called
Ma! Pas ; but its three ftreets, of which it chiefly con-
flHs, are now well paved ; and here is a benefice rich
enough to fuppert two redors, who officiate alternately
in its ftately church. It has a good market on Mon¬
days, and three fairs in the year.
MALPIGHI, Marcellus, an eminent Italian phy-
fician and anatomift in the 17th century. He ftudied
under Maflari and Mariano. The duke of Tufcany
invited him to Pifa, to be profelfor of phyfic there. In
this city he contraded an intimate acquaintance with
Borelli, to whom he aferibed all the difeoveries he had
made. He went back to Bologna, the air of Pifa not
agreeing with him. Cardinal Antonio Pignatelli, who
had known him while he was legate at Bologna, be¬
ing chofen pope in 1691, under the name of Inno¬
cent XII. immediately fent for him to Rome, and ap¬
pointed him his phyfician. But this did not hinder him
from purfuing his ftudies, and perfeding his works,
which have immortalized his memory. He died in
1694; and his works, with his life written by himfelf,
prefixed, were firft colleded and printed at London, in
folio, in 1667.
MALPIGHIA, Barbadoes cherry ; a genus of
plants belonging to the decandria clafs j and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the 23d order, Trihilatce.
See Botany Index.
MALPLAQUET, a village of the Netherlands, in
Hainault, famous for a molt bloody battle fought here
31 ] M A L
on the nth of September 1709, between the French
undei old Marffial \ illars, and the allies commanded by
Prince Eugene and the duke of Marlborough. The
French army amounted to 120,000 men; and were "
polled behind the woods of La Marte and Teniers, in
the. neighbourhood of Malplaquet. They had fortified
their fituatipn in fuch a manner with lines, hedges,
and trees laid acrofs, that they leemed to be quite inac-
ceffible. In this fituation they expected certain vic¬
tory ; and even the common foldiers were fo eager to
engage, that they flung away the bread which had
been juft given them, though they had taken no fufie-
nance for a wnole day before. The allied army began
the attack early in the morning, being favoured by a
thick fog. The chief fury of their impreffion was
made upon the left of the enemyand with fuch fuc-
cefs, that, notwithllanding their lines and barricadoes,
the French were in lefs than an hour driven from their
entrenchments. But on the enemy’s right the combat
was fuftained with much greater obllinacy. The
Dutch, who carried on the attack, drove them from
their firlt line ; but were repulfed from the fecond with
great daughter. The prince of Orange, who headed
that attack, perfiiled in his efforts with incredible per-
feverance and intrepidity, though two horfes had been
killed under him, and the greater part of his officers
fiain and difabled. At laft, however, the French were
obliged to yield up the field of battle ; but not till af¬
ter having fold a dear-bought vi£lory. Villars being
dangeroufly wounded, they made an excellent retread
under the condufl of Bouflers, and took port near Guef-
noy and Valenciennes. The conquerors took poffeffion
of the field of battle, on which above 20,000 of their
beft troops lay dead. The lofs of the French, it is faid,
did not exceed 8000 ; and Marffial Villars confidently
afferted,. that, if he had not been difabled, he would
have gained an undoubted victory.
MALI denotes barley cured, or prepared to fit it
for making a potable liquor, under the denomination of
beer or ale. See Brewing.
Malt-Liquors have different names as well as dif¬
ferent virtues, properties, and ufes, both from tha
different manners of preparing the malt, whence they
are diftinguiffied into pale and brown ; and from the
different manners of preparing or brewing the liquors
themielves ; whence they are divided into beer and ale
Jlrong and /mail, new and old.
. Malt drinks are either pale or brown, as the malt
is more or lefs dried on the kiln : that which is the
flendereft dried tinging the liquor leaft in brewing,
and therefore being called pa/e; whereas that higher
dried, and as it were roafted, makes it of a higher
colour. A mixture of both thefe makes an amber
colour ; whence feveral of thefe liquors take their
name.
Now, it is certain, the pale malt has moft of the
natural grain in it, and is therefore the molt nouriffi-
mg ; but, for the fame reafon, it requires a ftronger
conftitution to digeft it. Thofe who drink much of
it, are ufually fat and fleek in their bloom, but are of¬
ten cut oft by. fudden fevers; or, if they avoid this
they fall early into a diitempered old age.
I he brown malt makes a drink much lefs vifeid,
and fitter to pafs the feveral ftrainers of the body ; but,
if very ftrong, it may lead on to the fame inconvenien-
Matpfa-
quet,
Malt.
M A L [ 43
ces with the pale : though a Tingle debauch wears off
much more eafily in the brown.
Dr Quincy obferves, that the beft pale malt-liquors
are thofe brewed with hard waters, as thofe of fprings
and wells, becaufe the mineral particles, wherewith
thefe waters are impregnated, help to prevent the co-
helions of thofe drawn from the grain, and enable them
to pafs the proper fecretions the better/, as the vifcid
particles of the grain do likewife defend thefe from
doing the mifchief they might otherwife occafion.
Eut fofter waters feem belt fijited to draw out the fub-
llance of high dried malts, which retain many fiery par¬
ticles in their contexture, and are therefore beft loft in
a fmooth vehicle.
For the differences in the preparation of malt li¬
quors, they chiefly confift in the ufe of hops, as in
beer •, or in the more fparing ufe of them, as in ale.
The difference made by hops is beft difcovered from
the nature and quality of the hops themfelves : thefe
are known to be a fubtle grateful bitter •, in their com-
pofition, therefore, with this liquor, they add fome-
what of an alkaline nature, i. e. particles that are fu-
blime, adtive, and rigid. By which means, the ropy
vifcid parts of the malt are more divided and fubtilized :
and are therefore not only rendered more eafy of digef-
tion and fecretion in the body, but alfo, while in the
liquor, they prevent it from running into fuch cohefions
as wmuld make it ropy, vapid, and four.
For w7ant of this, in unhopped drinks, that clammy
fweetnefs, which they retain after working, foon turns
them acid and unfit for ufe ; which happens fooner or
later in proportion to the ftrength they receive from the
malt, and the comminution that has undergone by fer¬
mentation.
The different ftrengths of malt liquors alfo make
their effects different. The ftronger they are, the more
vifcid parts they carry into the blood •, and though the
fpirituous parts make thefe imperceptible at firft ; yet
when thofe are evaporated, which will be in a few
hours, the other will be fenfibly felt by pains in tbe
head, naufeoufnefs at the ftomach, and laflitude or lift-
leffnefs to motion. This thofe are the moil fenlible of
who have experienced the extremes of drinking thefe
liquors and wines *, for a debauch of wine they find
much fooner worn off, and they are much move lively
and brifk afterwards, than after fuddling malt liquors,
whofe vifcid remains wall be long before they be fhaken
off.
Malt liquors, therefore, are, in general, the more
wholefome for being fmall •, i. e. of fuch a ftrength as
is liable to carry a fmall degree of warmth into tbe
ftomach, but not fo great as to prevent their being
proper diluters of the neceffary food. Indeed, in ro-
buft people, or thofe who labour hard, the vifcidities of
the drink may be broken into convenient nourifhment}
but in perfons of another habit and wray of living,
they ferve rather to promote obftrudlions and ill hu¬
mours.
The age of malt liquors is the laft thing by which
they are rendered more or lefs wholefome. Age feems
to do nearly the fame thing as hops ^ for thofe liquors
which are longeft kept are certainly the leaft vifcid •,
age breaking the vifcid parts, and by degrees render¬
ing them fmaller, and fitter for fecretion.
But this is afcvays determined according to their
2 ] M A L
ftrength j in proportion to wdfich, they will fooner or
later come to their full perfection as well as decay ; v
for, when ale or beer is kept till its particles are bro¬
ken and comminuted as far as they are capable, then
it is that they are beft •, and, beyond this, they will
be continually on tbe decay, till the finer fpirits are
entirely efcaped, and'the remainder becomes vapid and
four.
MalT-DiJIillenj. This is an extenfive article of
trade ; and by which very large fortunes are made.
The art is to convert fermented malt liquors into a
clear inflammable fpirit, which may be either fold for
ufe in the common ftate of a proof ftrength, that is, the
fame ftrength with French brandy ; or is reftified into
that purer fpirit ufually fold under the name of fpirit of
wine ; or made into compound cordial wraters, oy being
diftilled again from herbs and other ingredients. See
Brewing and Wash.
To brew with malt in the moft advantageous man¬
ner, it is neceffary, i. That the fubjeCl be well prepa¬
red 5 2. That the water be fuitable and duly applied ;
and, 3. That fome certain additions be uftd, or altera¬
tions made, according to the feafon of the year, and the
intention of the operator : and by a proper regulation
in thefe refpefts, all the fermentable parts of the lub-
jed will thus be brought into the tinfture, and become
fit for fermentation.
The due preparation of tbe fubjeCf confifts in its be¬
ing juftly malted and well ground. When the grain
is not fufficiently malted, it is apt to prove hard, fo
that the water can have but very little power to dii-
falve its fubftance •, and if it be too much malted, a
part of tbe fermentable matter is loft in that opera¬
tion. The harder and more flinty the malt is, the
finer it ought to be ground ; and in all cafes, when
intended for diftillation, it is advifable to reduce it to
a kind of finer or coarfer meal. When the malt is
thus ground, it is found by experience that great part
of the time, trouble, and expence of the brewing is
faved by it, and yet as large a quantity of fpirit will
be produced} for thus the whole fubftance of tbe malt
may remain mixed among the tinfture, and be fer¬
mented and diftilled among it. ihis is a particular
that very well deferves the attention of the malt di-
ftiller as that trade is at prefent carried on ; for the
defpatch of the bufinefs, and the quantity of fpirit pro¬
cured, is more attended to than the purity or perfec¬
tion of it.
The fecret of this mattef depends upon the thorough¬
ly mixing or brifklv agitating and throwing the meal
about, firft in cold and then in hot water ■, mid re¬
peating this agitation after the fermentation is over,
when the thick turbid wafli being immediately com¬
mitted to the flill already hot and dewy with work¬
ing, there is no danger of burning, unlefs by accident,
even without the farther trouble of ftirring, which
in this cafe is found needlefs, though the quantity be
ever fb large, provided that requifite care and clean-
linefs be ufed ; and thus the bufinefs of brewing and
fermenting may very commodioufly be performed to¬
gether, and reduced to one fingle operation. W hat¬
ever water is made choice of, it muft Hand in a ho^,
ftate upon the prepared malt, efpecially if a clear
tin&ure be defired j but a known and very great incon¬
venience attends its being applied too hot, or too near
to
M A L [ 433 ] M A L
Malt, to a ftate of boiling, or even fcalding with regard to
—' the hand. To fave time in this cafe, and to prevent
the malt running into lumps and clods, the beft way
is to put a certain meafured quantity of cold water to
the malt firft ; the malt is then to be ftirred very
well with this, fo as to form a fort of thin uniform
pafte or pudding 5 after which the remaining quantity
of water required may be added in a ftate of boiling,
without the leait danger of making what, in the diftil-
ler’s language, is called a pudden.
In this manner the due and neceftary degree of heat
in the water, for the extra&ing all the virtues of the
malt, may be hit upon very expeditioufly, and with a
great deal of exaftnefs, as the heat of boiling water is
a fixed ftandard which may be let down to any degree
by a proportionate mixture of cold water, due allow¬
ances being made for the leafon of the year, and for
the temperature of the air.
This little obvious improvement, added to the me¬
thod juft above hinted for the reducing brewing and
fermentation to one operation, will render it practica¬
ble to very confiderable advantage, and the fnirit im¬
proved in quality as wmll as quantity.
A much more profitable method than that ufually
pra&ifed for the fermenting malt for diftillation, in or¬
der to get its fpirit, is the following : Take ten pounds
of malt reduced to a fine meal, and thi’ee pounds of
common wheat meal : add to thefe two gallons of cold
water, and ftir them well together •, then add five gal¬
lons of water, boiling hot, and ftir altogether again.
Let the wdaole (land twm hours, and then ftir it again ;
and when grown cold, add to it tivo ounces of folid
yeaft, and fet it by loofely covered in a warmift} place
to ferment.
This is the Dutch method of preparing what they
call the wajh for .malt fpirit, whereby they fave much
trouble and procure a large quantity of fpirit : thus
commodioufty reducing the two bufineffes of brewing
and fermenting to one (ingle operation. In England
the method is to draw’ and mafia for fpirit as they or¬
dinarily do for beer, only inftead of boiling the wort,
they pump it into large coolers, and afterwards run it
into their fermenting backs, to be there fermented
with yeaft. Thus they beftow’ twice as much labour
as is necelfary, and lofe a large quantity of their fpirit
by leaving the grofs bottoms out of the (till for fear of
burning.
All fimple fpirits may be confidered in the three
different dates of low wines, proof fpirit, and alcohol,
the 'ntermedia'’e degrees of ftrength being of lefs ge¬
neral ufe \ and they are to be judged of only accord¬
ing as they approach to or recede from thefe. Low
wines at a medium contain a fixth part of pure in¬
flammable fpirit, five times as much wTater as fpirit
neceflTarily arifing in the operation with a boiling
heat. Proof goods contain about one half of the fame
totally inflammable fpirit; and alcohol entirely confifts
of it.
Malt low wines, prepared in the common way, are
exceeding naufeous •, they have, however, a natural
vinofity or pungent agreeable acidity, which would
. render the fpirit agreeable to the palate were it not
for the large quantity of the grofs oil of the malt
that abound? in it. When this oil is detained in fome
meafure from mixing itfelf among the low’ wines, by
VOL.XII. Part II.
the ftretching a coarfe flannel over the neck of the dill
or at the orifice of the worm, the fpirit becomes much
purer in all refpecls j it is lefs fuUbme to the tafte,
lefs offenfive to the fmell, and lefs milky to the
eye. When thefe low wines, in the redlification
into proof fpirits, are diftilled gently, they leave a
confiderable quantity of this grofs fetid oil behind
them in the dill along wdth the phlegm ; but if
the fire be made fierce, this oil is again raifed
and brought over with the fpirit •, and being now’ bro¬
ken fomewhat more fine, it impregnates it in a more
naufeous manner than at firft. This is the common
fault both of the malt diftiller and of the redtifier : the
latter, inftead of feparating the fpirit from this nafty
oil, which is the principal intent of his procefs, at¬
tends only to the leaving the phlegm in fuch quantity
behind, that the fpirit may be of a due ftrength as
proof or marketable goods, and brings over the oil in
a worfe ftate than before. To this inattention to the
proper bufinefs of the procefs, it is owing, that the fpi¬
rit, after its feveral redlifications, as they are mifcall-
ed, is often found more (linking than when delivered
out of the hands of the malt diftiller. All this may
be prevented by the taking more time in the fubfequent
diftillations, and keeping the fire low and regular^ the
fudden ftirrxng of the fire, and the hafty way of throw¬
ing on the frefh fuel, being the general occafion of
throwing up the oil by fpurts, where the fire in general,
during the procefs, has not been fo large as to do that
mifehief.
The ufe of a balneum marise, inftead of the common
dill, would effedlually prevent all this milchief, and
give a purer fpirit in one redliiication than can other-
wife be procured in ten, or indeed according to the
common methods at all.
Malt low wine, w’hen brought to the ftandard of
proof fpirit, lofes its milky colour, and is perfeflly
clear and bright, no more oil being contained in it
than is perfectly diiTolved by the alcohol, and rendered
mifcible with that proportion of phlegm, which is
about one half the liquor : its tafte alio is cleaner,
though not more pleafant ; there being lefs of the thick
oil to hang on the tongue than its own form ; w’hich is
not the cafe in the low wines, where the oil being un-
diflblved, adheres to the mouth in its own form, and
does not pafs lightly over it.
When proof fpirit of malt is diftilled over again, in
order to be rectified into alcohol, or, as we uiually
call it, fpirits of wine, if the fire be raifed at the time
when the faints begin to fall off, a very confiderable
quantity of oil will be raifed by it, and will run in
the vifible form of oil from the nofe of the worm.
This is not peculiar to malt fpirit ; but the French
brandy (hows the fame phenomenon, and that in fo
great a degree, that hall an ounce of this oil may be
obtained from a (Ingle piece of brandy.
Malt fpiiit, more than any other kind, requires to
be brought into the form of alcohol, before it can be
ufed internally, efpecially as it is non’ commonly made
up in the proof ftate, with as much of this naufeous
and vifeous oil as will give it a good crown of bubbles.
For this reafon it ought to be reduced to an alcohol,
or totally inflammable fpirit, before it is admitted into
any of the medicinal compofitions. If it be ufed with¬
out this previous caution, the tafle of the malt oil will
3 I be
Malt.
M A L [ 434 ] M A L
be d5ftingui{hed among all the other flavours of the in-
' gredients.
A j ure fpirit being thus procured, fhould be kept
carefully in veffels of glafs or done, well flopped, to
prevent the evaporation of any of its volatile parts. If
preferved in cafks, it is apt to impregnate itfelf very
ftrongly with the wood. The quantity of pure alcohol
obtainable from a certain quantity of malt, differs ac¬
cording to the goodnefs of the fubjeif, the manner of
the operation, the feafon of the year* and the fkilful-
nefs of the workmen ; according to which variations, a
quarter of malt will afford from eight or nine to 13 or
14 gallons of alcohol. This fhould encourage the malt
diiiiller to be careful and diligent in his bufinefs, as fo
very large a part of his profit depends wholly on the
well-condu£Hng his proceffes.
After every operation in this bufinefs, there remains
a quantity of faints, which in their own coarfe flate
ought never to be admitted into the pure fpirit 5 thefe
are to be faved together, and large quantities of them
at once wrought into alcohol. It is eafy to reduce
thefe to fuch a Hate that they will ferve for lamp-fpirits.
Their difagreeable flavour being correfted by the add¬
ing of aromatics during the diftillations, the reducing
them into a perfeft and pure alcohol is pra&icable, but
not without fuch difficulties as render it fcarcely worth
the trader’s while. One way of doing it is by diftilling
them from water into water, and that with a very flow
fire. By this means a pure alcohol may be made out
of the fouleft faints.
The malt difliller always gives his fpirit a Angle rec¬
tification per fet in order to purify it a little, and make
it up proof; but in this ftate it is not to be reckoned
fit for internal ufes, but ferves to be diftilled into ge¬
neva and other ordinary compound ftrong waters for the
vulgar.
The Dutch who carry on a great trade with malt fpi¬
rit, never give it any farther redlification than this j
and it is on this account that the malt fpirit of Eng¬
land is in general fo much more in efteem. The Dutch
method is only to diflil the waffi into low wines, and
then to full proof fpirit •, they then direftly make it
into geneva, or elfe fend it as it is to Germany, Gui¬
nea, and the Eaft Indies, for the Dutch have little
notion of our rectification. Their fpirit is by this
means rendered very foul and coarfe, and is rendered
yet more naufeous by the immoderate ufe they make
of rye meal. Malt fpirit, in its unreCtified ftate, is
ufually found to have the common bubble proof, as the
malt diftiller knows that it will not be marketable
without it.
The whole matter requifite to this is, that it have
a confiderable portion of the grofs oil of the malt
well broke and mixed along with it j this gives the
re&ifier a great deal of trouble if he will have the fpi¬
rit fine; but in the general run of the bufinefs, the
reftifier does not take out this oil, but breaks it finer,
and mixes it fafter in by alkaline falts, and difguifes its
tafte by the addition of certain flavouring ingredients.
The fpirit lofes in thefe proceffes the vinofity it had
when it came out of the hands of the malt diftiller,
and is in all refpeCls worfe, except in the difguife of a
mixed flavour.
The alkaline falts ufed by the reftifier deftroying
the natural vinofity of the fpirit, it is ncceffary to add
an extraneous acid in order to give it a new one. The Malt,
acid they generally ufe is the fpiritus nitri dulcis; and Malta'
the common way of ufing it is the mixing it to the *
tafte with the rectified fpirit: this gives our malt
fpirit, when well rectified, a flavour fomewhat like that
of Fiench brandy, but this foon flies off $ and the bet¬
ter method is to add a proper quantity of Glauber’s
ftrong fpirit of nitre to the fpirit in the ftill. The li¬
quor in this cafe comes over impregnated with it, and
the acid being more intimately mixed, the flavour is
retained.
MALT-Bruifer, or Bruijing-riiill. It has been found
by repeated experiments, that bruifing malt is a more
advantageous method than the old one of grinding and
flouring. By bruifing, there is not only lefs wafte,
but the malt is alfo better fitted for giving out all its
virtues. It has therefore become a praCIice to fqueeze
malt between rollers, by means of a proper apparatus,
of which various conftruCtions have been invented.
One of the beft contrivances of this fort is faid to be
the bruifing-mill of Mr Winlaw, which confifts of a
frame, a large cylinder or roller, a fmall roller, a hop¬
per, a ffioe, a frame to fupport the hopper, a fly wheel,
and a windlas. To ufe this engine, it is diie&ed to
fcrew the large roller up to the fmall one, and not to
feed too faft from the ffioe, which is regulated by pins
that have firings fixed to them. It is evident, that,
when two Imooth furfaces are oppofed to each other at
a diftance which can be regulated at pleafure, neither
grain nor any other fimilar fubftance can pafs between
them without being bruifed. This being the principle,
on which the bruifing-mill ads, the meally fubftance,
which is the effential part of malt, is entirely removed
from the Ikin or hulk which contains it, and all the
virtues of the malt are with eafe extracted by the wa¬
ter in a manner fuperior to what is effeCfed wffien the
grain is only cut by grinding. The operation is at
the fame time fo expeditioufly performed, that two
men can with eafe bruife a buffiel of malt in a minute.
By the fame engine may alfo be bruifed oats and
beans for horfes. A great part of the corn given thefe
animals, it is wrell known, is fwallow^ed wffiole, and of¬
ten paffes through them in the fame ftate j in which
cafe, they cannot receive any nouriffiment from the
grains that are unbroken •, but when bruifed in this
engine, it eafes maftication j and every grain being
prepared for nutrition, a much lefs quantity will of
courfe be found to be fufficient. For bruifing beans,
the two regulating fcrews muft be unfcrewed a little j
and the fly-wheel requires to be then fet in motion
with the hand, on account that the rollers are then a
little fpace apart, and will not turn each other before
the beans come between them.
Malt-Tox, is the fum of 750,000!. railed every year
by parliament fince 1697, by a duty of 6d.on the buffiel
of malt, and a proportionable fum on certain liquors,
fuch as cyder and perry, which might otherwife pre¬
vent the confumption of malt. This is under the ma¬
nagement of the commiffioners of the excife j and is in¬
deed itfelf no other than the annual excife. In 1760,
an additional perpetual excife of 3d. per buffiel wjas laid
upon malt j and in 1763, a proportional excife was laid
upon cyder and perry, but new-modelled in 1766. See
Excise.
MALTA, a celebrated ifland of the Mediterranean,
fituated
Malta.
i
Ancient
feiftory of
the ifland.
a
Malta gi¬
ven to the
knights of
Rhodes.
M A L [ 435 ] M A k
Situated between tbe 15th and i6tb degrees of call
longitude, and between the 35th and 36th degrees of
north latitude. It is about 19 or 20 miles in length,
nine or ten in breadth, and 60 in circumference. An¬
ciently it was called Melita; and is fuppofed by Clu-
verius, from its fituation and other particulars, to be
the Hyperia mentioned by Homer, whence the Phaeaces
were afterwards driven by the Phenicians, and retired
into Scheria and the illand of Corfu ; which is the more
probable, as the ancient poet places the mountain Me¬
lita in that ifland. He has likewife brought fome
probable arguments to prove, that Melita 0* Malta
is the ancient Ogijgia; in which the famed nymph
Calypfo, daughter of the Ocean and Thetis, receiv¬
ed the ftiipwrecked Ulyffes, and detained him feven
years.
The moft ancient pofieflors of Malta) of whom we
have any certain account, were the Carthaginians; from
. whom it was taken by the Romans : and yet during
the w’hole time that it continued under the power of
thefe polite nations it was almoft entirely barren. The
foil was partly fandy and partly rocky, having fcarcely
any depth of earth ; and withal fo ftony, that it was
hardly capable of producing corn or any other grain
except cummin, and fome feeds of a fimilar nature. Its
chief products were figs, melons, honey, cotton, and
fome few other fruits and commodities, which the in¬
habitants exchanged for corn ; and in this barren ftate
it feenas to have continued till it came into the poffef-
fion of the Maltefe knights. It laboured alfo under
great fcarcity of water and fuel : upon all which ac¬
counts it was till that time but thinly inhabited, there
being only about 30 or 40 boroughs or other villages
fcattered about, and no city except the capital, called
alfo Malta, and the town and fort of St Angelo, which
defended the harbour : fo that the whole number of its
inhabitants did not exceed 12,000, including women
and children ; the greateft part of whom were very in¬
digent.
According to an ancient tradition, Malta was firfi:
pofleiTed by an African prince named Battus, an enemy
to Queen JDido ; from whom it was taken by the Car¬
thaginians ; from the Carthaginians it palled to the Ro¬
mans, who made themfelves mailers of it when they
fubdued the ifland of Sicily. Thefe were driven out
by the Arabs in the year 828 ; who were driven out in
their turn by Roger the Norman, earl of Sicily, who
took poflelTion of it in 1190: from which time it conti¬
nued under the dominion of the Sicilian princes till the
time of Charles V. when it fell under his powTer, along
with Naples and Sicily. To cover the ifland of Sicily
from the Turks, Charles gave the ifland to the knights
of Rhodes, fince that time called knights of Malta,
w'hofe origin and hillory is given under the article
Knights of Malta and Rhodes.
At the firfi: landing of the Maltefe knights, they
found themfelves obliged to lodge in a very poor town
at the foot of the hill on which Hands the cafile of St
Angelo, and where their only habitations were fiflier-
men’s huts. The grand mafter, with the principal
knights, took pofleffion of the caftle, where the accom¬
modations were fomewhat better; though thefe too
were very mean, and out of repair. Three days after,
he took pofieflion of the city, which was formerly call¬
ed Malta, but fince that time .hath taken the name of
the Notable City ; and after that, of the whole ifland of Malta.
Malta, and the neighbouring one of Gofa. 1 y— ’
The firfi care of the knights, after having fettled
their authority through the two iflands, was to provide
fome better accommodation for the prefent, and to
choofe a proper place where to fix their habitation.
But as the ifland had no other defence than the old
caftle of St Angelo, and was fo much expofed on all
fides, that it w'ould have required greater fums than
their exhaufted treafury could fpare to put it in a
proper ftate of defence ; the grand mafter was obli¬
ged to content himfeif with furrounding the borough
above mentioned, wherein he had ordered new build¬
ings to be reared for the prefent habitation of his
knights, wdth a flout wall, to prevent its being fur-
prifed by the Turkifli and Barbary corfairs. His de-
fign, indeed, at this time, was not to have fixed the
abode of the knights in the bare and defencelefs ifland
of Malta, but to ftay in it only till he had got a fuffi-
cient force to attempt the conqueft of Modon, a town The/at-
of the Morea, and which was not only a populous and tempt the
opulent place, but lay very convenient for making an conqueft of
attempt on the ifland of Rhodes, their ancient habita-^?^^
tion, and to which they were naturally attached. This,
however, did not hinder his taking all proper meafures
for fecuring Malta as w'ell as Gofa, and laying out a
proper plan for fecuring them from attacks, in cafe the
defign on Modon ihould fail.
In the mean time, as fuperftition was then univerfal-
ly prevalent, the grand mafter, among other precious
relics which they had brought from Rhodes, caufed the
arm of St Catharine to be carried in proceflion to the
cathedral. Whilft they were on their march, one of
the centinels gave them notice, that a large Turkifti
merchantman wTas wrecked on their coaft. The grand
mafter immediately defpatched fome of his knights and
foldiers thither ; who finding Ifaac the patron of the
fhip, a native of Modon, and one Mauritbifala Nocher,
an excellent engineer, they were retained in the fervice
of the order, and the latter svas immediately employed
in fortifying the ifland.
The knights were hardly fettled in Malta, when the
emperor, and other European potentates, endeavoured
to engage them in a war with the inhabitants of Bar¬
bary, as the city of Tripoli, then held by Charles, was
in great danger of falling into the hands of the infidels.
The attempt on Modon, however, was firft made; but
it proved unfuccefsful, through the bafe avarice of the
Maltefe forces : for they having been admitted into
the city, during the night began to murder and plun¬
der the inhabitants, without waiting for the arrival of
the galleys which were coming to their afiiftance. The
confequence was, that the inhabitants armed, and a
defperate battle began ■, in which the Maltefe, notwith-
ftanding the utmoft efforts, were obliged to retire, but
not till they had loaded themfelves with plunder, and
carried away 800 women captive. ^
The grand mafter, looking upon this difappointment Join the
as a fign that Providence had ordained Malta to beeniPeror
the refidence of the knights, did not renew his attempts^ie
upon Modon ; but, in 153 2, joined with the emperor ' 1V ‘
againft the Turks, and fent a great number of his gal¬
leys to join the confederate fleet under the celebrated
Andrew Doria. In confequence of this aid, the un¬
dertaking proved fuccefsful; and in all probability the
3 I 2 conqfeeft:
M A L r 436 ] M A L
Malta, conquefl: of Modon would have been accomplished, had
not t}-.e foldiery, difcouraged by the bad fuccefs of the
laft attempt, openly refufed to proceed, and obliged
the emperor to proceed to Coron, another town be¬
longing to the Turks. Through the valour of the
Maltefe knights, this place was loon obliged to capi¬
tulate 'y and in a fecond expedition in 1533, the knights
again diftinguifhed themfelves in a molt eminent man¬
ner. They were quickly recalled, however, by the
grand mailer to the defence of the illand, which was
row threatened with an invafion by Barbaroffa the ce¬
lebrated Turkilh corfair, who fcoured thofe feas at the
head of above fourfcore galleys. This invalion, how¬
ever, did not take place ; and in 1534 the grand ma¬
iler Villiers de I’lfle Adam died, and was fucceeded
by Perino de Ponte, a native of the town of Aft in
Italy.
The new grand mafter, who received intelligence of
his election at' St Euphemia in Calabria, very foon after
received another exprefs, giving an account of the
wars which at that tinhe reigned in Tunis, and the dan¬
ger that Tripoli as w’ell as Malta -was in from Barba¬
roffa,- who was by this time become mafter both of Al¬
giers and Tunis j upon which he made all the hafte he
could to his new government. His firft care was to
fend a ftrong reinforcement to Italy *, after which, he
defpatched an embaffy to the emperor, intreating him
to equip a powerful fleet againft Barbaroffa, wuthout
which it would be impoflible for Tripoli to hold out
5 much longer.
Africa in- By this embaffy from De Ponte, and another to the
vadedby fame pUrp0fe from Muley Haffen, the depofed king
Charles. o£ junjs^ charies w^as eafily prevailed on to carry his
arms into Africa •, in which he w-as aflifted by a great
number of the braveft knights, together with 1 8 bri¬
gantines of different fizes, four of the beft Maltefe gal-
leysp and their veffel called the great carrack, of itfelf
aim oft equivalent to a fquadron. In this expedition the
Def erate knights diftinguilhed themfelves in a moft eminent
valour of manner. At the fiege of Goletta, one of the knights,
the Maltefe n;.med Converfay an excellent engineer, by means of a
knights, bare a longa, got almoft clofe to the great tower, tvhich
he furicufly battered with large cannon, while the
great carrack, which was behind all the reft of the vef-
iels, and by reafon of its height could fire over them,
did prodigious execution. A breach w:as foon made $
and hardly was it wide enough to be fealed, when the
Maltefe knights jumped out of the galleys into their
long-boats : and tb.ence into the fea, with their fwords
in their hands, and waded through the water above
their girdles, it being too (hallow7 for boats to approach
the (here. The ftandard-bearer of the order was the
firft that jumped into the water, and led the reft to
the attack ; they claiming everywhere the poft of ho¬
nour. They marched with the greateft refolution
through the moft terrible firing and (how-ers of all
kinds of miffile weapons ; and, having gained the (hore,
quickly afeended the breach, on the top of which they
planted their great ftandard. A great number loft
their lives, and fcarcely one came off unwmunded 5 but
the emperor did them the juftice to own, that the
taking the place was chiefly owung to the valour of
the Maltefe knights.
The city of Tunis was foon taken after the fortrefs
of Goletta j on the furrender of which, the emperor,
defigning to return into Europe, took his laft dinner Malta,
on board the great carrack ; wdiere he was magnificent-
ly entertained, and bellowed on the furviving knights
the greateft eracomiums, and marks of his efteem and ^
gratitude to the owner. Thefe he accompanied with Privileges
confiderable prefents and with two new grants. Byconferrecl
the firft, they w-ere allowed to import corn and otheruP°^tht^
provifions from Sicily, without paying duty *, and by y *e em"
the fecond, the emperor engaged, that none of the or¬
der fhould enjoy any of the eftates or revenues, due to
Maltefe knights, throughout all his dominions, unlefs
they w ere lawfully authorized by the grand mafter and
bis council j or till the originals had been examined
and regiftered by bimfelf, or fuch miniilers as he- (hould
appoint for that piirpofe. The fleet then fet fail for
Malta ; vyhere, on their arrival, they received the new7s
of the grand mafter’s death, who was fucceeded by
Didier de Tolon de St Jalle, a native of Provence, and
then grand prior of Thouloufe, where he refided at the
time of his ele&ion.
The prefent grand mafter was a man of great con-
duft and bravery, w-hich he had formerly (hown at the
fiege of Rhodes ; and the fituation of affairs at this g
time required a perfon of experience. The Turkifti Turks
corfairs, quite tired out with the dreadful havock made make an
among them by Botigella, grand prior of Pifa, who nnfuccefs-
feldom quitted the fea, and never failed out without ful^t.em,Pt
finking Tome of them, or making confiderable prizes,011 U
had agreed to enter into a ftrong confederacy, either
to furprife the city of Tripoli where his retreat was,
or, if that failed, to lay fiege to it by fea and land ; in
either pf which attempts, they w7ere fure of all the af-
fiftance of Barbaroffa and Hayradin, then lord of Tan-
giers. This laft had undertaken the command and
conduft of the whole enterprife 5 but the governor be¬
ing informed of the defign, prepared to give him
a warm reception. Hayradin came thither wdth his
whole force in the dead of the night, and began to
fcale the walls in thofe places w7here he reckoned them
to be moft defencelefs. They no fooner appeared at
the foot of them, than the garrifon, which had been
kept up in arms, poured down fuch ftreams of wild¬
fire, boiling oil, melted lead, &c. and threw fuch vol- -
leys of ftones, while the great and fmall guns fo annoy¬
ed thofe that flood fartheft off, that great numbers of
them were deflroyed. They perfified in the attack,
however, with great fury and vigour, till Hayradin,
who was foremoft in one of the fealades, w7as knocked
down by a mufket-ftiot from the top of his ladder. He
fell into the ditch, and was taken up almoft dead j up¬
on whieh his troops inftantly difperfed themfelves, and
abandoned the enterprife. The governor of Tripoli,
however, judging that this would not be the laft vifit
of the kind wTiich in all probability he would receive,
immediately defpatched an exprefs to Malta, with pro-
pofals for fortifying the city, and demolifliing a ftrong
tower on that coaft named j4lcaid^ which was held by
a Turkilh corfair. His advice being approved of, the
commander Botigella, now general of the galleys, w7as
immed:ately defpatched with a fufficient force ; who,
having landed his men at Tripoli, immediately march¬
ed with them and a body of Arab mercenaries towards
Alcaid ; and without flaying to open the trenches,
or any other covering than his gabions, levelled his
artillery againft it. Hayradin being informed of this,
came
M A L [ 437 ] M A L
Malta, came with his Turks to its defence ; but was intercept-
“'■'v  1 ed by a ftrong detachment of Maltefe knights at the
head of the hired Arabs, and repulfed with lofs •, fo
that all he could do was to convey about 50 Or 60
Turks into the place, and to annoy the Chriftians with
fome flight flcirmilhes. Botigella, perceiving that his
cannon did hot make fuch quick defpatch as he wiflied,
fent fome of his galleys ; under the (belter of which he
quickly fprung a mine, which brought down part of ,
the wall, and buried mod; of the corfairs under it; up¬
on which the reft, feeing the Maltefe knights mount
the breach fword-in-hand, iryimediately threw down
their arms. The tower was then razed to the ground ;
after which Botigella marched to a town called sfda-
l‘us, whence he drove Hayradin, who had intrenched
himfelf in it, and gave the plunder to the Arabs. In
his return he attacked and took a large Turkifh galley,
the cargo of which was valued at 160,000 crowns, and
had on board 200 perfons ; fo that he landed in tri¬
umph, and was received with the loud acclamations of
the whole order, who came to meet him on his arrival.
Soon- after the grand matter fell fick and died, and w’as
fucceeded by John de Homedes.
Frefti complaints having in 1564 been made to Soli-
man, he propofed, in a grand council where moft of-
his officers attended, to extirpate the knights altoge¬
ther. This deftgn was ftrenuoufly oppofed by Hair,
one of Dragut’s moft experienced captains, wdro of¬
fered the moft folid reafons againft it; but being over¬
ruled by the reft, an expedition againft Malta wras re-
folved upon. One of the fultan’s firft cares was to
fend fome fpies, in the difguife of fifliermen, to take a
full view of the ifland, wffio found means to bring him
an exa£l plan of it, with all its fortifications, havens,
ftrength, the number of its inhabitants, &c. whilft
he was battening his armaments againft it. By this
time, as the Maltefe had very little reafon to doubt
that the Turkiflr armaments were defigned againft their
ifland, the viceroy of Sicily, Don Garcia, was ordered
by his matter to take it in his way to the caftle of Go-
letta, in order to confult with the grand mafter about
the neceifary means for oppofing fuch a formidable
power. The grand mafter acquainted him, that, in
cafe of an attack upon Malta, he fhould want both
men and corn : upon which the viceroy engaged to
fupply him with both on his return to Sicily ; in pledge
of which he left one of his fons with him, who was
afterwards admitted into the order. He was no fooner
departed, than the grand mafter fummoned all the
knights of the order, difperfed through feveral parts
of Europe, to repair to him. Thofe that were in Italy
raifed a body of 2000 foot, to which the viceroy of
Sicily added twyo companies of Soanifti forces. All the
galleys of the order were employed in tranfporting
thefe troops, together with all manner of provifions
and ammunition, into the ifland *, and the knights that
were in it, in diftributing, difciplining, and exerciftng
their newT levies, as w'ell as the Maltele militia, againft
the fiege. Thus the grand mafter faw himfelf ftrength-
ened by the arrival of 600 knights, all of whom
brought with them retinues of flout good fervants, fit
to affift in the defence of the ifland whilft thofe, who
by reafon of age, ficknefs, or other impediments, could
not repair to him, fold their moft valuable effedfs in
order to aflift him with their purfes. The pope, on his
part, contented himfelf with fending a fupply of ’10,000 Malta,
crowns ; and the king of Spain ordered his viceroy —■v~““
Don Garcia to ratfe an army of -20,000 men, to be
ready to fail thither as foon as called for. The grand
mafter employed the remainder of his time in vifiting
all the forts, magazines, arfenals, &c. and affigning to
each tongue their feveral polls, and making all necef-
fary preparations, till the Ottoman fleet appeared in
fight on the 18th of May 1565. It confilted of 159 xhe fiege
large galleys and galleons, carrying on board 30,000 commen-
forces, janizaries and fpahis, befides the (laves at theced.
oar, accompanied by a confiderable number of other
veflels, laden with artillery, ammunition, and other ne-
cefiaries for a fiege. The whole armament was com¬
manded by Muftapha Baftia, an old experienced offi¬
cer, aged about 85 years, and an old favourite and
confidant of the fultan ; of a haughty cruel temper,
who made it a merit to violate his word, and to ufe all
manner of violence againft the Chriftians, efpecially
againft the Maltefe. This formidable army landed at
fome diftance from II Borgo, and foon afterwards
fpread themfelves over the country *, fetting fire to the
villages, putting the peafants to the fword, and carry¬
ing off fuch of the cattle as, notwithftanding the orders
of the grand mafter, had not been fecured within the
forts and towns.
While the Turks were thus employed, La Valette
(the grand mafter) fent out De Copier, marfhal of
the order, with 200 horfe and 600 foot, to watch their
motions. De Copier, an officer of great experience,
executed his commiffion with fo much prudence and
vigour, that, by falling unexpedftedly on detached par¬
ties, he cut off 1500 Turks, with the lofs only of So •
men.
The Turkifli general held a council of war as foon
as all his troops w7ere landed, to affift him in refolving
where he (hould begin his attack. Piali, the Turkifli
admiral, agreeably to wffiat he underftood to have been
the fultan’s inflruftion, was of opinion that they
ought not to enter upon a61ion till Dragut (hould ar¬
rive. But Muftapha having received information of
the king of Spain’s preparations, thought fomething
ought to be done inftantly for the fafety of the fleet ;
which lay at prefent in a creek, where it.was. expofed
to the violence of the eaft wind, and might be attack¬
ed with great advantage by the Spaniards. On this
account he was of opinion, that they (hould immedi¬
ately lay fiege to a fort called & Elmo, which flood on
a neck ofjand near II Borgo, having the principal har¬
bour on one fide of it, and on the other another har¬
bour large enough to contain the whole fleet in lafety. .
This propofal was approved by a majority of the
council,^ and Muftapha proceeded without delay to
carry it into execution. , IQ
La Vallette did not expect that a place which was Defperate
neither ftrong nor large enough to admit a numerous ^ence
garrifen, could be defended long againft fo great ^a!ort St ^
force as was employed to reduce it ; but he thought
it neceffary that the fiege of this fort fhculd be pro¬
longed as much as poffible, in order to give the vice¬
roy of Sicily time to come to his relief. With this
view, he refolved to throw himfelf into St Elmo, with
a feleft body of troops y and he was preparing to fet
out, when the whole body of knights remonftrated
with fuch earneft importunity againft his leaving .the
town.
I
M A L [ 4.-58 ] M A L
Malta, town, that he at laft confented to fuffer the reinforce-
* ment, which he had prepared, to be condu&ed to the
fort by a knight called De Medran, upon whofe condu£t
and intrepidity he could rely with the moft affured
confidence.
Not long after De Medran’s arrival in the fort, the
garrilbn made a vigorous fally, in which they drove
the enemy from their intrenchments, and put a num¬
ber of them to the fword. But the reft foon recover¬
ed from their furprife ; and having returned to the
charge, they compelled the Chriftians to retire. In
this rencounter, the vigorous efforts of the janizaries
were favoured by the wrind, which blew the fmoke
of the guns upon the fort, and covered the befieged
with a thick cloud, through which it was impoflible
to difcern the operations of the enemy. This incident
the Turks had the prefence of mind to improve to
very great advantage. They feized, unperceived, up¬
on the counterfcarp j made a lodgment there with
beams, woolfacks, and gabions j and raifed a battery
upon it with incredible expedition. After the fmoke
was difperfed, the befieged beheld what had been done
writh much aftonifliment : and they were the more dif-
quieted, as the fortification which the Turks had raifed
upon their counterfcarp overtopped a ravelin which
lay near it, in which the befieged could no longer ap¬
pear with fafety. They refolved, however, to defend
this ravelin as long as pofiible, whatever it ftiould coft
them.
In the mean time Dragut, and another noted cor-
fair named Uluchiali, arrived with 20 galleys j having,
befides (laves and feamen, 2500 troops on board. This
reinforcement, and the prefence of Dragut, added
frefti vigour to the operations of the fiege. This gal¬
lant corfair expofed himfelf, on all occafions, with the
utmoft intrepidity; fpent whole days in the trenches ;
and as, befides his other extraordinary talents, he wTas
particularly fkilful in the management of artillery, he
caufed fome new batteries to be raifed in more advan¬
tageous fituations than had hitherto been made choice
of; and kept up a continual fire both on the ravelin
above mentioned, and a cavalier that covered the fort
and was one of its principal defences.
This cavalier foon became the only defence which
could prevent the befiegers from coming up to the
very foot of the wall. Some Turkiftr engineers having
approached the ravelin at daybreak, to obferve the
effects of their artillery, they perceived a gun port fo
low, that one of them, when mounted on the (boulders
of another, looked into it, and faw the Chriftian fol-
diers lying on the ground afleep. Of this they gave
immediate information to the troops 5 who, advancing
as quickly and filently as poftible, and clapping ladders
to the gun-hole, got u]> into the ravelin, and cut moft
of the Chriftians to pieces.
Between this ravelin and the cavalier lay the ditch,
over which the befieged had thrown a temporary bridge
of planks leading up to the cavalier. The Turks, per¬
ceiving this, leaped inftantly upon the bridge, and at¬
tempted to make themfelves mafters of the cavalier, as
they already were of the ravelin. But the garrifon
was now alarmed $ the braveft of the knights haftened
from different quarters to the poft of danger •, and
after an obftinate engagement, they compelled the
Turks to retire into the ravelin. There, obferving
another way of reaching the cavalier by a path from Malta.
the bottom of the ditch, they threw themfelves down
without dread or hefitation; and having afeended by
this path to the other fide, they renewed their attack
with greater fury than ever. The combat lafted from
funrife till noon, when the knights at laft proved vic¬
torious. About 20 knights and 100 foldiers were kill¬
ed } and near 3000 of the enemy.
As the ravelin was open on the fide towards the
fort, the befieged pointed fome cannon againft it, and
made great havock among the infidels. But Muftapha,
fenfible of the value of the acquifition he had made,
poured in frefti foldiers without number, and the pio¬
neers coming forward with woolfacks, planks, and
gabions, put the troops, at length in fafety, and made
a lodgment in the ravelin, of which the garrifon were
never afterwards able to difpoffefs them.
The grand mafter’s concern on account of this dif-
after was greatly augmented, by confidering, that it
could not have happened fo foon without fome negli¬
gence on the part of the garrifon. He fent them,
however, an immediate reinforcement j and both the
fiege and the defence were carried on with the fame
vigour as before.
But the fituation of the befieged wTas now become
much more dangerous than formerly. The Turks ap¬
plied with unremitting diligence to heighten the ra¬
velin till it overtopped the wall of the fort j and after
this the garrifon could no longer appear upon the pa¬
rapet with fafety. Many were killed by the enemy’s
artillery, feveral breaches were made in the wall, and
the hearts of the braveft knights began to fail within
them. Ir
They agreed therefore, though with much relu(Stance, The knights
to apply to the grand mafter for liberty to quit the defire per-
fort *, and they made choice of the Chevalier de Me- ta
dran for their meffenger. He reprefented that the fort
was in reality no longer tenable j and that, to continue are’refuf.
in it, though only for a few days, would infallibly oc-ed.
cafion the deftruftion of the garrifon.
Moft of the knights in council thought that this
requeft of the garrifon ought to be immediately grant¬
ed. But La Valette was of a contrary opinion.—
This he reprefented to the Chevalier de Medran j and
fent him back with inftru&ions to remind the knights
of the vows which they took at their entrance into
the order, of facrificing their lives for its defence. He
likewife bade him affure them, in his name, that he
would not fail to fend them fuch reinforcements as
they (hould (land in need of j and was determined, as
foon as it ftiould be neceffary, to come himfelf to their
afliftance, with a fixed unalterable purpofe to lay down
his life fooner than deliver the fort into the hands of
the infidels.
This anfwer had the defired effect on feveral of the
knights, and paiticularly on thofe whofe principles
of honour and attachment to the order were confirmed
by years. But the greater part of them were much
diflatisfied. They thought the grand mafter’s treat¬
ment of them harfti and cruel j and wrote him a letter,
fubferibed by 53 •, in which they informed him, that if
he did not, on the next night, fend boats to carry them
to the town, they were determined to fally out into the
Turkifti camp, wdiere they might fall honourably by
the fword, inftead of fuffering fuch an ignominious
death
M A L ' [
Malta, death as they had reafon to expeft if the fort was
taken by ftoim.
To this letter La Valette replied, “ That they were
much millaken if they expecled to fatisfy their honour
by throwing awTay their lives \ fince it was no lefs
their duty to fubmit to his authority than to facrifice
their lives in defence of the order : that the preferva-
tion of'the whole depended on their prefent obedience
to his commands : that no aid was to be expe&ed
from Spain if the fort were given up. And that if he
(hould yield to their requeft, and bring them to the
town, the toum itfelf would then be immediately in-
vefted } and they, as well as the reft, foon afterwards
reduced to a lituation more defperate than that from
which they w^ere fo felicitous to efcape, by deferting
an important poll which they had undertaken to de¬
fend.” Befides this letter, he fent three commiflioners
to examine the ftate of the fortifications j intending by
this meafure either to gain time or to prevent the gar-
rifon from finking into defpair.
Thefe commiflioners differed very widely in the
accounts which they delivered at their return. Two
of them thought it impoflible to defend the fort much
longer. But the third, named Conftantine Caftriot,
a Greek prince, defeended from the famous Albanian
hero Scanderbeg, whether from ignorance or a con-
feioufnefs of greater refources in his native courage
than the other two poffeffed, maintained that the gar-
rifon was far from being reduced to the laft extremity j
and to give a proof howr firmly he was perfuaded of the
truth of what he laid, he offered to enter the fort him-
felf, and to undertake the defence of it with fuch troops
as Ihould be willing to accompany him.
The grand mafter, ftrongly impreffed with a fenfe
of the neceflity of protracting the fiege, immediately
accepted this offer, and bellowed the higheft enco¬
miums on Caftriot’s zeal and refolution. Nor did
Caftriot find any difficulty in perfuading a fufticient
number to attend him, who were no lefs zealous and
refolute than himfelf. The foldiers crowded to his
ftandard, and w^ere emulous to have their names en¬
rolled for that dangerous fervice in which he had en-
gaged.
When La Valette faw the fpirit by which thefe men
wTere animated, and had no longer any doubt of being
able by their means to prolong the fiege of the fort $
he fent a letter to the knights, acquainting them,
that he was now walling to give them their difeharge ;
and would immediately fend another garrifon, into
whofe hands he defired they ftiould be ready to de¬
liver up the fort, and come themfelves to the towm in
the boats in which their fuccefl'ors were to be tranf-
ported.
The contents and ftyle of this letter affedled the
knights in the moft fenfible manner, and roufed with¬
in them that delicate fenfe of honour by which the
order had been fo long and fo eminently diftinguilhed.
—They refolved without hefitation to remain in the
fort till every man Ihould perilh, rather than either
deliver it to the new garrifon or abandon it to the
enemy. And they went in a body to the governor,
and intreated him to inform the grand mafter of their
repentance, and to join with them in praying that
they might be fuffered to wipe out the remembrance
of their fault by their future condudL
439 1 M A L
1 he grand mafter fuffered himfelf at laft to be over- Malta,
come ; and henceforth the garrifon wrere intent on no- ~
thing but how to prolong the defence.
The grand mafter fent them every night frefh troops
to fupply the place of the killed and wounded ; and
kept them well furnilhed with provifions, ammunition, 12
and fire-works. Of thefe laft he had invented a par-Invention
ticular kind, which confifted of hoops of wood, covered °^urn^nS
with wool, and fteeped in boiling oil and other in- ‘0°*S‘
flammable liquors, mixed with nitre and gunpowder.
To thefe machines they fet fire, and threw them flam¬
ing in the midft of the enemy wjhen they were crowded
together at an affault. It happened often that two or
three of the Turks were hooked together and fcorched
to death j and the utmoft confufion was produced
wherever they wTere thrown.
The befieged flood much in need of this, and every
other inffrument of mifehief that could be deviled, for
their defence. In fpite of the moft vigorous oppofi-
tion, the Turks had caff a bridge over the ditch, and
begun to fap and undermine the wall. From the 17th
of June to the [4th of July, not a fingle day palled
without fome rencounter •, and Muftapha had frequent¬
ly attempted to fcale the wall of the fort, but had been
as often repulfed with the lofs of fome of the bravett of
his troops.
Afhamed at having been detained fo long before a
place of fuch inconfiderable ftrength, he refolved to
make one great deciiive effort j and to bring to the
affault as many of his forces as the fituation of the
place w’ould permit him to employ. He had already
made feveral breaches ; but in order to fecure the fuc-
cefs of the affault which he now intended, he kept his
batteries playing all the 15th without intermiflion, till
the wall on that fide where he defigned bis attack was
almoft level with the rock. On the 16th, the fleet
was drawn up before funrife, as near the fort as the
depth of the water would allow. Four thoufand muf-
keteers and archers were ftationed in the trenches ;
and the reft of the troops, upon a fignal given, ad¬
vanced to the breach. The garrifon wras prepared to
receive them ; the breach w7as lined with feveral ranks
of foldiers, having the knights interfperfed among
them at certain diffances. The Turks attempted often
to break through this determined band, and to over¬
power them with their numbers j but their numbers
ferved only to augment the lofs which they fuftsined.
Every {hot from the fort did execution. The artillery
made dreadful havock among them : and the burning
hoops were employed with aftonilhing fuccefs. The
novelty of thefe machines, and the ihrieks of thofe
who w7ere caught in them, added greatly to the terror
which they infpired ^ and made it impoflible for the
Turkilh officers to keep their men firm and fteady
in purfuing the advantages, which, had they preferved
their ranks, their numbers muff have infallibly acquir¬
ed. ‘
At length Muftapha, after a fruitlefs affault of more
than fix hours, gave orders for founding a retreat. In
this attack the garrifon loft about 20 knights and-300
foldiers; but this lofs was immediately fupplied by a
reinforcement from the towm ; and Muftapha was at ' -
laft convinced, that, unlefs the communication between t
the fort and the town were cut off, it would be impof¬
lible to bring the fiege of the former to a period, while
any
M A L [ 440 ] M A L
fta. any troops remained in the other parts of the ifland.
By the advice of Dragut, he refolved to extend his
trenches and batteries on the fide next the town, till
they fhould reach to that part of the fea, or great har¬
bour, where thofe fupplies were landed which the grand
rnafter daily lent to the garrifon. This undertaking he
knew7 mull be attended w7ith the utmoll dithculty, be-
caufe all the fpace between his intrenchments, and the
point to which it was neceflary to extend them, lay ex-
pofed to the artillery both of Fort St Elmo and St An-
vgelo. In viewing the ground, a Sangiac, in whom he
put confidence, was killed by his fide 5 and, which was
iiill a more irreparable lofs, Dragut received a mortal
wound, of w hich he died in a few days. This did not,
however, difcourage Muflapha from purfuing his defign.
By employing his troops and pioneers at the work day
end night, without intermiffion, he at length carried it
into execution. Then having planted batteries along
the there, and filled his trenches with mulketeers, it was
impolfible for any boat to pafs from the town to the
fort without the moil imminent danger of either being
funk or intercepted.
After this precaution, he refumed with frefh vigour
his attempts to take the fort by llorm. On the 21ft
he made four different affaults : all of which the garri¬
fon withftood ", and, in repulfing fo many thoufand
brave asd well difeiplined troops, difplayed a degree
of prowefs and fortitude which alrnofl exceeds belief,
and is beyond the power of defeription. But this
heroic garrifon w7as now exceedingly reduced in num¬
ber •, and there w7as the ftrongeft reafon to apprehend,
that, in one affault more, they muff inevitably be over¬
powered, unlefs a reinforcement were fent them from
the town. Of their defperate fituation they gave in¬
telligence to the grand mailer by one w'ho fwam acrofs
the harbour in the night. The boats were inftantly
filled with knights and other foldiers, who generoufly
refolved to devote themfelves to certain defirudlion for
the general fafety, and the prefervation of the fort.
They iet off from the town w7ith as much alacrity as if
they had entertained the moll fanguine hopes of victory ;
but they found the Turks everywhere fo much upon
their guard, and the lines fo itrongly defended, that,
after leveral fruitlefs attempts to land, they w7ere at laft
obliged to return, depreffed with forrow for the fate of
their brave companions.
The garrifon now gave themfelves up for loft j but
inftead of either capitulating or attempting to elcape,
they prepared for death, and palled the night in prayer
and in receiving the (aCrament ; after which they em
braced one another tenderly, and then repaired to their
refpe£Hve pofts", while fuch of the wounded as had
been difabled from walking, were, at their own earneft
defire, carried to the fide of the breach, w’here they
w’aited, without difmay, for the approach of the Turkiili
armv.
Early in the morning of the 23d of July, the Turks
advanced to the affault with loud (bouts, as to certain
viftory, which they believed fo fmall a handful of men
as now remained in the fort would not dare to difpute
with them. In this expectation they were difappoint-
ed. The garrifon being refolved on death, and de-
fpifing danger, were more than men ; and exerted a
degree of prowefs and valour that filled their enemies
with arnazement, Thp combat iafted upwards of four
hours, till not only every knight but every foldier had
fallen, except two or three who had laved themfelves
by fwimming. The Turkifh colours were then plant¬
ed on the ramparts; and the fleet entered the har¬
bour, which the fort commanded, in a kind of triumph.
When Muftapha took a view of the fort, and examined
its fize and fortifications, he could not refrain from
faying, “ What will not the father coft us (meaning
the town), when the fon, who is fo fmall, has coft fo
many thoufands of our braveft troops ?” But this re¬
flexion, far from exciting his admiration of that he¬
roic fortitude which he had found fo difficult to over¬
come, ferved only to infpire him w'ith a brutal fury.
He ordered all fuch of the garrifon as were found
lying on the breach alive to be ripped open, and their
hearts torn out ", and, as an infult on the knights and
their religion, he caufed their dead bodies to be fearch-
ed for, and large gafhes to be made in them, in the
form of a crofs ", after w hich he tied them on planks,
and threw them into the fea, to be carried by the
wind and tide to the town or Fort St Angelo.
The grand mafter was at firft melted into tears at
this fhocking fpeXacle 5 but his grief was foon con¬
verted into indignation and revenge : and thefe paf-
fions betrayed him into an aXion unworthy of the ex¬
alted charaXer which he bore. In order to teach the
bafha, as he pretended, to make war with lefs barba¬
rity, he caufed all the Turks whom he had taken pri-
foners to be maffacred ; and then putting their heads
into his largeft cannon, he fhot them into the Turkifh
camp.
In the fiege which has been related, the order loft
about 1500 men, including 130 of the braveft knights.
Muftapha vainly imagined, that, being intimidated
by the fate of their companions, they would be now
inclined to liften to terms of capitulation : and in this
hope, he fent an officer with a white flag to one of
the gates, attended by a Chriftian flave defigned to
ferve for his interpreter. The Turk was not allowed
to enter wuthin the town ", but the Chriftian was ad¬
mitted, and was led through feveral ranks of foldiers
under arms, by an officer, who, after fhowing him all
tile fortifications of the place, defired him to take par¬
ticular notice of the depth and breadth of the ditch,
and faid to him, “ See there, the only fpot we can af¬
ford your general} and there we hope foon to bury
him and all his janizaries.”
This infulting fpeech being reported by the flave,
excited in the fiery mind of the balha the higheft de¬
gree of wrath and indignation, and made him refolve
to exert himfelf to the utmoft in the profecution of
the fiege. His troops, though greatly diminifhed,
were ffill fufficient to inveft at once both the towp
and the fort of St Michael. He kept a conftant fire
on both 5 but he intended firft to apply to the reduc¬
tion of the latter, which he propofed to attack both
by land and water, at the extremity of the peninfula
on which it Hands. In order to accomplifh this de¬
fign, it was neceflary he ftiould have fome (hipping
introduced into the harbour for tranfporting his forces,
But the mouth of the harbour having been rendered
inacceflible by a great iron chain and the cannon of
St Angelo, his defign muff have been relinquiHied, if
Piali had not fuggefted an expedient againft which
the grand mafter had not provided. This was, to
make
Malta.
*4
Creelty of
Muftapha.
*S
And ot the,
grand ma¬
fter.
a
M A L f 441 ] M A L
'Malta, make the Chriftian flaves and the crews of the fhips
draw a number of boats, by the ‘ftrength of their
arms, over the neck of land on which flood Fort St
Elmo. Of this propofal, which Muftapha immedi¬
ately adopted, information was carried to the grand
matter by a Turkilh officer j who, being by birth a
Greek, was touched fuddenly with remorfe, and de¬
fected to the Chriftians. In confequence of this in¬
telligence, La Valette fet a great number of hands to
work in framing a ftacado along that part of the pro¬
montory where the Turks intended their attack 5 and
at another part, where the depth of the water or the
hardnefs of the bottom would not admit the ftacado,
he caufed ftrong intrenchments to be made upon the
beach. Muftapha, in the mean time, fired inceffantly
upon the fort, while the flaves and crews were em¬
ployed in tranfporting the boats over land into the
harbour. At length the baftia, judging that the
number of boats which he had tranfported would be
fufficient, and that the breaches which his artillery
had made were practicable, refolved, without further
delay, to make an attack both by fea and land. He
was the more confident of fuccefs, as, fince the taking
of St Elmo, he had received a confiderable reinforce¬
ment, by the arrival of Hafcem, fon of Barbaroffa,
with 2500 feleCt foldiers, commonly called the Bravoes
of Algiers. Hafcem, who pofieffed a confiderable
ftiare of his father’s fire, and wTas ambitious to diftin-
guiffi himlelf in the fultan’s fervice, begged of Mufta¬
pha to intruft him with the affault of Fort St Mi¬
chael ; and vaunted, with his natural arrogance, that
he would foon make himfelf mafter of it fword-in-
hand. The baffia, whether from an opinion of his va¬
lour, or -an intention to make him learn at his own ex¬
pence the folly of his prefumption, readily complied
with his requeft ; and, having added 6coo men to his
Algerines, he promifed to fupport him with the reft
of his army.
Hafcem divided his forces with Candeliffa, an old
corfair, his lieutenant j to whom he committed the at¬
tack by fea, Avhilft he referved that on the land-lide to
himfelf.
Candelifla having put his troops on board the boats,
fet out with drums beating, and hautboys and other
mufical inftruments playing, preceded by a boat filled
with Mahometan priefts, fome of whom were employ¬
ed in offering prayers to heaven for his fuccefs, or in
finging hymns 5 while others had books in their hands,
out of which they read imprecations againft the Chrift¬
ians. Candeliffa attempted firft to break down the
ftacado which had been formed to obftruCl: his land¬
ing 5 but finding it much ftronger than he expe&ed, and
that, while he was employed in demoliftiing it, his
troops muft fuffer greatly from the enemy’s fire, he
thought it would be eafier to make a defeent on that
part of the ftiore which the grand mafter had ftrength-
ened with intrenchments. At this important port, the
^ Chriftian troops were commanded by an ancient knight
The Turks t^le °f Guimeran. This experienced officer
repulfed referved his fire till the Turks had advanced within
with great a little diftance of the ffiore, w hen, by a Angle dif-
ilgughter. charge, he killed about 400 men. This did not pre¬
vent the reft from approaching. Candeliffa puttied
forwards while the Chriftians were loading their can¬
non, and landed at the head of his Algerines. But
Vol. XII. Part II.
Guimeran having referved fome cannon charged with Malta,
grape ihot, did dreadful execution among them after
they had landed, and many of them began to fly to
their boats : which Candelifla obferving, he command¬
ed the boats to be put off to a little diftance from
the ffiore. His troops, perceiving then that they muft:
either die or conquer, took courage from defpair, and
advanced boldly to the intrenchment, with ladders for
fealing it in one hand and their fabres in the other.
The combatants on both tides difplayed the moft in¬
trepid valour. Great numbers fell, and the ditch was
choaked with blood, and with the bodies of the dead
and waunded. The Turks at laft, after an engage¬
ment of five hours, reached the top of the intrench¬
ment, and there planted their enfigns. The knights,,
flung with fhame on account of their retreat, return¬
ed with redoubled ardour. But they would probably
have been overpowered by the fuperior number of the
enemy, had not the grand matter fent them a feafon-
able reinforcement, under the admiral de Giou and the
Chevalier de Quincy j who fell upon the Algerines
and Turks with a degree of fury that ftruck terror in¬
to Candelifla himfelf, who was noted for his intrepidi¬
ty. Having ordered the boats to be brought nearer
the fiiore, he wras among the firft: who fled. His bra¬
voes fought defperately for fome time after he had left
them 3 but they were at length thrown down from the
intrenchments, and compelled to tty to their boats with
the utmoft precipitation. The Chriftians purfued them,
and the batteries continued firing on them without in-
termiffion. Many of the boats were funk 3 the water
wras covered with dead bodies, mangled limbs, fnields
and helmets. Of the 4000 who had been fent on this
enterprife, fcarcely 50Q remained, and many of thefc
were dangeroufly wounded.
Hafcem was not more fortunate in his aflault by
land than Candeliffa was by fea. After having been
repulfed at one breach with great flaughter, he rallied
his troops, and led them on to another, where he fought
long and defperately, till, moft of the bravoes having
fallen by his fide, he was obliged, w'ith much reluftance
and fomw, to found a retreat.
Muftapha, not unmindful of his promife to fupport
him, no fooner perceived him beginning to retire, than
he oidered the janizaries, wffiom he kept under arms, ^
to advance. The garrifon had maintained an engage-Incredible
ment with Hafcem for five hours, in the middle of theva^our°*
day, and in the hotteft feafon of the year; yet, as if^ee^a1’
they had not been fubjeft to the wants and w eakneffes
of humanity, they advanced beyond the breach to
meet the janizaries, and fought apparently with as
much vigour and fortitude as before. By the power
of fuperior numbers, they were compelled to fall back
within the breach. But there they made the moft dei-
perate refiftance ; and, being reinforced by X>e Giou
and De Quiney, with the troops which had triumph¬
ed over Candeliffa, they at laft repulfed the janizaries
wttth dreadful flaughter; after having loft more than
40 knights, and 200 of the braveft cf the common
Muflapha, enraged by this invincible obftinacy which
the Chriftians difplayed in their defence, and dread ng
that the Spanifh fuccours, which had been already de¬
layed much longer than be expected, might fc n ar¬
rive, refolved now to employ his whole force at oncej
3 K and
M A L [ 442 ] M A L
Malta, and while he himfelf profeculed the fiege of Fort St
v Michael with one half of his troops, to employ the
other, under Piali, againit the torvn. More batteries
were railed ; the trenches were advanced Hill nearer
than before 3 bridges of fail-yards and malls were
thrown over the ditches 3 mines, notwithftanding the
hard and rocky foil, were fprung 3 aflaults were repeat¬
ed without number 3 and the two baflras, emulous of
- one another, and each of them agitated with continual
anxiety left vidlory Ihould declare firft for his com¬
petitor, exhibited the moft Ihining proofs of perfonal
courage, and exhaufted all the art of war then known
in the wmrld. Yet, through the determined bravery
of the knights, conduced by the grand mailer with
18 confummate prudence and indefatigable vigilance, the
A great Turks were baffled in every attempt, and repulfed with
Ti.'ksT'e- flaughter. Multapha flattered himfelf once with the
ftroyed by m°ft fanguine hopes of fuccefs on his part, from a ma-
a cyntri- chine invented by his principal engineer, in the form
varce of Gf a huge calk bound ftrongly with iron hoops, and
eu own. £He(j wjth gunpowder, nails, chains, bullets, and fuch
other inftruraents of death. After fetting fire to a
train which was faftened to this machine, it was thrown,
by the force of an engine, upon a ravelin that was the
principal defence of the fort. But the garrifon, undif-
mayed, found means, before it caught fire, to call it
out again into the midlt of the affailants. In a mo¬
ment afterwards it burft with dreadful fury, and filled
the Turks with confternation. The knights then falli-
ed out upon them fword in hand ; and, taking advan¬
tage of their confufion, killed many of them, and put
the reft to flight.
Piali had, on fome occalions, Hill more reafon than
Muftapha to entertain the hopes of vidlory, although
the town was much ftronger than the fort, and La Va-
lette commanded there in perlon. By his batteries he
had demolilhed all the outworks of the place, and had
made an immenfe breach in the wall. While his troops
■were engaged in a furious affault, that engroffed the
whole attention of the befieged from morning till night,
he employed a great number of pioneers in railing a
cavalier or platform of earth and (tones, dole by the
breach 3 and fo high as to overlook the parapet. Night,
in the mean time, came on, and prevented him from
carrying any further this great advantage 3 but he
doubted not that next day he Ihould be able to make
19 himfelf mailer of the place.
The grand- As foon as he had drawn off his forces, a council of
mafter pre- the order was convened, and naoft of the knights were
°P*n*on ^at the towm w’as no longer tenable 3 that
from aban- t^6 fortifications which ftill remained ihould be blown
uonmg the up 3 and that the garrifcn and inhabitants fhould retire
town. into the callle of St Angelo. But the grand mafter
received this propofal with horror and indignation.
“ This would be in effefl (faid he), to deliver the
whole ifland into the hands of the infidels. Fort St
Michael, W’hich has been fo gallantly defended, and
which is prelerved by its communication with the towm,
would thus be loon reduced to the neceflity of furren¬
dering. There is no room in the callle of St Angelo
for the inhabitants and troops 3 nor, if there were
ro m, is there w ater in that fort for fo great a num¬
ber.” It was then propofed, that at leaft the relics of
.the faints and the ornaments of the churches Ihould be
•carried into the cattle 3 and the knights earneftly en¬
treated the grand mafter to retire into it himfelf, af- Malta.
hiring him that they would conduft the defence with  v—
the utrnoll vigour and vigilance. No, my brethren
(he replied), what you propofe as to the facred things
would ferve only to intimidate the foldiers. We mult
conceal our apprehenfions. It is here we mull either
die or conquer. And is it poflible that I, at the age
of 71, can end my life fo honourably as in fighting,
together with my friends and brethren, againft the
implacable enemies of our holy faith ?” He then told
them what he thought proper to be done, and proceed¬
ed inftantly to put it into execution. Having called
all the foldiers from Fort St Angelo, except a few w ho
were neceflary for managing the artillery, he employed
them and the inhabitants all night in throwing up in-
trenchments within the breach 3 after which he fent
out fome of the braveft knights, with a lelecl body of
troops, to make an attempt on the cavalier. Thefe
men Hole foftly along the foot of the wall till they
arrived at the place appointed 3 when they fet up a
loud ftiout, and attacked the guards whom Piali had
left there with fo much fury, that the Turks, believing
the.whole garrifon had fallen upon them, abandoned
their poll, and fled precipitately to their camp.
The cavalier w-as immediately fortified, a battery
of cannon planted on it, and a parapet raifed on
the fide towards the enemy. And thus the breach
was rendered impracticable 3 the town put in greater
fecurity than before 3 and a w’ork, wfflich had been
dcvifed for its deftruClion, converted into a bulwark
for its defence.
The grand mafter had nowT greater confidence than
ever of being able to hold out till the Spaniards fhould
come to his relief. In confequence of the aflurances
given by Philip and the Sicilian viceroy, he had, long
before this time, entertained the hopes of their ar¬
rival 3 and had often earneftly folicited the viceroy to
haften his departure from Meffina. The conduct of this-
nobleman w-as long exceedingly myfterious. The pa¬
tience of the knights was worn out by his delays 3 and
they, and many others, fufpeCled that the real motive
of his conduft was the dread of encountering with an
admiral of fo confiderable reputation as Pialf. But it
afterwards appeared that the viceroy had aCled agree¬
ably to his inftruCtions from the court of Spain. For
although Philip was, for the reafons above mentioned,
fincerely interefted in the prefervaticn of the knights,
and had amufed them with the moft flattering promifes
of affiftance ; yet he feems from the firft to have re-
lolved not to expofe himfelf to danger on that account,
and to avoid, if poffible, a general engagement.
Philip was affeCted by their danger only fo far as
it threatened the tranquillity of his own dominions.
He had refolved to interpofe in their behalf, rather
than to fuffer them to be overpowered ; but he appears
to have been very little touched with their calamities,
and to have intended to leave them to themfelves, as
long as there was any profpeCt of their being able to
make refiftance 3 by doing which he confidered, that
he would not only preferve his own ftrength entire, but
might afterwards engage with the Turks when they
were exhaufted by the operations of the fiege.
Philip adhered inflexibly to this plan, notwithftanding
the grand mailer’s repeated importunities, much longer
than was confiftent with his own felfilh view's. For,
without
Malta.
M A L l i
without a degree of fortitude and protvefs on the part
of the garrifon, and a degree of wifdom, vigilance,
and magnanimity on that of the grand mailer, infi¬
nitely higher than there could be reafon to expeel, it
muft have been impolTible for fuch a handful of men to
have withftood, for fo long a time, fo great a force,
and fuch mighty efforts, as were employed to reduce
them. Even the death of the grand mailer alone,
whofe perfon was expofed to perpetual danger, would
have proved fatal to the knights, long before Philip
lent orders to his viceroy to give them any effedlual
fupport ; and in this cafe, as his own dominions or his
fleet would have been immediately attacked, he would
probably have had little reafon to be fatisfied with the
timid ungenerous counfels which he purfued.
Whatever judgement may be formed on this head,
the viceroy did not think himfelf at liberty to yield to
the repeated applications of the grand mailer, till the
operations of the fiege began to relax, and the Turkilh
forces were reduced from 45,000 to 15,000 or 16,000 j
of whom many were worn out with the fatigues which
they had undergone, and others rendered unfit for ac¬
tion by a bloody flux, which for feveral weeks had raged
amongft them.
In this fituation of affairs, when it was probable that
the knights would, wdthout afliftance, have compelled
the Turks to raife the fiege, the viceroy let the grand
mafter know, that he had now received fuch inflruc-
tions from the king, as put it in his power to (how his
attachment to the order : that he was not indeed per¬
mitted to attack the Turkilh fleet; but that he would
immediately bring him a flrong body of troops, whofe
commanders (as he himfelf muft return to Sicily) were
to be entirely fubjedl to the grand mafter’s authority
till the enemy fhould be expelled.
The viceroy, although Hill fufpedted of interpofing
unneceffary delays, at length fulfilled his promife j and
on the 7th of September landed 6000 men, under Don
Alvaro de Sande and Afcanio della Corna, in that
part of the ifland which lay at the greateft difiance
from the Turks 5 after which, he immediately carried
back the fleet to Sicily.
In the mean time, intelligence being brought to
Mufiapha that the Spaniards w’ere landed, and march¬
ing towards him, he was thrown into the moft dread¬
ful confterrmtion. Senfible that his foldiers were much
difheartened by their ill fuccefs, he imagined that he
was about to be attacked by a fuperior army, confift-
ing of the braveft and beft difciplined troops in Spain.
The Turks Without waiting for information of their number, he
forthwith raifed the fiege, drew his garrifon out of St
Elmo, and, leaving all his heavy cannon behind him,
embarked his troops with as much precipitation as if
the Spaniards with fuperior forces had been in fight.
He had fcarcely got on board tvhen a deferter ar¬
rived from the Spanifii camp, and informed him, that
with 15,000 or 16,coo men, he had fled before an ar¬
my that did not exceed 6000, having no general at
their head, and commanded by officers who were in¬
dependent of one another. The bafha was overwhelm¬
ed with fliame and vexation by this intelligence, and
would have immediately difembarked ; but this, he
knew, he durft not attempt without confulting Piali,
Hafcem, and his other principal officers.
While he was deliberating upon it, the grand ma-
20
The knights
receive a
reinforce¬
ment.
raife the
fiege in a
panic.
43 ] M A L _
fter improved to the beft advantage the leifure that was Malta,
afforded him. He employed all the inhabitants, men,
women, and chiidren, as well as the foldiers, in filling
up the enemy’s trenches, and demoliihing their works;
and put a garrifon without delay into Fort St Elmo ; in
which the Turks now beheld from their Ihips the (land-
ard of St John erected,, where that of Mahomet had
lately flood.
This demon fixated to Mufiapha how much new la¬
bour awaited him in cafe he fhould return to the fiege j
but being enraged againft himfelf on account of the
precipitancy of his retreat, and difquietecf at the
thoughts of the reception which he had reafon to ex-
pe6l from Solyman, he wifhed to atone for his impru¬
dence, and to wipe off the reproach in which it had
involved him, by victory or death. Piali, who, from
his jealoufy of the bafha’s credit with the fultan, was
not forry for the failure of his enterprife, reprefented
in a council of war convened on this occaiion. That as
the troops were much difpirited and worn out, it would
be expofing them to certain deftru&ion, either to lead
them againlt the enemy, or to refume the operations of
the fiege. But the majority of the council were of a
different opinion j and it was refolved to land the forces
again without delay. z2
The Turkilh foldiers complained bitterly of this un-Theyre-
expedfed refolution, and obeyed the orders to difem-turn> but
bark with the greatefi reludance. Their officers were a|je c*eteat’
obliged to employ threats with fome, and force with
others. At length the number intended was put on
fiiore, and Muftapha fet out at their head in fearch of
the enemy.
The grand mafter had not neglected to give early
notice of their march to the Spanifh commanders,
who had intrenched their little army on a fteep hill}
which the Turks would have found almoft inacceflible,
and it was the opinion of fome of the principal offi¬
cers, that they fhould avail themfelves of the advan¬
tage of their fituation, and ftand on their defence.
But this propofal was rejedfed with difdain by the bold
adventurous De Sande, and the greateft part of the
Spanifh officers } and the troops were led out of their
encampment, to meet the enemy in the open field.
This condudf, more fortunate perhaps than prudent,
contributed to increafe the dejedfion of the Turkifh
foldiers, and to facilitate their defeat. Having been
dragged againft their inclination to the field of battle,
and being attacked by the Spaniards with great fury,
both in front and flank, they fcarcely fought, but,
being ftruck with a fudden panic, fled with the utmoft
precipitation.
Muftapha, confounded and enraged by this pufilla-
nimaus behaviour of his troops, was hurried along by
the violent tide of the fugitives. He fell twice from
his horfe, and would have been taken prifoner if his
officers had not refcued him. The Spaniards purfued
brilkly till they came to the fea fhore. There Piali
had his boats ready to receive the Turks, and a number
of fhallops filled with mufketeers drawn up to favour
their efcape. Without this precaution, they muft all
have periffied } and, even notwithltanding the protec¬
tion which it afforded them, the number of their killed
amounted to 2000 men, while the vigors loft only 13
or 14 at moft.
Such, after four months continuance, was the con-
3 K 2 clufxon
M A L
Malta.
■~*V—
clufion t>f the liege of Malta, which will be for ever
memorable on account of that extraordinary difplay of
tne molt generous and heroic valour, by which the
knights, fo few in number, were enabled to baffle the
rnoft vigorous efforts which could be made to fubdue
them by the molt powerful monarch in the world. The
news of their deliverance gave univerfal joy to the
Chriftian powers 5 and the name of the grand mailer
excited everywhere the higheft admiration and applaufe.
Congratulations were fent him from every quarter 5 and
m many Hates public rejoicings w;ere celebrated on ac¬
count of his fuccefs.
With this fiege is concluded every thing of import¬
ance in the hiftory of Malta. The power of the Turks
began about this time to be fomuch circurofcribed, that
they ceafed to be formidable to the Chriftian nations,
and the knights of Malta had no. longer an opportunity
of exerting their valour as formerly. The belt deferip-
tion of Malta we have met with is that given by Mr
23 Brydone.
ot the ill arid “ The aPProach °f the ifland (fays he), is very fine,
’although the Ihore is rather low and rocky. It is
everywhere made inacceffible to an enemy by an infi¬
nite number of fortifications. The rock, in many
places, has been Hoped into the form of a glacis, with
ftrong parapets and intrenchments running behind
it.—On getting afhore we found ourfelves in a new
world indeed.—The ftreets (of Valetta) crowded with
well-dreffed people, who have all the appearance of
health and affluence *, and we were conducted by the
Englifh conful to an inn, which had more the appear¬
ance of a palace.
“ After dinner we went to vifit the principal villas
of the illand $ particularly thefe of the grand malter
and the general of the galleys, which lie contiguous
to one another. Thefe are nothing great or magni¬
ficent ; but they are admirably contrived for a hot
climate, where, of all things, lhade is the moft de-
firable. The orange groves are indeed very fine, and
the fruit they bear fuperior to any thing of the kind in
Spain or Portugal.
“ The afpeft of the country is far from being pleaf-
ing : the whole ifland is a great rock of very white
freeftone ; and the foil that covers this rock is, in
molt places, not more than five or fix inches deep ; yet,
what is Angular, we found their crop in general was
exceedingly abundant. They account for it from the
copious dews that fail during the fpring and fum-
m@r months : and pretend likewife that there is a
moifture in the rock below the foil, that is of great
advantage to the corn and cotton, keeping its roots
perpetually moifl: and cool 3 without which lingular
quality, they fay, they could have no cx-op at all, the
heat of the fun being fo exceedingly violent.—The
whole ifland produces corn only fuffleient to fupply
its inhabitants for five months or little more but the
crop they mofl: depend upon is the cotton. They begin
to fow it about the middle of May, and continue till
the middle of June ; and the time of reaping is in the
month of October and beginning of November.
“ They pretend that the cotton produced from this
plant, which is Town and reaped in four months, is of
a much fuperior quality to that of the cotton-tree.
I compared them ; but I cannot fay I found it fo :
this is indeed the fineft j but that of the cotton-tree is
[ 4-n ] M A L
by much the flrongeft texture. The plant rifes to the
height of a loot and a half j and is covered with a
number of nuts or pods full of cotton ; Thefe, when
ripe, they are at great pains to cut off every morning
beiore lunrile) for the heat of the fun immediately
turns the cotton yellow : wdrich indeed we faw from
thofe pods they fave for feed.
“ 1 hey manufacture their cotton into a great va¬
riety of (tuffs. Their ftockingg are exceedingly fine.
Some of them, they affured us, had been fold for ten
fequins a pair. Their coverlets and blankets are
efteemed all over Europe. Of thefe the principal ma¬
nufactures are eftablilhed in the little ifland of Gozzo,
where the people are faid to be more induftrious than
thofe of Malta, as they are more excluded from the
world, and have fewer inducements to idlenefs. Here
the fugar cane is flill cultivated with fuccefs, though
not in any confiderable quantity.
“ The Maltefe oranges certainly deferve the cha¬
racter they have of being the fineft in the world. The
feafon continues for upwards of feven months, from
November till the middle of June ; during which time
thofe beautiful trees are always covered with abun¬
dance of delicious fruit. Many of them are of the red
kind, much fuperior, in my opinion, to the others,
which are rather too lufeious. They are produced, I
am told, from the common orange bud, ingrafted on
the pomegranate flock. The juice of this fruit is as
red as blood, and of a fine flavour. The greateft
part of their crop is fent in prefents to the different
courts of Europe, and to the relations of the che¬
valiers.
“ The induftry of the Maltefe in cultivating their
little ifland is inconceivable. There is not an inch
of ground loft in any part of it ; and where there was
not foil enough, they have brought over flrips and
boats loaded with it from Sicily, where there is plen¬
ty, and to fpare. The whole ifland is full of enclofures
of freeitone, which give the country a very uncouth
and barren afpeCt j and in fummer refleCt fuch a light
and heat, that it is exceedingly difagreeable and offen-
five to the eyes. The inclofures are very fmall and ir¬
regular, according to the inclination of the ground.
1 his, they fay, they are obliged to obferve, notwith-
ftanding the deformity it occaflons ; otherwife the
floods, to which they are fubjed, would foon carry off
their foil.
“ The ifland is covered over with country houfes
and villages, befides feven cities, for fo they term
them ; but there are only two, the Valetta, and Citta
Vecchia, that by any means deferve that appellation.
Every little village has a noble church, elegantly finifti-
ed, and adorned with ftatues of marble, rich tapeftry,
and a large quantity of filver plate.
“ The city of Valetta has certainly the happieft
fituation that can be imagined. It Hands upon a pe-
ninfula between two of the fineft ports in the world,
which are defended by almoft impregnable fortifica¬
tions. That on the fouth fide of the city is the
largeft. It runs about two miles into the heart of the
ifland 3 and is fo very deep, and furrounded by fuch
high grounds and fortifications, that they affured us
the largeft (hips of war might ride here in the moft
ftormy weather, almoft without a cable.
“ This beautiful bafon is divided into five diftind
harbours^
Maljta.
M A L [ 445 ] M A L
Malta, harbours, all equally fafe, and each capable of con-
taining an immenfe number of (hipping. The mouth
of the harbour is fcarcely a quarter of a mile broad,
and is commanded on each fide by batteries that
would tear the ftrongeft (hip to pieces before (he could
enter. Befides this, it is fronted by a quadruple bat¬
tery, one above the other, the largeft of which is a
Jleur d'eau, or on a level with the water. Thefe are
mounted with about 80 of their heavieft artillery : fo
that this harbour, I think, may really be confidered as
impregnable *, and indeed the Turks have ever found it
(b, and I believe ever will.
“ The harbour on the north fide of the city, al¬
though they only ufe it for filhing, and as a place of
quarantine, would, in any other part of the w'orld,
be confidered as ineftimable. It is likewife defended
by very ftrong works ; and in the centre of the bafon
is an ifland on which they have built a caftle and a
lazaret.
“ The fortifications of Malta ate indeed a mod
(lupendous work. All the boafted catacombs of Rome
and Naples are a trille to the immenfe excavations
that have been made in this little itland. The ditches,
of a vaft fize, are all cut out of the folid rock. Thefe
extend for a great many miles, and raife our afton! fo¬
ment to think that fo fmall a (late has ever been able
to make them.
“ One fide of the ifland is fo completely fortified
by nature, that there was nothing left for art. The
rock is of a great height, and abfolutely perpendicu¬
lar from the fea for feveral miles. It is very lingu¬
lar, that on this fide there are dill the vediges of fe¬
veral ancient roads, with the tracks of carriages worn
deep in the rocks. Thefe roads are now terminated
by the precipice, with the fea beneath ; and (how, to
a demondration, that this ifland has formerly been of
a much larger fize than it is at prefent 5 but the «on-
vulfion that occafioned its diminution is probably much
beyond the reach of any hidory or tradition. It has
been often obferved, noiwithdanding the very great
didance of Mount /Etna, that this ifland has generally
been more or lefs affebled by its eruptions ; and they
think it probable, that on fome of thefe occauons a great
part of it may have been foaken into the fea.
“ One half of Mount /Etna is clearly difcovered
from Malta. They reckon the didance near 200 Ita¬
lian miles. And the people of Malta affirm, that, in
great eruptions of the mountain, their whole ifland is
illuminated, and from the reile&ion in the water there
appears a great traft of fire all the way from Malta
to Sicily. The thundering of the mountain is like¬
wife didinftly heard.
“ We made an expedition through the ifland in
coaches drawn by one mule each ; the only kind of ve¬
hicle the ifland affords. The catacombs, not far from
the ancient city of Melita, are a great work *, they are
faid to extend for 15 miles under ground. Many peo¬
ple, they affure us, have been lod in them by advan¬
cing too far j the prodigious number of branches mak¬
ing it next to impoffible to find the w7ay out again.
The great fource of water that fupplies the city of Va-
letta takes its rife near to this place j and there is an
aqueduft, compofed of fome thoufand arches, that con¬
veys it from thence to the city. The whole of this
immenfe wrork was finiifoed at the private expence of Mil
one of the grand maders. t ^
“ Not far from the old city there is a fmall church
dedicated to St Paul •, and jud by the church a mi¬
raculous datue of the faint, with a viper on his hand •,
fuppofed to be placed on the very fpot where the horde
dood in which he was received after his (hipwreck on
the ifland, and where he (hook the viper off his hand
into the fire without being hurt by it : at which time
the Maltefe affure us, the faint curfed all the venomous
animals of the ifland, and banilhed them forever. Whe¬
ther this be the caufe of it or not, the fa£l is certain that
there are no venomous animals in Malta. They affured
us, that vipers had been brought from Sicily, and died
almofl immediately on their arrival.
“ Adjoining to the church is the celebrated grotto
in which the faint was imprifoned. It is looked upon
with the utmod reverence and veneration •, and if the
dories they tell of it be true, it is well entitled to it all.
It is exceedingly damp, and produces (I believe by a
kind of petrifadlion from the water) a whitifo kind of
done, which, they affure us, when reduced to powder,
is a fovereign remedy in many difeafes, and faves the
lives of thoufands every year. There is not a houfe in
the ifland that is not provided with it: and they tell
us there are many boxes of it fent annually, not only
to Sicily and Italy, but likewife to the Levant, and to
the Ead Indies ; and (what is confidered as a daily
danding miracle) notwithdanding this perpetual con-
fumption, it has never been exhauded, nor even fenfi-
bly diminifoed ; the faint always taking care to (apply
them with a frefli quantity the day following. I tailed
fome of it, and believe it is a very harmlefs thing. It
tades like exceeding bad magnefia, and, I believe, has
pretty much the fame effects. They give about a tea-
fpoonful of it to children in the fmallpox and in fe¬
vers. It produces a copious fweat about an hour af¬
ter ; and, they fay, never fails to be of fervice. It is
likewife edeemed a certain remedy againd the bite of
all venomous animals. There is a very fine datue of
St Paul, in thq middle of this grotto, to which they
afcribe great powrers.
“ The grand mafler of the knights of Malta is more
abfolute, and poffeffes more power, than mod fovereign
princes. His titles are, ferene Jdghnefs and eminence ;
and his houfehold attendance and. court are all very
princely. As he has the difpofal of all lucrative of¬
fices, he makes of his councils what he pleafes •, be¬
fides, in all the councils that compofe the jurifdiction
of this little nation, he himfelf prefides, and has two
votes. He has the difpofal of 21 commanderies, and
one priory, every five years j and as there is always a
number of expectants, he is very much courted. He
is chofen by a committee of 21; which committee is
nominated by the feven nations, three out of each na¬
tion. The election mud be over within three days of
the death of the former grand m after j and, during'
thefe three days, there is fcarce a foul that deeps at
Malta : all is cabal and intrigue ; and moft of the
knights are mafked, to prevent their particular at¬
tachments and connexions from being known ; the mo¬
ment the eleCtion is over, every thing returns to its
former channel.
“ The land force of Malta is equal to the number
ef.
Malta.
M A -L [ 445 ]
_ of men in the tOand fit to hear arms. They liave about iimilar
^oo regulars belonging to the fliips of war j and X50
compofe the guard of the prince. The two ifiands of
Malta and Gozzo contain about 150,000 inhabitants.
rl he men are exceeding robuft and hardy. I have feen
them row for 10 or 1 2 hours without intermiflion, and
without even appearing to be fatigued. Their fea force
confifts of 4 galleys, 3 galliots, 4 fliips of 60 guns, and
a frigate of 36, befides a number of the quick-failing
little veflels led fcatnpavias (literally runaways).
Their fhips, galleys, and fortifications, are not only
well fupplied with excellent artillery,' but they have
Ukewife invented a kind of ordnance of their own, un¬
known to all the world befides. For we found, to our
T,o fmall amazement, that the rocks were, not only cut
into fortifications, but likewife into artillery, to defend
thefe fortifications, being hollowed out, in many placos,
into the form of imvnenfe mortars. The charge is faid
to be about a barrel of gunpowder, over which they
place a large piece of wood, made exaflly to fit the
mouth of the chamber. On this they heap a great
quantity of cannon-balls, fliells, or other deadly ma¬
terials ; and when an enemy’s fhip approaches the
harbour, they fire the whole into the air : and they
pretend it produces a very great effeft j making a
Ihower for 200 or 300 yards round, that would fink any
veflel.
“ Notwithftanding the fuppofed bigotry of the
Maltefe, the fpirit of toleration is fo ftrong, that a
mofque has been lately built for their fworn enemies
the Turks. Here the poor flaves are allowed to enjoy
their religion in peace. It happened lately that fome
idle boys difturbed them during their fervice $ they
were immediately fent to prifon, and feverely punifhed.
The police indeed is much better regulated than in the
neighbouring countries, and affafiinations and rob-
* beries are very uncommon j the laft of which crimes
the grand mafter punifhes with the utmoft feverity.
He is faid to be much more relaxed with regard to the
firrt. 0
“ Perhaps Malta is the only country in the world
where duelling is permitted by law. As their whole
eflabliftiment is originally founded on the wild and ro¬
mantic principles of chivalry, they have ever found it
too inconfiftent with thofe principles to abolifh duel¬
ling ; but they have laid it under fuch reftridtions as
greatly to leffen its danger. Thefe are curious enough.
The duellifts are obliged to decide their quarrel in one
particular ftreet of the city; and if they prefume to
fight anywhere elfe, they are liable to the rigour of
the law. But, what is not lefs Angular, but much
more in their favour, they are obliged, under the moft
fevere penalties, to put up their fwords when ordered
to fo by a woman, a prieft, or a knight. Under thefe
limitations, in the midft of a great city, one would
imagine it almoft impoflible that a duel could ever end
in blood ; however, this is not the cafe : a crofs is al¬
ways painted oppofite to the fpot where a knight has been
killed, in commemoration of his fall. We counted about
20 of thefe Croffes.
“ About three months ago (Mr Brydone’s letter is
dated June 7. 1770), two knights had a difpute at a
billiard table. One of them, after giving a great deal
of abufive language, added a blow ;■ but, to the afto-
jfifhment of all Malta (in whofe annals there is mot
M A L
infiance), lifter fo great a provocation he ab-
folutely refufed to fight his antagonift. The challenge '
was repeated, and he had time to reflect on the confe-
quences ; but ftill he refufed to enter the lifts. He was
condemned to make the amende honorable in the great
church of St John for 45 days fucceffively ; then to be
confined in a dungeon, without light, for five years 5
after which, he is to remain a prifoner in the caftle for
life. "Ihe unfortunate young man who received this
blow is likewife in difgrace, as he has not had an op¬
portunity of wiping it out in the blood of his adver-
fary.
“ The horfe-races of Malta are of a very uncommon
kind. They are performed without either faddle,
bridle, w'hip, or fpur ; and yet the horfes are faid to
run full fpeed, and to afford a great deal of diverfion.
They are accuftomed to the ground for fome weeks
before ; and although it is entirely over rock and pave¬
ment, there are very feldom any accidents. They have
races of affes and mules performed in the fame manner
four times every year. The rider is only furnifhed with
a machine like a fhoemaker’s awl, to prick on his courfer
if he is lazy.
“ As Malta is an epitome of all Europe, and an
affemblage of the younger brothers, who are common¬
ly the beft, of its firft families, it is probably one of
the beft academies for politenefs in this part of the
globe j befides, where every one Is entitled by law as
well as cuftom to demand fatisfa&ion for the leaft
breach of it, people are under a neceffity of being very
exact and circumfpeft, both with regard to their words
and actions.”
Malta was taken by the French army under General
Bonaparte, deftined to invade Egypt, in the year
i 799, but foon after retaken by the Britifii, and agreed
to be given up to the knights of St John of Jerufalem,
by the treaty of Amiens, in 1802. The Britilh troops
did not evacuate the ifland even after this treaty, as
the^ government infifted on retaining it for 10 years,
which propofal was reje&ed by France, and formed
one caufe of the recommencement of hofiilities in June
1803..
Knights of Malta, otherwife called Hofpitalers of
St John of Jerufalem, a religious military order, whofe
refidence is in the ifland of Malta, fituated in the
Mediterranean fea, upon the coaft of Africa. The
Knights of Malta, fo famous for defending Chriften-
dom, had their rife as follows :
Some time before the journey of Godfrey of Bouil¬
lon into the Holy Land, fome Neapolitan merchants,
who traded in the Levant, obtained leave of the caliph
of Egypt to build a houfe for thofe of their nation
who came thither on pilgrimage, upon paying an an¬
nual tribute. Afterwards they built two churches, and
received the pilgrims with great zeal and charily. This
example being followed by others, they founded a
church in honour of St John, and an hofpital for the
fick ; whence they took the name of Hofpitalers. A
little after Godfrey of Bouillon had taken Jerufalem,
in IC99, they began to be diftinguiftied by black ha¬
bits and a crofs with eight points j and, befides the or¬
dinary vows, they made another, wEich w'as to defend
the pilgrims againft the infults of the infidels. This
foundation was completed in 1104, in the reign of
Malta
a Baldwin s and fo their order
became military, mtd
which
M A * L [ 447 ] M A L
Malta, which many perfons of quality entered, and changed
*—V1™^ ' the name of hofpitalers into that of knights.
When Jerufalem was taken, and the Chriflians loft
their power in the Eaft, the knights retired to Acre
or Ptolemais, which they defended valiantly in 1290.
Then they followed the king of Cyprus, who gave
them Limiifon in his dominions, where they ftaid till
1310. That fame year they took Rhodes, under the
grand mafter Foulques de Viilaret, a Frenchman ; and
next year defended it againft an army of Saracens :
fince which the grand mafters have ufed thefe four let-
t ters, F. E. R. T. i. e. Fortitudo ejus Rhodum tenuit;
and the order was from thence called knights of
Rhodes.
In 1522, Solyman having taken Rhodes, the knights
retired into Candia, and thence into Sicily. In 1530,
Charles V. gave them the ifland of Malta, to cover his
kingdom of Sicily from the Turks. In 1566, Soly¬
man befieged Malta; but it rvas gallantly defended by
the grand mafter John de Valette Parifot, and the
Turks obliged to quit the ifland with great lofs.
The knights confifted of eight different languages
or nations, of which the Englilh were formerly the
fixth j but at prefent they are but feven, the Englilh
having withdrawn themfelves. The firft is that of Pro¬
vence, whofe chief is grand commendator of religion ;
the fecond, of Auvergne, whofe chief is marefchal of
the order $ the third, of France, whofe chief is grand
hofpitaler j the fourth of Italy, and their chief, ad¬
miral ; the fifth of Arragon, and their chief, grand
confervator ; the fixth of Germany, and their chief,
grand bailiff of the order ; the feventh of Caftile, and
their chief, grand chancellor. The chief of the Eng-
lifli was grand commander of the cavalry.
None are admitted into this order but fuch as are of
noble birth both by father and mother’s fide for four
generations, excepting the natural fons of kings and
princes. The knights are of two forts : thofe who have
a right to be candidates for the dignity of grand ma¬
fter, called grand crojfes'; and thole who are only
knights-ajjj/iants, who are taken from good families.
They never marry j yet have continued from 1090 to
the prefent time.
T he order confifts of three eftates $ the knights*
chaplains, and fervants at arms. There are alfo priefts
who officiate in the churches } friar-fervants, who affift
at the offices ; and donnes or demi-crojfes ; but thefe
are not reckoned as conftituent parts of the body. This
divifion was made in 1130, by the grand mafter Rai-
mond du Puy.
The government of the order is mixed, being partly
monarchical, and partly ariftocratical. The grand
mafter is fovereign, coins money, pardons criminals,
and gives the places of grand priors, bailiffs, knights,
&c. The ordinary council is compofed of the grand
mafter and the grand croffes. Every language has
feveral grand priories, and every priory a certain num¬
ber of commanderies.
The knights are received into this order, either by
undergoing the trials prefcribed by the ftatutes, or by
difpenfations. The difpenfations are obtained either by
the pope’s brief, or by a general chapter of the order*
and are granted in cafe of fome defeft as to the nobi-
Jity of their pedigree, efpecially on the mother’s fide.
The knights are received, either as of age, under mi¬
nority, or pages to the grand mafter. They rnuft be Malian
16 years old complete before they are received ; they
enter into the noviciate at 17, and are profeffed at 18.. ' '
They fometimes admit infants of one year old ; but
the expence is about 4000 livres. The grand mafter
has 16 pages who ferve him, from 1 2 to 16 years of
age. The knights -wear on the left fide of their cloak
or waiftcoat a crofs of white waxed cloth, with eight
points, which is their true badge j that of gold being
only for ornament. When they go to w’ar againft the
Turks, they wear a red caffock, with a great white
crofs before and behind, without points, which are the
arms of the religion. The ordinary habit of the grand
mafter is a fort of caffock of tabby-cloth, tied about
with a girdle, at which hangs a great purfe, to denote
the charitable inftitution of the order. Over this he
wears a velvet gown ; and on the left fide a white
crofs with eight points. His yearly revenue is io,oco
ducats. He acknovdedges the kings of Spain and
both the Sicilies, as his protedlors and is obliged by
his agreement with the emperor Charles V. to lupprefs
pirates,
T he knights of Malta were deprived of their privi¬
leges and had their eftates fequeftered by order of
Maximilian Jofeph, eledtor of Bavaria ; but after Paul
emperor of Ruffia took them under his protedlion,
they were all reftored. A treaty to this effect was
figned on the 29th of July 1799, by Baron Flaxman,
grand-crofs of the order of St John of Jerufalem.
MALTON, a town of the north riding of York-
fhire in England, feated on the river Derwent, over
which there is a good ftone bridge. It is compofed of
two towms, the New and the Old j and is well inhabited,
accommodated with good inns, and fends two members
to parliament. W. Long. p. 40. N. Lat. 54 8.
MALVA, the mallow, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the monodelphia clafs ; and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 37th order, Columniferce. See
Botany Index.
MALVERN* Great and Little, (with the
Chafe and the Hi//s) ; two towns of Worcefterihire,
in which were formerly two abbeys, about three miles
afunder. Since the diffolution nothing remains of the
abbey of Great Malvern but the gateway of the abbey
and church, now parochial. Part of it was a reli¬
gious cell for hermits before the Conqueft ; and the
greateft part, with the tower, built in the reign of
William the Conqueror. Its outward appearance is
very ftriking. It is 171 feet in length, 63 in breadth,
and 63 in height. In it are ten flails ; and it is fup-
pofed to have been rebuilt in the year 1171. The nave
only remains in part, the fide aifles being in ruins.
The windows have been beautifully enriched with
painted glafs, and in it are remains of fome very an¬
cient monuments. Little Malvern ftands in a cavity
of the hills, which are great lofty mountains, rifing
like flairs, one higher than another, for about feven
miles, and divide this county from Herefordffiire.
There is a ditch here very much admired. On the
hills are two medicinal fprings, called holy wells, one
good for the eyes, and the other for cancers. Hen¬
ry VII. his queen, and his two fons, Prince Arthur
and Prince Henry, were fo delighted with this place,
that they beautified the church and windows, part of
which remain, though mutilated. In the lofty fouth
windows
M AM [ 448 ] MAM
“vlaltw, windows of the church are the hiftorical paffages of
r/!anihrun. ^ qjj Yeflament j and in the north windows the
piftuies of the holy family, the nativity and circum-
cilicn of our Saviour, the adoration of the fhepherds
and the kings, his prefentation in the temple, his bap-
tifm, falling, and temptation, his miracles, his lalt
fupper with his difciples, his prayer in the garden,
his paffion, death, and burial, his defcent into hell,
his refurredlion and afcenfion, and the coming of the
Holy Ghofl. The hiitory of our Saviour’s paffion is
painted differently in the call window of the choir, at
the expence of Henry VII. whofe figure is therefore
often reprefented, as is that of his queen. In the
weft window is a noble piece of the day of judgement,
not inferior to the paintings of Michael Angelo. Mal¬
vern Chafe contains 7115 acres in Worcellerftiire (be-
lldes 241 acres called the Prior’s Land), 619 in Here-
fordfhire, and 103 in Gloucefterihire. Malvern Hills
run from north to fouth, the higheft point 1313 feet
above the furface of the Severn at Hanley, and ap¬
pear to be of limeftone and quartz. On the fummit
.of thefe hills is a camp w:ith a triple ditch, imagined
to be Roman, and is fituated on the Herefordfhire
fide of the hills.
MALUS. See Pyrus, Botany TWkv.
MAMALUKES, the name of a dynafty that reign¬
ed in Egypt. See Egypt.
MAMBRUN, Peter, an ingenious and learned
French Jefuit, bom in the diccefe of Clermont, in
M A M M
Definition. rT',HE firft clafs of the animal kingdom in the fyftem
•*- of Linnaeus, containing thofe animals which have
Ireqfts or paps, (mamma) at which they fuckle their
young. In this clafs are included, not only what are
called the viviparous quadrupeds, but the Bat tribe,
and feveral marine animals, as Seals and Whales.
In the prefent article, we are to give an account of all
but the whales, or Cetacea, which have been already
fully treated of under the article Cetology.
INTRODUCTION.
%
^Utility of The relations that fubfift between man and many of
this part of the .ariimals arranged in this clafs, either from their uti-
natural hi- ag jomefl-;c fervants, or from the warfare that they
carry on again!! him, his property or his dependants,
render the ftudy of this part of natural hiftory peculiar¬
ly important •, while the extraordinary adlions and fa¬
culties of fome of thefe animals muft make the hiftory
of them highly interefting to every one who examines
nature with a curious or difeerning eye.
Our know- Quadrupeds have, accordingly, engaged the particu-
iedge of it lar attention of naturalifts in every country and in
imperfedl. eVery age, and as our acquaintance with them is lefs
difficult than with moil other claffes of animated nature,
it is not furprifing that their form, habits, and manners
are moft familiar to us. Still, indeed, much remains
indoubt refpeding fome of the foreign and rarer quadru¬
peds, and of fome we know little more than the name.
Even with regard to thofe which have been longeft
3
the year 1581. He was one of the moft: perfe£I imi-Mamertln^
tators of Virgil in Latin poetry, and his poems are of Mammae.^
the fame fpecies : Thus he wrote Eclogues, Georgies, or
four books on the culture of the foul and the under-
ftanding j together with a heroic poem, entitled Con-
famine, or Idolatry overthrown. He ffiowed alfo great
critical abilities in a Latin Peripatetical Dijfertation on
Epic Poetry. He died in 1661.
M AMERTINI, a mercenary band of foldiers
which paffed from Campania into Sicily at the requeft
of Agathocies. When they were in the fervice of
Agathocles, they claimed the privilege of voting at
the ele£lion of magiftrates at Syracufe, and had re-
courfe to arms to fupport their unlawful demands.
The fedition was appeafed by the authority of fome
leading men, and the Campanians were ordered to
leave Sicily. In their way to the coaft they were
received with great kindnefs by the people of Meffana,
and foon returned perfidy for hofpitality. They con-
fpired againft the inhabitants, murdered all the males '
in the city, married their wives and daughters, and
rendered themfelves mafters of the place. After this
violence they afiumed the name of Mamertini, and
called their city Mamertum, or Mamertium, from a
provincial word which in their language fignified mar¬
tial or warlike. The Mamertines were afterwards de¬
feated by Hiero, and totally difabled to repair their
ruined affairs.
MAMM/E, in Anatomy. See there, N° 227.
ALIA,
known and deferibed, as the lion, the elephant, the
porcupine, &c. the obfervations of modern naturalifts
and travellers have corretled feveral erroneous notions
that had been generally received as certain. Long as
this part of natural hiftory has occupied the attention
of mankind, there yet probably remain many glean¬
ings to repay the induftry of future inquirers. It is
probable that the unexplored regions of Africa, Ame¬
rica, and New Holland, may contain many quadrupeds
either entirely unknown to us at prefent, or known on¬
ly by the foffil remains that have been difeovered in
the bowels of the earth. There can, we think, be
little doubt that the unicorn exifts in Africa not far
north of the Cape of Good Hope, and perhaps, at fome
diftant period it may be as well known as the elephant
or the hippopotamus is at prefent *. * See Bar-
To attempt any thing like a critical examination oD^’-rfZV**-
even the moft celebrated writers on the natural hiftory
of the mammalia would far exceed the limits which we Africa.
are obliged to preferibe to this article. We ffiall how¬
ever, briefly notice fome of the more important and
more interefting works, to which our readers may refer
for information which the nature of this work precludes
us from affording them. _ 4
Among the ancients, the moft celebrated writers on Writers on.
natural hiftory in general, and on quadrupeds in parti-mammalia*
cular, are Ariftotle and Pliny, and of thefe the former
has been much more circumftantial, and probably much
lefs credulous than the latter. Ariftotle wrote more
from obfervation, and the opportunities of obtaining a
knowledge
Fart L
Claflifica- knowledge of animals that were afforded him by the
. t‘^n' . liberality of his pupil give him a greater claim to our
attention and affent, than is perhaps due to Pliny, who
Ariftotle drew his accounts almoft entirely from preceding wri-
syad Pliny, ters. Pliny, however, is a more graceful, more ani¬
mated, and confequently a more pleahng writer, and
everywhere difplays great marks of tafte and erudi-
6 tion-
©efner, Between the fubverlion of literature and the begin-
Aldrovan- ning of the lyth century, there is fcarcely a writer on
lohnfton clua(h'uPecls that deferves particular mention. Even
during the 17th century, the labourers in this depart¬
ment were few ; and the names of Gefner, Aldrovan-
dus, and Johnfton, alone have been deemed worthy of
commemoration in Linnaeus’s introduflion to the mam¬
malia, and of thefe it is by no means certain that the
writings on quadrupeds attributed to Aldrovandus are
genuine.
The 18th century produced a great many valuable
7 works, both fyftematic and defcriptive, on this part of
Pennant, natural hillory. As fyftematic writers, Ray and Pen¬
nant, and on the continent, Klein, Stort, BriiTon,
Linne, Daubenton, and Cuvier, are the moft cele¬
brated, and we lhall prefently notice fome of thefe
more at large. As a defcriptive writer, Pennant is al-
fo confpicuous ; and the hiftories of quadrupeds contain¬
ed in his “ Britllh Zoology” and “ Anftic Zoology*’, are
S at once accurate and interefting, amuling and inftruc-
Buffon. live. But of all thofe naturalifts who have profeffed
to give a detailed account of the hiftory of quadrupeds,
none have acquired fuch celebrity as the Count de
Buffon, whofe work is in every one’s hands, and has
been tranftated into moil of the modern languages.
For animated and lively defcriptions, and acute and
brilliant remarks, Buffon is perhaps unrivalled : me¬
thod he feems to have defpifed ; and it is to be regret¬
ted that his judgement is not always equal to his tafte,
and that his accuracy is fometimes lefs confpicuous
than his genius and fancy. There are alfo a certain
freedom of expreflion, and luxurioufnefs of defcription,
in treating of certain fubje£ts, which render Buffon’s
work lefs proper for young people than for thofe who
are more advanced both in years and in the ftudy of
nature. Dr Goldfmith’s “ Hiftory of the Earth and
Animated ftaturt” is chiefly an abridgement of Buf¬
fon.
449
Mr Bewick’s u General Hiftory of Quadrupeds”,' Clafllfica-
with wooden cuts, deferves much praife. In his de-, tl0n-
fcriptions, he has felefted with much (kill and tafte, v
and has added many original and judicious obferva- Bewick,
tions, efpecially refpecling the domeftic and indigenous
animals of this country. His figures are in general ex¬
cellent, and his vignettes both ufeful and entertain-
ing. _ i*
Among the lateft fyftematic works written on this Shaw,
fubjeft is the elegant and fplendid “ General Zoology”
of Dr Shaw. As a mufeum for acquiring a knowledge
of the form and external ftrufture of animals, this
work has been furpaffed by none, and equalled by very
few, Defcription of the habits or manners of the ani¬
mals feems to have been a fecondary object with Dr
Shaw, as of this his work contains very little. It is
chiefly valuable as a fyftetnatic arrangement and general
mufeum. j r
We have feen few works more entertaining than
Mr Bingley’s “ Animal Biography”. It is profeffedly
a compilation, but the extradfts are well chofen, and in
general highly interefting. We cannot fay, however,
that they are always happily arranged. As Mr Bing-
ley uniformly quotes his authorities, and has given a lilt
of many valuable works from which he has drawn
his information, his work is very ufeful, and forms
an admirable companion to Dr Shaw’s Zoology.
In the following account of the mammalia, we fball
endeavour to combine amufement with utility j but, as
our limits are exceedingly confined, we can give a de¬
tailed account of very tew fpecies. We ftiall there¬
fore feledt the moft interefting individuals, referring
here generally to Buffon, Pennant, Bewick, Shaw, and
Bingley for the reft.
With refped to the general divifions of quadrupeds
and the terms employed in defcribing them, we need
fay nothing here j the former will be feen from the fe-
veral claffifications to be immediately mentioned, and
the latter are explained under their proper heads in the
general alphabet of this dictionary. Refpedting the
general anatomical ftrufture of the mammalia, we
could add little to what has been already given under
Comparative Anatomy. When there occurs any ftrik-
ing peculiarity of conformation in particular individu¬
als, it will be noticed in its proper place.
MAMMALIA.
PART I. CLASSIFICATION OF THE MAMMALIA.
\
Claffifica- QUADRUPEDS have been very differently claflified
•Liniiseus ^ different naturslifts. Our limits will permit us only
to give a brief Iketch of fome of the more important
arrangements, and we ftiall feleft thofe of Linnaeus,
Pennant and Cuvier.
Linnaeus divines trhe mammalia into leven orders,
the diftinftive characters of which are chiefly derived
from the number, fituation, and ftrudure of the
teeth.
Order I. PRIMATES.
This order is intended to contain man and thofe ani-
Vol. XII. Part II.
mals which are moft nearly allied to him in their ftruc-
ture. They have uliially four cutting teeth in the
fore part of each jaw, and in the upper jaw thefe are
parallel ; and they have one canine tooth on each fide
of thefe in each jaw. They have alfo two breafts or
teats, from which this clafs derives its name. The two
fore feet in many of the individuals refemble the hands
of the human fpecies, and are employed for the fame
purpoles, having fingers furnilhed for the moft part
with oval iiattened nails. They chiefly live on vege¬
table food. Under this order Liniireus ranks four ge¬
nera, viz. man, the ape tribe, the lemur tribe, and the
bats.
3 1-
Order
45°
Claffifica-
, , Order H. BRUTA.
Thefe have no front teeth in either jaw •, their feet
are armed with flrong blunt nails like hoofs ; they are
generally of a clumfy form, and flow in their move¬
ments j they feed chiefly on vegetables. This order
contains nine genera, of which the principal are the
rhinoceros, the elephant, the floths, and ant-eaters.
Order III. FERiE.
Thefe have commonly fix front teeth in the upper
and under jaw, which are fomewhat of a conical fliape,
and next to thefe ftrong and (harp canine teeth, with
grinders that terminate in conical pointed eminences;
their feet are divided into toes which are armed with
{harp crooked claws. Almofl: all the animals of this
order are beafts of prey, living chiefly on the flelh of
other animals. The order comprehends ten genera,
the moft remarkable of which are, the feal, dog, cat,
tveazel, and bear tribes.
Order IV. GLIRES.
Thefe have two front teeth in each jaw, and thefe
are remarkably long and large, but they have no ca¬
nine tseth ; their feet are furniftied with claws, and ap¬
pear formed both for running and leaping. Their food
confifls of vegetables. This order alfo contains 10 ge¬
nera, the principal of which are the porcupines, bea¬
vers, rats, fquirrels, and hares.
Order V. PECORA.
Thefe have feveral front teeth that are blunt, and
have a wedge-like form, in the lower jaw, but no front
teeth in the upper j their feet are armed with cloven
hoofs ; they have four ftomachs, feed entirely on ve¬
getables, and ruminate or chew the cud. There are
in this order eight genera, comprehending the camel,
the mulk animal, the giraffe, and the deer, antelope,
goat, fheep, and ox tribes.
Order VI. BELLUAL
Thefe have front teeth in both jaws that are ob-
tufe ; their feet are armed wTith hoofs that are in fome
fpecies entire, and in others fubdivided. Moll of them
live entirely on vegetable food. There are four genera,
eomprifing thofe of the horfe, hippopotamus, tapir, and
hog.
Order VII. The laft order is that of the Cette, or
Whales i for wdiich, fee Cetology.
Ob’e^bioFiS Several objedfions have been made to the above ar-
to Lin- rangement of Linnaeus, and fome of them appear to be
naeus’s ar- fufficiently valid. 'It has been objefted with great reafon,
tangement. manj lord of the creation, is degraded by being
placed undfer the fame divifion with apes, monkeys, ma-
caucos and bats, the companions which Linnaeus has
thought proper to allot to him. However nearly the
apes may referable man in their general appearance^
and the macaucos in the ufe of their fore extremities,
they fliould. furely have been confidered apart, from
Part L
man j and nothing, it is faid, can be more abfurd than Claffifka-
to arrange the infignificant fly bat with any of the for- tlQn' i
mer animals, becaufe it agrees wflth them in the num- v
ber and fituation of its teeth. To the fecond order it
is objedled that the moft intelligent of quadrupeds, the
half-reafoning elephant, is made to affociate with the
mofl: difcordant and ftupid of the creation, with floths,
ant-eaters, and armadillos, or with creatures of a quite
different element, walruffes and morfes. In the third
order again, wdiich from its name fliould comprehend
only the wild beafts, or beafts of prey, it will be im-
poflible (fays Mr Pennant) to allow the mole, the
fhrew, and the harmlefs hedge-hog, to be the compa¬
nions of lions, wolves, and bears. We may err in out
arrangement
Sed non ut placidis locant immitia, non ut
Serpentes avibus gemlnentur, tigribus agni*. * Pen-
i • i i • n i i nant's Sy-
To the fixth order it has been objected that thenopfis,
hoofed animals arranged under it are fo diftimilar in Pref.
their nature, that they ought not to be placed together
without fome intermediate gradations.
To many of the above obje&ions it may be replied, Anfwerei,.
that all artificial arrangements have their difadvantages,
and that if we follow nature in placing together only
thofe animals that referable each other in their external
appearance, or in their habits of life, we (hall often
be obliged to arrange the individuals of what moft na-
turalifts ccnfider as the fame genus under very different
parts of our fyftem. The great object of a fyftematic
arrangement is to facilitate the difcovery of objects that
are unknown ; and for this purpofe, in refpeft to qua¬
drupeds, there is perhaps no method preferable to that
which is founded on the diverfity of their teeth and
feet. We (hall in the following article, as we have
done in moft of the preceding departments of natural
hiftory, adopt the arrangements of Linnseus, modifying
according to the lateft improvements of Gmelin and
Shaw. rr
Our celebrated Britifti naturalift, Mr Pennant, pub Clallifica-
lifhed the firfi edition of his Synopfis of Quadrupeds inft°n of Pen-
8vo. in 1771 J and ten years after he publilhed a thirdnallt*
edition under the new title of Hiftory of Quadrupeds,
in 2 vols. qto. This work has gone through fome
other editions, and is juftly admired for the quantity of
information which the author has contrived to give in
a very condenfed form.
Mr Pennant diftributes quadrupeds into four general
divifions, containing fuch as are hoofed, digitated, pin¬
nated, and winged.
The firft divifion is fubdivided into two feclions : the
firft containing thofe animals whofe hoofs are entire or
of one piece, of which there is only one genus, viz.
Horse. The fecond fedlion thofe which are cloven-
hoofed j of which there are 13 genera, comprifing the
Ox, Sheep, Goat, Giraffe, Antelope, Musk, Ca¬
mel, Hog, Rhinoceros, Hippopotame, Tapir, and
Elephant.
The fecond divifiori confifts of digitated animals, or
thofe whofe feet are divided into toes. It is fubdivided
into five fedlions j the firft of which confifts of thofe
animals that are anthropomorphous, or which, in fome
meafure, referable man in their external form. Of
thefe there are two genera, viz. Ape and Macauco.
The fecond feftion confifts of rapacious c&rnivorous ani¬
mals^
mammalia.
Parti. MAMMALIA. a<i
Claffifka- mals, having fix or more -cutting teeth in each jaw,
tlon- and large canine teeth leparated from the cutting teeth.
' Of thefe there are eight genera, comprehending thofe
of the Dog, Hyjena, Cat, Bear, Badger, Opos¬
sum, Weazel, and Otter. The third fedtion con¬
tains animals that have no canine teeth, and only two
cutting teeth irt each jaw, being generally herbivorous
or frugivorous. Of thefe there are il genera, viz.
Cavy, Hare, Beaver, Porcupine, Marmot,
Squirrel, Jerboa, Rat, Shrew, Mole, and Hedge¬
hog. The fourth fedtion comprehends thofe animals
which are without cutting teeth, and which, like thofe
of the laft feclion, live on herbs and fruits. This fec-
tion contains only two genera, viz. thofe of the Sloth
and Armadillo. The fifth fedlion contains animals
that are defiitute of teeth, and live on infedls. Of thefe
there are two genera, viz. Manis and Ant-Eater.
The third divifion confifts ©f thofe animals that are
pinnated or furnilhed with fins, and chiefly live in the
water, feeding partly on filh and partly on herbage.
Of thefe there are three genera, viz. the Walrus,
Seal, and Manat I.
The fourth divifion, or that of the winged quadru¬
peds, contains the Angle genus of the Bat, w'hich be¬
ing placed lad in the order of quadrupeds, is thus made
to form the connedting link between them and the clafs
of birds.
Of Cuvier. According to Cuvier’s arrangement, the mammalia
are divided into three general orders : I. Thofe having
claws or nails ; 2. Thofe having hoofs j and, 3. Thofe
having feet like fins: a divifion very fimilar to that of
Mr Pennant. The firfi: of thefe orders is fubdivided
into thofe mammalia that have three forts of teeth,
and thofe that want at lead one kind of teeth.
The firfi: fubdivifion of the firfl: order contains three
families, viz.
I. Bimanum, having thumbs feparate on the atlan-
^ See Bar~ tal * extremities, comprehending Man alone.
clay on H. Quadrumana, having the thumbs or great toes
Anafomical jTeparate on 0f fore feet> This family contains
t-ure. two genera, viz. olMIA or jipes, comprehending the
fub-genera pithecus or oran-otans, callitrix or fapajousy
cercopithecus or guenons, cynocephalus or macaques,
papio or baboons, cebus or alouates; and Lemur or
Mails, comprehending the fub-genera of lemur, indri,
lori, galago, and tardipus.
III. Sarcophaga; having no feparate thumbs or
great toes on the atlantal extremity. This family is
fubdivided into four fedlions, viz. Cheiroptera, or
thofe that have elongated hands and membranes, ex¬
tending between the feet from the neck to the anus j
Plantigrada, or thofe that have no feparate thumbs
or great toes, and who, in walking, apply the whole
foie of the foot to the ground j Carnivora, or fuch
as have no feparate thumbs or great toes, and whofe
feet, in walking, reft only on the toes $ and Pedima-
na, or fuch as have feparate great toes on the facral
extremities or hind feet. The CHEIROPTERA comprife
two genera, viz. Vespertilio or Bats, comprehend¬
ing the fubgenera of pteropus or rouffets, vefpertilio or
common hats, rinolaphus, phylloftoma, and noftilio \
and Galeopithecus, or Flying Lemurs. The Plan¬
tigrada contain four genera, viz. Erinaceus or
Hec/gchogs, comprehending the fubgenera of erinaceus
or hedgehogs, and fetiger or tenrecs ; SoREX or Shrews,
comprehending the fubgenera of forex or Jhrcw mice, Claffifica-
mygali or mujk Jhrew ; Chryso-Crloris, Scalops ; , tl0n' ,
talpa or moles; and Ursus or Bears, comprehending v
the fubgenera of urfus or bears, taxus or badgers, na-
fua or coatis, procyon or racoons 5 potos or iincajous,
ichneumon or mangoujles. The Carnivora comprife
four genera, viz. Mustela, or Weasels, comprehend¬
ing the fubgenera of muftela, or weasels and martins,
lutra or otters, mephites or mouffetes, viverra or ci¬
vets ; Felis, or Cat tribe; and Canis, or the Dog
tribe, comprehending the fubgenera of canis and hyaena.
The Pedimana contains only one genus, viz. Didel-
phis or Opojfutn, comprehending the fubgenera of di-
delphis or fariques, dafyurus, phalangifta or phalan¬
ges.
IV. Rodentia, or fuch quadrupeds as want only
the canine teeth. This family comprifes eight genera,
viz. Kangurus, Kangaroos ; Hystrix or Porcupines;
Lepus, or Hares and Rabbits, comprehending the fub¬
genera of lepus and lagomys $ Cavia, comprehending
the fubgenera of cavia and hydrochaerus; Castor or
Beavers; Sciurus or Squirrels, comprehending the
fubgenera of fciurus, and pteromys or flying fquirrels ;
Cheiromys, or Aye-aye ; and Mus, or Rats znd Mice,
comprehending the fubgenera of arflomys or marmots,
lemmus or field mice, fiber or ondatra, mus or rats,
cricetus or hamflers, iphalax or mole rat, dipus or jer¬
boas, myoxus or dormice.
V. Edentata, or thofe mammalia which have nei¬
ther cutting nor canine teeth. This family comprifes
three genera, viz. Myrmecophaga, or Ant-Eaters,
comprehending the fubgenera of myrmecophaga, echid¬
na or porcupine ant-eaters, and manis or flcaly lizards ;
Orycteropus, or Cape Ant-Eaters ; and Dasypus, or
Armadillos.
VI. Tardigrada, or fuch as are deficient only in
cutting teeth. Of this family there is only one genus,
viz. Bradypus, or Sloths; under which Cuvier arranges
as a fubgenus, the unknown animal which he calls me¬
gatherium.
The fecond order, or thofe quadrupeds that are fur-
nilhed with hoofs, comprifes three families, with the
following diftin£lions and fubdivifions.
VII. Pachydermata, or thofe animals that have
more than two toes and more than two hoofs. In this
family there are fix genera, viz. Elephas or Elephants ;
Tapir or Tapirs; Sus or Swine; Hippopotamus or
River horfe ; Hyrax or Daman; and Rhinoceros.
VIII. Ruminantia, having two toes and two hoofs.
Of this there are eight genera, viz. Camelus or Ca¬
mels, divided into the fubgenera of camelus and lama j
Moschus or Mujis; Cervus or Deer; Camelopar¬
dalis or Girajfe; Antelope or Antelopes; Capra or
Goats ; Ovis or Sheep; and Bos or Oxen.
IX. Solipeda, having one toe and one hoof, and
comprifing only one genus, viz. Equus or Horfe.
The third order, or the mammalia with fin-like feet,
contains two families, viz. Amphibia and Cetacea.
X. Amphibia, having four feet, and comprifing
two genera, viz. Phoca or Seals; and Trichecus or
Morfes.
XL Cetacea, containing five genera, vIz/Mana-
tus or Lamantins ; Delphinus or Dolphins ; Physe- % Lecom
ter or Cachalots; BaLjENA or Comtnon Whales; avuid'Anate-
MONODON or Narwhal *. ™ie Comp#.
3 La GENERIC l'at’vo1* **
M A M M A L I A.
45 2
Ciaffific'a-
tion.
Part I.
Claffifica-
tion.
GENERIC CHARACTERS.
Ordo I. PRIMATES. -
Komo. Situs ere&us. Hymen et menftrua femina-
rum.
Man. Pofture erecl. Female furnifhed with a hy¬
men, and mendruating.
1. Simia. Dentes laniarii, hinc remoti.
2. Lemur. Dentes primores Tuperiores 4 ; inferi-
ores 6.
3. GALEOPiTHECUS. Dentes primores fuperiores
null! ; inferiores 6.
* 4. Vespertilio. Manus palmato-volatilis (a).
"Bruta. Ordo II.
5. Bradypus. Dentes molares prime longiore, abL
que laniariis primoribufve. Corpus pilofum.
6. Myrmecophaga. Dentes nulli. Corpus pilo¬
fum.
7. Manis. Dentes nulli. Corpus fquamatum.
8. Dasyfus. Molares abfque laniariis primoribuf¬
ve. Corpus cataphra&um.
9. Rhinoceros. Cornu in fronte politum.
10. Elephas. Dentes laniarii et molares. Nafus
probofeide elongatus.
11. Sukotyro. Cornu ad utrumque latus prope
oculos.
1 2. Platypus. Os anatinum. Pedes palmati.
13. Trichecus. Dentes laniarii fuperiores, molares
ex offe rugofo. Pedes compedes.
Jers;. ORDO III.
* 14. Phoca. Dentes primores fuperiores 6 j inferi¬
ores 4.
* 15. Canis. Dentes primores 6, 6 ; fuperiores inter-
medii lobati.
* 16. Felis. Dentes primores 6, 6 ; inferiores aequa-
les. Lingua aculeata.
* 17. Viverra. Dentes primores 6, 6 j inferiores in-
termedii breviores.
* 18. Lutra. Dentes ut in Viverra. Pedes pal¬
mati.
* 19. Ursus. Dentes primores 6, 6 j fuperiores exca-
vati. Penis oiTe flexuofo.
20. Didelphis. Dentes primores fuperiores 10 j
inferiores 8.
21. Dasyurus. Dentes primores fuperiores 8 j in¬
feriores 6.
22. Macropus. Dentes primores fuperiores 6 j in¬
feriores 2. Molares utrinque 5, remoti.
* 23. Talpa. Dentes primores fuperiores 6 j inferi¬
ores 8.
S. Tulks diflant from each other.
L. Fore teeth upper 4 5 lower 6 in number.
G. Front teeth in the upper jaw wanting 1 in the
lower 6.
V. Fore feet palmate, formed for flying.
BRUTA.
B. Grinders longer in front, without tulks. Body
hairy.
M. No teeth. Body hairy.
N. No teeth. Body fealy.
D. Grinders, without tulks or cutting teeth. Body
cruftaceous.
R. Horn feated in front.
E. Tulks and grinders. Nofe elongated into a pro*
' bofeis.
S. A horn on each lide near the eyes.
P. Mouth like a duck’s bill. Feet webbed.
T. Upper tulks. Grinders rough and bony. Hin¬
der feet uniting into a fin.
FERyE.
* P. Six upper cutting teeth $ 4 lower.
* C. Front teeth, fix in each jaw j the intermediate
upper ones lobated.
* F. Cutting teeth fix in each jaw j the lower equal.
Tongue aculeate.
* V. Cutting teeth 6 in each jaw ; the intermediate
lower ones Ihorter.
* L. Teeth as in the laft genus. Feet webbed.
* U. Cutting teeth 6 in each jaw ; the upper hollow¬
ed. Penis furnilhed with a flexible bone.
D. Cutting teeth 10 in the upper jaw1; 8 in the
lower.
D. Cutting teeth 8 in the upper jaw; 6 in the
lowTer.
M. Cutting teeth 6 in the upper jaw ; 2 in the low¬
er. Grinders 5 on each lide, remote.
* T. Cutting teeth in the upper jaw 6; in the low¬
er 8.
* 240
(a) The genera marked * have one or more of the fpecie.s indigenous to Britairw
Part I. MAMMALIA.
Claffifica- * 24. Sorex. Dentes priniores
^don. ores
v "" * 25. Erinaceus. Dentes primores fuperiores 2 ;
feriores 2,
m-
* S. Cutting teeth in the upper jaw two $
er 4.
* E. Cutting teeth two in each jaw.
453
in the low- Claffifica-
tion.
21
GHres.
Ordo IV. GLIRES.
26. Hystrix. Corpus fpinis teftum.
27. Cavia. Dentes priraores cuneati. Molares 4
ad utrumque latus. Claviculae nullse.
28. Castor. Dentes primores fuperiores cuneati.
Molares ad utrumque latus. Clavicalse perfetdse.
* 29. Mus. Dentes pximores fupenores cuneati. Mo¬
lares 3 ad utrumque latus. Clavicuise perfedlae.
30. Hydromys. Pedes pofteriores palmatae. Cau¬
da cylindriea.
31. Arctomys. Dentes primores cuneati. Mola¬
res fuperiores 5, inferiores 4, ad utrumque latus. Cla-
viculae perfeftaa.
*32. Sciurus. Dentes primores fuperiores cuneati;
inferiores acuti. Molares fuperiores 5, inferiores 4, ad
utrumque latus. Claviculae perfedlse. Cauda difticha.
Myftaces longae.
* 33. Myoxus. Myftaces longae. Cauda rotunda,
apice craflior.
34. Dipus. Pedes anteriores perbreves; pofterio¬
res praelongi.
* 35. Lepus. Dentes primores fuperiores diiplicati.
36. Hyrax. Dentes primores fuperiores lati. Cau¬
da nulla.
H. Body covered with fpines.
C. Cutting teeth w^edge lhaped. Grinders 4 on each
lide. Clavicles wanting.
C. Upper cutting teeth wredge-ftiaped. Grinders 4
on each fide. Clavicles complete.
* M. Upper cutting teeth wedged ftiape. Grinders 3
on each fide. Clavicles complete.
H. Hind feet webbed. Tail round.
A. Cutting teeth wedged ftiape. Grinders if in the
upper jaw, 4 in the lower, on each fide. Clavicles
complete.
* S. Upper cutting teeth wedge-fliaped ; lowTer acute.
Grinders 5 in the upper jaw, 4 in the lower, on each
fide. Clavicles complete. Tail fpreading towards each
fide. Whilkers long.
* M. Whifkers long. Tail round, thicker at the '
tip.
D. Four fore feet ftiort; hind feet very long.
* L. Upper cutting teeth double.
H. Upper cutting teeth broad. . Tail wanting.
Pecora. ORDO V< PECORA.
37. Camelus. Ecornis. Dentes laniarii plures.
38. Moschus. Ecornis. Dentes laniarii folitarii;
fuperioribus exfertis.
* 39. Cervus. Cornua folida, ramofa, decidua. Den¬
tes laniard nulli.
40. Camelopardalis. Cornua breviftima. Pedes
anteriores pofterioribus multo longiores.
41. Antilope. Cornua folida, fimplicia, perfiften-
tia. Dentes laniarii nulli.
* 42. Capra. Cornua tubulofa, eredta. Dentes lani¬
arii nulli.
* 43. OVIS. Cornua tubulofa reclinata. Dentes lania¬
rii nulli.
* 44 Bos. Cornua tubulofa porre6la. Dentes lania¬
rii nulli.
Belluae.
C. Without horns. Tulks many.
M. Without horns. Tuflcs fingle ; upper piojeft-
ing.
* C. Horns folid, branching, deciduous. Tufks want¬
ing.
C. Horns very ftiort. Fore feet much longer than
the hind.
A. Horns folid, unbranched, perfiftent. Tulks want¬
ing.
* C. Horns hollow, ere<ft. Tufks wanting.
* O. Horns hollow, reclined. Tulks wanting.
* B. Horns hollow, turned outwards. Tulks want -
ing.
Ordo VI. BELLU/E.
* 45- Equus. Dentes primores fuperiores 6 ; inferio- * E. Cutting teeth 6 in each jaw.
res 6.
46. Hippopotamus. Dentes primores fuperiores 4; H. Cutting teeth 4 in each jaw,
inferiores 4.
. 47* Tapir. Dentes primores fuperiores 10 ; infe- T. Cutting teeth 10 in each jaw.
riores 10.
* 48. Sus. Dentes primores fuperiores 4 ; inferio- * S. Cutting teeth in the upper jaw 4; in the low-
res 6. er 6.
<• >
Obdo VII.. CETE.—-See Cetology.
PART *
^ r-M
MAMMALIA.
4
mitoryof
the Species*
PART II. ARRANGEMENT AND HISTORY OF THE SPECIES.
Part II.
Primates.
Chap. I. PRIMATES.
OF this order we (hall here give an account only of
the four genera, Simia, Lemur, Galeopithecus, and
Vespertilio, referving Man for a feparate article.
24
Simla. Genus I. SlMIA. Afes.
Front teeth four in each jaw, near together; canine fo-
litary, longer than the others, and at a diflance from
the grinders. Grinders obtufe.
The animals of this genus, which are beft known
by the familiar name of apes or monkeys, form a very
interefting part of the animal creation ; not fo much for
their importance and utility in relation to man, as on
account of the near refemblance that they bear to the
human fpecies. They are a very lively tribe of animals,
full of frolic, chatter, and grimace. From the ftruc-
ture of their limbs, they are capable of performing ma¬
ny actions in common with man 5 and we (hall prefent-
ly relate fome diverting inftances of their imitative
powers. Mod of them are fierce and untameable,
though fome are of a more gentle nature, and even
feem capable of an attachment to man. In general,
however, they are prone to mifchief, and are filthy,
obfcene, lafcivious, and thievifh. When offended, they
ufe threatening gefiures ; and when pleafed, they ap¬
pear to laugh. Many of them have cheek pouches, in
which they keep for a while fuch food as they have not
immediate ufe for. They are commonly gregarious,
going together in vaft companies, the different fpecies
never mixing with each other, but keeping apart, and
in different quarters. They inhabit woods, and live on
trees, leaping with vaft aftivity from one tree to an¬
other, even though loaded with their young, which
cling to them. They arc not carnivorous, but chiefly
feed on fruits and leaves, fometimes on infers, though,
for mifchief’s fake, they will often rob the nefts of birds
of their eggs and young. They are themfelves the prey
of ferpents, which purfue them to the trees and fwallow
them entire. They are alfo devoured by leopards and
fimilar beads of prey. Some fpecies are eaten by the
natives of the countries where they are found.
Thefe animals are almoft confined to the torrid zane,
and, in particular, the woods of Africa, from Senegal
to the Cape, and from thence to Ethiopia, are crowded
with them. They are found in all parts of India, and
its iflands, in the fouth of China, in Cochin-China and
Japan •, and they fwarm in the forefts of South Ame¬
rica, from the ifthmus of Darien to Paraguay.
In fome parts of India monkeys are ob]e£ls of wor-
ftiip by the natives, and magnificent temples are ereifted
in honour of them (b). In thefe countries they fre¬
quently come in vaft numbers into the cities, and enter
the houfes without moleftation. In Amadabad, the
capital of Guzarud, there are three hofpitais for ani¬
mals, where lame and fick monkeys, and fuch as, though
well, choofe to dw$d there, are fed and cheriihed. Twice
a week the monkeys of the neighbourhood affemble
fpontaneoufiy in the ftreets of this city, mount on the
houfes which are flat-roofed, and lie here during the
great heats. On thefe days the inhabitants take care
to leave for them rice, millet, or fruit ; and if by any
accident they omit to do this, the difappointed animals
become furious, break the tiles, and do other mif¬
chief.
From the great number of fpecies, it has been found
convenient to diftribute them into three fubdivifions,
viz. thofe of apes, baboons, and monkeys. We (hall
enumerate the fpecies under each of thefe fubdivifions,
with their fpecific charafters, and (hall then give a
brief account of fome of the moft remarkable indivi¬
duals.
A. Apes, deftitute of tails. In this fubdivifion are Apes,
reckoned 4 fpecies, viz.
1. S. Satyrus, Gran Otan, or Wild Man of the
Wood. Taillefs, either chelnut colour or black, with¬
out callofities behind, and with the hair on the low-er
parts of the arms reverfed.—2. -S'. Lar, Great Gibbon
or long-armed A. Taillefs, ufually black, without cal¬
lofities behind, and with arras as long as the body.—.
3. S. Inuus, Magot or Barbary A. Taillefs j pale
brown, wdth callofities behind and an oblong bead.—
4. S. Syharms. Pigmy. Taillefs, pale brown, with
callofities behind, and a roundifh head. 25
B. Baboons. Tails commonly (hort j bodies muf-Bat>00n&
cular. In this there are 16 fpecies, viz.
5. S. Sphinx, Common B. Short tailed j brown,
■with callofities behind, wflth dull flefli-coloured face and
pointed nails.—6. S, Mormon, Mantegar, or Great B.
Short-tailed 5 tawmey brown, with callofities behind,
naked tumid, violet blue cheeks, obliquely furrowed,
and the middle of the nofe blood red.—7. S. Maimon,
Mandril or Ribbed-nofe B. Short-tailed, olive brown,
with callofities behind j naked violet-blue furrowed
cheeks, and the middle of the nofe flefti coloured.—
8. S. Porcaria, or Hog-faced B. Short-tailed, brown,
covered behind, with black naked hog-like face and
pointed nails.—9. S. Syhicola, Wood B. Short-tailed •,
flefhy brown, with callofities behind, and with black
naked face, hands, and feet.—10. S. Suhlutea, Yel¬
low
(b) When the Portuguefe got poffeflion of the ifland of Ceylon, they found in one of the temples dedicated
to thefe animals, a golden calket containing the tooth of an ape $ a relick which the natives held in fuch venera¬
tion, that they offered to redeem it at no leis a price than 700,000 ducats. The viceroy, however, ordered it to
be burned ; but, fome years afterwards, a fellow, who was in the Portuguefe ambaffador’s train, having procured
,a fimilar tooth, pretended that it was the old one, and offered it to the priefts, who were fo much rejoiced at the
recovery of their loft treafure, that they purchafed it of the fellow for above io,occl. of our money.
2 ' ,
Chap.
27
Monkeys.
I. MAMMAL
Primates, low B. Short-tailedj yellow, freckled with black, nefe M.
—~V“-' vvkh naked black face and hands, hairy on the upper
furface.—11. S. Cinerea, Cinereous B. Short-tailed;
cinereous, with the crown fpotted with yellow ; brown
face and pale beard.—12. S. Dentata, Broad-toothed
B. Short tailed, alh brown, with bluith face, and ve¬
ry large fore teeth.—13. S.Fafca. Brown B. Short-
ilh tailed ; brown, with callofities behind, a whitifh
face, and a very broad nofe.—14. S. Nemejlrma. Pig¬
tailed B, Olive brown, with fhort naked tail.—15. S.
Crijiata. Crfcfted B. Short tailed ; black, with very
long hair on the crown and cheeks ; whitilh breall, and
bare face and hands.—16. S. j4pedia. Little B. Short
tailed ; yellowilh, without callofities behind, with
thumbs (landing clofe to the fingers, and (urnithed with
rounded nails ; the fingers with narrow ones.—17. ^.
Hamadryas, Dog-faced B. I ail gray, with callofities
behind ; (harpilh claws, and the hairs on each fide of
the head very long.—18. -S'. Ferox, Lion-tailed B.
Tailed; black, with very large whitilh fpreading
beard.—19. S. Cynofuros. Pale brown, beardlefs, with
callofities behind, and with longilh fle(h-coloured face ;
a whitiih band acrofs the forehead, and a longifn (harp-
pointed tail.—20. S. Rugata, Wrinkled B. Short¬
tailed, yellowifh brown; whitifh beneath, with flelh-
coloured face, and large blood-red wrinkled callofities
behind.
C. Monkeys. Tails generally long. This fubdi-
vifion contains 42 fpecies, viz.
2i. S. Leonina, Leonine Monkey. Black, with cal¬
lofities behind, very large whitifh beard, and very long
tufted tail.— 22. S. Cynomulgus, Hare-lipped M. Long¬
tailed, beardlefs, with callofities behind, rifing bifid
nollrils, and arched tail.—23. S Veter, Purple-faced
M. Long-tailed ; white, with black beard.—24. S.
Roloway, Rolowuy or Raloure M. Short-tailed, black¬
fill ; white beneath, with triangular face, furrounded
by a white divided beard.— 25. S. Diana, Diana or
Spotted M. Long-tailed, blackilh, freckled with
white ; the hair of the forehead and beard growing in
a pointed form, w-ith a lunated band acrofs the fore¬
head.— 26. -S’. Nafuta, Long-nofed M. Long-tailed,
blackiih-rufty; pale a(h-coloured beneath, with long
naked flefh-coloured face.— 27. S. F/avefcens, Yellowr-
filt M. Long-tailed, bearded, cinereous; yellowy with
black face and ears.—28. S, Sabcea, Green M. Long¬
tailed, yellowfih gray, with black face, and callofities
behind.—29. S. JFjhiops, Mangabey or White-eyelid
M. Long-tailed, beardlefs, with black face *, white
eyelids, white frontal band, and the hair on the fore¬
head upripht.—30. -S’. Cephas, Muftache M. Long¬
tailed, blackfill nifty, whitifti beneath, with bearded
cheeks and yellowfih crown ; red eyelids and whitifh
muzzle.—31. S. NiChtans, White-nofed M. Long¬
tailed, beardlefs, black, freckled with white; the
thumb of the hands very (hort, and no callofities be¬
hind.—32. -S’. Talapoin. Long-tailed, olive-coloured;
bearded cheeks, and black ears, nofe, and foies.—33.
-S'. Maui'a, Negro M. Long-tailed, blackith, with
fwarthy flefh-coloured face and bread, and blackfill
beard.—34. S. Aijgula, Egret M. Long-tailed, beard¬
lefs ; gray, with a rifing longitudinal tuft on the crown.
— 35. S. Rubra, Red M. -Long-tailed, red pale adr-
coloured beneath, with bearded cheeks, and a black or
white band acrofs the forehead.—36. S'. Sinica, Chi-
1 A. 455
nc.'c irx. Beardlefs, pale brown, with the hair of the Hiftory of
crown fpreading round horizontally.—37' Raurif-1 j ,
ta, Vaulting M. Olive black ; white beneath, with a
triangular white fpot on the nofe.—3^- Weata, Bon¬
neted M. Ruily brown, whitifti ; yellow beneath, with
black limbs, and the hair at the head rifing circularly
upwards.—-39. S’. Mona, Varied M. Olive rufty;
white beneath, wdth the cheeks bearded, and a lunated
whitifti band acrofs the forehead.—40. 5. Nafalis, Pro-
bofcis M. Long-tailed, bearded, chefnut colour, with
pale limbs and tail, and a very long nofe.—41. S’. Ne-
niceus, Cochin-China M. Long-tailed, with bearded
cheeks and white tail.—42, ^ Fu/va, lawny M. Sub-
ferruginous, with the lower part of the back orange,
white beneath, with defti-coloured face and ears.—43.
S. Hircina, Goat M. Long-tailed, brown, with blue
furrowed nofe, and long-pointed beard.—44. S’. Coma-
fa, Full-bottom M. Long-tailed, black, with very
long fpreading whitifli hair on tne head, and white tail.——
45. S’. Ferruginea, Bay M. Long-tailed, rufty, with
black limbs and tail.—46. S. Annu/ata, Annotated M.
Rufty brown, whitifti beneath, with annulated tail,
fhorter than the body.—47. S'. Pithecia, Fox-tiuled M.
Blackifh brown, with the tips of the hair whitifti, and
very buftiy tail.—48. S. lacchus. Striated M. Long¬
tailed, with fpreading hairy ears; crooked hairy tail
and (harp claws, thofe on the thumb being rounded.—
49. S’. Oedipus, Red-tailed M. Long, red-tailed, beard*
lefs, with the hair of the head fpreading downwards,
and (harp nails.—50. S. Rofalia, Silky M. Long-tail¬
ed, filky hair, with long hair on the head ; yellow bo>
dy, reddfili round the face, and pointed claws.—51.
S’. Audits, Great-eared M. Long-tailed, black, with
large naked fquare ears, orange- coloured feet, and point¬
ed nails.—5 2. S’. Argentata, Fair M. Long-tailed,
beardlefs, white, with red face and brown tail.—53.
S’. Beehzebul, Preacher M. Bearded, black, the feet
and tip of the tail brown ; tail prehenfile.—54. S’. SW-
niculus. Royal M. Long-tailed, bearded red ; tail
prehenfile.—55. S’. Panifcus, Four-fingered M. Long¬
tailed, bearded, black, with four-fingered feet ; tail
prehenfile.—56. S. Fatuellus, Horned M. Long-tail¬
ed, beardlefs, with two horns like tufts on the head
tail prehenfile.—57. S. Trepida, Fearful M. Long¬
tailed, beardlefs, with upright hair on the head, and
bluifti feet ; tail prehenfile.—58. S. Apella, Weeper -
M. Long-tailed, beardlefs ; brown body, black feet,
and without callofities, ; tail prehenfile.—59. Si Capu-
cina, Capuchin M. Long-tailed, beardiels, without
callofities, with black crown and limbs, and hirfute pre¬
henfile tail.—60. S. Sciurea, Squirrel M. Long-tail¬
ed, yellowifti gray, beardlefs, wdth orange-coloured
hands and feet ; four of the claws, and the hind feet ^
pointed.—61. S. Antigucnfis, Antigua M. Blackifli
brown, white beneath, with black limbs and face,.
bearded cheeks, and brown prehenfile tail.—62. S. Mor-
ta, Naked-tailed M. Long-tailed, beardlefs, brown,
with dulky muzzle, and naked fcaly tail. 2$
Species 1. S. Satyr us. Oran Otan, Wild Man oiSatprus,
the Woods. Chimpanzee, 'Jocho. Taillefs Ape.-—It^ran Ota^s,
is generally believed by naturalifts, that the animals
which have been deferibed under the names given above,
are only varieties of the fame fpecies, differing from
each other in fize, colour, fex, and fome other trifling
(hades of difcrim:Qa‘iQU, Fotu; remarkable fpecimens -
have-
.456 M A M M
Hiftoryof have been defcribed by authors of repute j one by our
t ne Species. COUI1tryman Tyfon j another by Profeffor Allamand 5 a
third by Vofmaer j and a fourth by Edwards.
The oran otan is faid fometiraes to have attained
the height of fix feet : the fpecimens brought into
Europe have feldom exceeded the half of that ftature.
His llrength, however, is very great*, and, in his na¬
tive forefts, it is faid that the moft mufeular man is by
no means a match for him. His colour is ufually a
dufky brown 5 almofi: the whole body, except the feet
and palms of the hands, is covered with hair: but in
Tome varieties the face is faid to be nearly as bare as the
human. Indeed there is no animal which bears fo
ftrong a refeinblance to man as this fpecies. His. hands,
feet, and ears are almoft exadtly human $ and, to a fuper-
ficial obferver, many others of its features fo nearly re¬
ferable thofe of man, that he has been confidered, by
feme writers, as man in his rudeft and moil uncultivat¬
ed ftate. On a clofer examination, however, it has
been found, that there are marks of diftinclion fuffi-
ciently ftrong to overturn an opinion fo humiliating to
the lords of the creation, and to demonftrate, that even
in anatomical flrudlure this animal differs as much
from the moft favage of the human fpecies, as the lat¬
ter does in point of fagacity and reafoning powers from
the moft cultivated European. The no'e of the oran-
otan is flatter, and his mouth wider, than that of the
Negro *, his forehead is more oblique *, his chin has no
elevation at the bafe, his eyes are much nearer each
other, and the diftance betwixt the nofe and the mouth
is much greater than in man. He has alfo no calves
to his legs, and, though he fometimes walks on two,
it is pretty certain that this attitude is not natural to
him. Buffon has afferted that thefe animals always
walk upright, and has made this circumftance one of
the diftinguiftiing chara&ers of his divifion of apes. It
is now, however, generally underftood, that this affer-
tion is too hafty ; and it is the opinion of thofe moft;
capable of judging, that the oran otan, like all
other animals except man, was intended by nature to
w'alk on all fours. See Man.
On the whole it appears that there are two princi¬
pal varieties of this fpecies j one of which has been di-
ftinguifhed by the name of pongo, or great oran otan,
■and the other has been called jocko. The following
^account is given of the pongo by Battel. “ This pon¬
go is all proportioned like a man, but that he is more
like a giant in ftature than a man $ for he is very tall,
and hath a man’s face, hollow-eyed, with long hair
Upon his brows. His face and ears are without hair,
and his hands alfo. He differeth not from man but in
his legs, for they have no calf. He goes always upon
his legs, and carrieth his hands clafped on the nape of
his neck when he goeth upon the ground. They fleep
in the trees and build {belters from the rain. They
feed upon fruit that they find in the woods and upon
nuts, for they eat no kind of flefh. They cannot fpeak,
and have no underftanding more than a beaft. The
people of the country w hen they travel in the woods,
make fires where they fleep in the night *, and in the
morning when they are gone, the pongo will come and
fit about the fire till it goeth out ; fpr they have no
underftanding to lay the rvood together. They go
many together, and kill many negroes that travel in
the wnods. Many times they fall upon the elephants,
3
ALIA.
Fart II.
which come to feed where they be, and fo beat them Primates,
with their clubbed fifts, and pieces of wood, that they' 'v '
will run roaring away from them. Thofe pongoes are
never taken alive, becaufe they are fo ftrong that ten
men cannot hold one of them, but yet they take many
of their young ones with poifoned arrows. The young
pongo hangeth on his mother’s belly, with his hands
clafped about her, fo that when any of the country
people kill any of the females, they take the young one,
which hangeth faft upon his mother * Buffok^
This is almoft the only account which we have of^j’5^^*
the oran otan in its native ftate. The other relations of
its habits and manners are deferiptive of it in a ftate of
captivity, and of thefe rve ftiall prefent our readers with
fome of the moft remarkable.
Mr Buffon gives us the following account of a
jocko, which he faw in France. “ The oran otan
which I faw walked alw7ays on two feet, even when
carrying things of confiderable weight. His air was
melancholy, his gait grave, his movements meafured,
his difpofition gentle, and very different from thofe of
other apes. He had neither the impatience of the Bar¬
bary ape, the malicioufnefs of the baboon, nor the extra¬
vagance of the monkeys. It may be alledged (fays our
author) that he had the benefit of inftruftion $ but the
other apes, which l (hall compare with him, w7ere edu¬
cated in the fame manner. Signs and words were
alone fufficient to make our oran otan aeft *, but the
baboon required a cudgel, and the other apes a whip j
for none of them would obey without blows. I have
feen this animal prefent his hand to conduct the people
who came to vilit him, and w7alk as gravely along with
them as if he had formed a part of the company. I
have feen him fit down at table, unfold his towel, wipe
his lips, ufe a fpooh or a fork to carry the vi&uals to his
mouth, pour his liquor into a glafs, and make it touch
that of the perfon who drank along with him. When
invited to tea, he brought out a cup and faucer, placed
them on the table, poured out the tea, and allowed it
to cool before he drank it. All thefe a£Iions he per¬
formed without any other inftigation than the figns or
verbal orders of his mafter, and often of his ow7n accord.
He did no injury to any perfon j he even approached
company with circumfpedion, and prefented himfelf as
if he wanted to be careffed. He was very fond of dain¬
ties, which every body gave him : and as his breaft was
difeafed, and he was affefled with a teazing cough, this
quantity of fweet-meats undoubtedly contributed toftiort-
en his life. He lived one fummer in Paris, and died in
London the following winter. He ate almoft every
thing, but preferred ripe and dried fruits to all other
kinds of food. He drank a little wine, but fpontaneoufly
left it for milk, tea, or other mild liquors f.” \ Buffon,
Dodtor Tyfon deferibes the oran otan which wasufl^uPra*
exhibited in London about the end of the feventeenth
century as the moft gentle and loving creature that
could be. Thofe that he knew on board the ftiip in
which he was brought to England, he would come
and embrace w’ith the greateft tendernefs, and though
there were other monkeys on board, it w7as obferved
that he would never affociate with any of them, but
always avoided their company as of nothing akin to
them. He wras fometimes dreft in clothes of which he
at length became very fond, would put on part of them
without help, and carry the reft in his hands to fome of
the
Chap. I.
Primates, the company for their afiiftance. He would lie in bed,
' v — lay his head on the pillow, and pull up the bed clothes
* Anatomy t0 keep himfelf warm *.
of a Pigmy. Pere Carbaflbn brought up an oran otan, which
became fo fond of him, that wherever he went it was
always defirous of accompanying him : whenever, there-
iore, he had to perform the fervice of his church, he
was obliged to (hut it up in a room. Once, however,
the animal efcaped and followed the father to the
church, where, mounting on the founding board above
the pulpit, he lay perfectly dill till the fermon com-
. menced. He then crept to the edge of the board, and
overlooking the pteacher, imitated all his gedures in fo
grotefquea manner, that the congregation w’as unavoid¬
ably cauied to laugh. The father furprifed and con¬
founded at this ill-timed levity, reproved his audience
for their inattention. The reproof failed in its effeft ;
the congregation dill laughed, and the preacher in the
warmth of his zeal redoubled his vociferations and his
aciions; thefe the ape fo exaflly imitated, that the con*
gregation could no longer redrain themfelves, but burd
into a l®ud and continued laughter. A friend of the
preacher at length depped up to him, and pointed out
the caufe of this improper conduft; and fuch was the
arch demeanour of the animal, that it was with the ut-
mod difficulty he could command his countenance and
keep himfelf apparently ferious, while he ordered the
fervant of the church to take the ape away.
Perhaps one of the mod intereding accounts of the
oran otan is that given by Vofmaer, and with this
we (hall clofe our hidory of this fpecies.
See Tig. r. “ This animal (fays M. Vofmaer) was a female ; its
Plate CCCI.height was about two Rbeniih feet and a half. It (hew¬
ed no fymptoms of fiercenefs or malignity, and was
even of a fomewhat melancholy appearance. It was
fond of being in company, and diowed a preference of
thofe who took daily care of it, of which it feemed to
be fenfible. Often when they retired, it would throw
itfelf on the ground, uttering lamentable cries, and
tearing in pieces the linen within its reach. Its keep¬
er having fometimes been accuflomed to fit near it on
the ground, it took the hay of its bed, and laid it by
its fide, and feemed by every demondration to invite
him to be feated near. Its ufual manner of walking
was on all fours, like other apes, but it could alfo
walk on its two hind feet only. One morning it got
unchained, and we beheld it with wonderful agility af-
cend the beams and rafters of the building •, it was not
without feme pains that it was retaken, and we then
remaiked an extraordinary mufcular power in the ani¬
mal, the afiidance of four men being necedary to hold
it in fuch a manner as to be properly fecured. During
its date of liberty it had among other things taken a cork
from a bottle of Malaga wine, which it drank to the
lad drop, and had fet the bottle in its place again. It
ate almod every thing which wTas given to it ; but its
chief food wTas bread, roots, and efpecially carrots, all
iorts of fruits, efpecially drawberries j and it appeared
extremely fond of aromatic plants, and of the leaves
and roots ofpardey. It alfo ate meat, both boiled and
roaded, as well as fi(h. It was not obferved to bunt
jor infefls like other monkeys, was fond of eggs, w'hich
it broke w'ith its teeth, and fucked completely j but fi(h
and roaded meat feemed its favourite food. It had
been taught to eat with a fpoon and a fork. When
Xou XII. Part II.
prefented with diawbernes on .a plate, it was extreme- Hiftnry of
ly pleafant to fee the animal take them up one by one fhe sPeclcs;
with a fork, and put them into its mouth, holding at v
the fame time the plate in the other hand. Its com¬
mon drink w7as water, but it alfo very willingly drank
all forts of wine, and particularly Malaga. After
drinking, it wiped its lips j and after eating, if prefent¬
ed wdth a toothpick, wmuld ufe it in a proper manner.
I W’as affured (continues our writer), that on (hipboard
it ran freely about the veffel, played with the failors,
and would go like them into the kitchen for its mefs.
At the approach of night, it lay dowm to deep, and
prepared its bed by (baking well the hay on which it
d;pt, and putting it in proper order, and laftly cover¬
ing itfelf with the coverlet. One day feeing the pad¬
lock of its chain opened W'ith a key, and (hut again, it
feized a little bit of (lick, and put it into the key-hole,
turning it about in all diredlions, endeavouring to fee
whether the padlock would open or not. This animal
lived feven months in Holland. On its firft arrival it
.had but very little hair except on its back and arms;
but on the approach of winter it became extremely well
covered ; the hair on the back being three inches in
length. The whole animal then appeared of a chefnut
colour ; the (kin of the face, &c. was of a moufe colour,
but about the eyes and round the mouth, of a dull flefli
colour.” It came from the ifiand of Borneo, and was
after its death depofited in the mufeum of the prince of
Orange. 29
3. S. Inuus. Magot, Barbary Ape.—This fpecies is
confidered by fome naturaliils as forming the conned- Barbary
ing link between the ape, properly fo called, and the p-^e'„
baboons. Like the latter it has pofferior callofities, and **
though it properly has no tail, it is furnifhed w’itb an
appendage of (kin in the place wkere the tail is fituated
in other fpecies. The hair on the greateft part of its
body is of a greenilh brown, the belly being paler than
the reft ; the face is of a fwarthy flefti-colour, and the
fingers and toes are furnifhed with nails refembling
thofe of the human fpecies.
It is found mod commonly in Barbary and fome
other parts of Africa as far as the Cape of Good Hope,
and it is alfo occafionally met with in Tartary, in Ara-
bia, and in fome parts of the Indian peninfula.
It is probable that Tavernier alludes to this fpecies, in
the account he gives of a cuftom amongft fome of the
inhabitants of India of amufing themfelves at the expence
of the ape. Thefe people place five or fix bafkets of
rice, forty or fifty yards afunder, in an open ground near
their retreat, and by every balket put a number of (lout
cudgels, each about two feet long ; they then retire to
fome hiding place not far diftant, to w’ait the event.
When the apes obferve no perfon near the balkets,
they foon defeend in great numbers from the trees, and
run towards them : they grin at each other for fome
time before they dare approach ; fometimes they ad¬
vance, then retreat feeming much difinclined to en¬
counter. At length the females, which are more
courageous than the males, efpecially thofe that have
young ones (which they carry in their arms as women
do their children), venture to approach the balkets,
and as they are about to thruft their heads in to eat,
the males on the one fide advance to hinder them.
Immediately the other party comes forward ; and the feud
being kindled on both fides, the combatants feize the
3 M cudgels,
M A M M ALIA.
45^
Hiftory of cudgels, and commence a mofi; fevere fight, which al
the Species
3°
'Ivanvs,
Pigmy.
Fig- 3‘
ways ends with the weakefi; being driven into the
woods, with broken heads and limbs. The vigors, he
tells us, then fall to in peace, and devour the reward of
their labour.
Of all the apes this agrees beft with the temperature
of an European climate, and may eafily be kept in a
ftate of domeflication. Buffon had one which he kept
for feveral years. In fummer he delighted to be in the
open air, and in winter he appeared fufficiently com¬
fortable in a room without a fire, which (howed he was
by no means delicate. He was always of a grave de¬
portment, and fometimes dirty in his manner. His
movements were brifk, and his countenance rather ugly
than ridiculous. When agitated with paflion, he exhi¬
bited and grinded his teeth. He filled the pouches of
his cheeks with the food which was given him, and ge¬
nerally ate every thing except raw’ flelli, cheefe, and
whatever had undergone a kind of fermentation. WThen
about to fleep, he loved to perch upon an iron or wood¬
en bar. He was always chained, becaufe though he
had been long in a domeftic ftate he was not civilized,
and had no attachment to his mailers. He feems to
have been ill educated, for Buffon had feen others of
the fame fpecies more intelligent, more obedient, more
gay, and fo docile as to learn to dance and make gelti-
culations in cadence, and to allow themfelvcs peaceably
to be clothed.
The flefh of this fpecies is ufed as food by the wild
Arabs.
4. S. Sylvanus. Pitheque. Pigmy.—This fpecies
greatly refembles the laft, except that its head is round¬
er, and that it is much inferior in fize, being feldom
larger than a cat. It is thought by Mr Pennant to be
the pigmy of the ancients-, or one of that nation which
was by them fuppofed to carry on periodical wars with
the cranes. It is a native of Africa, and is alfo found
in the Eafl Indies and in Ceylon. They affociate in
troops, and live chiefly on vegetable food. They are
often found walking eredf. They are faid to be very
malicious and fpiteful.
We are told by Marmol that they go in troops into
the gardens or fields but before they leave the thickets,
one of them afcends an eminence from which he views
the country $ and w-hen he fees no perfon, he gives the
fignal by a cry for the red to proceed, and removes not
from his flation as long as they continue abroad : but
whenever he perceives any perfon approaching, he
fcreams w’ith a loud voice, and by leaping from tree to
tree they all fly to the mountains. Their flight is
worthy of admiration 5 for the females, though they
carry four or five young ones on their backs, make
great fprings from branch to branch. Though extreme¬
ly cunning, vafl numbers of them are taken- by dif¬
ferent arts. When wild they bite defperately, but by
careffes they are eafdy tamed. They'do much mif-
chief to the fruits and corn j for they gather it together
in heaps, cut it, and throw it on the ground whether it
be ripe or not, and deftroy more than they eat or carry
off. Thofe who are tamed perform things incredible,
•and imitate every human adlion.
They chiefly refide in caverns, which gives the na¬
tives an eafy opportunity of taking them alive. For
this purpofe the natives place veffels containing intoxi-
cating liquors in the caverns frequented by the apes,
M A M M A L I A. part II
and thefe animals affemble tegcther to drink thefe li- Primates.
quors. After having become intoxicated, they fall     
afleep, and are eaiily taken by the hunters. 31
5. S. Sphinx. Great baboon. P apian. Mottled sphinx,
baboon.—This is a very large fpecies, meafuring when Ba~
fitting on its pofleriors, three or four feet high. It isjv"4,
very ftrong and mufcular, efpecially towards the fore
parts of the body 5 but its waift, as is common to all
the baboons, is {lender. All the nails are not pointed,
thofe on the thumbs and great toes being rounded.
The tail is fliort and thick, and rounded ; the pofteriors
are perfectly bare and callous, and of a red colour.
The baboon is a native of Borneo, and of the hotteft
parts of the African continent. It lives chiefly on ve¬
getables, but is faid to be very fond of eggs. The fe¬
male brings forth one young at a time, anfl carries it in
her arms.
From the great fize and firength of thefe animals they
are not a little formidable ; and as their natural difpofi-
tion is very ferocious, it is dangerous to encounter any
number of them in their native wilds.
The baboons are paflionately fond of raifins, apples,
and in general of all fruits which grow in gardens.
Their teeth and paws render them formidable to dogs,
who overcome them with difficulty, - unlefs when eating
has made them heavy and ina&ive. Buffon has remarked
that they neither eat fifh nor flefh, except when boiled
or roafted, and then they devour both with avidity. In
their expeditions to rob orchards, gardens, or vineyards,
they generally go in troops. Some of them enter the
inclofure, while others remain on the w-alls as fentinels
to give notice of any approaching danger. The reff of
the troop are ftationed without the garden, at conveni¬
ent diftances from each other, and thus form a line,
which extends from the place of pillage to that of their
rendezvous. Matters being difpofed in this manner,
the baboons begin the operation, and throw to thofe on
the wall melons, gourds, apples, pears, &c. Thofe on
the W’alls throw’ thefe fruits to their neighbours below’ j
and thus the fpoils are handed along the whole line,
which generally terminates on fome mountain. They
are fo dexterous and quick flighted, that they fleldom allow’
the fruit to fall in throwing it from one to another.
All this is performed with profound filence and great
defpatch. When the fentinels perceive any perfon, they
cry, and at this fignal the whole troop fly off with
aftonifliing rapidity.
In confinement the great baboon lofes nothing of his
native ferocity. He is indeed one of the moil un¬
manageable of his tribe, grinding his teeth, putting on
a threatening afpedf, and fhaking the bars of his cage
fo as often to make the fpedlators tremble. Mr Smellie
fpeaks of one that he faw at Edinburgh in 5779, that
was remarkable for its fize, ftrength, and beautiful
colours. He was nearly five feet high, and w as exceflive-
ly fierce, prefenting uniformly to the fpedlators a moft
threatening afpedl, and attempting to feize every perfon
that came within the length of his chain. On fuch oc-
caiions he made a deep grunting noife, and w’as perpe¬
tually tofiing up his head. This feems to have been
the iame animal that is defer!bed by Mr Pennant as
having been feen by him at Chefler about two months
after the time mentioned by Mr Smellie. He was par¬
ticularly fond of cheefe ; his voice was a kind of roar
not unlike that of a lion, but low and fo roe what inward.
It
Chap.
I.
M A M M ALIA.
459
32.
Nemfjtri-
na, Pig-
tailed Ba¬
boon.
33
Beelx-ebvl,
Preachef
Monkey.
Fig- 5-
Primates. It went on all-fours, and never flood on its bind legs
'—-v   unlefs forced to do lb by its keeper. He would fre¬
quently fit on his rump in a crouching poflure, and drop
* Smellie's his hands before his belly *.
Buffon, it is not a little extraordinary that an animal of this
vol. vni. difpofition fliould be kept in private houfes as a pet,
efpecially tvhen we conflder the mifehiefs that they
often commit. Hr Goldfmith fays that he has leen one
of them demolifli a whole fervice of china, without ap¬
pearing in the leaf! confcious of having done amiis,
though the mifehief was -evidently intentional.
14, S. Nemejlnna. Pig-tailed baboon.—Olive brown,
with fliort naked tail.
This is but a fmall fpecies, feldom exceeding the fize
of a cat. The tail exaftly refembles that of a pig. It
is a native of Sumatra, and is very lively and a&ive.
He is fometimes feen in an exhibition in this countiy,
but feldom lives long in a climate fo much colder than
his own. • • 1
Mr Edwards had a male of this fpecies: it lived with
him for a year, and was about the fize of a common
houfe cat. Another of the fame fpecies being at that
time exhibited at Bartholomew fair in London, Mr
Edwards carried his to compare with it j and he remarks
that they feemed highly plealed with each others com¬
pany, though this u as the firft time of their meeting.
53. S. Beelzebul. Preacher monkey.—This fpecies
is found in great numbers in the woods of South Ame¬
rica, efpecially in Guiana and Brafil. It is the largeft
of the American monkeys, being about the fize of a
fox, and of a gloify black colour. There is in the
throat of this animal a hollow bony fubftance, which is
fuppofed to produce that peculiar dreadlul howl for
which this animal and the next fpecies are fo remark¬
able. They are exceedingly mifehievous and fpiteful,
and if attacked they bite cruelly. They ufually keep
together in parties of from 20 to 30, rambling over the
tops of the trees, and leaping with great agility from
one tree to another. If they fee any one approach
alone, they always teaze and threaten him.
Marcgrave informs us that they affemble every
morning and evening in the woods ot Brazil, and make
a moft dreadful howling. Sometimes one cf them
mounts on a higher branch, and the reft leat themfelves
beneath : the firft begins, as it were to harangue, and
lets up a howl lo loud and (harp as to be heard to a
great diftance : after a while, he gives a fignal with his
haqd, when the whole affembly joins in chorus ; but on
another fignal they are again filent, and the orator
fipilhes his addrefs. Their clamour is the moft dif-
agreeable and tremendous that can be conceived.
They are extremely fagacious ; and when hunted,
not only diftinguiih particularly thofe who are active
againft them, but defend themfelvcs vigoroully when
attacked. When the hunters approach, the monkeys
aflemble together, uttering loud and fearful cries, and
throwing at their affailants dried branches which they
wrench from the trees. It is faid that they never
abandon each other, and that in palling from tree to
tree they fling themfelves headlong from one branch to
another without ever falling to the ground, ahvays
catching hold either with their hands or tail. If they
are not at once flint dead it is fcarcely pqflible to
tike them, as, though mortally w’ourxled, they cling io
firmly to the trees as tes maintain their hold even after Hiftory of
J the Species.
death.
Macaucos.
34
Lemur.
Gen. 2. Lemur.
Four front teeth in the upper jaw, the intermediate be-'
ing remote 5 fix in the lower jaw, longer, ftretched
forwards, compreffed, parallel and approximated. Ca¬
nine teeth folitary and approximated. Grinders fublo-
bated, the foremoft of them being rather longer and
flrarper than the reft.
The animals of this genus refemble the monkey tribe
in the ufe of their hands, but they are much lefs mif¬
ehievous and ferocious than that tribe. None of them,
except the indri, bears any refemblance to man ; but in
this fpecies the arms, hands, body, and feet, are very fi-
milar to the human. A few’ of them are taillefs, but
moft of them have long tails.
They are harmlefs inoffenfive creatures, live chiefly
in wmods, and feed on fruits, vegetables, or infefts.
At leaf! one fpecies, viz. the 1 2th, ferves for food to the
natives of the countries where it is found.
There are i 3 fpecies which are diftinguifhed by the
following names and characters:
1. Lemur Tardigradus. Slow’ Lemur. Taillefs; of a
rufty afb colour, with a brown dorfal line ; very fmall
ears.—2. L. Loris. Loris. Taillefs ; of a rufty afh
colour, with extremely flender limbs, and large ears.
— 3. Z. Indri. Indri. Taillefs ; black grayifh beneath,
with the face and fpace round the anus whitifh,—
4. L. Potto. Potto. Tailed ; fubfervuginous.—5. L.
Mongoz. Mongoz or Woolly L. Long-tailed ; gray
brown.— 6. L. Macaco. Ruffed L. Tailed ; black,
with the neck bearded like a ruff.—7* Laniger,
Flocky L. Tailed ; pale tawney, white beneath, with
rufty tail.*—8. L. Catta. Ring tailed L. Tail long,
and annulated with black and white.—9. L. Bicolor.
Heart-marked L. Long-tailed; blackifh white be¬
neath, with a white heart-fhaped fpot on the forehead.
— xo. L.TarJier. Tarfier. Long-tailed; afh-colour-
ed ; with flender almoft naked tufted tail ; and very
long hinder feet.— ri. L. Murinus. Tail long, and
rufty; body afh coloured.—12. L. Ca/ago. Whitifh L.
Tail long and rufty; body whitifh, gray beneath.—
13. Z. PJilodactijlus. Leng-fingered L. Afh-ferrugi-
nous, with extremely villofe tail, and the middle finger
of the hands very long and naked.
x. Z. Lardigradus. Slow Lemur.—This animal is Tardi'gra-
about the fize of a fmall cat, w’ith the body of an ele- dus, Slow
gant pale brown or moufe-colour ; a flattifti face, ex- Ljnur’
tremely prominent eyes, that are furrounded w’ith a °'
circle of dark brown, and a fharpifh nofe. Of its man¬
ner in its native ftate we know almoft nothing, but
in a ftate of domeftication. it has been accurately ob-
ferved.
The late Sir William Jones had one of thefe animals
iu his poflefTion for feme time, and has given a very
interefting account of its form and manners. This was
publifhed in the Afiatic Refearches, from which we
lhall extraCl the moft interefting particulars.
“ In his manners he was for the moft part gentle, ex¬
cept in the cold feafon, when his temper feeraed wholly
changed ; and his Creator who made him fo fenfible to
cold, to which he muft often have been expofed even
in his native fartfts, gave him probably for that re a fen,
3 M ,2
35
/
460
M-A M M
Hiftoiyof Ills thick fur, which we laref^ fee in animals in thefe
y6 ^^eCies,‘ tropical climates : to me, who not only conftantly fed
him, but bathed him twice a-week in water accommo¬
dated to the feafons, and whom he clearly diftinguiflied
from others, he was at all times grateful; but when I
diflurbed him in winter, he was ufually indignant, and
feemed to reproach me with the uneafinefs which he
felt, though no poffible precaution had been omitted
to keep him in a proper degree of warmth. At all times
he was pleafed with being ftroaked on the head and
throat, and frequently fuffered me to touch his extreme¬
ly fliarp teeth j but his temper was always quick, and
when he was unfeafonably difturbed, he exprelTed a lit¬
tle refentment, by an obfcure murmur, like that of a
fquirrel, or a greater degree of difpleafure by a peevilh
cry, efpecially in winter, when he was often as fierce,
on being much importuned, as any bead of the woods.
“ From half an hour after funrife to half an hour be¬
fore funfet, he flept without intermiffion, rolled up like
a hedgehog j and, as foon as he awoke, he began to
prepare himfelf for the labours of his approaching day,
licking and drefling himfelf like a cat; an operation
which the flexibility of his neck and limbs enabled him
to perform very completely : he was then ready for a
flight breakfaft, after which he commonly took a flrort
nap ; but when the fun was quite fet he recovered all
his vivacity.
“ His ordinary food was the fweet fruit of this coun-
try ; plantains always, and mangoes during the feafon 5
but he refufed peaches, and was not fond of mulberries,
or even of guaiavas: milk he lapped eagerly, but was
content with plain water. In general he was not vora¬
cious, but never appeared fatisfied with grafshoppers ;
and paired the whole night, while the hot feafon lafted,
in prowling for them : when a grafshopper, or any in-
fe£l, alighted within his reach, his eyes, which he fixed
on his prey, glowed with uncommon fire 5 and having
drawn himfelf back to fpring on it with greater force,
he feized the prey with both his fore paws, but held it
in one of them wdrile he devoured it. For other pur-
pofes, and fometimes even for that of holding his food,
lie ufed all his paws indifferently as hands, and fre¬
quently grafped with one of them the higher parts of
his ample cage, while his three others were feverally
engaged at the bottom of it ; but the pofture of which
he feemed fondeft was to cling with all four of them
to the upper wires, his body being inverted ; and in the
evening he ufually flood erefl for many minutes, play¬
ing on the 'ires with his fingers, and rapidily moving
his body from hde to fide, as if he had found the uti¬
lity of exercife in his unnatural ftate of confinement.
“ A little before daybreak, when my early hours
gave me frequent opportunities of obferving him, he
feemed to folicit my attention ; and if I prefented my
finger to him, he licked or nibbled it with great gentle-
nefs, but eagerly took fruit when I offered it, though
he fe1dcm ate much at his morning repaft ; when the
day brought back his night, his eyes loft their luftre
and ftrer.gth, and he compofed himfelf for a flumber of
ten or eleven hours.
“ My little friend was, on the whole, very en¬
gaging ; and when* he was found lifelefs in the fame
poll’ re m which he would naturaliy have fkpt, I con-
fijiled myfeif with believing that he died without much
ALIA. parj jj
pain, and lived with as much pleafure as he could have Primates-
enjoyed in a ftate of captivity.” 1 '
Its pace is exceedingly How, fcarcely moving above
fix or eight yards in a minute \ whence its name,
It is of confiderable importance in a phyfiological
point of view, to inveftigate the ftrmW of thefe flow-
moving animals, fuch as the fpecies juft deferibed, and
the (loth to be afterwards mentioned. An anatomical
examination of the blood-veffels in the limbs of this
ipecies by Mr Carlifle has thrown confiderable light on
the connedion of flow motion with a particular dirtri-
bution of the arteries in the flow-moving limbs ; this dif-
tribution is thus deferibed by Mr Carlifle. “ Imme¬
diately after the fubclavian has penetrated the axilla it
is divided into 23 equal-fized cylinders, which furround
the principal trunk of the artery, now diminiihed in fize
to an inconfiderable vellel. Thefe cylindrical arteries
accompany each other, and divide with the ulnar and
radial branches, being diftributed in their route upon
the mufcles, each of which has one of thefe cylinders.
Ihe other branches, for example the radial and ulnar,
proceed like the arteries in general, difperfing themfelves
upon the fkm, the membranes, joints, bones, Sec. in an
aroorefeent form. 1 he iliac artery divides upon the
margin of the pelvis into upwards of twenty equal-fized
cylinders, furrounding the main trunk as deferibed in the
axillary artery. Thefe veffels are alfo finally diftr'-
cuted, as in the upper extremity ; the cylinders wholly
upon the mufcles and the arborefeent branches on all the
other parts. The carotid arteries do not divide the
equal-fized cylinders, but are diftributed as in the gene¬
rality of animals
Sba’w i
Gt~> „ Zoology,
en. 3. Galeopithfxus. Calugo. voli.
Front teeth in the upper jaw wanting ; in the lower fix, Gaieopitta-
fhort, broad and pefhnated. Canine teeth very fho t, cus.
triangular, broad, (harp and ferrated. Grinders four’
truncated, and muricated with conical protuberances.
Flying-Ikin furrounding the body, limbs, and tail.
Th pre is only one fpecies, viz.
G. Voians. Flying Calugo, or Flying Lemur.—This „ 37
is one of thofe extraordinary quadrupeds whom nature yiSZ’l, .
has raifed above their ufual element, and enabled them mur.
to tranfport themfelves through the air in a manner which, Fig. 8.
though it cannot ftri£tly be denominated flying, is at
leaft very fimilar to it. The body of the flying lemur
is about three feet long-, but, except when the mem¬
brane is expanded, it is very flender. It has a (lender
tail, about a fpan long. The membrane, which ex¬
tends from the neck to the fore legs, hind legs, and
tail, is covered with fur, but appears membranaceous
on the inner fide. The upper fide of the animal is of a
deep afti colour, inclining to black when young, and
the back is croffcd tranfvei fely with blackifh lines. Its
head is long, its mouth fmall, and its teeth differ from
thofe of every other quadruped hitherto examined. The
cutting teeth in the lower jaw are deeply cut like a
comb ; the canine teeth, as Pallas calls them, (though
Geoffrey thinks they are more properly cutting teeth),
are triangular, very broad at the bale, and very fhort.
The caecum or large intefline is very voluminous.
It is a native of the Molucca and Philippine iflands,
frequents weedy places, and feeds 011 fruits, and pro¬
bably
\
*
Chap. T.
Primates, bamy on infecls. It almoft conftantly refides on trees j
v—^ 1 in defcending from which it fpreads its membranes, and
balances itfelf in a gentle manner towards the place at
which it aims, but in afcending it ufes a leaping pace.
It brings forth two young, which are faid to adhere
to the breads of the parent by their teeth and claws.
Geoiffoy and Cuvier make two varieties or fpecies of
this genus, viz. G. R'/fas, Red Calugo; and G. r a-
riegatus, Varied Calugo :—but theie are probably no
more than fexual differences.
Vefpertilio. Genus 4. Vespertilto. Bjts.
Teeth ereft, {harp-pointed, and approximated ; hands
palmated ; with a membrane furrounding the body,
and enabling the animal to Hy.
The animals of this genus have their atlantal extre¬
mities exceedingly long, efpecially what may be termed
the fingers ; and the delicate membrane that is ftretched
over them is fo contrived, as to form a wing when the
animals wifir to fly, and to fold up into a fmall fpace
when they are at reff. All the fpecies have two breaffs,
more or lefs confpicuous, to which the young adhere.
They have no caecum.
The Bats are natives of very different regions j three
of them are found in Britain, and feveral in the warmer-
regions of Afia and Africa -, one in the Weft Indies,
and a few in America. Thofe of warm climates are
ufually very large. Thofe which inhabit the colder re¬
gions lie all winter in a torpid ftate, without tailing nou-
riftrment. The fmaller fpecies live chieffy on infe&s
which they feize in their flight 5 but the larger attack
birds, or even the leffer quadrupeds.
From fome experiments made by the abbe Spallan¬
zani, on three fpecies of this genus, it appears that thefe
animals pcffefs fome additional fenfe, by which they are
enabled, when deprived of fight, to avoid obfhcles as
readily as when they retained the power of vifion.
When the eyes of theie bats were covered, or even en¬
tirely deftroyed, they would fly about in a darkened
room, without linking again!! the walls, and would
conftantly iufpend their flight, when they came near a
place where they could conveniently perch. In the
middle of a dark fewer that turned at right angles,
they would, though at a conliderabie diftance from the
walls, regularly alter the direction of their flight with
the greateft nicety, when they came to the angles.
When branches of trees were lufpended in the room in
which they were flying, they always avoided them, and
even flew betwixt threads bung perpendicularly from
the ceiling, though thefe were fo near each other that
they were obliged to contrafl their wings in order to
pafs through them.
Thefe experiments were repeated by Vaffali at Turin,
by Rofli at Pifa, Spadon at Bologna, and Turin at
Geneva. M. Turin conceives that no other of the five
fenfes could, in thefe inftances, fupply the place of fight j
and as, from fome anatomical obfervations that he made
on thefe animals, he found a prodigious number of
irerves expanded on the upper jaws, the muzzle, and
the organ of hearing, he conceived that thofe nervous
produdTions would account for the extraordinary faculty
above defcribed. From fome obfervations made by
Mr Carlille on this fubje£l, it appears probable that th<5
ienfe of hearing, which in the bat is uncommonly de-
461
licate, enables thefe animals when blinded, to avoid Hiflory of
tbofe objefts which would impede their flight, 1 his jnc Sp-Cie-*
gentleman collefted fa al fpecimens of the vefpertilio
auritus or large-eared bat, and obferved, that when the
external ears of the blinded ones were clofed, they hit
againll the fides of the rcom, without being at all
aware of their fituation. They refufed every fpecies of
food four days, as did a larger number which were af¬
terwards caught and preferved in a dark box for above
a week. During the day time they were extremely
defirous of retirement and darknefsj and, while con¬
fined to the box, never moved or endeavoured to get out
during the whole day *, and, when fpread on the carpet,
they commonly relied fome minutes, and then beginning
to look about, crawled (lowly to a dark corner or cre¬
vice. At funfet the feene was quite changed : every
one then endeavoured to fcratch its way out of the box;
a continued chirping was kept up ; and no fooner was
the lid of their prifon opened, than each was adtive to
efcape, either flying away immediately, or running nim¬
bly to a convenient place for taking wing. When
the bats were firft colledled, feveral of the females had
young ones clinging to their breads, in the adl of fuck¬
ing. One of them flew with perfedt eafe, though two
little ones were thus attached to her, which weighed
nearly as much as their parent. All the young were
devoid of down, and of a black colour *. * ^ 7ZL*S
Many of the larger fpecies of bats attack men and ZcchjVy
other animals when afleep, make a flight wound withvol i.
their (harp teeth fo dexteroully as not to awaken their
vidlim, and then fuck the blood. This property is at¬
tributed chiefly to one fpecies, which we lhall par¬
ticularly notice prefently ; but it is probably poffeffed
by molt of the larger bats- that inhabit the warm cli¬
mates.
Some of the fpecies may be employed as food.
There are defcribed about 24 fpecies of Bats j, and
as they are fo numerous, they may be diftrib*ted into ■
two ledtions, as the tailed, and the tadlefs,
A. Tailed Bats, of which there are 18 j viz.
I. * Vefpertiiio murinus, Common B. Nofe inappendi-
culated ; ears Ihorter than the head.— 2.* V. Auritus,
Long-eared B. Nofe inappendiculated; ears larger
than the head, and double.—3. V. NoHula. Nodtule B.
Nofe and mouth Ample ; oval ears and very fmall valves.
—4. V. Ferrum equinum, Horfe-lhoe B. Nofe horfe-
Ihoe lhape; ears, valve leffer; tail half as long as the
body.—5. V. Serotinus, Serotine B. Ycllownh, with
Ihortemarginateears.—6. PipiftrellusBlack-
ilh brown, with convex front,. and ovate emarginated
ears, fcarcely longer than the head.—7. V, Barbajlel-
lus, Barballelle. Cheeks elevated,, hairy j ears large,,
angulated below.—8. Lajiopterus, Lafiopter B. Mem¬
brane connedting the feet extremely broad, covered
above with hair.—9. V. Lajiurus, Rough-tailed B. Lips
tumid ; tail broad and hairy.—10. V. Cephalotes, Mo¬
lucca B. Yellovvilh gray, with large head-, fpiral no-
ftrils, fmall valvelefs ears.—11. V. Pictus. Striped B.
Nofe Ample 5 ears funnel-lhaped, appendiculated.—
12. Noveboracenjis, New-York B. Tail ^ong, rufty ;
noie Ihort and lharp j ears Ihort and round, w-ith a white
fpot at the bafe of each wing.—13. Htfpidus, Bearded
B.—Hairy, with channelled noftrils, and long narrow
ears.—14. V. Auripendulus, Slouch-eared B. Nofe
blunty j
M A M M ALIA.
462
Hiltory of blu’Jt •, ears large ^nd pendent, xvith pointed tips.—
the Speeics. j ^ V. Lepturus, Slender-tailed B. Noftrils tubular;
tail llender, with a puiTe-lhaped cavity on the infide of
each wing.—16. V. Nigrita, Senegal B. Yellowifh
brown, with the forepart of the head, feet and tail
black.—17. V. MoloJJus, Bull-dog B. Upper lip pendu¬
lous ; tail ftretching beyond the connecting membrane.
18. V. Leporinus, Peruvian B. Upper lip bifid.
B. Tailless Bats ; of which there are 6; viz.
19. V. Spafma, Cordated B. A double heart-fhaped
leaf-like membrane on the nofe.—20. V. Soricinus, Leaf
B. Snout lengthened, furnifhed with a heart-fhaped
leaf-like membrane.— 21. V, Hq/latus, Javelin B. Nofe
furnifhed with a trefoil-fhaped upright membrane—
22. V. Nafutus, Great Serotine B. Rufty, with long
Hoping nofe, and long upright rounded ears.— 23. V.
Spe£tnim, SpeCtre B. Nofe furnifhed with a funnel-
fhaped pointed membrane.—24. Vampyrtis, Vampyre
B. Nofe without appendage ; dying membrane divi¬
ded between the thighs.
After having faid fo much on the general flruClure
and habits of this genus, we ihall briefly notice only
two of the fpecies.
'iuriitK Species 2. V. Aitritus, Long-eared B.—This is
Long-eared one m°d common fpecies of Britain, and may
Bat. be feen flying through the air in the evenings of fum-
Fig- 9* mer and autumn, in fearch of infeCls. It is about two
inches long, and feven from the tip of one wing to
that of the other. Its ears are half as long as its body,
very thin, and almoli tranfparent, and within each
there is a membrane which probably ferves as a valve
to defend the organ of hearing during the inadive flate
of the animal. Thefe bats are fometimes taken by
throwing up at them the heads of burdock whitened
■with flour. The animals either miftaking thefe for
prey, or accidentally ftriking againft them, are entang¬
led by the hooked prickles, and brought to the ground.
This is one of the fpecies that remains in a torpid Hate
during winter. x\t the end of fummer they retire to
their hiding places in old buildings, walls, or caverns,
where they remain, generally in great numbers, fuf-
pended by the hind legs, and enveloped in their wings,
till the genial warmth of fummer again calls them
forth. Thefe animals are faid to drink on the wing
like fwallows, and they love to frequent waters, partly
for the fake of drinking, and partly to prey on the in-
fbcls which hover over them. As Mr White was go¬
ing pretty late on a xvarm fummer’s evening, in a boat
on the Thames, ffom Richmond to Sunbury, he faw
prodigious multitudes of bats between the two places ;
and he fays, that the air fwarmed with them all round
the Thames, fo that hundreds were in fight at a time.
Bats are fuppofed to produce two young at a birth, and
thefe they fuckle for a confiderable time. The young,
when recently born, adhere mofi: tenacioufly to the nip¬
ple of the parent, fo as not to be removed without great
difficulty.
This animal is capable of being to a certain degree
domeilicated ; and we are told by Mr White, that
he was Once much amufed with the fight of a tame
bat. “ It would, fays he, take flies out of a perfon’s
hand. If you gave it any thing to eat, it brought
its wings round before the mouth •, hovering and hi¬
ding its head in the manner of birds of prey when
M A M M A L I A.
Part II.
they feed. The adroitnefs it laewed in {hearing off Primates,
the wings of flies (which were always rejefted) was
worthy of obfervation, and pleafed me much. Infers
feertied to be moft acceptable, though it did not re-
fufe raw flefh when offered ; fo that the notion that
bats go down chimneys, and gnaw people’s bacon, feem$
no improbable ftory. While I amufed myfelf with this
wonderful quadruped, I fawT it feveral times confute the
vulgar opinion, that bats, when down on a flat furface,
cannot get on the wing again, by rifing with great eafe
from the floor. It ran, I obferved, with more difpatch
than I was aware of, hut in a moft ridiculous and gro-
tefque manner.*” * White*f
Species -24. V. Vampyrus. Varrffiyre Bat.—This is Selbome.
one of the largefl fpecies, being about a foot long,„ 4°
and nearly four feet in the extent of its wings; it is v^mppe''''
fometimes found even larger, and of the extent of fix Bat. "
feet between the wings. Its colour is generally aFig 10.
deep reddiffi brown ; its head is fliaped like that of a
fox, the nofe being fhar'p and black, and the tongue
pointed, and terminated by fharp prickles. The ears
are naked, flattifh, and pointed; and in colour re-
fembling thofe of the common bat. Thefe animals
are faid not to be carnivorous, but live principally upon
fruit; and are fo fond of the juice of the palm tree,
that they will fuck it till they are intoxicated, and
fall motionlefs to the ground. They often hang toge¬
ther in vaft clutters in hollow trees, or from the boughs
of trees, and make a horrid noife. They are found in
the Friendly iflands, New-Holland, in South America,
and in the Eaft Indies.
Linnaeus has given to this fpecies the name Vampy¬
rus, from the idea that this is the principal fpecies that
fucks the blood of people when afleep. It is not cer¬
tain whether the bat by which Captain Stedman was
attacked, while in Surinam, be this fpecies; but his ac¬
count of the accident is fo diverting, that we ffiall give
it in his own words. “ I cannot here (fays he) forbear
relating a fingular circumftance reipeftiog myfelf, viz.
that on waking about four o’clock one morning in my
hammock, I was extremely alarmed at finding my¬
felf weltering in congealed blood, and without feeling
any pain whatever. Having ftarted up, and rung for
the furgeon, with a fire-brand in one hand, and all
over befmeared with gore; to which, if added, my psle
face, ffiort hair, and tattered apparel, he might well afk
the queftion,
‘ Be thou a fpirit of health, or goblin damn’d,
Bring with thee airs from heaven, or blaifs from hell
The myflery, however, was, that I had- been bitten
by the vampire or fpeBre of Guiana, which is called
the flying dog of New Spain, and by the Spaniards,
perro-volador : this is no other than a bat of a mon-
ftrous fize, that fucks the blood from men and cattle
while they are fall afleep, even fometimes till they
die ; and as the manner in which they proceed is truly
wonderful, I ffiall endeavour to give a diftniil account
of it.—Knowing by inflindf, that the perlon they in¬
tend to attack is in a found flumber, they generally
alight near the feet, where, while the creature conti¬
nues fanning with his enormous wings, which keeps
one cool, he bites a piece out of the tip of the great
toe, fo very fmall indeed, that the head of a pin could
fcarcely
Chap.
Bruta.
* Steel- ^
man's Nar
rative.
IP MAM M
fcarcely be received into the wound, which is confe-
J quently not painful j yet through this orifice he conti¬
nues to fuck the blood, until he is obliged to difgorge.
He then begins again, and thus continues fucking and
difgorging till he is fcarcely able to fly, and the fuffer-
er has often been known to ileep from time into eter¬
nity. Cattle they generally bite in the ear, but always
on places where the blood flows fpontaneoufly. Having
applied tobacco alhes as the beil remedy, and wafhed
the gore from myfelf and hammock, I obferved feveral
heaps of congealed blood all round the place^ wnere I
had lain, upon the ground ; on examining which, the
furgeon judged that 1 had loft at leaft 12 or 14 ounces
of blood during the night.” *.
The flelh of this fpecies is confidered by the Indians
as excellent food, and it is faid that the French refidents
fometimes boil them in their bouillon to give it a re-
HJh. . r n- r
From the general appearance and ufual time or flight
of bats, they have always been looked on with a fort
of fuperftitious terror, and are commonly introouced as
principal obje£ls in thofe awful feenes of haunted callles,
and myfterious caverns, that have exercifed the fancy
of poets and romantic writers. The bat has been re-
prefented by the ancient epic poets as one of the inha¬
bitants of that dreary vault that forms the entrance to
the infernal regions •, and it has from time immemorial
lent its wings to decorate the (boulders of thofe terrific
figures under which the ingenious fancy of painters has
reprefented imps and demons. Probably the fabulous
harpies of the ancient poets may be traced to a fimilar
origin, as fome of the larger bats may with a little
poetical exaggeration, eafily be converted into thofe ra¬
pacious and filthy beings.
This firft order contains four genera, and, ab©ut too
fpecies.
Chap. II. BRUTA.
Genus 5. Bradypus. Sloths.
Cutting teeth wanting in both jawscanine teeth
Angle, obtufe, longer than the grinders, and placed
oppolite; grinders five on each fide, obtufe j fore
legs by much the longer *, claws very long.
The animals of this genus are called Jloths, as their
movements, more efpecially thofe of one fpecies, are
very flow' and flugghh. There are but three fpecies,
tw’c of which are natives of South America, and the
third of India. They all live chiefly on vegetable
food, and are mild harmlefs creatures. They are thus
diftinguiflied.
1. B. TridaEhflus, Three-toed S. Feet three'-toed ;
tail fhort.—2. B. Dida&ylus, Two-toed S. Taillefs ;
fore feet two-toed.—3. B. Urjinus, Urfine S. Black,
vdth very long lhaggy hair j long fnout, and five-toed
feet.
We (hall here give an account only of the firft fpecies,
or the Three-toed S.
_ d2, Bradypus Tridattylus. This' animal is remarkable
lus, Tsiiree- ^or *ts fl°w movements, affording almoft a Angular ex-
toed Sloth. ample of languid motion and habitual ina61ivity. The
following account of it is given us by Kircher. “ Its
figure is (he fays) extraordinary : it is about the fize
of a cat, has a very ugly countenance, gnd claws ex-
ALIA.
463
4*
JBradypus.
tended like fingers. It fweeps the ground with its bel- Hlftory of
ly, and moves fo (lowly that it would fcarcely go thetne ■~'PeC!es;
length of a bow-fttot in 15 days, though conilantly in
motion •, hence it obtained the name of (loth. It lives
generally on the tops of trees, and employs two days
in crawding up, and as many in getting down again.
Nature has doubly guarded it againlt its enemies, firft,
by giving it fuch ftrength in its feet, that whatever it
feizes, it holds fo faft, that it can never be freed, but
muft there die of hunger. 2dly, In having given it
fuch an affecting countenance, that when it looks at
any one wdio might be tempted to injure if, it is almoft
impoflible not to be moved wuth compaffion j it alfo
fheds tears, and upon the whole perfuades one that a
creature fo defencelefs and fo abjeift ought not to be
tormented.
“ To try an experiment with this animal, the pro¬
vincial had one of them brought to the Jefuit’s college
at Carthagena. He put a long pole under its feet,
which it ieized very firmly, and would not let go
again. The animal, therefore, thus voluntarily fuf-
pended, was placed between twro beams, where it re¬
mained without food for 40 days, the eyes being al¬
ways fixed on thofe who looked at it, w:ho were (o af-
fehled that they could not forbear pitying its dejefled
(late. At, length, being taken dowm, a dog was let
loofe on it, this, after a while the (loth feized in its
claw's, and held till he died of hunger.”
The flow'nefs of its motions is, in the above account .
greatly exaggerated, as we are informed by later wri
ters that it will move fifty or fixty paces in a day, and
one that was on board (hip climbed to the maft head in
about an hour.
In afeending a tree, this animal firft carelefsly ftretches .
out one of its fore paw’s, and fixe? its claws in the bark
of the tree, as high as it can reach, then heavily raifes
its body, and gradually fixes its other paw*, thus af¬
eending with the greateft (lowmefs and apparent difficul¬
ty. When got up into the ,tree, he continues there
till he has defpoiled it of every thing that can ferve
him for food, and then .to fave himfelf the trouble of a
tedious and difficult defeent, it is faid be fuffers hinjfelf
to drop from the tree upon the ground, being fafe
from any injury in the fall by his very tough and hairy
(kin. Here he remains till the calls of hunger again
incite him to the arduous talk of climbing another
tree, when he proceeds in the fame manner.
The female produces only one young, which (he fre¬
quently carries on her back. This animal is a native
of the. hotter parts of South America.
In Dr Shaw’s defeription of this fpecies, it is remark¬
ed, that “ the fore legs are /Jar/, the hinder ones far
longer.” As this contradidts the generic charadler,
and is different from the other deferiptions that w'e
have read of the three-toed (loth, w'e fuppofe it to be
an inadvertency, though Mr Bmgley has copied the
paffage without remarking its incongruity.
The third fpecies, or urjine Jloth, is the fame animal
that is figured in Mr Bewick’s Hiftory of Quadrupeds,
p. 266, (2d edit.) and which w'as by him confidered as
a fpecies of bear. 43
Megatherium Some years ago, there was dif- Megatne-
covered below the furface of the earth in South Ameri- rium.
ca, an entire foffil (keleton of an animal at orefent un¬
known j but which M. Cuvier found to refembie the
prefect
464 MAMMALIA. Part IT
Hifrory of prefent genus more than any other. From its vaft fize,
u.e Species. QuvJer gave tjle name 0f megatherium, {[Hyx Sti^tov,
v great wild beq/1), and he has given the following de-
fcription of it in the “ Annales de Mufeum National ”
accompanied with a figure.
“ Ihis Ikeleton is twelve feet (French) long, by fix
feet in height. The fpine is compofed of leven cervi¬
cal, 16 dori'al, and four lumbar vertebrae 5 it has con-
fequently fixteen ribs. The facrum is fhort ; the cifa
iha very broad, and their plane being almoft perpendi¬
cular to the fpine, they form a very open pelvis. There
is no pubis or ifchium, at leaft they are wanting in this
fkeleton, and there is no mark of their having exifted
when the animal was alive.
“ The thigh bones are exceflively thick, and the
leg bones ftill more fo in proportion 5 the entire foie
of the foot bore on the ground in walking •, the (boul¬
der blade is much broader than long ; the clavicles are
perfect, and the two bones of the tore arm are diitimft
and moveable upon each other •, the fore limbs are
longer than the hind. To judge by the form of the
lad phalanges, there mud have been very large pointed
clawfs, enclofed at their origin in a long dieath. There
appears to have been only three of theie claws on the
fore feet, and a fingle one on the hind \ the other toes
feem to have been deprived of them, and, perhaps, en¬
tirely concealed beneath the (kin.
“ The head is the greated Angularity of this (kele-
ton 5 the occiput is elongated and dattened, but is
pretty convex above the eyes; the two jaws form a
confiderable projedlion, but without teeth, there being
only four on each fide above and below, all grinders,
with a fiat crown, and grooved acrofs •, the breadth of
the branches of the lower jawT, and the great apophyfis
placed on the bafe of the zygomatic arch, deferve par¬
ticular notice.
“ This quadruped, in its charaffers, taken together,
differs from all known animals, and each of its bones,
confidered apart, alfo differs from the correfponding
bones of all known animals. This refuits from a de¬
tailed comparifon of the (keleton with that of other
animals, and will readily appear to thofe w'ho are con-
\ / verfant in fuch refearches ; for none of the animals which
approach it in bulk have either pointed claws, or fimi-
larly formed head, droulder blades, clavicles, pelvis, or
* Vid. An- limbs *”.
nates de
Mufeum GENUS 6. MYRMECOPHAGA. AnT-EATERS?
Nation. ^ , . . .
44 Teeth wanting-, tongue cylindrical and extenfilej mouth
Myrmeco- lengthened out fo as to be fomewhat of a tubular
nhaga. form j body covered with hair.
The ant-eaters, as their name imports, live chiefly
on ants and fimilar infefts, and for this purpofe they
are furnilhed wdth a very remarkable tongue, it being
of great length and of a roundifli or worm-like form,
and covered with a very glutinous faliva. This tongue
the animals thruft into the neffs of the ants, &c. and
when a fufficient number of the infedfs has adhered to
it, they withdraw the tongue and fwallow the prey.
Though the want of teeth makes part of the generic
charadter, it appears from the oblervations of M. Brouf-
fonet, that in moff of the fpecies there are certain bones
-or procefles not unlike teeth, fituated at the entrance
of the gullet, or rather, according to Camper, at the
2
lower end of the jaws. The ant-eaters are confined to Eruta.
warm climates, and mod qf them have hitherto been '
found only in South America.
Ihere are feven (pecies defcribed by Shaw, though
Gmelin admits only five.
1. M. Jubata. Great A. Gray brown ; with four
toes on the fore feet, five on the hind } long inout, and
very long buflry tail.— 2. M. Tetradaclyla, Middle A.
Four toes on the (ore, and five on the hind feet, and
half naked, prehenfile tail.—3. M. Tridachjla, Three-
toed A. 1 hree toes on the tore, and four on the hind
feet, and villofe tail.—4. AL Dida&y/a, Little A.
Two toes on the fore, and four on the hind feet, and
prehenfile tail.—5. M. Capenjis. Cape A. Four toes
on the fore feet ; long fnout: large pendant ears 5 tail
(horter than the body, and attenuated towards the tip.—
6. M. Aculeata, Spiny A. Tail very (hort.—7. M.
Striata, Striped A. Yellowilh, with tranfverfe du(kv
bands, and the upper jaw longer than the lower.
Of the above (even fpecies, it is probable that tha
third is only a variety of the fecond ■, and M. M. Cu¬
vier and Geoffroy have placed the fifth in a new genus,
onjchleropus, (fee p. 451) as it differs (b conffderably
from the reft. Molt naturalifts agree that the fpines on
the body of the fixth entitle it, equally with the genus
Manis, to a feparate place in lyftematic arrangement.
On the wkole, from an extenfive confideration of this
tribe, M. La Cepede is of opinion that only three fpe¬
cies fhould be admitted into it, viz. the firft, fecond,
and fourth. Of thefe the firft and fourth are bed
known \ the fecond, or what Cepede calls tamandua-i,
or little tamandua, has been wTell defcribed by this na-
turalift in a memoir on the genus Myrmecophaga,
printed in the fixth volume of “ Alemoires de Pin-
JliiutA
^ 45
Genus 7. Manis. Mams.
Teeth wanting ; tongue cylindrical and extenfile ; mouth
lengthened into a narrow7 fnout j body covered with
fcales.
This genus is nearly allied to the lad, differing in
little more than in the nature of the covering of the
body, which in this is compofed of large fcales that are
of a horny confidence, and extremely llrong, conftitut-
ing a fuit of armour that is capable of defending the
animals, when rolled up, againft the attacks of the
mod ferocious enemies. The animals have the power
of railing thefe fcales ; thus prefenting to the affailants
a moft formidable front. From fome diftant refem-
blance to the lizard tribe (fee Erpetology), the ani¬
mals of this genus have been called fcahj lizards, but
they are more commonly known by the name of pango¬
lins. They are harmlefs creatures, and feed on fimi¬
lar food with the ant-eaters, taking it in the fame man¬
ner. They are found in India and the Indian
iflands.
There are only twro, or at moft three fpecies, viz.
1. M. TetradaElyla, Long tailed M, or Phatagin. Feet
four-toed, and tail very long.—2. M. Pentadaffy/a,
Short-tailed M, or Pangolin. Feet five-toed, and tail
about as long as the body.—3. M. Platurus, Broad
tailed M. Tail extremely broad.
It is doubtful whether the laft be a dirtindt fpecies,
ox only a variety, the effect perhaps of advanced age.
So
little is
animals
known
that We
MAMMALIA.
of the habits and manners of
{hall not dwell longer on
46
Dafypus or
Armadillo.
Genus 8. Dasypus. Armadillos.
Cutting and canine teeth wanting j grinders feveral $
body covered with a fhelly armour, divided into
zones or bands.
465
divided into three bands, and five-toed feet.—-2. D. Hiftory of
SexcinBus, Six-banded A. Six bands, and five-toedthe sPecie;r;
feet.—3. D. SeptemcinBus, Seven banded A. Seven
bands, and fore feet four-toed, hind feet five-toed.—
4. D. NovemcinBus, Nine-banded A. Nine bands j
fore feet four-toed, hind feet five-toed.—5.-D- 12-cinc-
tus, 12-banded A. Twelve bands.—6. Z>. \% cmBus,
Eighteen-bandedA. Eighteen bands.
The animals of this tribe are called armadillos, from
the very lingular armour, by which the upper part of
their bodies is defended. This is compofed partly of
large irregular pieces covering the fhoulders and rump,
and partly of regular bands lying between thefe, and
folding one over another, like the parts of a lobfter’s
tail, fo as to accommodate themfelves to all the motions
of the animal. The number of thefe bands varies in
the feveral fpecies; and though this circumftance makes
part of the fpecific charadters, it is doubtful whether it
is fufficiently conftant or exadf, as various authors have
numbered them very differently. The armadillos re-
femble each other fo much in their habits and way
of life, that a general account of them may fuf-
fice.
They are very harmlefs animals, and live retired in
fubterraneous retreats, which they burrow for themfelves
by means of the large ftrong claws wdth wdiich their
feet are furnifhed. They wander about chiefly by night,
in fearch of roots, grain, worms, infedts, and other
fmall animals j when attacked, they coil themlelves up
in a ball like the pangolins, and are then invulnerable.
They are faid to drink much, and often grow very fat.
They are very prolific, breeding three or four times in
a year, and producing feveral young at a birth. They
are all natives of South America, and are confidered as
excellent food. The Indians hunt them with fmall
dogs trained for that purpofe. When furprifed, they
run to their holes, or attempt to make a new one,
which they do with great expedition, having ftrong
claws on their fore feet, with which they adhere fo
firmly to the ground, that if they fliould be caught by
the tail whilft making their way into the earth, their
refiftance is fo great, that they wdll fometimes leave
their tails in the hand of their purfuers : to avoid this,
the hunter has recourfe to artifice ; and, by tickling
the animal with a flick, it gives up its hold, and fuffers
itfeif to be taken alive. If no other means of efcape
be left, it rolls itfeif up within its covering, by drawfing
in Its head and legs, and bringing its tail round them,
as a band to connefl them more forcibly together : in
this fituation it fometimes efcapes by rolling itfeif over
the edge of a precipice, and generally falls to the bot¬
tom unhurt.
The moft fuccefsful method of catching armadillos
is by {hares laid for them by the lides of rivers or other
places which they frequent.
There are fix fpecies of armadillos, that are, as w?e
have faid, chiefly diftinguifbed by the number of flielly
bands that envelope the middle part of their body.
I. Dafypus TricinBus, Three-banded A. Armour
Vol. XII. Part II.
Genus 9* Rhinoceros. Rhinoceros.
Horn folid, perennial, conical, feated on the nofe.
There are at leaft two fpecies, viz. R. Unicornis,
Single-horned R. with a Angle horn, and 2. R. Bicor-
nis. Two-horned R. with two horns.
As both fpecies are remarkable, both for their form
and habits, we ftiall defcribe both pretty much at
large. ... „. 4s
I. R. Unicornis, Single-horned rhinoceros. This Unicornis.
animal, if we except the elephant, is the largeft of allSing^ej
terreftrial animals, and in ftrength and power it is ex‘Rhinoceros,
ceeded by none. It is generally about 12 feet long,jr;g. ^
and nearly as many in the circumference of its body.
Its whole form is very awkward and clumfy ; its head is
large and long 5 its back finks in confiderably, and its
lkin is puckered up into feveral folds, giving the ani¬
mal the appearance as if it were invefted with a coat of
mail. The upper lip hangs over the lower in the form
of a lengthened tip, which feems to anfwer the purpofe
of a fmall probofcis, and, being extremely pliable, is
ufeful to the animal in taking hold of the (hoots of vege¬
tables, and delivering them into the mouth. The horn
is fituated on the nofe, and is (lightly curved, (harp
pointed, and very ftrong, and is fometimes three feet
long, and 18 inches round at the bafe. This horn the
rhinoceros ufes both as an offenfive and defenfive wea¬
pon, by which it is completely armed againft the at¬
tacks of the moft ferocious animals, who cannot face it
without danger of having their bowels torn out. The
Roman epigrammatift, Martial, long ago remarked, that
with this horn the rhinoceros could lift up a bull as
eafily as a foot-ball. The ears are pretty large, up¬
right and pointed j the eyes fmall. The (kin is naked,
very rough, and marked with numerous large callous
granulations ; it is deftitute of hair, except a few
draggling coarfe bridles on fome parts of the head.
The folds of the (kin are very remarkable, and are dif-
pofed in various parts of the body in a lingular manner.
There is one large plait about the neck, another paf-
fing through the (boulders to the fore legs, and a third
from the hind part of the back to the thighs. The
belly is pendulous like that of a hog j the legs are very
(hort, ftrong and thick j and the feet marked with
three large hoofs all (landing forwards. The tail is
(lender, flattened at the end, and covered on the (ides
with very (lift', thick, black hairs (c).
This animal is a native both of the continent of
Afia, and of feveral of the iflands in the Indian ocean,
efpecially Ceylon, Java-, and Sumatra and is fome¬
times found in Ethiopia. It ufually refides in cool fe-
3 N queftered
(c) For an accurate ofteological account of this fpecies, with a figure of his (keleton by Cuvier, fee Ahnales de
Mufeum National, N° 13, or Philofophical Magazine, vol. xix.
?•/
466 M A M M A L I A. Part II.
Hiitory of quettered ipots near waters and in fhady woods, and.
-i,i Aperies. de3ights ro]j Jn ^he mud. It feems to live en¬
tirely on vegetables.
The fight of' this animal is but indifferent j but he is
faid to poffefs an acute and mod attentive ear, and to
liden with a deep, long-continued attention to any kind
of noife. It is generally of a quiet inoffenfive difpofi-
tion, but when provoked or attacked, he becomes fu¬
rious and implacable. He is even faid to be iubje£t
to paroxyfms of rage which nothing can allay. One
that was fent as a prefent to the pope by Emmanuel
king of Portugal in i5id» deftroyed the veffel in which
they were tranfporting it. He runs with great fwift-
nefs, and from his prodigious ftrength rulhes with re-
fiftlefs violence through woods, and over every ob-
ffacle, bending the fmall trees as he paffes like fo many
twigs.
The female produces but one young at a birth, but
its time of geftation is not certainly known.
The fietli of this animal is eaten by the natives, who
often engage in hunting parties againft it. It is a dif¬
ficult matter to kill the rhinoceros, its ikm being fo
hard that an ordinary leaden bullet will not pierce it,
and they are obliged to ufe iron bullets for that pur-
pofe. The horn is employed for many ufeful purpofes,
efpecially for making drinking cups, which are ufed by
the Indian princes, under an idea that if any poifonous
liquor is poured into them, it will ferment and boil
over the top. Profeffor Thunberg tried feveral of
thefe horns, both of old and young animals, wrought
into goblets and unwrought, with feveral poifonous li¬
quors, both weak and ftrong, without obferving any
effervefcence ; but on pouring a folution of corrofive
fublimate into one of them, there arofe a few' bubbles,
which he fuppoles to have been inclofed in the pores
of the horn, and difengaged from them by the liquor.
The Ikin is alfo employed by the Javanefe for making
lliields, and in fome parts of India almoft every part of
the animal is ufed medicinally.
Several of thefe animals have been brought into Eu¬
rope. Buffon gives an account of one, and Dr Par-
fons has given a particular defcription of one that was
brought to England from Bengal. This animal w-as
only two years eld, and yet confirmed fo much food,
th.'it his voyage colt loool. He had every day at
three meals feven pounds of rice mixed with three pounds
of firgar, befides hay and green plants, and he drank
large quantities of wrater. He was in general, very
quiet ami peaceable, readily fuffering people to touch
every part of his body ; but w-hen hungry, or when
ilruck, he became very mifehievous, and nothing would
nppeafe him but food. At tlris time he wTas about the
f fize of a young cow.
In the year 1748, there was exhibited at Paris a
rhinoceros brought from the kingdom of Ava. It
was very tame, gentle, and even carefling ; was fed
principally on hay and corn ; and was much delighted
with fharp or prickly plants, and the thorny branches
of trees. The attendants frequently gave him branches
that had very fharp and ftrong thorns on them ; but he
bent and broke them in bis mouth without feeming in
the leaft incommoded. It is true they fometimes drew
blood from the mouth and tongue, but that, fays Father
Le Comte, who gives us the defcription, might even
render them more palatable, and thofe little wounds
might ferve only to caufe a fenfation fimllar to that ex- Bruta.
cited by fair, pepper, or muftard on ours. "»
J iie rhinoceros is even fometimes domefticated, and
brought into the field of battle by the Afiatics, in or¬
der to terrify their enemies;, but he is fo unmanageable,
that his ufe leems to be attended with more difadvan-
tage than benefit, and when w’ounded, they are as
likely to turn on their mafters as on the enemy. 49
R. B/cornis, Two-horned rhinoceros. In fize, ^n^Bicomis.
in many of its general habits, this fpecies greatly re-e^^jj"°™’
fembles the former, but differs much in its external ap-ros>
pearance, as the fkin, inftead of the regularly marked
folds in that, has only a flight wrinkle acrofs the (boul¬
ders, and on the hind parts, fo as, in comparifon wdth
the other fpecies, to appear almoft fmooth, though its
furface is rough and tuberculated, efpecially in the
larger fpecimens. It is chiefly diftinguifhed, however,
by the two horns, one fmaller than the other, and fitu-
ated higher up on the front. Thefe horns are faid to
be loofe when the animal is quiet, but to become fixed
and immoveable when he is in an enraged ftate. Dr
Sparrman has obferved that thefe horns are fixed to
the nofe by a ftrong apparatus of mufcles or tendons, ft)
as to enable the animal to fix or relax them at plea-
fure, and on infpedling the horns and (kin on which
they are feated, it does not appear that the horns are
firmly attached to the (kull bone, or clofely connetled
with it.
This fpecies is found in various parts of Africa, and
appears to have been that w-hich was introduced by the
Romans into their public (lrow7s.
Mr Bruce has given us an account of this animal,
which is highly interefting. Fie fays that befides the
trees capable of moft refiftance, there are in the vafl:
forefts within the rains, trees of a fofter confidence, and
of a very fucculent quality, which feem to be deftined
for his principal food. For the purpofe of gaining the
higheft branches of thefe, his upper lip is capable of
being lengthened out fo as to increafe his power of lay¬
ing hold with it, in the fame manner as the elephant
does with his trunk. With this lip, and the affiftance
of his tongue, he pulls down the upper branches, which
have moft leaves, and thefe he devours firft ; having
dripped the tree of its branches, he does not therefore
abandon it, but placing his fnout as low in the trunk
as he finds his horns will enter, he rips up the body of
the tree, and reduces it to thin pieces like fo many
laths j and when he has thus prepared it, he embraces
as much of it as he can in his monftrous jaw's, and
twills it round with as much eafe as an ox would do
a root of celery, or any fuch pot herb or garden
fluff.
When purfued, and in fear, he poffeffes an aftonifliing
degree of fwiftnefs, confidering his fize, the apparent
unwieldinefs of his body, his great weight before, and
the (hortnefs of his legs. He is long, and has a kind
of trot, which after a few minutes increafes in a great
proportion, and takes in a great diftance $ but this is
to be underftood with a degree of moderation. It is
not true, that in a plain he beats the horfe in fwiftnefs.
Mr Bruce has paffed him with eafe, and feen many vvorfe
mounted do the fame ; and though it is certainly true
that a horfe can feldom come up with him, this is owing
to his cunning, and not to his fwiftnefs. He makes
conftantly from wood to wood, and forces himfelf into
ike
ir.
the thickeft parts of them. The trees that are dead or
dry, are broken down, as with a cannon (hot, and fall
behind him and on his fide in all direiftions. Others
that are more pliable, greener, or fuller of fajp, are
bent back by his weight and the velocity of his mo¬
tions : and after he has paffed, relloring themfclves like
a green branch to their natural pofition, they often
fweep the incautious purfuer and his horfe from the
ground, and dafh them in pieces againft the fuvrounding
trees.
The eyes of the rhinoceros are very fmall •, he feldom
turns his head, and therefore fees nothing but what is
before him. To this he owes his death, and never ef-
capes if there be fo much plain as to enable the horfe
to get before him. His pride and fury then make him
lay afide all thoughts of efcaping but by viftory over
his enemy. He Hands for a moment at bay } then at a
flart runs forward at the horfe like a wild boar, which
in his manner of aflion he very much refembles.
The horfe eafily avoids him by turning to mie lide, and
this is the fatal inftant; the naked man with the fword
drops from behind the principal horfeman, and unfeen
by the rhinoceros, who is feeking his enemy the horfe,
he gives him a ftroke acrofs the tendon of the heel,
which renders him incapable of further flight or refin¬
ance.
In fpeaking of the great quantity of food neceflary
to fupport this enormous mafs, ive mufl likewife con-
fider the vaft quantity of water which he needs. No
country but that of the Shangalla, which he poflefles, de¬
luged wdth fix months rain, and full of large deep ba-
fons made in the living rock, and (haded by dark woods
from evaporation, or watered by large and deep rivers,
which never fall low or to a ftate of drynefs, can fup-
ply the vail draughts of this monflrous cre« .ure : but it
is not for drinking alone that he frequents wet and
marfhy places j large, fierce, and flrong as he is, he
miid fubmit to prepare himfelf againft the vieakeil of
all his adverfaries. The great confumption he makes
of food and water neceffarily confine him to certain li¬
mited fpaces •, for it is not every place that can main¬
tain him t he cannot emigrate or feek his defence
among the fands of Atbara.
This adverfary is a fly (probably of the genus Oes¬
trus) which is bred in the black earth of the marfties:
it perfecutes him fo unremittingly, that it would in a
ftiort time entirely fubdue him, but for a ftratagem
which he praftifes for his prefervation. In the night
when the fly is at reft, the rhinoceros chafes a conve¬
nient place, and there rolling in the mud, clothes
himfelf • ith a kind of cafe, which defends him againft
his enemy for the following day. The wTrinkles and
folds of his fkm ferve to keep this muddy plaifter firm
upon him, except about his hips, legs, and fhoulders,
where by motion it cracks and falls off, leaving him
expofed to the attacks of the fly. Ibe itching and
pain which follow, occafion him to rub himfelf in
thoie parts againft the rougheft trees, and this is fup-
pofed to be one caufe of the numerous mi 'ules or tu¬
bercles which we fee upon him.
He feems to enfoy the rubbing of himfelf very
much, and groans and grunts io loud during this ac¬
tion that he is heard at a confiderable diftance. I he
pleafure he receives from this enjoyment, added to
the darknefs of the night, depri ves him of his ufual vi-
467
gilance and attention. The hunters guided by his noife, Hiftory of
fteal fecretly on him and while lying on the ground,the SPecies'
wound him with their javelins, moftly in the belly, where
the wound is mortal.
It is by no means true that the fkin of this rhinoce¬
ros, as it has been often reprefented, is hard and im¬
penetrable like a board. In his wild ftate he is eafily
killed by javelins thrown from different hands, fome of
which enter many feet into his body. A mulket
(hot will go through him, if it meet not with the in¬
tervention of a bone j and the Shangalia, an Abyflini-
an tribe, kill him by the world and moft inartificial ar¬
rows that ever were ufed by any people praftifing that
weapon, and cut him to pieces afterwards with the
very wmrft of knives.
To (hew the amazing ftrength of the rhinoceros,
even after being feverely wounded, we (hall quote Mr
Bruce’s account of the hunting of this animal in Abyf-
finia. “ We were on horfeback (fays this gentleman)
by the dawn of day in fearch of the rhinoceros, many
of which we had heard making a very deep groan and
cry as the morning approached. Several of the aga-
geers (hunters) then joined us, and after we had fearch-
ed about an hour in the very thickeft part of the wood,
one of them ruftied out with great violence, crofting the
plain towards a wood of canes that was about two miles
diftance. But though he ran, or rather trotted, with
furprifing fpeed confidering his bulk, he was in a very
little time transfixed with 30 or 40 javelins, which io
confounded him that he left his purpofe of going to the
wood, and ran into a deep hole or ravine, a a// de fac,
without outlet, breaking above a dozen javelins as he
entered. Here we thought he was caught as in a trap,
for he had fcarce room to turn, when a fervant who
had a gun (landing diredtly over him, fired at his head,
and the animal fell immediately to all appearance dead.
All thofe on foot now jumped in with their knives to
cut him up \ and they had fcarce begun, when the ani¬
mal recovered fo far as to rile upon his knees : happy
then was the man that efcaped firft and had not one
of the agageers who was himfelf engaged in the ravine,
cut the finews of the hind leg as he was retreating,
there would have been a very forrowful account of the
foot hunters that day.
“ After having difpatched him, I was curious to fee
what wound the {hot had given which had operat¬
ed fo violently upon fo huge an animal, and I doubted
not it was in the brainy but it had (truck him no where
but upon one of the horns, of which it had carried off
above an inch, and this occafioned a conculfton, that
had ftunned him for a minute till the bleeding had re¬
covered him.”
It has been often afferted that the tongue of the
rhinoceros is fo hard and rough as to take away the
(kin and tlelh wherever it licks any perfon that has un¬
fortunately fallen a vi&im to its fury. Dr Sparrnian
fays, however, that he thruft his hand into the mouth
of one that had juft been (hot, and found the tongue
perfectly fmooth and foft.
Foffil bones have been found below the earth in Si¬
beria that feem to belong to a third fpecies of rhino¬
ceros, differing from the two above mentioned in hav¬
ing a longer head, and in the partition betwreen the
noftrils being otherwile (haped. It leems alio to have
had two horns. In 1772 a fpecimen was dug up
3 N 2 almoft
MAMMALIA.
468
Hiftory eh almofi: entire, with the flefh and ikin not yet quite cor-
the Species. rupted> ] 1
Elephas. Genus IO. ElephaS.
No cutting teeth in either jaw, very long tulks in the
upper jaw ; nofe ending in a very long prehenfile
probofcis j body nearly naked.
51
Maximus. We know of only one fpecies, which has been call-
Elephant. ed elefshas nwximus. Of all the animals that have en-
S’ I7’ gage(i attention of mankind from the earlielt times,
none has been fo much, or perhaps fo defervedly cele¬
brated as the elephant. Poffeffed of magnitude and
ftrength fuperior to all other quadrupeds, he is more
gentle and tradable than almoft any of them, and in
fagacity and obedience to the commands of man, he is
not excelled by any, except perhaps the dog.
I he ufual height of the elephant is nine or ten feet,
though he is faid to be fometimes found at lead: twelve
feet high (b). His body is of a very clumfy and awk¬
ward form ; his head very large j his back very much
arched, and his legs very fhort, and extremely thick.
His eyes are very fmall; but his ears large, pendulous,
and irregularly waved about the edges. His trunk
may be confidered as one of the mod wonderful indru-
ments wuth which nature has gifted her mod favoured
animals, being little inferior in dexibility and utility,
even to the hand of man. This organ appears to be
compofed of a great number of flexible rings, forming
a double tube, ending in a circular tip that is fome-
what flattened, and furnidied wdth a proje&ing point,
or flediy moveable hook, of exquiflte fallibility, and
fo pliable, that by means of it the animal can pick up
from the ground almofl the fmalled objeft. Its lower
furface is fomewhat flattened, and it is circularly form¬
ed on the upper. The trunk is the principal organ of
breathing to the elephant, being terminated by two
orifices that are the nodrils. By means of this tube he
fupplies himfelf with food, taking hold of it with the
trunk, and conveying it into his mouth. He drinks
by fucking up the water into his trunk, and then pour¬
ing it into his mouth. The Ikull of the elephant is ex¬
tremely thick, but not folid, there being a number of
cavernous cells between the outer and inner laminse.
The feet of this animal are edged with five rounded
hoofs ; the tail is of a moderate length, and is termi¬
nated by a few fcattered hairs, very thick, and of a
black colour. The general colour of the Ikin is a dulky
or blackilh brown, but in fome parts of India they are
found of a W’hite colour, though this is a rare occur¬
rence.
The teeth of the elephant deferve particular notice,
as, till lately, our information refpefting them was
very imperfeft. It has long been known that the fe¬
males either feldom have tulks, or that in them thefe
are very Ihort. I he tulks of the male are fometimes
of an immenfe length, thofe brought from the Mofam-
bique and Cochin China having been feen 10 feet long.
Part II.
Mr Corfe has given us the bell account of the elephant’s Bruta.
teeth 5 and we lhall extradl lome of the moll interefting v
particulars from his paper, which appeared in the Phi-
lofophical Tranfa£lions for 1799.
1 he tulks in fome female elephants are fo fmall as
not to appear beyond the lip, w'hilll in others they are
almofl: as large and long as in one variety of the male,
called mooknah. The grinders are fo much alike in
both fexes, that one delcription mav ferve for both.
The large!! tulks, and from which the bell ivory is fup-
plied, are taken from that kind of male elephant,
called dauntelah from this circumftance, in oppofition
to the mooknah, whofe tulks are not larger than thofe
of fome females. In one variety of the elephant the
tulks point downwards, proje&ing only a little way be¬
yond the trunk, lihe tulks in elephants are fixed very
deep in the upper jaw j and the root or upper part*
which is hollow, and filled with a core, goes as high as
the infertion of the trunk, round the margin of the nafal
opening to the throat ; which opening is juft below the
protuberance of the forehead. Through this opening
the elephant breathes, and by its means he fucks up
water into his trunk : between it and the roots of the
tulks there is only a thin bony plate. The firft or milk-
tulks of an elephant never grow to any confiderable
fize, but are Ihed between the firft and fecond year,
when not two inches in length. The time at which
the tulks cut the gum varies confiderably : fometimes a
young elephant has his tulks at five months old, and
fometimes not till feven. Even in a foetus which has
arrived at its fulltime, thefe deciduous tulks are formed.
A young elephant Ihed one of his milk-tulks on the
6th of November, 1790, when about 13 months old,
and the other on the 7th of December, when above
fourteen months old. Two months (afterwards the per¬
manent ones cut the gums, and on the 19th of April,
1791, they were an inch long. Another young ele¬
phant did not Ihed his milk-tulks till he was 16 months
old, which proves that the time of this procefs varies
confiderably. The permanent tulks of the female are
very fmall compared with thofe of the male, and do not
take their rife fo deep in the jaw. The large!! elephant
tulks Mr Scot ever law in Bengal did not exceed the
weight of 72 pounds avoirdupois ; and at Tiperah they
feldom exceed 50 pounds each. Both thefe weights
are very inferior to that of the tulks brought from other
parts to the India houfe, where fome have weighed 150
pounds each. Thefe, Mr Scot fufpedls, were from
Pegu. The African elephant is faid to be fmaller than
the Afiatic; yet the ivory dealers in London affirm
that the large!! tulks come from Africa, and are of a
better texture, and lefs liable to turn yellow, than the
Indian ones. The increafe of the tulks arifes from cir¬
cular layers of ivory, applied internally, from the core
on which they are formed, fimilar to what happens in
the horns of fome animals.
The grinders of elephants may be confidered as
compofed of feveral diftindt laminae or teeth, each co¬
vered
MAMMALIA.
(d) There is little doubt that the accounts generally given of the great height of the elephant have been much
exaggerated. To John Corfe Scot, Efq. F. R. S. naturalifts are greatly indebted for clearing up many circum-
ftances relating to this an mal. I hat gentleman declares that he never faw an elephant above ten feet high, and
that t.;e higheft of which he could procure any authentic account did not exceed ten feet fix inches.
Chap. II.
Bruta. vcvcd with its proper enutnel . snd theie teeth sre
merely joined to each other by an intermediate fofter
fubftance, a£Hng as a cement. This ftru&ure, even at
the firft glance, mult appear very curious, being com-
pofed of a number of perpendicular laminae, which
may be confidered as fo many teeth, each covered with
a ftrong enamel, and joined to one another by the com¬
mon offeous matter : this, being much fofter than the
enamel, wears away fafter by the maftication of the
food j and in a few months after thefe teeth cut the
gum, the enamel rifes confiderably higher, fo that tne
furface of each grinder foon acquires a ribbed appear¬
ance, as if originally formed of ridges. 1. he number
of thefe teeth or portions, of which an elephant’s grin¬
der is compofed, varies from four to 23, according as
the animal advances in age j fo that a grinder or cafe
of teeth in a full grown elephant is more than fufficient
to fill one fide of the mouth. The fhape of the grinders
of the lower jaw differs from thofe of the upper, which
are very convex on the back part j whereas the lower
has a bent or curved direffion, adapting itfelf to the
fhape of the jaw, and is concave on the iurface. The
grinders, like the tufks, are already formed., even in
the very young animal. The firft fet of grinders, or
milk teeth, begin to cut the gum eight or ten days af¬
ter birth j they are not died or cad, as the milk-tufks
are, but are gradually worn away during the time the
fecond fet are coming forward. Mr Scot could not
afeertain the exadt time at which the fecond fet of
grinders make their appearance*, but when the elephant
is two years old, the fecond fet are then completely in
ufe. At about this period the third fet begins to cut
the gum *, and from the end of the fecond to the begin¬
ning of the fixth year, the third fet comes gradually
forward as the jaw lengthens, not only to fill up this
additional fpace, but alfo to fupply the place of the fe¬
cond fet, which are, during the fame period, gradually
worn away, and their fangs or roots abforbed. From
the beginning of the fixth to the end of the ninth year,
the fourth fet of grinders comes forward, to fupply the
gradual wafle of the third fet. After this period other
fets are produced, but in what time, and in what pro¬
portion, is not yet afeertained 5 but it is reafonable to
conclude, that every fucceeding grinder takes a year
longer than its predeceffor to be completed 5 and con-
fequently, that the fifth, fixth, feventh, and eighth fet
of grinders will take from five to eight years (and pro¬
bably much longer) each fet, before the poiferior lami¬
na has cut the gum.
The time of geftation of the female elephant has
been much difputed. Ariftotle dated it at two years,
and Buffon was at one time led to fix the fame period.
Afterwards, however, this naturalift was induced to
confider nine months as the mod likely time, and in
this he was followed by Mr Pennant. We are indebt¬
ed to Mr Scot for fetting us right in this particular al¬
fo j that gentleman having afeertained by adlual expe¬
riment, that the female goes with young nearly twenty-
one months.
It is now fully proved that the elephant will readily
breed in captivity, and that neither male nor female
drew thofe figns of modedy and fhynefs which have
been attributed to them. Mr Scot has repeatedly wit-
peflfed the ceremony.
M. Buffon was led to conceive that elephants could
469
not copulate in the dtuation that is cudomary t6 other Hiftory of
quadrupeds, but this Mr Scot has alfo found to be anthc sPeCies;
error. The young when fird born is about three feet
high, and continues growing for 16 or 18 years. The
female has two teats a little behind the fore legs. It
was fuppofed by Buffon, that the young elephant fuck¬
ed by means of its trunk, but later obfervations have
fhewn, that they fuck in the ufual way with their mouth,
udng the trunk for grafping the dug of the mother to
prefs out the milk.
Mr Scot corre&s another midake, refpe&ing the
fondnefs of the female for her young. It was fuppofed
that this was mod exemplary, and that die wmuld de¬
fend her young with her life ; but Mr Scot relates an
indance where females differed their young to be gored
to death by a male elephant, without attempting to pro¬
tect or refeue them.
It has not yet been afeertained how long an elephant
ufually lives in its native foreds. In captivity they are
faid to live above 100 years.
The elephant is found on the continent of Ada, in
feveral of the Adatic idands, efpecially Ceylon, and in
the fouthern part of Africa. The Ceylonefe elephants
are, in general, larger than thole of Africa. Captain
Beaver informs us, that the little idand of Bulama (on
the vvedern coad of Africa) abounds with them. He
fays “ the number of thefe animals on this little idand
aimed exceeds belief it was nearly impodible for us to
proceed dfty yards inland without meeting recent and
palpable vediges of them, and the fkeletons of old ones
that had died in the woods are frequently found.” They
often pafs over the arm of the fea from the continent to
this idand, but what is very extraordinary, they have
never been obferved to return to the continent *. * Beaver's
The ordinary food of the elephant confids of herbs, African
roots, leaves, and the tender branches of trees, which Memomn-
he breaks off- with his trunk. As he is not a rumina- P* 353'
ting animal, he has only one domach ; but the extent
of his bowels is very condderable, the colon alone be¬
ing 15 or 20 feet long, and two or three in diameter.
When an elephant difeovers a plentiful padure, he calls
his neighbours together, to partake wdth him of the
fead. They feed together in condderable herds, and
as they require a large quantity of fodder, frequently
drift their dtuation. They ufually match in troops, the
olded keeping foremod, and the middle aged bringing-
up the rear. The females are placed in the centre,
carrying their young drmly held in their trunks. This
order they obferve when they forage near the haunts
of men -y but when at liberty to range in extendve de-
fert plains, they are left guarded. They often make
great havock in the cultivated delds, dedroying even
more with the weight of their enormous feet than they
confume as food. They are fond of cool fequedered
places, where they may be (heltered from the mid-day
fun, and love to bathe themfelves with water, which
they do by pouring it over their bodies with their
trunks. They are faid frequently to roll themfelves in
mud, probably like the rhinoceros, for the purpofe of
fheathing their fldn front the attacks of infers. The
elephant ufes many other artifices to rid himfelf of thefe
winged enemies 5 he drikes them with his tail, his ears,
or his trunk ; he contradfs his fldn, and crufhes them
between its wrinkles *, he gathers boughs from the trees
with his trunk, and brudies them away j and when all
thef^
M A M M A L I A.
47°
Hiftory of thefe &rts sre unTuccefsful, he collefts duft with his
the Species. ];runJi} ancj ^rews Jt over the moft fenfible parts of his
body. He has been feen to duft himfelf in this man¬
ner feveral times a-day, efpecially after bathing. He
fwims with great eafe, and in this way whole troops of
them fcmetimes pafs over rivers and narrow ftraights.
The largeft talk elephants lead the way, and pafs firft.
When they arrive at the oppofite lhore, they try whe¬
ther the landing place is good, and if fo, they make a
fignal with their trunk, and fome more of the old ele¬
phants fwim over, the young following with their
trunks locked together, and the red of the old ones
bring up the rear.
This is nearly all we know of the manners of the
elephant in the wild date. Still more intereding obfer-
vations remain to be noticed refpefting this animal
when domedicated. We fhall fird give an account of
the manner in which elephants are taken ; and this dif¬
fers according as the objedf is to capture Angle ele¬
phants, or a whole troop. Of the mode of taking ele¬
phants in Ceylon, Captain Percival has given us an in-
tereding defcription in his account of Ceylon, to which
we refer the reader.
The following is the method ufually employed at
Tiperah in the Ead Indies, for fecuring a Angle male
elephant. As the hunters know the places whither the
elephants come to feed, they advance towards them in
the evening, bringing with them four koomkees, or fe¬
male elephants trained for the purpofe. In the dark
nights it is eafy to difcover the male elephants by the
noife they make in cleaning their food, by whifking it
againd their fore legs, and by moon light they may be
didinftly feen at fome didance. Having determined
on the animal they wifh to fecure, they Alently and
ilowly condudl three of the koomkees at a little didance
from each other, near the place where the male is feed¬
ing. The females advance very cautioufly, feeding as
they approach, and appear like wild elephants that have
drayed from the fored. When the male perceives
them, he fometimes take the alarm, and if vicioufly in¬
clined, he makes a noife, and beats the ground with his
trunk, (hewing evident marks of difpleafure, and of his
unwillingnefs for them to come near him. If they per-
Ad, he will immediately attack and gore them with his
tufks *, they therefore take care to retreat in time. He
generally, however, allows them to approach, and fome¬
times even advances to meet them.
When the drivers And him thus gentle, they con-
dudf two of the females clofe to him, one on each Ade,
and make them prefs gently againd his neck and dioul-
ders; the third then comes up, and is placed direftly
acrofs his tail. In this Atuation he is fo far from fui-
pefting any deAgn againd his liberty, that he begins to
toy with the females, and careffes them with his trunk.
The fourth female is now brought near, and proper
aflidants furnifhed with ropes get under his belly at the
■tail, and faden a flight cord round his hind legs. If
he takes no notice of this, they proceed to tie his legs
with a dronger cord, paffed alternately from one leg to
the other, fo as to form a Agure of 8. Six or eight
fuch cords are ufually employed, one above another,
and fadened at their interfe<dions, by another cord
made to pafs perpendicularly up and down. A drong
cable about 60 cubits long, with a running noofe, is
Part II.
next put round each hind leg, above the other cords, Bruta.
and over thefe Ax or eight more cords are eroded as be- v
fore from one leg to the other, all which takes up a-
bout 20 minutes, a Uriel Alence being obferved all the
time.
When thus properly fecured, he is left to himfelf,
the koomkees retiring to a little didance ; in attempt¬
ing to follow them, he Ands his legs tied, and becom¬
ing fen Able of the danger of his Atuation, immediately
retreats towards the jungle. The drivers on the tame
elephants, accompanied by a number of people who
till this time had been kept out of Aght, follow him at
a little didance, and as foon as he paffes near a tree
fufhciently dout to hold him, they make a few turns of
the long cables which trailed behind him round its
trunk. His progrefs being thus flopped, he becomes
furious, and exerts his utmod efforts to difengage him¬
felf. The koomkees dare not now come near him, and in
his fury he falls down on the earth and tears it up with
his tufks. In thefe exertions he fometimes breaks the
cables, and efcapes into the thick jungle : here the dri¬
vers dare not advance for fear of the other wild ele¬
phants, and are therefore obliged to leave him to his
fate ; and in this hampered Atuation, it is faid, he is
even ungeneroufly attacked by his former companions.
But as the cables are drong, and very feldom give way,
when he has exhauded himfelf by his exertions, the
koomkees are again brought near him, and take their
former podtions, one on each Ade, and the other be¬
hind. After getting him nearer the tree, the people
carry the ends of the long cables two or three times
round it, fo as to prevent even the podibility of his
efcape. His fore legs are now tied exaftly in the fame
manner as his hind legs wrere, and the cables are made
fad, one on each Ade, to trees or dakes driven deep in¬
to the earth.
When he has become more fettled, and wrill eat a
little rood, with which he is fupplied as foon as he is
taken, the koomkees are again brought near, and a
drong rope is put twice round his body, clofe to his
fore legs, like a girth, and tied behind his fhoulder \
then the long end is carried back ciofe to his rump, and
there fadened, after a couple of turns more have been
made round his body. Another cord is next fadened
to this, and from thence carried under his tail like a
crupper, and brought forward and fadened to each of
the girths. A flrong rope is now put round his but¬
tocks, and made fad to each Ade of the crupper, fo as
to conAne the motion of his thighs, and prevent his
taking a full dep. A couple of large cables, with
running noofes, are put about his neck, there fecured,
and then tied to the ropes on each Ade. Thus com¬
pletely hampered, the cables round his neck are made
fad to two koomkees, one on each fide.
Every thing being now ready, all the ropes are taken
from bis legs, except the drong one round his buttocks
to conAne the motion of his hind legs, which is dill
left. The koomkees pull him forward, fometimes,
however, not without much druggling and violence
on his part. When brought to his proper dation,
and made fad, he is treated with a mixture of feve-
rity and gentlenefs, and generally in a few m nths be¬
comes tradable, and appears perfectly reconciled to his
fate.
M A M M A L T A.
3
It
Chape II.
Bmta. It lias happened that an elephant which efcaped
< v ' from captivity, fuffered itfelf to be taken again by the
hunters. This is not the only fa<ft,_as we (hall fee here¬
after that contradicts the obfervation of Horace, that
no bead once efcaped from ilavery, differs himfelf again
to be entrapped (e).
The elephant when tamed, is gentle, obedient, and
traCtable, patient of labour, and fubmits to the moft
toilful drudgery. He is fo attentive to the com¬
mands of his governor, that a word or look is fufficient
to flimulate him to the greateft exertions. His attach¬
ment to his keeper is remarkable ; he carefles him with
his trunk, and frecjuently will obey no otner maiter.
He knows his voice, and can diitinguilh between the
tones of command, of approoation, and of anger. ^ H6
receives his orders with attention, and executes tnem
with eagernels, but without precipitation. All his mo¬
tions are grave, majeflic, regular and cautious, and
feem to correfpond with the dignity of his appearance.
He kneels dowm for the accommodation of thofe who
would mount upon his back, and even helps them to
afeend with his trunk. He differs himfelf to be. har-
neffed, and ieems proud of the finery of his trappings ;
he will eafily perform the work of feveral horfes, being
able to carry from 3000 to 4000 weight. His conduc¬
tor or comae is ufually mounted on the neck of the
elephant, and ufes a rod of iron {harp at the end and
hooked, with which he urges the animal forward,
by pricking his head, ears, or muzzle, though this
is feldom neceffary, a word being udiaily fufficient..
In India, Mr Scot tells us, elephants are divided
into two caffs, viz. the koomareah and the merghee.
The firft confifts of the large or full-bodied kind ; the
fecond of the more flender, with longer legs and thin¬
ner trunk in proportion j it is alfo a taller animal, but
not fo ftrong as the former. A large trunk is always
confidered as a great beauty in an elephant, fo that the
koomareah is preferred not only on this account, but
for his fuperior ftrength in carrying burthens, &c.
Many indiftina varieties are again produced from the
intermixture of thefe two breeds. I he torrid zone
feems to be the natural clime of the elephant, and the
moft favourable for the production of the largelt and
hardieft race ", and w:hen this animal migrates beyond
the tropics, the fpecies degenerates. •
The following marks are laid down by Mr Scot as
deferiptive of a perfeCt elephant. His ears Ihould be
large and rounded, not ragged or indented at the mar¬
gin : his eyes of a dark hazel colour, free from (peeks:
the roof of his mouth and his tongue without dark or
blackilh fpots of any confiderable fize : his trunk large :
his tail long, with a tuft of hair reaching nearly to the
ground. There muff be five nails on each of his fore
feet, and four on each of his hind ones •, his head well
fet on, and carried rather high •, the arch or curve of
his back rifing gradually from the fhoulder to the mid¬
dle, and thence defeending to the infertion of the tail *,
and all his joints firm and ftrong.
The value of an elephant varies much, according to
471
his caff, and as he has more or lefs of the above marks. Kiftory of
The uTual price at Ceylon is 50 guineas, but they fome-tVie sPecies-i
times fetch confiderably more.
Elephants are kept by the princes and grandees of
India, chiefly for (hew and magnificence. In their
travels the Indian princes are attended by hundreds of
thefe animals. Some are employed to carry the ladies
which compofe the feraglio, who are placed in. latticed
cages covered with branches of trees; while others tranf-
port the immenfe quantities of baggage which the fove-
reigns of the eaft ufually carry with them in their jour¬
neys. Great care is taken in the management and de¬
coration of thefe elephants. They are daily fed,
bathed, oiled, and rubbed, and frequently painted a-
beut the ears and head with various colours, and their
tulks furrounded with rings of gold and filver. When
employed in proceffions, they are covered with the moft
gaudy and fumptuous trappings.
Elephants are now feldom employed in war, as in
the prefent ftate of warfare they can be of little ad¬
vantage. The ancients, as is well known, ufed num¬
bers of them in their armies, and we are told that Porus
oppofed the paffage of Alexander over the Hydafpes
with 85 elephants. The accounts related of thofe
brought by Pyrrhus againft the Romans, are familiar to
moft of our readers, and Buffon fuppofes that fome of
thefe were among the number that Alexander took and
fent into Greece. In the later periods of the Roman
republic, elephants were frequently exhibited to the
people, for the cruel purpofe of being put to death in
conflifts with armed men. It is faid that Pompey, in
the fpace of five days, deftroyed 18 elephants in this
way, with a vierv of entertaining the populace, among .
whom the cries of the elephants are faid to have excit¬
ed much commiferation.
In the eaft, elephants are fometimes employed as the
executioners of public juftice, and they will trample a
criminal to death, break his limbs with their trunk, or
impale him on their enormous tulks, according to the
orders given them. In fome parts of India they were
foimerly employed in launching {hips, which they ef-
fetff by puftung the veffel with their heads. We are
told that one of them being direfted to force a large vef¬
fel into the wrater, and this proving too much for his
ftrength, the mailer in an angry tone cried out, Take
away that lazy bead, and bring another in his place.
The poor animal repeated his efforts, fradlured his Ikull,
and died upon the (pot.
A great many inftances have been recorded of the
fagacity, and almoft reafoning power of this wonderful
animal. We lhail mention a few of thefe. “ I was,
fays M. Philippe, an eye witnefs to the following fads :
—At Goa, there are always fome elephants employed
in the building of Ihips. I one day went to the fide
of the river, near which a great Ihip was building,
where there is a large area filled wdth beams for that
purpofe. Some men tie the ends of the heavieft beamf
with a rope, which is handed to an elephant, who car¬
ries it to his mouth, and after twilling it round his
trunk,
MAMMALIA.
(E)
Quae bellua ruptis,
Cum femel effugit, reddit fe prava catenis
472 MAMMALIA. Part II.
Hiflory of trunk, draws it, without any conductor, to the place
1where the fliip is building, though it may have been
only once pointed out to him. One of thefe fome-
times drew beams fo large, that more than 20 men
would have been unable to move them. But what
furprifed me ftill more, when other beams obftruft-
ed the road, he elevated the ends of his own beams
that they might run eafily over thofe which lay in his
way. Could the moll enlightened man do more ?”
He well knows when he is mocked, or otherwife ill
treated. The flory of the taylors of Delhi, who were
drenched with puddle water by an elephant for haying
pricked his trunk with a needle, is well known. The
following inflance of retaliation is not lefs worthy of
notice. An elephant driver at Macafa having a cocoa
nut given him, he, out of wantonnefs ftruck it twice
againft his elephant’s head, to break it. The next day
when the animal wras palling through the ftreet, he faw
fome cocoa nuts expofed to fale, and taking up one of
them with his trunk, he beat it about the driver’s head
till he completely killed the man. This comes, fays the
relater, of jelling with an elephant.
When much provoked, he has been known to take
the moll dreadful vengeance. He is extremely fond of
wine and fpirits, and by Ihewing him a veffel of arack,
he is induced to ufe the greatell efforts, and take the ut-
moff pains in hopes of gaining it as the reward of his
labour. An elephant difappointed of his reward in this
way, out of revenge killed his comae or governor.
The poor man’s wife, who beheld the dreadful feene,
took her two infants, and threw them at the feet of the
enraged animal, faying, “ fince you have llain my huf-
band, take my life alfo, as well as that of my children.”
The elephant inftantly Hopped, relented, and as if
Hung with remorfe, took the eldelt boy in his trunk,
placed him on his neck, adopted him for his cornac, and
would never allow any other perfon to mount it.
The elephant is fometimes feized with periodical fits
of rage, and during thefe he will deftroy the full
perfon he meets with j but what is very remarkable,
when he has facrificed one viflim, he becomes in*
itantly appeafed, and may be then led and governed as
ufual.
The following inftance of mutual affeftion between a
male and female elephant, who had before been much
together, and were brought to Paris in fisparate con¬
veyances, is very interefting.
The place for their reception had been long prepa¬
red. It was a fpacious hall in the mufeum of natural
hiftory, well aired and lighted. A ftove was placed
in it to warm it during the winter j and it was divided
into two apartments, which had a communication with
each other by means of a large door refembling a port¬
cullis. The inclofure round thefe apartments, confift-
ed of rails made of ftrong thick beams, and a fecond in¬
clofure, breaft-high, ran round them, to keep the fpec-
tators at fome ditlance, and preferve them from accidents.
The morning after their arrival, thefe animals wTere
put in poffefiion of their new habitation. The firft con¬
duced to it was the male, who iffued from his cage
with precaution, and feemed to enter his apartment
with a degree of fufpicion. His firft care was to recon¬
noitre the place. He examined each bar with his
trunk, and tried their folidity by (baking them. Care
had been taken to place on the outlide the large ferews
by which they were held together. Thefe he fought Bruta.
out, and, having found them, tried to turn them, but '—-'V*""
was not able. When he arrived at the portcullis -which
feparates the two apartments, he obferved that it w^as
fixed only by an iron bar, which rofe in a perpendicu¬
lar direCion. He raifed it with his trunk, pulhed up
the door, and entered into the fecond apartment, where
he received his breakfaft. He ate it quietly, and ap¬
peared to be perfedy eafy.
During this time people were endeavouring to make
the female enter. We ftill recolleC the mutual at¬
tachment of thefe two animals, and with what difficulty
they were parted and induced to travel feparately.
From the time of their departure they had not feen
each other, not even at Cambray, where they paffed
the winter. They had only been fenfible that they
were near neighbours. The male never lay down, but
always flood upright or leaned againft the bars of his
cage, and kept watch for his female, who lay down
and dept every night. On the leaft noife, or the
fmalleft.alarm, he fent forth a cry to give notice to his
companion.
The joy which they expreffed on feeing each other,
after fo long a feparation, may be readily imagined.
When the female entered, (he fent forth a cry expref-
five only of the pleafure which (he felt at finding her-
(elf at liberty. She did not at firft obferve the male,
who was bufy feeding in the fecond apartment. The
latter did not immediately difeover that his companion
was fo near him ; but the keeper having called him, he
turned round, and immediately the two animals ruffied
towards each other, and fent forth cries of joy, fo ani¬
mated and loud, that they (hook the whole hall. They
breathed alfo through their trunks with fuch violence,
that the blaft refembled an impetuous guft of wind.
The joy of the female was the moft lively : She ex¬
preffed it by quickly flapping her ears, which (he made
to move with aftoniffiing velocity, and drew her trunk
over the body of the male with the utmoft tendernefs.
She, in particular, applied it to his ear, where (he kept
it a long time j and after having drawn it over the
whole body of the male, would often move it affection¬
ately towards her own mouth. The male did the fame
thing over the body of the female j but his joy was
more concentrated : He feemed to exprefs it by his
tears, which fell from his eyes in abundance.
Befides the ufe made of the elephant, when living,
he is fometimes hunted for the fake of his tu(ks and
fleffi. Mr Bruce has given us an interefting account of
the mode of hunting elephants in Abyffinia, and with
this we (hall conclude our hiftory of this animal.
The men who make the hunting of elephants their
bufinefs, dwell conftantly in the woods, and live entirely
upon the fleffi of the animals they kill, which is chiefly
that of the elephant or rhinoceros. They are exceed¬
ingly thin, light, and agile, both on horfeback and on
foot. They are called agageer, a name derived from
the word agar, which fignifies to hamftring with a (harp
weapon. More properly it means, indeed, the cutting
of the tendon of the heel, and is a charafteriftic of the
manner in which they kill the elephant, which is thus:
—Two men, quite naked, to prevent their being laid
hold of by the trees or buffies in making their efcape
from this very watchful enemy, get on horfebacki
One of thefe riders fits on the back of the horfe, fome¬
times
Chap.
Bruta.
H. M A M M
times with ^ faddle, and fometimes without one, with
' only a Ihort flick in one hand, carefully managing the
bridle with the other : behind him fits his companion,
armed only with a broad fword. His left hand is em¬
ployed in grafping the fword by the handle $ about 14
inches of the blade of which are covered with w'hip
cord. This part he takes in his right hand, without
any danger of being hurt by it *, and though the edges
of the lower part of the fword are as (harp as a razor,
he carries it without a fcabbard.
“ As foon as an elephant is found feeding, the horfe-
man rides before him, as near his face as poflible j or
if he flies, croftes him in all dire&ions, calling out, ‘ I
am fuch a man and fuch a man, this is my horle, that
has fuch a name j 1 killed your father in fuch a place,
and I am now come to kill you ; you are but an afs in
companion with them.’ This nonlenfe he believes the
elephant perfe&ly underftands, who, chafed and angry
at hearing the noife immediately before him, attempts
to feize him with his trunk ; and, intent upon this, fol¬
lows the horfe everywhere, turning round and round
with him, negle&ful of making his efcape by running
flraight forward, in which confifts his only fafety.' Af¬
ter having made him turn a few times in purluit of the
horfe, the horfeman rides up alongfide of him, and
drops his companion juft behind on the oft-fide ; and
while he engages the elephant’s attention upon the
horfe, the footman behind gives him a drawn ftroke
juft above the heel, into what in man is called the ten¬
don of Achilles. This is the critical moment ; the
horfeman immediately wheels round, again takes his
companion up behind him, and rides off after the reft
of the herd, if they have ftarted more than one ; and
fometimes an expert agageer will kill three out of one
herd. If the fword is good, and the man not afraid,
the tendon is commonly entirely leparated ; and if it is
not cut through, is generally fo far divided, that the
animal, with the ftrefs he puts upon it, breaks the re¬
maining part afunder. In either cafe, he remains in¬
capable of advancing a ftep, till the horfeman return¬
ing, or his companions coming up, pierce him through
with javelins and lances \ he then falls to the ground,
and expires from lofs of blood.
“ The elephant once flain, they cut the whole flefh off
his bones into thongs, like the reins of a bridle, and
hang thefe, like feftoons, upon the branches of trees,
till they become perfe&ly dry, without fait, and they
then lay them by for their provifion in the feafon of the
rains” *.
Bofman and Labat give us terrible ideas of the cou¬
rage of the elephant, and his fury when wounded } but
either their accounts are much exaggerated, or the mo¬
dern elephant is a much more timid animal than that of
. their time. Captain Beaver affures us, that when an
elephant is attacked, it will endeavour to efcape by any
opening it can perceive *, that whenever they fired at it
on (here, it never turned on its enemies, but made for
the openings that led into the woods. The Bijugas and
Biaforas ufe a very long gun, loaded with a piece ot an
iron rod nearly equal to its caliber, for attacking the
elephant, and always aim at the flank, or behind the
ear, thefe being the moft dangerous parts in which the
f Beaver’s aifimal can be wounded. The elephant is fcarcely ever
^Me'moran ^ a Angle flrot f.
da v ico For many Years paft a number of large bones and
VOL. XiL Part II.
* Bruce’s
Travels.
ALIA. 473
extraordinary teeth, have been difeovered in the north- Hiftoryof
ern parts both of Alia and America, which at firft were the Species..
generally attributed to the elephant, though in Siberia ^ "
they were confidered as belonging to a monftrous ani- Mammoth-,
mal called mammoth, whofe fabulous exiftence they
fuppofed to be under ground. In North America thefe
large bones and carnivorous grinders have been found
in great abundance on the Ohiq and its tributary
ftreams, waftied from their hanks, or difeovered by
digging in fait morafles in the neighbourhood of Cinci-
nati, where they are found intermixed with the bones
of buffaloes and deer, which a tradition of the Indians
ftates to have been deftroyed by a herd of thefe animals
which came upon them from the north. This event
happened, the Indians believe, as a punifhment for
their fins j but they fay that the good fpirit at length
interpofed to fave them, and feating himfelf on a neigh¬
bouring rock, where they ihew you the print of his
feat and of one foot, hurled his thunderbolts againft
them. All were killed except one male, who, prefent-
ing his forehead to the lhafts, (hook them off, until at
length wounded, he fprang over the Wabafh, the Illi¬
nois, and the Great Lake, where he ftiil lives.
Thefe bones were forwarded with eavemefs to all
parts of Europe, and depofited in mufeums, wdrere they
attradied the curiofity of all naturalills, whofe conjec¬
tures and theories on them were very various, until Hr
Blunter, by a more accurate comparifon between them
and the bones of other animals, determined that they
muft have belonged to a large non-defeript animal of
the carnivorous kind, fomewhat refembling the hippo¬
potamus and the elephant, yet effentially different front
both.
The fubjedt is now completely elucidated. Not long
fince iome farmers in the ftate of New York, in Ame¬
rica, digging marl from their moraifes in the neigh¬
bourhood of New' Windfor, accidentally difeovered fe-
veral of thefe bones, which w;ere preferved by phyfi.
cians in the neighbourhood. In the autumn of 1801,
Mr Charles Peale, and his fon Mr Rembrandt Peale,
having obtained poffefiion of thofe bones, perfevered
for near three months, with much labour and expence,
in fearching for the remainder of this animal, and were
at length fo fortunate as to obtain two fkeletons found
in two diftindf fituations, and unmixed with the bones
of any other individual. One of thefe is preferved in
the mufeum at Philadelphia, and the other was exhibi-
red a few years ago in London, previoufly to its being
taken to Paris.
The length of this Ikeleton, from the chin to the
rump, was 15 feet, and its height over the (boulders
11 feet ; and from the point of the tulks to the end of
the tail, in a ftjraigbt line, it was 17 feet long. The
whole (keleton weighed about tooolb.
The following differences between the (kull of the
mammoth, and that of the elephant, are given by Mr
R. Peale.
On examining the head of the elephant, it wull ap¬
pear, that the fockets for the tufks are fituated, wfitli
refpeft to the condyle of the neck, nearly in an angle
of 450, fo that the tulks, which have but little curve,,
are direbfed downwards and forwards, and may be
with eaie employed offenfively and defenfively. On the
other hand it wall be obferved, that, in the mammoth,
the focket is nearly in a horizontal line with the coqt
3 O dylej
474
Hiftory of
the Species.
* Philofoph.
Mag. xiv.
} Nichol.
tyourn- Svo
vol. xiii.
P-3S8-
• M A M M
dyle ; anti therefore the tuiks, which are femicircular,
could never have been elevated in the air, pointing
backwards, but muft have had their points thrown out
by the fpiral twill on each fide.
In the elephant, the orbit of the eye is fituated where,
in the mammoth, there is a large mafs of bone. i he
cheek of the elephant is formed of two bones j but in
the mammoth, befides other variations, there is but one
bone. The whole figure of the under jaw differs con-
fiderably, in the length of the condyles or arms, which
in the mammoth is (hort and angular, but in the ele¬
phant forms a femicircular line *.
Mr R. Peale feems to have ne doubt that the mam¬
moth was a carnivorous animal, feeding chiefly on Ihell
fifh ; but if the animal, whofe ftomach was lately found
in digging a well near a fait lake in Wythe county,
Virginia, were really a mammoth, it is clear that this
animal wras at lealt capable of living on herbage. Phe
contents of this flomach, which were in a Hate of per-
fecl prefervation, confifted of half mafticated reeds,
twigs, and grafs or leaves f.
Genus n. Sukotyro.
53 Of this genus there is only one fpecies, of which we
Sukotyrus. pnow iittie or nothing, and are not even certain that it
Fig. iS. exifls : the little information that has been given of it
being confined to a fingle traveller, Nieuhoff. Pie
deferibes it as a quadruped of a very lingular fliape,
about the fize of a large ox, with a fnout like that of a
hog, long and rough ears, and a thick and bulky tail.
He fays that the eyes are placed upright in the head,
and that on each fide of the head, next to the eyes,
Hand two horns or rather tulks, not quite fo large as
thefe of the elephant, that it feeds on herbage, and is a
native of Java.
Genus 12. Platypus.
PJatypus. Mouth flraped like the bill of a duck, with two grind-
Ja ‘ ers on each fide in each jaw’ ; feet webbed.
I^# . . IT)
There is only one fpecies^ which, h&s been called t •
Anatinus, or Duck-billed Platypus. It was brought
from New Holland, and prefented to Sir Jofeph Banks.
An account of it was firft publilhed by Dr Shaw in the
Naturalifts Mifcellany, and afterwards in the General
Zoology of the fame author, from which the following
account is taken.
“ Of all the mammalia yet known, this feems the
moll extraordinafy in its conformation, exhibiting the
perfeft refemblance of the beak of a duck engrafted on
the head of a quadruped. So accurate is the fimilitude,
that, at firft view, it naturally excites the idea of fome
deceptive preparation by artificial means j the very epi¬
dermis, proportion, ferratures, manner of opening, and
other particulars of the beak of a (hoveler, or other
broad-billed fpecies of duck, prefenting themfelves to
the view j nor is it without the moll; minute and rigid
examination that we can jaerfuade ourfelves of its being
the real beak or fnout of a quadruped.
« The body is deprefied, and has fome refemblance
to that of an otter in miniature. It is covered with a
very thick, foft, and beaver-like fur, and is of a mode¬
rately dark brown above, and of a fubferruginous wdiite
beneath. The head is fiattilh, and rather fmall than
large. The mouth or fnout, as before obferved, fo ex-
ALIA. Part IT.
aflly refembles that of fome broad-billed fpecies of Brata.
duck, that it might be miilaken lor fuch. Round the
bafe is a flat circular membrane, fomewhat deeper or
wider below than above, viz. below', near the fifth of an
inch, and above, about an eighth. The tail rs flat,
furry like the body, rather {hort, and obtufe, with an
almort bifid termination •, it is broader at the bafe, and
gradually leffens to the tip, and is about three inches in
length ; its colour is fimilar to that of the body. The
length of the whole animal, from the tip of the beak to
that of the tail, is 13 inches ; of the beak an inch and
a half. The legs are very ihort, terminating in a
broad web, which on the fore feet extends to a confi-
derable diftance beyond the claws j but on the hind
feet reaches no farther than the roots of the claws. On
the fore feet are five claws, ftraight, ftrong, and {harp-
pointed ; the two exterior ones fomewhat ihorter than
the three middle ones. On the hind feet are fix claws,
longer and more inclining tor a curved form than thole
on the fore feet*, the exterior toe and claw', are confi-
derably fhorter than the four middle ones : the interior,
or fixth, is feated much higher up than the reft, and
refembles a Prong {harp fpur. All the legs are hairy
above : the fore feet are naked, bot.i above and below.
The internal edges of the under mandible (which is nar¬
rower than the upper) are .ferrated or channelled with
numerous Arise, as in a duck’s bill. The noftrils are
fmall and round* and are fituated about a quarter of an
inch from the tip of the bill, and are about one-eighth
of an inch diftant from each other. I here is no ap¬
pearance of teeth : the palate is removed ; but it feems
to have refembled that of a duck : the tongue alfo is
wanting in the fpeciroen here deferibed. 1 he ears or
auditory orifices, are placed about an inch beyond the
eyes ; they appear like a pair of oval holes of the eighth
of an inch in diameter, there being no external ear.
On the upper part of the head, on each fide, a little
beyond the beak, are fituated two imallifti oval whilfe
fpots, in the lower part of each of which are imbedded
the eyes, or at leall the parts allotted to the animal for
fome kind of vifion •, for, from the thicknefs of the fur,
and the fmallnefs of the organs, they feem to have been
but obfeurely calculated for diftinft vifion, and are pro¬
bably like thofe of moles, and fome other animals of
that tribe •, or perhaps even fubcutaneous, the whole
apparent diameter of the cavity in which they are pla¬
ced not exceeding the tenth of an inch.
“When we confider the general form of this animal,
and particularly its bill and webbed feet, we {hall rea¬
dily perceive, that it muft be a refident in watery fitua-
tions j that it has the habits of digging or burrowing
in the banks of rivers, or under ground, and that its
food confifts of aquatic plants and animals. This is all
that can at prefent be reafonably gueffed at ; future ob-
fervations, made in its native regions, will, it is hoped,
afford us ample information, and will make us fully ac¬
quainted with the natural hiftory of an animal which
differs fo widely from all other quadrupeds, and whiqh
verifies in a moft ftriking manner the obfervation of
Buffon, viz. that whatever was poflible for nature to
produce, has aftually been produced” *. * Shaw's
This animal was firft called Ornithorynchas Para-Znolcgy,
doxus, and it has been deferibed under this name by''0”
Blumenbach of Gottingen, and by Mr Horne of Lon¬
don. See Phil. Tranf. for 1800.
Mr
Chap.
Bruta.
. 55
Trichecus,
Ik M A M M
Mr Home found on dtffe&ion, that the beak of the
J platypus difters materially from the bill of a bird j that
it was independent of the cavity of the mouth, which
was fimilar to that of other quadrupeds, having two
grinders on each fide in both jaws, but without fangs.
Genus 13. Trichecus. WjL&iysEs.
No fore teeth in the full-growm animal in either jaw.
Tuflis in the upper jaw folitary 5 grinders with
wrinkled furfaces. Lips double. Hind feet uniting
at the extremity of the body into a fin.
This genus conititutes one of the links that conneft
the quadrupeds with the fifties ; the walrufles and manati
being marine animals, who, though they lometimes
come on (bore, pafs moll of their time in the w^ater.
They feed on fea weeds and (hell fifti, and do not ap¬
pear to be carnivorous. .There are about leven fpecies,
which are diftinguiftied by the following names and
charaflers.
I. T. Rofmarus, Morfe or Arftic Walrus. Tufks dis¬
tant and exferted.—2. T. Dugon, Hugon or Indian
W. Tulks exferted and approximate.—3. T. Borea¬
lis, Whale-tailed W. Hairlefs, with a horizontal tail
in place of hind feet.—4. T. Aujlralis, Rouncj-tailed
W. Hairy, with a horizontal tail in place of feet.—
5. T. Manatix, Guiana W. Slightly hairy, without
tulks, and with a hoiizontal tail in place of hind feet.
The following are named, but not chara£ferized, by Dr
. Shaw, viz. 6. T. Atnacz>onius, and 7• l - Hydropithecus.
Rofmams, i- Rofmarus, Arftic Walrus—This is a very
ArcticWal-large animal, growing fometimes to the length of 18
ms. feet? anc[ fQ thick as to meafure 12 feet about the mid-
Fig. 20. die of the body. Its form is clumfy and inelegant, ha¬
ving a fmall head, ftiort neck, thick body, and ftiort
legs. The lips are very thick, and the upper lip is
indented or cleft into two large rounded lobes : over
the whole furface of this part are fcattered numerous fe-
mitranfparent brililes, of a yellowifti tinge, and of luch
a thicknefs as almoft to equal a ftravv in diameter 5
they are about three inches long, and are {lightly point¬
ed at their extremities. The eyes are fmall. Inftead of
external ears, there are only two fmall round orifices.
The {kin, on the whole, is thick, and more or lefs
wrinkled, and is fcattered over with flrort browmifh
hair. On each foot are five toes, all connetted by webs,
and on each toe is a fmall nail j the hind feet are confi-
derably broader than the fore feet. The tail is extreme¬
ly Ihort. In the upper jawr are two large and long
tulks bending downwards.
The ar£Hc walrus inhabits the northern feas, and is
chiefly found within the ar&ic circle. Great numbers
are often met with in the Magdalen ifles in the gulf of
St Law-rence. They are gregarious, and are fometimes
feen in vaft multitudes on the maffes of floating ice that
are found in thofe high latitudes. They are harmlefs,
unlefs when attacked or provoked, in which cafe they
become furious, and extremely vindiflive. When fur-
prifed on the ice, the females firft: provide for the fafe-
ty of their young, by flinging them into the fea, and
themfelves after them. Having carried thefe to a fe-
cure diftance, they, will return to the place again with
great rage to revenge any injury they have received.
'They will fometimes attempt to fallen their teeth on
the -boatSj iu order to fink them, or rife in great num-
ALIA.,  475
bers under them with the intention of overfetting them,
at the fame time {hewing all the marks of rage, by t   
roaring in a dreadful manner, and gnafhing their teeth
with great violence. They are ftrongly attached to
each other, and will make every effort in their power,
even to death, to fet at liberty their harpooned compa¬
nions. A wmunded wTalrus has been known to fink to
the bottom, rife fuddenly again, and bring up with it
multitudes of others, who have united in an attack on
the boat from which the infult came.
The following pifture of a herd of walrufles on a
mafs of floating ice, is given by Captain Cook. ‘ They
lie in herds of many hundreds upon the ice, huddling
over one another like fwine, and roar or bray very
loud, fo that in the night, or in foggy wreather, they
gave us notice of the vicinity of the ice, before we
could fee it. We never found the whole herd afleep,
fome being alw'ays upon the watch. Thefe, on the ap¬
proach of the boat, would wake thofe next to them j
and the alarm being thus gradually communicated, tae
whole herd would be awake prefently. But they wyere
feldom in a huriry to get away, till alter they had been
once fired at. They then w'ould tumble over one an¬
other into the fea in the utmoft confufion. And. if w^e
did not, at the firft difeharge, kill thofe we fired at,
we generally loft them, though mortally wounded.
They did not appear to us to be that dangerous animal
which fome authors have deferibed, not even when at¬
tacked. They are rather more fo in appearance than
in reality. Vaft numbers of them would follow and
come elefe up to the boats. But the flafti of a mulket
in the pan, or even the bare pointing of one at them,
would fend them down in an inftant. The female wrill
defend the young to the very laft, and at the expence
of her own life, whether in the water or upon the ice.
Nor will the young one quit the dam, though fhe be
dead ; fo that if one is killed, the other is certain prey.
The dam, when in the water, holds the young one be¬
tween her fore fins.”*
The tufks of this animal are ufed as ivory ; but au¬
thors feem to differ with refpeft to its quality, fome
taking it as fuperior, and others far inferior to that of
the elephant. The walrus is taken chiefly for the fake
of its oil and its fkin, from which latter is prepared a
very ftrong and elaftic leather.
This order contains nine genera, and about 30 fpecies.
Chap. III. FERiE.
Genus 14. Phoca. Seals.
Six fore teeth in the upper jaw, pointed, parallel, out¬
er the larger ; four in the lower jaw, bluntifh, paral¬
lel, equal and diftinft. One canine tooth on each
fide in both jaws, large and pointed; the upper di-
ftindl from the cutting teeth ; the lower from the
grinders. Five grinders on each fide in the upper,
and fix in the lower jaw; obtufely tricufpidated.
Hind feet growing together.
This conftitutes another tribe of marine animals ; but
thefe are much better fitted for living on land than the
walrufles, and indeed they pafs much of their time ei¬
ther on the fea fhores, on infulated rocks, or on the
ice in the frozen feas, aflembling in thefe places in vaft
numbers, efpecially at the time when the females bring
3 O 2 forth
, 57
Phoca.
4/6
Kiftory of
' he Species.
Vitulina,
Common
Seal
Fig. 21.
M A Tvl MALTA.
Part TI.
foitli tlieir young. Here tliey lie b^fking in the fun or
(porting with each other, and here they take their re-
pofe. They are found in ail feas,- and iome of them
are {’aid to inhabit large inland lakes. They feed chiefly
on fi(h and fea weeds.
The fpecies are numerous, at lead: 19 being defend¬
ed by naturalifts, viz.
1. * P. Vitu/ina, Common Seal. Earlefs, brown, with
fmooth head and neck.— 2. Bicolor, Pied S. Earlefs,
black, variegated with white, with elongated nofe and
lunated hind feet.—3. P. Monachus, Mediterranean S.
Earlefs, with four cutting teeth in each jaw, undivided
fore feet, and the hinder pinniform and without claws.
—4. P. Longicollis, Long-necked S. Earlefs, long¬
necked, with the fore feet pinniform.—3. P. Falhlan-
dlca, Falkland-ide S. Cinereous, with (mail-pointed
ears, and furrowed cutting teeth.—6. * . Te/ludinea,
Tortoife-headed S. Tortoife-lhaped head and {lender
neck.—7. P. Fafciata, Ribbon S. Blackifh, with a
fquariih dorfal yellow band.—8. P. Leporina, Lepo¬
rine S. with white, foft, fuberect fur.—9. * P. Barba-
la, Great S. Earlefs, blackifh, with fmooth bead.—
to. P. Ilifbida, Rough S. Pale brown, fubauricula-
led, with {mouth bead, and the body covered with
riling briftly hair.—11. P. Porcina, Porcine S. Ear¬
ed, with hog like fnout and rive-tot a feet.— 1 2. P.F/a-
vefeeny. Yellow S. Ytllov.ilh, with pointed ears.—
13. P. Cri/lata, Hooded S. Gray, with a folding
ikinny crelt on the forehead.—14. P. Groctilandica,
Harp S. Earlefs, gray, with a black dorfal creicentj
the horns pointing downwards along the fides.—15.
P. Pujil/a, Little S. Subauriculated, dufky, with
fmooth head.—16. P. Urjina, Urfine S. Eared, black-
ilh, with Hnttifh nofe, and fin-like fore feet.—17. P. Leo-
nina, Bottle-nofed S. Brown, male having a project¬
ing creft or inflated membrane on the fnout.—18. P. Ju-
bata. Leonine S. Reddilh brown, male furnifhed with
a large inane round the neck.—19. P. Lupiora, U-
rigne S. Earlefs, with dog-like head, and fin-like fore
feet.
x. P. Vitu/ina, Common Seal, or Sea Calf.—The
ufual length of this fpecies is from five to fix feet. It
has a large round head, a fmall ftiort neck, and feveral
ftrong briflles on each fide of its mouth ; large eyes,
no external ears, and a forked tongue, The body ta¬
pers from the fhoulders to the tail. The legs are very
Ihort, and the feet all webbed. The hind legs are
placed fo far back as to be of but little ufe, except in
iwimming. The tail is very fliort. They vary in co¬
lour, being fometimes gray, fometimes brown or black-
iili, and nowT and then Ipotted with white and yellow.
They inhabit all the European feas, and are found
round all the coafis of the northern hemifpbere. They
are alfo feen in vafl: quantities about the fouthern polar
regions; and Mr Pennant informs us, that they even
inhabit fome frelh-water lakes, efpecially that of Baikal.
Their dens or habitations are formed in hollow rocks
qr caverns out of the reach of the tide.
They are excellent fwimmers, and ready divers, and
are very bold when in the fea. In the fummer they
will come out of the water, to balk or fleep in the fun,
on the top of large ftones, or fhivers of rocks •, and that
is the opportunity our countrymen take of (hooting
them : if they chance to efcape, they haden towards
their proper element, flinging nones and dirt behind Ferae,
them as they fcramble along ; at the fame time expref- 'r~~
fing their fears by piteous moans ; but if they happen
to be overtaken, they will make a vigorous defence
with their feet and teeth, till they are killed. They
are taken for the fake of their (kins, and for the oil
their fat yields ; the former fell for 4s. or 4s. 6d. a
piece, and, when dreffed, are very ufeful in covering
trunks, making waifleoats, fnot pouches, and feverai
ether conveniences. The flefh of thefe animals, and
even of porpoifes, formerly found a place at the tables
of the great, as appears from the bill of fare of that
vnft feaft that Archbifhop Nevill gave in the reign of
Edward IV. in which is feen, that feveral feals were
provided on the occafion. They couple about April, on
large rocks, or fmall iflands, not remote from the (horej
and bring forth in thofe vafl: caverns that are frequent on
our coatts. They commonly bring forth two at a time,
which, in their infant date, are covered with a whitilh
down, or woolly fubitance.
They fuckle their young for about a fortnight, in the
place w here they were born, and then take them out
to fea, and lnlfru£t them in fvvimming, and feeking for
their prey, which confifis chiefly of fea weed. When
the young are fatigued, the parents are faid to carry
them on their backs. The growth of the young feals
is faid to be fo rapid, that, in about nine tides after
their birth, they become as adlive as their parents.
Seals are very fwift in their proper depth of wrater,
dive like a (hot, and in a trice rife at 50 yards diftance j
fo that weaker fhhes cannot avoid their tyranny, except
in ihaliow w-ater ; a perfon of the parifh of Sennon, Taw,
not long fince, a feal in purfuit of a mullet (that ftrong
and fvvift fifh) : the feal turned it to and fro in deep
water, as a greyhound does a hare. The mullet at
laft found it had no way to efcape, but by running into
ftioal w’ater : the feal purfued, and the mullet, to get
more fecurely out of danger, threw' itfelf on its ftde, by
which me.ms it darted into ftioaler writer than it could
have fwam in with the depth of its haunch and fins,
and fo efcaped.
They deep on rocks, furrounded by the fea, or on the
lefs acceftible parts of our cliffs, left dry by the ebb of
the tide ; and if difturbed by any thing, take care to
tumble over the rocks into the fea. They are extreme¬
ly watchful, and never fleep long without moving j fel-
dom longer than a minute, then raife their heads, and
if they hear or fee nothing more than ordinary, lie
down again, and fo on, railing their heads a little, and
reclining them alternately, in about a minute’s time.
Nature feems to have given them this precaution, as
being unprovided with auricles, or external ears ; and
confequently not hearing very quick, nor from any
great diftance.
When taken young, thefe animals may be domeftica-
ted, will follow their mafter like a dog, and come to
him w'hen called by name. Some years ago a young
feal was thus domefticated that had been taken at a
little diftance from the fea. It was ufually kept in a
veffel full of fait water, but was allowed to crawl about
the houfe, and w'ould {©metimes come near the fire ; its
natural food w'as regularly brought to it, and it was
every day taken to the fea, and thrown in from a boat,
but would fwim after the boat, and always allowed it-
Chap. HI. M A M M A L I A.
Ferse. felf to be taken back. It lived in this way for feveral
   —' weeks, and appears to have died in confequence of ill
ufage.
Gen. 15. Canis. Dogs.
59
Ganis.
Six cutting teeth in each jaw ^ the lateral of the upper
jaw longer and didant, the intermediate lobated j
the lateral of the lower jaw lobated. Canine teeth
folitary and curved. Grinders fix or feven, or more
than in the other genera of this order.
The individuals of this genus, like thofe of the next,
have fo little in common with refpeft to their haoits and
manners, and are otherwife fo important in themfelves,
as to call for a feparate account. Without making any
general remarks here, we thall merely give the fpecific
differences, and then proceed to fuch of the fpecies as
are moil; worthy of notice.
There are about 23 fpecies *, viz.
1. * Cam's Fatniliaris, Common Dog. Recurved
tail, turned towards the left.—2. C. Lupus, Wolf.
Tail incurvated.—3. C. Mtfxicanus, Mexican wolf.
Tail deflected; body afli-coloured, and variegated with
dufky bands and fulvous fpots.—4. C. Lijcaon, Black
wolf. Tail ftraight.—5. C. Hyana, Hyaena. Pale
brown, ftriped wdth black, wdth upright mane,^ naked
ears, ftraight tail and four-toed feet. 6. C. Lrocata,
Spotted hyaena. Reddifh brown, fpotted with black
with ftraight tail, and four-toed feet.—7* Marcus.
Jackall. Pale fulvous, with ftraight tail.—8. C1. Mefo-
melos, Cape iackall. Ferruginous, with ftraight tail,
and black dorfal band.—9. C. Barbaras, Barbary jack-
all. Pale brown with ftraight tail ; a black defend¬
ing forked band behind each ear, and three dufky
bands on the tail.—10. C. Ceilomcm, Ceylonefe dog.
Yellowifh gray, with lengthened fnout, long (harp
pointed tail, and crooked claws.—Vulpss, lox.
Tail ftraight tipped wdth white.—1 2. C. Fllopex, Brant
fox. Tail ftraight, tipped with black.—13. C. Corfac,
Corfac fox. Tail ftraight, fulvous, with the bafe and
xlp white.—14. C. Karagan, Raragan fox. fail
ftraight 5 body gray, and ears black.—13. C. Cinereo-
argenteus, Fulvous-necked fox. A(h gray, wnh
ftraight tail j and the fides of the neck fulvous.—16. C.
Virgineanus, Virginian fox. \V hitiih gra\, with
ftraight tail 17. C. Argentatu*, Silvery fox. Deep
brown, with longer hairs of a filvery white. 1 8 C. La-
gopus, Ardlc fox. Tail ftraight, feet covered with
thick fur.—19. C. Thous, Surinam dog. Grayifh,
white beneath, with deflecfed tain—20. C. Brngalenfis,
Bengal fox. L’ght browm, with a longitudinal black
ftripe down the face, w’lnte orbits, fulvous legs, and tail
tipped with black.—21. C. Fuliginofus, Sooty fox. Or
a footy colour, wdth ftraight tail.—22. C. AntarElicus,
Antarctic fox. Cinereous brown, villous •, tail tipt wdth
white.—23. C. Zerda, Fennec. Whitith, with ftraight
tail, and very large upright ears, that are internally 01
g a rofe colour.
Domeftic I • C. Famihans. Domeftic dog.— Pirn varieties of
Dog. the common dog are fo numerous, that it is fcarcely
poflible to give any general defcription of the fpecies
that would apply to all. We fttall here, therefore, only
give Linnaeus’s charafferiftic picture, as modified by Mr
Daniel, and then enumerate the feveral.varieties with
477
Linnaeus’s characters, marking with a ftar thofe that
are generally found in this country. ^ «
The dog"' eats ftelh and farinaceous vegetables, but
not greens [this is a mi/fake, for lhey will eat greens
when boiled); its ftomach digefts bones 5 it ufesthe
tops of grafs as a vomit j is fond of rolling in carrion $
voids its excrements on a (tone •, its dung (the album
greccum) is one of the greateft encouragers of putrefac¬
tion j it’laps up its drink with its tongue ) makes water
fideways, by lifting up one of its hind legs ; is moil
diuretic in the company of a ftrange dog, and very apt
to repeat it where another dog has done the fame ;
Odorat anurn alterius; menjlruans catuht cam varus;
mordet ilia illos; coheeret copula juncius. Its feent is
molt exquifite when its nofe is moift ; it treads lightly
on its toes, fcarcely ever fvveats, but when hot lolls
out its tongue ; generally walks frequently round the
place it intends to lie down on ; its lenie ot hearing is
very quick •, when alleep, it dreams. It goes with
young 63 days, and commonly brings from four to ten j
the male puppies relemble the dog, the female the
bitch (an affection by no means accurate, any more than
the tail always bending to the left, is a common charac¬
ter of the fpecies). It is the moft faithful of animals,
is very docile, fawns at its mailer’s approach ; runs be¬
fore him on a journey} often pafles over the fame
ground 5 on coming to crofs ways flops, and looks back j
drives cattle home from the field } keeps herds and
flocks wfithin bounds, protefts them from wild beafts;
points out to the fportfman the game, brings the birds
that are (hot to its mafter j will turn a fpit} at Bruffels,
and in Holland, draws little carts to the herb market y
in more northern regions, draw’s fledges wfith nrovlfions,
travellers, &c. •, will find out what is dropt ; watchful
by night, and when the charge of a houfe or garden is
at fuch times committed to him, his boldnels increafes,
and he fometimes becomes perfefily ferocious j when he
has been guilty of a theft, flinks aw!ays with his tail be¬
tween his legs •, eats voracioufly with oblique eyes y ene¬
my to beggars y attacks ftrangers without provocation y
hates ftrange dogs y howls at certain notes in rnulic,
and often urines on hearing them y will fnap at a ilone
thrown at it 5 is fick at the approach of bad weather
(a remark vague and uncertain) *, is a1 Biffed with
w'orms y fpreads its madnefs; grows blind with age y
feepe gonorrhoea in fed us ; driven as unclean from the
houfes of the Mahometans ; yet the fame people efta-
blilh hofpitals for, and allow'them daily food. ^
t. * Shepherd's dog ; ears erect, tail woolly under-
neath.
2. Wolf-dog; hair on the head long,, ears ered, tail
very much curved on the rump.
3. Siberian dog y ears ered, hair all long.
Iceland dog ; ears ered, tips pendulous, hair long,,
except on the fnout.
5. Water-dog; hair long, curled like a (heap.
6. * Little water-dog; lefs- hair long, curled, round y
the ears long, and banging down.
7. King Charles'1 s dog ; head lefs, rounded y fnout.
ftiort, tail curved back.
8. * Spaniel y ears long, woolly, peruiulous.
9. Maltefe dog ; hair foft, filky, very long.
10. Lion dog; very fmail y hair on the belly and tail
fhorter.,
11* D.anifj.
47 s
M A M M
fubpendulous j fnout
ALIA.
Part 31.
Hiftoryof ii. Danijh dog; ears fmall
the Species, acute ; legs llender.
" 12. Bqflardpug-dog; ears fmall, fubpendulous} nofe
thick, fiattilb.
13. * Pug-dog; nofe crooked upwards j ears pendul¬
ous $ body fquare.
14. * Bull-dog; fides of the lips pendulous j body
robuit j fize of a wolf.
15. * Maftiff; very large \ fides of the lips pendul¬
ous ; body robuft.
16. German hound 5 ears pendulous j a fpurious claw
on the hind feet.
17. * Hound; ears pendulous j a fpurious claw on
the hind feet 5 whitilh.
18. * Bloodhound; very fagacious.
19. * Pointer; tail truncate ; fpotted.
20. Barbel; tail truncate ; hair long, coarfe.
21. Greyhound; head long*, fnout robuft; ears
fmall, fubpendulous; legs long, flout; body long,
ilender.
22. Irijhgreyhound; body curved; fnout narrowing;
fize of 15.
23. Turkijh greyhound; body curved ; fnout taper¬
ing ; hair a little curled ; fize of 25.
24. Common greyhound; body curved ; fnout taper¬
ing ; fize of a wolf.
25. Rough greyhound; body curved ; fnout taper¬
ing ; hair longer, curled ; fize of a wolf.
26. Italian greyhound; lefs; body curved; fnout
-tapering.
27. Naked dog ; body naked.
28. Oriental dog ; tall, fiender ; ears pendulous ; hair
on the tail very long, hanging down.
29. * Lurcher; body narrow; legs flout; tail
ftrong, ftraight; hair fliort, thick fet.
30. Rough lurcher; body narrow; legs flout; tail
thick, ftraight; hair long, rough.
31. Boar lurcher; head and fnout thick ; body nar¬
row behind ; feet long ; hair long, rough.
32. * Turnfpit; legs ftrort; body long, often fpot¬
ted.
33. Aleo ; head fmall; ears pendulous; back cur¬
ved ; tail fhort; fize of 9.
34. New Holland dog; tail bufhy, pendulous; ears
fliort, ereft ; fnout pointed.
Of thefe, the f}jtpherd',s dog, the Siberian dog, the
bull dog, the majliff, the hound, the bloodhound, the grey¬
hound, the Irijh greyhound, and the terrier, are the
moft deferving of our attention. We fliall make a very
few remarks on each, and (hall take occafion to inter-
fperfe a few anecdotes charadleriftic of the fagacity,
cunning, ftrength, or courage, of this moll valuable
fpecies.
The Shepherd"1 s dog is fiippofed by many to be the
original flock whence moft of the other varieties are de¬
rived. This is one of the moft ufeful of tin fpecies,
and is ever faithful to his charge. This fagacious ani¬
mal is of the greateft importance in thole large trails
of land which in many parts of our ifland are appro¬
priated to the feeding of (beep and cattle, and where
vaft flocks may be feen ranging without controul, their
only guides be’ng the fhepherd and his dog. This ani¬
mal is ftridfly attentive to the commands of his mafter,
^md always prompt in the execution of them. He is
-the watchful guardian of the flock, keeps them toge¬
62
Shepherd’s
Dog.
iFig. 22.
ther, and often drives them by himfelf from one pafture Ferre,
to another. We have heard of one of thefe dogs who
wras employed by a farmer in the fouth of Scotland to
fteal other people’s Iheep. His mafter had only to point
out to him beforehand the ftieep which he wiihed to
appropriate to himfelf, and to fend the dog at a con¬
venient time to fetch them home. This charge he was
fure to execute with the utmoft punfluality and addrefs.
The proprietors of the ftolen flieep were fnrprifed at
their lofs, when they could not difcover the perfon who
had robbed them. The mafter of the dog was at length
detected and hanged. x
Mr Bewick fpeaks of a remarkable Angularity in the
feet of the fliepherds dogs in the northern parts of this
ifland, viz. their having one or two toes more than
other dogs, which appear to be deftitute of mufcles,
and hang dangling behind like an unnatural excref-
cenfe. This, how'ever, is not peculiar to the fhepherd’s 63
dog, but is found in the*fpaniel, pointer, and hound. Siberian
The Siberian or Greenland dog is a moft ufeful Do2*
animal to the inhabitants of the dreary regions of
North America, and the north-eaft of Afia, efpecially
Greenland and Kamtfchatka. It bears a confiderable
refemblance to the Ihepherd’s dog, but is much larger,
and has more lhaggy hair, and a more bulhy tail. It is
ferocious and lavage, and rather howls than barks. It is
principally employed in drawing fledges acrofs the
frozen fnow ; leveral of thele animals being fattened to
the fledge, which they draw wnth fo much fpced, that
they have been known to perform a journey of 270
miles in lefs than four days.
The fledges are dually drawn by five flogs, four of
them yoked twn and two abreaft: the foremoft adting a “a
leader to the reft. The reins are fattened to a collar
round the leading dog’s neck, but are of little ufe in di-
redling the pack, the driver depending chiefly upon their
obedience to his voice, with which he animates them
to proceed. Great care and attention are confequently
ufed in training up thofe intended for leaders, which are
more valuable according to their iteadinefs and docili¬
ty ; the fum of 40 rubles, or 10I. being no unufual
price for one of them. The rider has a crooked flick,
anfw*ering the purpofe both of whip and reins, with
which, by ttriking on the fnow, he regulates the fpeed
of the dogs, or flops them at his pleafuie. When they
are inattentive to their duty, he often chaftifes them by
throwing it at them. He difcovers great dexterity in re¬
gaining his itick, which is the greateft difficulty attend¬
ing his fituation ; for if he fliould happen to lofe it,
the dogs immediately difcover the circumftance, and
feldom fail to fet off at full fpeed, and continue to run
till their ftrength is exhaufted, or till the carriage is
overturned and daihed to pieces, or hurried down a pre-
cipice. ,
The Bull dog is the fierceft of the fpecies, and in Bull-Dcg,
courage is fcarcely excelled by any creature in the
world. It is of a low ftature, but very ftrong and muf-
cular; has a fliort nofe, and its under jaw projedfs for¬
ward, fo as to render its ahxft fierce and unpleafing.
The cruel purpofe. for which thefe animals w7ere former¬
ly much employed, viz. bull-baiting, is now, much to
the credit of the prefent times, going faft out of fadiion,
and we ftiould hope, in the ceurfe of another century,
will be entirely nboliflied. The uncommon ardour
and obftinacy difplayed by thefe dogs in attacking the
bull,
Chap. HI-
Fcrte. bull, even under the greatest pain, are well illuftrated
—— by the following fa£f, related by Mr Bewick. Some
years ago at a bull-baiting in the north of Eng¬
land, a young man, confident of the courage of his dog,
laid feme trifling wager, that he would, at feparate
times, cut off all the four feet of his dog, and that it
would, after each amputation, ftill attack the bull. Ihe
inhuman experiment was tried } and the dog continued
to feize the bull as eagerly as at firft.
Maftitf. The MaJUff is one of the largeft and ftrongeft dogs,
F;g. 23. and one of thofe for which this country is particularly
famous. His principal office is that of guarding and
fecuting heufes, gardens, and other property, and for
this he is admirably calculated, both from his strength
and courage. 1 he power of this dog was put to a fevere
trial in the reign of James I. when three of them were
made to attack a lion. The refult of the engagement
is thus related by Stow. “ One of the dogs being put
into the den, was loon difabled by the lion, which
took it by the head and neck, and dragged it about ;
another dog was then let loofe, and ferved in the fame
manner ; but the third being put in, immediately feized
the lion by the lip, and held him for a ccnfiderable
time, till being feverely torn by his claws, the dog was
obliged to quit his hold, and the lion, greatly exhaufted
in the conflidf, refufed to renew the engagement} but
taking a fudden leap over the dogs, fled into the interi¬
or part of his den. Two of the dogs foon died of then-
wounds ; the laft furvived, and was taken great care of
by the king’s fon, who faid, he that had fought with
the king of beafts, ffiould never after fight with any in¬
ferior creature.”
M. D’Obfonville relates'an inflance of memory in a
tnaftiff, w’hich exceeds any thing of which even the hu¬
man race feems capable. This dog, wffiich had been
brought up by him in India from a puppy, accompanied
himfelf and a friend from Pondicherry to Benglour, a
diftance of above 300 leagues. The journey occupied
nearly three weeks, and they had to traverfe plaics and
mountains, to ford rivers, and go through feveral bye-
paths. The dog, which had certainly never before
been in that country, loft his mafter at Benglour, and
immediately returned to Pondicherry. He went di-
redlly to the houfe of a friend of M. D’Obfonville’s,
with whom that gentleman had generally reftded.
Nowt the difficulty is, not fo much to know how the
dog fubfifted on the road (for he was very ftrong, and
able to procure himfelf food), but how he ftiould fo
well have found his way, after an interval of more than
a month.
An anecdote related by Mr Bewick fhews that the
maftiff pofleffes forbearance equal to his courage, and
that he difdains to attack an inferior foe, while he
knows how to chaltife his impertinence. A large dog
of this kind belonging to the late M. Ridley, efq. of
Heatton, near Newcaftle, being frequently molefted
by a mongrel, and teazed by its continual barking, at
laft took it up in his mouffi by the back, and with great
compofure dropped it over the quay into the river,
without doing any farther injury to an enemy fo much
^ his inferior.
Fox-hound. There are feveral varieties of hounds, as the fox-
Fjg- 24. hound, the beagle, and the harrier. Of thefe the fox¬
hound moft merits our attention.
The Fox hounds of Britain are confidered as fuperior
^ 479
in fwiftnefs, firength, and [activity, to thofe of every Hiftoiyof
other country in Europe. As fox-hunting forms one of l110 sPecies;
the moft favourite diverfions among our country gentle¬
men, the greateft attention is paid to the breeding, edu¬
cation, and maintenance of the fox-hounds 5 and this
climate feems fo congenial to their nature, that they
will thrive nowhere elfe. It is a fieri ed that when our
fox-hounds are carried over to the continent, they al¬
ways degenerate.
The proper ftiape of a fox-hound is of confiderable
confequence, for if he is not of a perfeft fymmetry he-
will neither run faft nor bear hard work, and in a fox-
chafe, both great fpeed and ftrength are required. Ac¬
cording to Mr Daniel, his legs ffiould be as ftraight as
arrows, his feet round and not too large -, his ffioulders
ftiould lie back -, his breaft ftiould be rather wide than
narrow j his cheft deep, his back broad, his neck thin
his head moderately fmall, his tail thick and buffiy.
Fox-hounds are fometimes employed to bunt the flag,’
and there is on record a remarkable inftance of the
ftoutnefs difplayed by thefe dogs in fuch a chafe.
Many years fince a flag was hunted from Whmfield
park, in the county of Weftmoreland, until by fatigue
or accident the whole pack wasfthrown out, except two
fox-hounds, bred by Lord Thanet, who continued the
chafe the greateft part of the day. The flag returned
to the park from whence he had been driven, and as
his laft effort leapt the wall, and died as foon as he had
accompliffied it. One of the hounds ran to the w^ll,
but being unable to get over it, lay down, and almoft:
immediately expired : the other hound was found dead
about half a mile from the park. The length of this
chafe is uncertain, but as they were ieen at Red-kirks,
near Arman, in Scotland, diftant by the poll-road about
46 miles, it is conjedlured that the circuitous courfe they
took, could not make the diftance run, lefs than 120
miles.
The following anecdote is an admirable proof of the
fagacity of the fox-hound. Two gentlemen had their
hounds at Whinneck, Northamptonffiire, and ufed
fometimes to go to Lutterworth in Leicefterlhire for a
fortnight’s hunting. A favourite hound was left in
Northamptonffiire, on account of not being quite found.
The firft day’s hunting from Lutterworth produced an
extraordinary chafe, in which the hounds and horfes
were fo tired, that it was deemed neceffary to flop that
night at Leicefter. Upon their arrival next day at
Lutterworth, they were told that a hound (which an-
fwered the defeription of that left in Northamptonffiire).,
came there foon after their going out the preceding
morning, and waited quietly until towards the evening j
he had then fliown figns of uneafinefs, and in the morn¬
ing had difappeared. It was concluded that, difap-
pointed of finding his companions where he expedled,
the hound, whofe name was Dancer, had returned to
Whinneck j but to the furprife and concern of his
matters, upon their returning home, they were inform¬
ed that the hound had come back from Leicefterfliire,
ftaid one day at the kennel, and then left it. Every
poffible inquiry was made, at length it was difeovered
that Dancer, upon not finding the pack either Lut¬
terworth or Whinneck, had proceeded into Warwick-
ffiire, to a Mr Newfome’s, where the hounds had been * Daniefi
for a week fame months before *. Rural
The Blood-hound, was held in great efteem by our sP°rtt, ■
anceftoi!,''01-'*
MAMMALIA.
M A M M A L I A.
Part II.
Hiftory of
the Species.
67
Blood¬
hound.
68
Grey¬
hound.
Fig. 26.
69
Irifli Grey¬
hound.
Fig. 27.
7°
Terrier.
Fig. 25.
anccflors, and was fo remarkable for tbe finenefs of its
fcent, that they employed it for recovering game that
had efcaped wounded from the hunters. It would alfo
follow with conl’.derable certainty the footfteps of a man
to a great cliftance. In barbarous and uncivilized
times, when a thief or murderer had fled, the blood¬
hound would trace him through the thickeft and rnoft
lecret coverts, and ceaied not tne purfuit till it had
feized the felon. This is finely defcribed^by Som-
merville in his poem of The Chafe.
Mr Boyle relates a (lory that (hews the extreme a-
■cutencfs of this dog’s fmell, as well as his furprinng fa-
gacity. A perfon of quality, to make a trial whether
a young blood hound was well inftrLifted, cauied one
of his fervants to walk to a tow?n four miles off, and
then to a market town three miles from thence. The
clog, without feeing the man he was to purfue, followed
him by the fcent to the above-mentioned places, not-
withflanding the multitude of market-people that went
along the fame way, and of travellers that had occa-
fion to crofs it j and when the blood hound came to
the chief market-town, he palled through the llreets
without taking notice of any of the people there, and
left it not till he had gene to the houfe where the man
he fought refted him!elf, and he found him in an upper
room, to the wonder of thole that followed him.
Blood-hounds are Hill employed in the fouthern part
of the kingdom, either for recovering wounded deer, or
for purfuing deer-ftealers, whom they infallibly trace
by the blood that iffues ^from the wounds of their vic¬
tims.
The Greyhound is the fleeted of all dogs, ?nd can
out-run every animal of the chafe 5 but as it has not
the fine fcent of other hounds, it can purfue only by
the eye, and muft be indebted for fuccefs to its aftonifh-
ing fpeed. The fwiftnefs of this dog is fo great that
a fvvift horfe can do little more than keep up with him,
and his ardour in purfuit of game is fuch as not unfre-
quently to occafion his death.
Greyhounds were formerly held in fuch repute as to
be confidered a molt valuable prefeht even from or to
princes.
The Injh greyhound is fuppofed to be the larged of
the fpecies, as w'ell as the mod beautiful and majedic.
One deferibed by Mr Lambert, in the third volume
of the Linnaean Tranfaftions, meafured above five feet
from the nofe to the tip of""the tail, and they are faid
formerly to have been of a much larger fize. They are
found only in Ireland, and even in that country are
now become extremely rare. I he earl of Altamont
is laid to be the only perfon who poiTedes them,
and his iorddiip has not more than eight. I hey
were formerly employed in clearing the country of
wolves, and are hence lometimes called Irijh wolf-dog.
The Terrier is of two kinds, one with fmooth glcfly
hair, commonly of a black colour, or black marked
with reddidi fpots; and the other rough and diaggy,
ufually of a reddilh brown mixed wdth gray. I his
dog is generally an attendant on every pack of fox¬
hounds, being employed to force the fox from his ken¬
nel, in which he is very expert. He is alfo the deter¬
mined enemy of rats, weazels, and other vermin, and
no dog is better calculated for the ufelcfs and cruel
fport of hunting the badger. He- is alfo a good water-
dog.
3
Terse.
Mr Hope has related an anecdote refpefting the ter¬
rier, which Ihews that this animal is both capable of
refentment when injured, and of great contrivance in
order to accomplifh his revenge j it indeed Ihews rhat
he is poffeffed of a certain power of combining ideas,
and communicating his thoughts to other dogs.
A gentleman of Whitmore in Staffbrdfhire, ufed to
come tw'ice a-year to town, and being fond of extreile,
generally performed the journey on horleback, accom¬
panied molt part of the way by a faithful little terrier
dog, which, left he might lofe it in town, he always
left to the care of Mrs Langford, the landlady at St
Alban’s; and on his return he w’as fure to find his
little companion w7ell taken care of. The gentleman
calling one time, as ufual, for his dog, Mrs Langford
appeared before him with a woeful countenanceAlas!
fir, your terrier is loft ! Our great houfe-dog and he
had a quarrel, and the poor terrier w'as fo worried and
bit before we could part them, that I thought he could
never have got the better of it. He, however, crawled
out'of the yard, and no one faw him for almoft a week:
he then returned, and brought wdth him another dog,
bigger by far than ours, and they both together fell on
our great dog, and bit him fo unmercifully, that he has
fcarcely fince been able to go about the yard, or to eat
his meat. Your dog and his companion then difap-
peared, and have never fince been feen at St Alban’s.
The gentleman heard the ftory with patience, and en¬
deavoured to reconcile himfelf to his lofs. On his ar¬
rival at Whitmore, he found his little terrier; and on
inquiring into circumftances, was informed that he had
been at Whitmore, and had coaxed aw'ay the great
dog, who it feems had, in confequence, followed him
to St Alban’s, and completely avenged his injury. . 7,
The above anecdote, with others which we have be-Speaking-
fore given, are abundantly fufficient to fhew the great d°g-
fagacity of the dog •, but of all the qualifications that
have been attributed to him, that of learning to fpeak
muft appear the moft extraordinary. The French aca¬
demicians, however, have given us an account of a dog
in Germany which wTould call for tea, coffee, chocolate,
&c. The account w7as communicated to the Royal
Academy by the celebrated Leibnitz, and in fubflance
is as follows : “ This dog was -of a middling fize, and
was the property of a peafant in Saxony. A little boy,
the peafant’s fon, imagined that he perceived in the
dog’s voice an indiftinft refemblance to certain words,
and therefore took it into his head to teach him to
fpeak. For this purpofe he fpared neither time nor
pains with his pupil, who was about three years old
when this his learned education commenced •, and at
length he made fuch a progrefs in language as to be
able to articulate fo many as thirty words. It appears,
however, that he was fomewhat of a truant, and did
not very willingly exert his talents, being rather prefled
into the fervice of literature, and it w7as neceffary that
the words fhould be firil pronounced to him each time,
which he, as it w7ere, echoed from his preceptor. Leib¬
nitz, however, attefts that he himfelf heard him fpeak ;
and the French academicians add, that unlefs they had
received the tellimony of fo great a man as Leibnitz,
they (hould fcarcely have dared to repoit the circum-
ftance. This wonderful dog was torn at Zeitz in Mif- * shaw't
nia, in Saxony.*” ^ > Zoology,
The flefh of the dog is eaten by fome favage nations, vol. 1.
and Part
72
Wolf.
Fig. 28.
Chap. III. ‘ M A M M
Ftne. and we have heard of fome epicures in this country who
J fatten young puppies for their table. The fkin of this
animal is made into leather for gloves, &c.
For the conltrudlion and management of dog ken¬
nels, fee Farriery, Part iv. chap. i. fedt. 3. For the
belt method of feeding hounds, fee chap. ii. of the fame
part j and for the dileafes of dogs and their treatment,
efpecially the diltemper and canine madnefs, fee Far¬
riery, Part vi.
2. C. Lupus. The Wolf.—The wolf is much larger,
Itronger, and mere rsufcular than the dog ; the upper
part of his face is broader, and his w'hole form longer •,
the tail too has an inward direction, and is rather long
and bu!hy ; the opening of his mouth appears a little
fhorter in proportion than that of the dog, but his jaws
are much ftronger, his teeth larger, and his eyes placed
more obliquely. His general colour is a pale gray with
a call of yellow7 5 but it varies much in thade in dif¬
ferent parts of the world.
He is found in almoft all the temperate and cold
regions of the globe, even as high as the arflic circle.
He w'as formerly very common in Britain and Ireland,
infomuch that King Edgar commuted the punilhment
of certain crimes into the acceptance of a number of
wolves tongues, and in Wales converted the tax of
gold and lilver into an annual tribute of 300 wolves
heads. Notwithftanding thefe endeavours to extirpate
the race of wolves, we find that in the reign of Ed¬
ward I. thefe animals had fo much increafed in number,
as to require a mandate from that monarch to Peter
Corbet to aflift in their deftruftion. In the county of
Derby certain perfons held their lands by the fuit of
hunting and deftroying the wolves‘that infefted the
country ; whence they were called voohe-hunt. They
infefted Ireland many centuries after their extinction in
England ; for we are told that they w7ere found there
fo lately as the year 1710. In Scotland the laft wolf
was killed in the latter end of the 17th century, by
Sir Ewen Cameron of Lochiel. In the parts of Ame¬
rica poftefled by the United States, wolves are nearly
extirpated; but very lately a reward of 20 or 30
flullings was offered for killing a w'olf.
Wolves prey on all kinds of animals ; but in cafe
of neceftity will feed upon carrion j in hard weather
affemble in vaft troops, and join in dreadful bowlings. „
Horfes generally dpfend themfelves againft their attacks,
but all weaker animals fall a prey to them. 1 hroughout
France the peafants are obliged nightly to houfe their
flocks. The wolf is naturally a fufpicious animal, and
though fo ravenous as to devour his own fpecies when
preffed by hunger, yet he is fo miftruftful as to imagine
every thing he fees to be a fnare laid to entrap him.
If he finds a rein-deer tied to a poft for the purpofe of
being milked, he dares not approach it for fear it
fhould be placed there only to betray him ; but when
once the deer is let loofe, he will purfue and feize him.
He is however, fo cowardly, that if the animal ftands
on the defenflve, he will fcarcely venture to attack it.
They fally forth with great caution in queft of their
prey j have a fine feent ; hunt by nofe 5 they are ca¬
pable of bearing long abftinence 5 to allay their hunger
will fill their bellies with mud ; a mutual enmity fub-
fifts between the dogs and them •, the female is in heat
in winter, followed by leveral males, which occafions
VOL. XII. Part II.
ALIA. 48f
great combats; goes with young ten weeks; near her Hiftory of
time prepares a loft bed of mofs, in fome retired place;the sPec'es;
brings from five to nine at a birth ; the young born
blind. Their bite is terrible, as their ftrength is great ;
the hunters therefore clothe their dogs, and guard their
necks with (piked collars. Wolves are proferibed ani¬
mals ; deftroyed by pitfalls, traps, or poiion ; a peafant
in France who kills a wolf, carries its head through the
villages, and colleCls forae fmall reward from the in¬
habitants. The Khaiffocks take the wolves by the help
of a large fort of hawk called belkat, which is trained
for the diverfion, and will fallen on them and tear out
their eyes *. * Pen-
Thefe animals abound in the immenfe forefts of Ger-
many, where the following methods are taken to de-
ftroy them. In fome very fequeftered part of the fo-
reft they hang up a large piece of carrion to the branch
of a tree, having previoufly made a train of fome miles
long, leaving fmall pieces of putrid fleih here and there
to allure the wolves to the (pot ; they then wait till it
it is dark, and approach the place with great circum-
fpeclion. Here they fometimes find two or three
wolves affembled, leaping up, and draining themfelves
to catch the bait, which is placed juft within their
reach ; while the animals are bufily employed in tins -
way, the hunters being provided with fire-arms, feldom
fail to difpatch them. Again in a convenient place,
at the foot of a declivity, they make a fmall enclofure
of ftrong poles, fo high, that the wolf having once en¬
tered, cannot return again. An opening is left at the
top of the bank ; and a ftieep that has been long dead,
is the bait ; to which he is allured by long trains, made
from different places where he is known to haunt. As
foon as he arrives at the fpot, he examines every part
of the inclofure, and finding no other way to come at
the booty, he precipitates hunfell to the bottom ; and
having made a plentiful meal, endeavours in vain to re-
afcencl. His difappointment at not being able to get
back, is produtftive of the moft direful bowlings, which
alarm his enemies, and they either take him alive, or
difpatch him with bludgeons. It is remarkable that
when this animal finds there is no poftibility of efcap-
ing, his courage entirely forfakes him ; and he is for
fome time fo ftupified with fear, that he may be killed
without offering to refift, or taken alive without much
danger.
Notwithftanding the favage ferocity of the wolf,
more than one inftance has occurred of his being tam¬
ed. Buffon brought up one wThich remained very quiet
and docile till be was 18 or 19 month old, when he
broke his fetters, and ran off, after deftroying a num¬
ber of fowls, and killing a dog with whom he had liv¬
ed in the greateft familiarity. It is faid that Sir Alh-
ton Lever had a tame wolf, which by proper educa¬
tion, was entirely divefted of the ferocious chara&er of
its fpecies.
The wolf is valuable for nothing but his (kin, which
makes a warm and durable fur.
It is now fully alcertained that the wolf and dog
will breed together, and that the breed may be conti¬
nued between the mules themfelves, or between them
and other dogs.
It has hence been conjeflured that the wolf is the
original flock whence the dog is derived, but the dif-
3 P ferences^
482
Hiftory of ferences between the two animals are To Unking, that
the Species, jjjj- fUpp0fition muft be abandoned in favour of forae
v other animal.
H}tena. 5- C- Hycena. Hyaena.—This animal is about the
Fig. 29. fize of a large dog, though it is fometimes found nearly
fix feet long from the root to the bafe of the tail. It
is chiefly diftinguifhed by its great ftrength of limbs,
and a remarkable fullnefs of the fnout, which is black ;
the ears are long, (harp pointed, and nearly naked,
and from the neck there runs a firong briftly mane
along the upper part of the back. The tail is rather
Ihort, but extremely thick and briitly with hair. All
the feet have four toes. Its ufual colour is a pale
grayilh brown, with a tawny call, and the whole body
is marked with feveral blackilh tranfverfe bands, run¬
ning from the back downwards, thofe on the legs be¬
ing moft numerous, and of the deepelt colour.
The hyaena is found in Afiatic Turkey, Syria, Per-
fia, and in fome parts of Africa, efpecially Barbary and
Abyflinia.
It is one of the moft ferocious animals of which we
have any account will prey on cattle, and frequently
commits t reat devallation among the flocks, and prowls
about in the night to feed on the remains ot dead ani¬
mals, or on whatever living prey it can leize. Troops
of hyaenas fometimes affemble, and follow the move¬
ments of an army, in order to feall on the bodies of
the flain. The will even violate the repofitories of the
dead, and greedily devour the putrid contents of the
grave. The courage of this animal is equal to its ra¬
pacity, and on occafion he will obliinately defend him-
felf againfl much larger animals. He will fometimes
attack the ounce and the panther, and Kaempfer fpeaks
of one that he faw put two lions to flight. This cha-
radler, however, feems not to apply to the hyaenas of
Barbary •, for we are told by Mr Bruce, that he has
feen the Moors in the day time take this animal by the
ears, and drag him along without his offering any other
refiftance than drawing back. The Abyflinian hyaenas
on the contrary, are extremely bold, and infefi the
towns fo much in the night, that it is dangerous to ftir
out after dark. Mr Bruce tells us, that they were a
plague in Abyflinia in every fituation, both in the city
and in the field, and he thinks furpaffed even the (heep
in number. “ Gondar was full of them, from the time
it became dark till the dawn of day, feeking the dif¬
ferent pieces of llaughtered carcafes, which this cruel
and unclean people expole in the ftreets without burial,
and who firmly believe that thefe animals are Falalha
from the neighbouring mountains, transformed by ma¬
gic, and come down to eat human flelh in the dark in
fafety. Many a time in the night, wrhen the king had
kept me late in the palace, and it was not my duty to
lie there, in going acrofs the fquare from the king’s
houfe, not many hundred yards diflant, I have been
apprehenfive left they ihould bite me in the leg. They
grunted in great numbers about me, although I was
furrounded with feveral armed men, who feldom palfed
a night without wounding or flaughtering lome of
them.
“ One night in Maitlha, being very intent on an ob-
fervation, I hea^d fomeihing pafs behind me toxvards the
bed j but upon locking round, could perceive nothing.
Having finiihed what I was then about, I went out of
my tent, -reioiving direfUy to return, which I immedi-
Part II.
ately did, when I perceived two large blue eyes glar- Ferae,
ing at me in the dark. I called upon my fervant with '
a light, and there was the hyaena Handing near the
head of the bed, with two or three large bunches of
candles in his mouth. To have fired at him, I was in
danger of breaking my quadrant or other furniture j
and he feemed, by keeping the candles fteadily in his
mouth, to wi(h for no other prey at that time. As
his mouth was full, and he had no claws te tear with,
I was not afraid of him, but with a pike ftruck him as
near the heart as I could judge. It was not till then
that he {hewed any fign of fiercenefs j but upon feeling
his wound, he let drop the candles, and endeavoured
to run up the (haft of the fpear to arrive at me fo
that, in felf defence, I was obliged to draw my piftot
from my girdle and (hoot him •, and nearly at the fame
time my fervant cleft his fkull with a battle-axe. In a
word, the hyaena was the plague of our lives, the ter¬
ror of our night walks, and the deftruftion of our
mules and affes j which above all others, is his favour¬
ite food.”
The voice of this animal is Angular, beginaing fome-
what like the moaning of a human voice, and ending
like a perfon making a violent effort to vomit.
Hyaenas generally inhabit caverns and rocky places,
where they keep themfelves retired during the day.
There is faid to be a remarkable particularity in this
animal, viz. that when it is firft diflodged from cover,
and obliged to run, it always appears lame for a con-
fiderable {pace, fometimes to fuch a degree as would
lead people to fuppofe one of his hind legs to be broken,
though after running for fome time this affe&ion goes
entirely off.
There is fomething peculiarly favage and gloomy in
the afpedl of the hyaena, which feems to indicate an
extreme malignity of difpofition, and his manners while
in captivity feem to correfpond wdth this appearance,
being in general fierce and untraffable. The opinion
fo decidedly maintained by moft keepers of wild beafts,
that the hyaena cannot be tamed, appears, howTever, to
be erroneous, as there are at leaft two inftances of the
contrary on record, one by Mr Pennant, who declares
that he faw a hyaena that had been rendered as tame as
a dog, and the other by Buffbn, who affures us, that
in an exhibition of animals at Paris, in the year 1773,
there was a hyaena which had been tamed very early,
and was apparently divefted of all its natural malevo¬
lence of difpofition. 74
*j. C. Aureus. Jackal. In external figure the jack-lf.ckal-
al refembles the wolf more than the fox. It is alfo 1^'^°'
larger, and ftands higher on its legs than the fox. The
head is of a fox-red above, mixed wTith afti gray hairs,
which have each a blackilh ring and tip j the upper
lip is white on each fide of the nofe, and the throat is
of the fame colour j the whilkers, the long hairs on the
chin, and thofe above the eyes, wTich are five in num¬
ber, are black; the ears are fox-red externally, and
white internally j the neck and back are all over gray
yellow, and both, but efpecially the latter, are dallied
with a lhade of duflcy, owing to the tips of the long
hairs on thofe parts ; the under parts of the body and
the legs are of a light reddilh yellow, but the ihoulders
and thighs are externally of a fox-red \ the claws are
black j the thumb claw Hands higher than in the dog,
and is crooked j the tail is ffraight, fomewhat longer,
and
MAMMALIA.
Chap. III. M A M M
Ferae, and more hairy than in the wolf, and is of a grayidi
yellow, more inclining to fox-red towards the end 5 the
long hairs have black tips, and confequently the tip of
the tail appears black $ the hair of the jackal is llrong-
er and coarfer than that of the wolf, and is longeft on
the (boulders and tail, where it meafures four inches $
on the neck and back it is (horter by an inch ; between
the hairs is fituated a woolly fur of a gray colour. The
four middle front teeth are of a truncated form, or if
cut off, flat, not perceptibly notched or indented $ the
two exterior larger ones in the upper jaw are fomewhat
carinated, in the lower rounded j the fide or canine
teeth in the upper jaw are fomewhat larger than in the
under j the grinders are fix on each fide, the firfl. being
the fmalleft, and of a conical (hape j the next grinders,
to the number of two in the upper and three in the
lower, are gradually larger, and divided into three
points : the fourth of the upper jaw and the fifth of the
under are the largeft, and have two points : the remain¬
ing ones (land deeper in the jaw, or more inwards,
and are fmaller than the preceding j the tongue has
on each fide a border or row of fmall verrucae or
warts.
The female breeds only once a year, goes with young
about four weeks, and brings forth from fix to eight at
a time.
Jackals go in packs of 40, 50, or even 200 at a time,
and hunt like hounds in full cry, from evening to morn¬
ing. They are lefs deftru&ive to poultry than the wolf •,
they ravage the ftreets and villages, and gardens, and
will even deftroy children, if they are left unprotected.
They will enter (tables and out-houfes, and eat any ma¬
terials made of leather ; they will familiarly come into
a tent, and carry off whatever they can take from the
(leeping traveller. For want of living prey, they will
devour putrid carcafes, eat the mod infeCted carrion,
and even difinter the dead, for which reafon the graves
in many countries are made of a great depth. Like
the hyaena they will follow armies, in hopes of feafting
on the flain. When they cannot get animal food, they
will even feed on fruits and roots. They burrow in
the earth, and lie there all the day, coming out at night
to hunt. They hunt by the nofe, and are very quick
in fcent, filling the air with the mod horrid bowlings
when they begin the chafe. The lion, panther, and
other beads of prey, take advantage of the general
condernation, and follow the jackals in filence till they
have hunted down their prey, when they come up and
devour the fruits of the jackal’s labours, leaving them
only the remains of the fpoil. Hence the jackal
has been vulgarly termed the lion's provider.
There is great reafon to believe that the jackal forms
the primeval dock from which the domedic dog has
originated. The external form, internal druClure, and
manners of both are very fimilar. According to Mr
Guldendadt, the jackal has a natural propenfity to fol¬
low mankind, indead of flying from him like the wolf
or the fox j the whelp of the jackal is readily tamed,
and when grown up, affumes all the habits of the do¬
medic dog $ fawns on his mader, expreffes his joy by
wag8*ng his tail, throws himfelf on his 'back, murmurs
gently, didinguiflies his name, jumps on the table, Sec.
The jackal and‘dog alfo readily breed together, as ap¬
pears from various tedimonies.
ALIA. 489
li.C.Vu/pes. Fox. The fox is found in all the Hiftory of
temperate regions of the globe; throughout Europe, and the Species.
great part of Afia j he abounds in North America, but
is fcarcely met with in Africa, except in Barbary. It Fox.
is very common in this ifland. There are feveral va¬
rieties of the common fox ; and three of thefe, viz. the
greyhound, the maJUff, and the cur fox, are met with
in Britain. Of thele the greyhound is the larged, and
is chiefly found in the mountainous parts of this
ifland; the cur is the fmalled, but the mod com¬
mon.
Foxes differ very much in point of colour, according
to the climate which they inhabit. In Britain they are
ufually of a yellowifh brown colour, with white or a(h-
coloured marks on the forehead, Ihoulders, hind part
of the neck, and outfide of the hind legs *, the lips,
throat, and cheeks are white, and there is ufually a
white dripe running along the under fide of the legs j
the bread and belly whitilh gray, mixed with alh colour j
the tips of the ears and feet are black, and the tail is
of a reddith yellow, with the tip white. In general
form the fox much refembles the .dog, except that his
head is larger in proportion to his body, his fnout more
pointed, his ears fhorter, and his tail more long and
bulhy. His eyes are prominent and piercing, of a
lively hazel colour, and very ex predive of the feveral
paflions by which the animal is agitated.
The fmell of this animal is proverbially drong and
offenfive, and is faid to referable fo exadlly that of the
root of crown imperial, (f itillaria imperia/is, Lin.)
as fcarcely to be didinguiihed from it. It has how¬
ever been remarked, that from a fpot at the bafe of the
tail, there proceeds an odour which has been compared
to that of violets He poffeffes the faculty of fmelling
in a degree equal to the dog, and can fcent his food or
his foe at the didance of fome hundred yards. He has
a yelping kind of bark, confiding of a quick fucceflion
of fimilar tones, concluding in an elevation of the
voice, fomething like the cry of a peacock. He yelps
much when in heat, and during winter, efpecially in
frod and fnow j but in fummer he is almod entirely
filent. In fummer he cads his hair.
The fox choofes his habitation in brakes, woods, or
coppices •, and here he prepares his bed below hard
ground, the roots of trees, or fimilar fituations, where
he can make proper outlets to efcape danger. The
fox’s bed, in the language of hunters, is called his
kennel; when he retires to it, he is faid to go to earth,
and when forced from it by his purfuers, he is faid to
be unkenneled. Foxes have been known to form their
beds in hollow trees, that they may the better fecure
their young. This animal does not always take the
trouble to condrudf a hole for himfelf, but often pro¬
cures one by difpoffefling the badger, which he does,
as is faid, by depofiting his urine in the badger’s hole,
and thus obliging that cleanly animal to abandon his
contaminated dwelling. He ufually fixes his habitation
not far from the dwellings of man, efpecially in the
neighbourhood of farm yards. Pie generally keeps re¬
tired during the day, though fometimes he may be feea
in clear warm weather balking in the funlhine in fome
dry place, and fometimes amufing himfelf with running
round after his tail. He is fo much attached to his
ufual abode, that it is not eafy to induce him to leave
2 k
4<4
Hifiory of it tor another, and the fame fox has been caught in the
t“ Spekes. fame piace four fUCCe{hve times, having repeatedly
* Daniel's a‘fter efcape made for his old cover *.
Rural d he food of the fox confifts chiefly of birds, efpe-
Sports, cially game and poultry, and of the lefler quadrupeds,
vo*' ^ as of young hares, rabbits, and even field mice, rats,
" lizards, toads, and ferpents. The greyhound fox is
faid to attack theep, and carry off young lambs. When
preffed by hunger he will eat carrion, roots, and in-
iedls, and near the fca coaftwill feed on crabs, Ihrimps,
or {hell fifli. He is very fond of grapes, and in France
and Italy often does great mifehief among the vines.
He is faid alfo to be fond of honey, for which he will
attack the bee-hives, and though obliged repeatedly
to make off by the fury of the enraged bees, after
ridding himfelf of his enemies by rolling on the ground
and killing them, he fucceflively returns to the charge,
and feldom fails to make himfelf mafter of the
booty.
In his attack upon the neighbouring poultry, he
choofes his time with judgement ; and concealing his
road, glides forward with caution. If he can leap the
fence, or get in belowr it, he ravages the yard, puts all
the poultry to death, and then takes meafures for fe-
curing what he has killed. He retires foftly with his
prey, which he either hides in holes that he digs for
f that purpofe, carefully covering it with earth, or car-
, ries it to his kennel if this be near j in a few minutes
J he returns for more, which he conceals in a fimilar
manner, but in a different place, and he will thus car¬
ry off a whole flock of poultry, one by one, to his hid¬
ing places, thrufting them in with his nofe, and leaving
them till hunger calls for a fupply. In this way he
proceeds till the rifing of the fun, or fome noife
about the farm houfe, gives him notice that it is time to
retire.
In procuring young rabbits from their burrows, he
exhibits a great degree of cunning. Fie does not enter
the hole, for as this is very narrow, he wmuld be ob¬
liged to dig feveral feet along the ground below the
furface ; but be follows the feent of the rabbits above,
till he comes to the end where they lie, and then
feratjehing up the earth, defeends upon them and. de¬
vours them.
When fcxes are in heat they are faid by fportfmen to
go to clickci; this takes place in winter : the females
produce but once a year, and have from three to fix
young ones at a birth. While breeding, the bitch
feldom lies far from the earth, and after littering, if
fhe perceives her retreat to be difeovered, fhe removes
her cubs one by one to fome more fecure fituation.
The cubs are ufually firfl found in the latter end of
March ; when brought forth, they are blind like pup¬
pies, and of a very dark brown colour $ they grow for
18 months, and live about 13 or 14 years. The fox
is exceedingly careful of her young, and a remarkable
inftance of her parental affeflion is recorded by Gold-
fmith. A flie fox that had, as it (herald feem, but one
cub, was unkenneled by a gentleman’s hounds, and
hotly purfued. The poor animal braving every dan¬
ger, rather than leave her cub behind to be worried by
the dogs, took it up in her mouth, and ran with it in
this manner far fome miles ; at laft, paffmg through a
farmer’s yard, (he w>as affaulted by a maftiff, and ob¬
liged to drop her cub, which was taken up by the far-
Part II.
mer. It is pleafmg to add that the affectionate crea- Ferse.
ture got off in fafety. c_—y—
I he fox and the dog readily breed together, and
the produce is a very uieful animal as a dog.
Foxes are fometimes domeiticated, but are fcarcely
ever fully tamed.
The hunting of this animal is one of the greateft di-
veriions of pur country gentlemen. For an account of
fox-hunting, fee Hunting. The Jkms are valuable
for muffsj, tippets, &c.
The ai-aic fox, C. lagopus, is well deferibed by Stel-
ler, for whofe entertaining account of their manners
we muft refer to Mr Bingley’s Animal Biography, 1
vol. i.
23. C. Zerda. Fennec. This beautiful little tsm-Zerda,
mal is about 10 inches long, and of a yellowifh white ^ennec*
colour; its eyes are large and of a bright black; itsFlg' ■3I*
ears of an uncommon lize, internally of a bright rofe
colour, and edged with a broad margin of white-hair,
with an orifice fo fmall as to be fcarcely vifible ; its
legs and feet are (haped like thofe of a dog ; its tail
long, tapering, and tipped with black.
It inhabits the vail deferts of Saara, that extend be¬
yond Mount Atlas, and is faid to be called by the
Moors, %erda, though Mr Bruce, who (aw it often,
aud kept two or three fpecimens of it, fays that its
proper name is fenncc. It feeds on infe&s, efpeaally
locufts, fits on its rump, barks like a dog, only with a
(liriller voice ; is very vigilant, and fo fwift that it is.
very rarely taken alive.
The following interefling account of its manners
and appearance, is given by Mr Bruce.
“ Though his favourite food feemed to be dates, or
any fweet fruit, yet I obferved he was very fond of
eggs; and fmall birds eggs were firlt brought him,
which he devoured with great avidity ; but he did not
feem to know how to manage that of a hen ; but when
broke for him, he ate it with the fame avidity as the
others. When he was hungry he would eat bread,
efpecially with honey or fugar. It was very obfervable
that a bird, whether confined in a cage near him, or
flying acrofs the room, engrailed his whole attention.
He followed it wnth his eyes wherever it went, nor
was he, at this time, to be diverted by placing bifeuit
before him ; and it was obvious, by the great intereff
he feemed to take in its motions, that he was accuf-
tomed to watch for victories over it, either for his
pleasure or his food. He feemed very much alarmed
at the approach of a cat, and endeavoured to hide him¬
felf, but (hewed no fymptom of preparing for a defence.
I never heard he had any voice ; he fuffered himfelf,
not without fome difficulty, to be handled in the day,
when he feemed rather inclined to deep, but was ex¬
ceedingly unquiet and reitlefs fo foon as night came,
and always endeavouring his efcape, and though he did
not attempt the wire, yet with his (harp teeth he very
(oon maflered the wood of any common bird cage.
From the fnout to the anus he was about k> inches
long, his tail five and a quarter, near-an inch on the
tip .of it was black. From the point of his fore
(houlder to the point of his fore toe, was two inches
and feven-eighths. He was two inches and a half from
his occiput to the point of his nofe ; the length of his
ears three inches and three-eighths. Thefe were doubled
or had a plait on the bottom on the outfide; the
borders
M A M M ALIA.
Chap. III. M A M M
Feise. borders of his ears on the infide were thick covered
u—v ' with foft white hair, hut the middle part was bare, and
of a pink or rc e colour. They were about an inch
and a half broad, and the cavities within were very
large. It was very difficult to meafure thefe ; for he
was very impatient at having his ears touched, and
always kept them eredd, unlefs when terrified by a cat.
The pupil of the eye was large and black, furrounded
by a deep blue iris. He had ftrong, thick muflachoesj
the tip of his nofe very lharp, black, and polished. His
upper jaw reached beyond the lo er, and had four
grinders on each fide of the mouth. It had fix fore
teeth in each jaw •, thofe in the under jaw are fmaller
than the upper j the canine teeth are long, large, and
exceedingly pointed 5 his legs are fmall and his feet
very broad j he has four toes armed with crooked,
black, (harp claws j thofe on his fore feet more crook¬
ed and (harp than behind. All his body is nearly of a
dirty white, bordering on cream-colour j the hair of
his belly rather whiter, fofter, and longer than the
red ; and on it a number of paps, but he was fo impa¬
tient it was impoffible to count them. He very feldom
extended or ftiffened his tail, the hair ot which was
harder. He had a very fly and wily appearance. But
as he is a folitary animal, and not gregarious, as he
has no particular mark of feelings about him, no (hift
or particular cunning which might occafion Solomon
to qualify him as wife, as he builds bis neft upon trees,
and not on the rock, he cannot be the Saphan (or coney)
of the fcripture, as fome, both Jews and Arabians, not
fufficiently attentive to the qualities attributed to that
animal, have neverthelefs erroneoufly imagined.”
77
Fells. Genus 16. Felis.
Six front teeth, of which the intermediate are equal;
three grinders on each fide ; tongue befet with re-
verfcd prickles ; claws retradlile.
In this as in the lad genus, the individuals would re¬
quire a particular examination, though they agree
more together in their form and habits than thofe of
the dog tribe. We (hall here, as in the lad genus,
fird difcriminate the fpecies, and then give an account
of fome of the mod remarkable individuals.
Dr Shaw dillinguKhes 25 fpecies by the following
names and chara&ers.
Species 1. Felis Leo, Lioti. Colour pale, tawny, or
dun ; tail long and flocky at the tip.— 2. F. Tigris-,
Tiger. Tail elongated ; body marked with long tranf-
verfe dreaks.—3. F. Tardus, Panther. Tail elonga¬
ted ; body yellow, marked with orbicular fpots above,
and lengthened ones below.—4. F. Leopardus, Leo¬
pard. Body yellow, marked with black fpots, nearly
contiguous, difpofed in circles.—5. F Jubata, Hunting
Leopard. Colour pale fulvous, with round black fpots;
tail of moderate length ; neck dightly maned—6.
—F. Uncia, Ounce. Tail long; body whitifli, with
irregular black marks.—7. F. Onca, Jaguar. Tail of
moderate length; body yellowifh, with black ocella-
ted roundith cornered fpots, with yellow central fpaces.
—8. F. Parda/is, Ocelot. Tail longidi, long dripe-
fhaped fpots on the upper parts, and round ones on
the lower.— 9. Cinerea, ' inereous Cat.—10. F. Puma,
Puma. Tail long; body reddifh-brown, whitilh be¬
neath.-—11. F. Difcolor, Black Tiger. Tail long;
A. L I A.
body black above, whitifli below.— 1 2. F. Tigrina, Mar- Hiftory of
gay. Tail long; body fulvous, flrjped and fpottedt}ie Specie^-
with black, whitifli beneath.—13. F. Capcnjis, Cape
Cat. Fulvous, with longidi tail annulated with black ;
body marked with black dripes above, with rounded
and lunated black fpots on the other parts, and a lu-
nated white bar on the ears.—14. F. Benga/enjis.—
15. F. Manu/, Manul. Tail elongated, and annula¬
ted with black ; head marked with fpots, and two
lateral bands of black.—16. F. Catus, Common Cat.
Yellowifh gray, with dufky bands, three on the back
longitudinal; thofe on the (ides fpiral; tail barred with
dufky rings—17. F. Japanen/is, Japaw Cat.—18. F.
Guigna, G ligna Cat.—19. F. Corololo, Corololo.—
20. F. Serva!, Serval. Tail (hortifli ; body tawny
brown, whitifh beneath, marked with roundifh dufky
fpots; orbits of the eyes white.— 1 2. F. Montana,
Mountain Lynx.— 22. F. Chaus, Chaus. Tail mode¬
rately (hort, annulated towards the tip, with the tip
black; body brownidi-yellow; ears brown, bearded
with black at the tips.— 23. F. Rufa, Bay Lynx. Tail
(hort ; body bay, obfeurely fpotted with black ; tail
white beneath and at the tip; ears bearded at the tip.
24. F. Caracal, Caracal. Tail fhortith ; body reddith-
brown ; ears black externally, and tipt with long black
hairs.— 2j. F. Lynx, Common Lynx. Tail fnort;
body rufous, gray, (lightly fpotted with black, white
beneath ; tail black at the tip; ears terminated by
long black hairs. 7?
i.F.Leo, The Lion.—The lion has ufually been Gw-
confidered as the molt dignified and majeftic inhabitant
of the foreft. His vaft fize and prodigious ilrength
well entitle him to the rank of lord over mod other
beads ; though from the obfervttions of modern tra¬
vellers and naturalids, we are obliged to confider him
in a light lefs formidable and lefs amiable than that in
which he is difplayed by earlier writers.
This animal feldom exceeds eight feet in length
from nofe to tail, and the tail itfelf ufually meafures
about four feet ; his head is very large; his ears
rounded; his face covered with (hort or clofe hair,
while the upper part of the head, the neck and
(houlders are coated with long and (haggy hair, hang¬
ing down below the bread and fore part of the belly,
like a mane ; the hair on the body is (hort and fmooth;
and the tail is terminated by a blackidr tuft. The ufu-
al colour of the lion is a pale tawny, inclining to white
on the lower part of the body.
The lionnefs is fmaller than the lion, of a whiter co¬
lour beneath, and deditute of mane.
The lion is principally found in Africa, and is alfo
met with, though by far lefs plentifully, in the hotter
parts of Alia ; but it is in the interior of Africa that
he exerts his greated ravages, and reigns fuperior among
the weaker quadrupeds. His habitation is in the thick-
ed parts of the fored, and he is feldom feen by day ; but,
when night approaches, he quits his retreat, and prowls
about for prey. The roaring of this animal when in
qued of prey, is generally faid to referable the found
of thunder; and being reechoed by the rocks and
mountains, it appals the whole race of animals. Fre¬
quently, however, he varies his voice into a fort of a
feream or yell. His drength is fo great, that it is af¬
firmed a fingle droke of his paw is fufficient to break
the back of b horfe; and he has been feen to carry oflf
with
456 M A M IV
Hiftary of vvitli apparent eafe a middle-filed ox, or even a buffalo.
the Species. We are told by Kolben, that he ufually knocks down
v' his prey wdth his paw, and feldom bites it till he has
given the mortal blow. His teeth are fo ilrong, that
he breaks the largeft bones with eafe, and fwallows them
with the deth ; and the prickles on his tongue are fo
large and Ilrong, as to be capable of lacerating the
fkin. He ufually conceals himfelf in a thicket, from
which he darts upon his prey : and, it is faid, that if
he chances to mifs his aim, he will not follow his prey
any farther; but, as though alhamed, he turns back to
' the place from whch he fprung on it, {lowly, and
flep by ftep, as it were, meafuring the ditlance between
the two points, as if to find out how much too fhort,
or how much beyond the mark, he had taken his
leap.
Dr Sparrman fays, that from all the mod credible
accounts he could colleft concerning lions, as well as
from what he himfelf faw, he thinks he may fafely
conclude, that this wild beaft is frequently a great cow¬
ard, or, at lead* deficient in point of courage compa¬
ratively to his flrength ; on the other hand, however,
he fometimes (hews an unufual degree of intrepidity, of
which he mentions the following inftance as it was re¬
lated to him.
A lion had broken into a willed inclofure for cattle
through the latticed gate, and done confiderable da¬
mage. The people belonging to the farm were af-
fured of his coming again by the fame way : in confe-
quence of which they flretched a rope diredtly acrofs
the entrance, to which feveral loaded guns, were faftened
in fuch a manner, that they muft neceflarily difcharge
themfelves into the lion’s body, as foon as ever he
ihould pufh againft the cord, as it was expe&ed he
would, with his bread. But the lion, who came be¬
fore it was dark, having probably fome fufpicions re¬
peating the cord, druck it away with his foot, and with¬
out betraying the lead fear, in confequence of the re¬
port made by the loaded pieces, went on deadily, and
carelefs of every thing, and devoured the prey he had
left untouched before.
The lion is faid to prefer the flefli of a Hottentot to
that of any other animal; and in order to procure it,
will fometimes depart from his ufual method of quitting
his prey when he miffes his aim. It is furprifing with
what obdinacy he will follow one of thefe unfortunate
favages. We are informed by Mr Barrow, that one of
the Namaaqua Hottentots, endeavouring to drive his
mader’s cattle into a pool of water, inclofed between
tw’o ridges of rocks, elpied a huge lion couching in the
midd of the pool. Terrified at the unexpected fight
of fuch a bead, that feemed to have its eyes fixed upon
him, he indantly took to his heels. In doing this he
had prefence of mind enough to run through the herd,
- concluding, that, if the lion fhould purfue, he wmuld
- take up with the fird bead that prefented itfelf. In
this, hovvever, he was midaken. The lion broke
through the herd, making direClly after the Hottentot,
wrho, on turning round, and perceiving that the monder
:’fiad fingled him out, breathlefs and half dead with fear,
fcrarnbled up one of the tree-aloes, in the trunk of
which a few deps had luckily been cut out, to come at
fome birds nefts that the branches contained. At the
fame moment the lion made a fpring at him, but mif¬
fing his aim, fell upon the ground. In furly filence he
- I
ALIA. Part II.
walked refund the tree, cading at times a dreadful look Fer®.
towards the poor Hottentot, who had crept behind the "T _v
nefts. We fhould here remark, that thefe neds belong
to a fmall bird of the genus Loxia, that lives in a date
of fociety with the red of its fpecies, condruCting a
whole republic of neds in one clump, and under one
cover. One of thefe clumps of neds will fometimes ex¬
tend a fpace of i o feet in diameter, and contain a popu¬
lation of feveral hundred individuals. It was under the
cover of one of thefe edifices that the Hottentot fcreen-
ed hirnfelf from the fight of the lion. Having remain¬
ed filent and motionlefs for a length of time, he ven¬
tured to peep over the fide of the ned, hoping that the
lion had taken his departure; when to his great terror
and aflonifhment, his eyes met thofe of the animal,
which, as the poor fellow afterwards exprefled himfelf,
flafhed fire at him. In fhort, the lion laid himfelf down
at the foot of the tree, and did not remove from the
place for 24 hours. At the end of this time becoming
parched with thirft, he went to a fpring at fome diflance
in order to drink. The Hottentot now, with trepida¬
tion, ventured to defeend, and fcampered off home,
which was not more than a mile diftant, as fail as his
feet could carry him, where he arrived in fafety. The
perfeverance of the lion was fuch, that it afterwards
appeared, he returned to the tree, and finding the man
had defeended, hunted him by the feent to within 300
paces of the houfe *. * Barrow's
An elderly Hottentot obferved a lion following Travels m
him at a great diftance for two hours together. He
thence naturally concluded, that the lion only waited
the approach of darknefs, in order to make him his
prey; and in the meantime expedled nothing elfe than
to ferve for this fierce animal’s fupper, as he had no other
weapon of defence than a ftaff. But as he was well
acquainted with the nature of the lion, and the manner
of its feizing upon its prey, and at the fame time had
leifure at intervals to ponder on the ways and means in
which it was moll probable that his exiflence would be
put an end to, he at length bethought of a method of
faving his life. For this end, in place of making his way
home, he looked out for a klipkransy or a rocky place
level at top, and having a perpendicular precipice on
one fide of it; and fitting down on the edge of one
of thefe precipices, he found, to his great fatisfaftion,
that the lion alfo made a halt, and kept the fame di¬
ftance as before. As foon as it grew dark, the Hotten¬
tot Aiding a little forwards, let himfelf down below the
upper edge of the precipice upon a projedling part of
the rock, where he could barely keep himfelf from fall¬
ing. But in order to deceive the lion ftill more, he fet
his hat and cloak on the flick, making with it at the
fame time a gentle motion juft over his head, and a lit¬
tle way from the edge of the mountain. This crafty
expedient had the defired effefft. He did not remain
long in that fituation, before the lion came creeping foftly
towards him like a cat, and millaking the fkin cloak
for the Hottentot himfelf, took his leap with fuch ex-
a£lnefs and precifion, as to fall headlong down the
precipice, direftly clofe to the fnare which had been
placed for him; when the Hottentot is faid, in great
joy, exultingly to have called out, t'katji; an inter-
jeflion which is of very extenfive import and fignifi-
cation f. f Spart~
Next to Hottentots fiefii he is faid to prefer that oiman’s
horfes Voyage,
Chap. III. M A M M
Fene. horfes and buffaloes, but on the {beep he feldom deigns
v ' to fix his paw, perhaps from his woolly covering, which
he is too indolent to be at the labour of uncaiing. It
is commonly faid, that a lion will devour as much at
once as will ferve him for twro or three days, and when
fatiated with food, he returns to his den, where he re¬
mains in a ftate of ina&ivity till hunger again compels
him to feek for food. /
Though this animal has generally been reprefented
as extremely brave as well as ferocious, it has not unfre-
quently happened, that he has been frightened or dri¬
ven away by the oppofition of a much inferior enemy.
It is faid, that a traveller once had an opportunity
of feeing a female buffalo with her calf, defended by
a river at her back, keep at bay for a long time five
lions which had partly furrounded her, but did not,
as long as the traveller looked on, dare to attack
her j and we are informed, that Mr.Brew, comman¬
der of the Senegal company on the African coaft,
had once near him a large full-grown tame lion, about
four years old, wdien a flock of goats paffed. All
the goats except one, ran off with terror at the fight
of the lion, but this one looking ftedfaftly at the li¬
on, ftamped with his foot on the ground in a mena¬
cing manner, then retreated three fteps, and inllantly
returning, ftruck the lion’s forehead fo violently with
his horns, that the animal was ftunned by the blow,
and having repeated this feveral times before the lion
could recover himfelf, the monftrous animal was thrown
into fuch confufion, that he went behind his mafter
for protedlion.
The lion does not always deftroy the objefl that he
attacks, but feems fometimes to fpring on an animal
through wantonnefs. Dr Sparrman was told of feve¬
ral who had efcaped from the paw of lions. At St
Catharine Cru’s church, Leadenhall-flreet, London,
provifion is made, under the will of Sir John Gager,
who was lord mayor in the year 1646, for a fermon
to be annually preached, with a charitable donation, on
the 16th of November, in commemoration of his happy
deliverance from a lion, which he met in a defert as
he was travelling in the Turkifli dominions, and which
fuffered him to pafs untnolelled.
There feems no doubt, that in thofe places where
mankind have made the greateft advances towards ci¬
vilization, the lion has loll much of his native bold-
nefs and ferocity. Experience feems to have taught
him, that in cunning and refources he is inferior to
man, and he therefore feldom attacks the human race,
except forced to it by the imperious calls of hunger.
The lionnefs is faid to breed only once a-year, and
to produce four or five at a birth, which (he nurfes
with great afliduity, and attends in their firfl: excur-
fions for plunder. Thefe animals readily breed in cap¬
tivity.
Buffon, reafoning from the fize and conftitution of
the lion, and the time required for his arrival at full
grow’th, concluded, that he ought to live about 25
years •, but if we may depend upon the accounts that
have been given of feme lions kept in the Tower of
London, the period of his life may be confiderably
extended. One of thefe called Pompey,is faid to have
lived at lead 70 years, and another 63.
The lion has been ofeen brought from his native
forefts into Europe j and, when taken young, is capa-
ALIA. 487
hie of being made very gentle and tradlable. IVTany Hiftory of
of our readers will have feen the keepers of wildthe Si**165;
beads play tricks with this mondrous animal, which
he appears to bear without diewing any marks of an¬
ger. He feems to bear all with the greated compofure,
and we feldom hear of his revenging thefe unprovoked
fallies of impertinent curiofity. It is, howTever, not
always fafe to play with, and dill lefs (o to mingle
blow’s with carefles, as is done by feme injudicious
keepers.
Numerous indances are on record of the lion’s gen-
tlenefs, fagacity, and gratitude, while in a date of do-
medication. He has been known to (pare the lives of
animals that were thrown to be devoured by him j to
live peaceably with them ; to afford them part of his
food, and even to want food himlelf, rather than de¬
prive them of that life wdiich his generofity had once
fpared. A dog was put into the cage of a lion in the
menagery at the tower, fome years ago, for food j the
dately animal, however, ipared his life, and they lived
together for a condderable time in the fame den, in the
mod perfect harmony, and appeared to have a great af¬
fection for each other. The dog had fometimes the
impudence to growl at the lion, and even difpute with
him the food which was thrown to them j fo true is the
old proverb, familiarity breeds contempt: but the no¬
ble animal was never known to chaitife the impertinent
condudf of his little companion, but ufually fuffered him
to eat quietly till he was fatisfied, before he began his •»
own repaft.
Mr Hope relates an anecdote of a lion in the po-
feflion of the duchefs of Hamilton fome years ago,
which affords a (Inking indance both of the retentive
memory of this animal, and of his.attachment to thofe
who have been kind to him. “ One day ((ays Mr
Hope) I had the honour of dining with the duchefs of
Hamilton : after dinner the company attended' her
grace to fee a lion, that (he had in the court, fed. While
wre were admiring his fiercenefs, .and teazing him with
dicks to make him abandon his prey and dy at us, the
porter came and informed the duchefs, that a lerjeaht
with fome recruits at the gate, begged permidion to fee
the lion. Her grace, with great condetcenlion and
good nature, alked permidion ot the company for the
travellers to come in, as they would then have the fa-
tisfa&ion of feeing the animal fed. They were accor-
dingly admitted at the moment the lion was growling
over his prey. The ferjeant, advancing to the cage,
called out, “ Nero, Nero, poor Nero, don’t you know
me ?” The animal indantly turned his head to look at
him, then rofe up, left his prey, and came wagging
his tail, to the fide of the cage. The man then put
his hands upon him, and patted him : telling us, at the
fame time, that it was three years fince they had feen
each other, but that the care of the lion on his paffage
from Gibraltar, had been committed to him, and he
was happy to fee the poor bead drow fo much gratitude
for his attention. The lion indeed (eemed perfectly
pleafed j he went to and fro, rubbing himfelf againd
the place where his benefaftor dood, and licked the
ferjeant’s hand as he held it out to him. T. he man
wanted to go into the cage to him, but was prevented
by the company, who were not altogether convinced of ^ xhozisthts
the fafety of the adt profe
The lion is frequently hunted at the Cape of Good and Verfe.
Hope,
433 s M A M M A L I A. Part II.
Hiftory of Hope, for the fake of ois fkin and flefli, which latter is
the jpe'Ocs. efieemecj {^y r0iri£ an excellent food, and is often eaten
by the negroes. The colonifts of the Cape hunt him
with dogs, and it is laid that 12 or 16 are fufficient to
overcome one lion. The lion runs for fome time after
being roufed, then flops and lhakes his mane, as if in
defiance of the dogs, who, as foon as they have an op-
portunity, ruili all at once upon him, and foon over¬
power him. Three or four of the dogs, however, are
commonly killed in the conflict, being itruck dead by
-p the fird ftrokes of his paw.
Tiger. 2. F. Tigris, the Tiger.—This mod beautiful, but
mod dcdruciive of quadrupeds, is nearly equal in fize
to the lion, and has even been feen larger, viz. 15 feet
long from the nofe to the tip of the tail. The pre¬
vailing colour of the body is a deep tawny, or orange
yellow -, the face, throat, and lower part of the belly
being nearly white, and the whole is traverfed by nu¬
merous long black dripes, forming a bold and drilling
contrad with the ground colour. 1 hefe dripes are pro¬
portionally fmaller on the face and bread, than on the
other parts of the body. The tail is fhorter than the
body, and is furrounded with black rings. Dr Shawr
obferves, that when feen in perfeflion, and before its
health has been impaired by confinement, it is fcarcely
poflible to conceive a more elegantly variegated animal
than the tiger : the bright and intenfe orange yellow
which conditutes the ground colour •, the deep and well-
defined ftripes of black, in fome parts double, in others
lingle; the pure w-hite of the cheeks and lower parts
of the fides, over which a part of the black driping is
continued, form, altogether, an appearance far fuperior
in beauty to the fkin of the zebra, or that of any other
regularly-marked quadruped, not excepting even the
panther itfelf.
This animal is confined to the warmer parts of Afia,
and is principally found in the peninfula of India, and
the Indian iilands. The fpecies extends, however, as
far as China and Chinefe Tartary, to the lake Ural and
the Altaic mountains.
The tiger is of a difpofition fo fierce and fanguinary,
as to furpafs in rapacity every other wild bead ; indeed
•there is no animal that he will not venture to attack.
Dreadful combats fometimes take place between him
and the lion, and they are carried on with fuch fury
and obdinacy, that both parties are often found dead
together. He commits horrid ravages among the flocks
and herds, and neither the fight nor oppofition of man
have power to make him defifl. It is faid that when
undidurbed, he plunges his head into the body of the
animal he has flaughtered, and greedily fucks its blood.
His drength is adonifhing. We are told that a pea-
fant in the Ead Indies, had a buffalo fallen into a quag¬
mire, and while he w'ent to call for affiftance, an im-
menfe tiger came, that immediately drew out the ani¬
mal, on which the united efforts of feveral men had no
effeft. When the people returned, the firlt object they
beheld was the tiger, with the buffalo thrown over his
ihoulder, as a goofe is by a fox : he was carrying him
away with his feet upward, towards his den. As foon,
however, as he faw the men, he let fall his prey, and
indantiy fled to the wmods 5 but he had previoufly kill¬
ed the buffalo, and fucked its blood. If w’e confider
that a buffalo is often twice the fize of our ordinary
cattle, u'e may form fome idea of the immenfe drength
3
of an animal that could thus run off with a carcafe as Feras.
large again as himfelf. w-y—
The tiger’s method of feizing his prey is fimilar to
that of the lion, ruflung on it at once from his conceal¬
ment, with a horrid roar. His voice when fpringing on
his vidtim, is laid to be hideous beyond conception.
Like the lion, if he miffes his aim, he makes off with¬
out repeating the attack for that time.
The tiger feems to prefer the flelh of man to that of
any other prey, as he takes all opportunities of feizing
a man where he thinks there is any chance of fuccefs.
Many of our readers will perhaps remember to have
read an account of the melancholy fate of Mr Monro,
who was killed by a tiger in the Eafl Indies in the
year 1792. “ We went (fays the narrator) on thore
on Sangar ifland, to ihoot deer, of which we law innu¬
merable tracks, as w-ell as of tigers; notwithflanding
which, we continued our diverfion till near three
o’clock, when, fitting down Ly the fide of a jungle to
refrefh ourfelves, a roar like thunder was heard, and an
immenie tiger feized on our unfortunate friend, and
rufhed again into the jungle, dragging him through
the thickeft buihes and trees, every thing giving way
to his monftrous ftrength 5 a tigrefs accompanied his
progrefs. The united agonies of horror, regret, and
fear, ruflied at once upon us. I fired on the tiger ; he
feemed agitated j my companion fired aifo ; and in a
few moments after this, our unfortunate friend came
up to us bathed in blood. Every medical affiliance was
vain, and he expired in 24 hours, having received fuch
deep wounds from the teeth and claws of the animal,
as rendered his recovery hopelefs. A large fire, con-
fifling of 10 or 12 whole trees, was blazing by us at
the time this accident took place, and ten or more of
the natives were with us. The human mind can
fcarcely form an idea of this feene of horror. We had
hardly puflied our boat from that accurfed fliore, when
the tigrefs made her appearance, almoft raging mad,
and remained on the fand all the while we continued in
fight.
In the beginning of the laft century, as Mr Pennant
was informed, fome gentlemen and ladies being on a
party of pleafure, under a fhade of trees, on the banks
of a river in Bengal, obferved a tiger preparing for its
fatal fpring. One of the ladies, with amazing pre¬
fence of mind, laid hold of an umbrella, and furled it
full in the animal’s face, which inflantly retired, and
gave the company opportunity of removing from fo ter¬
rible a neighbour.
The tigrefs, like the lionnefs, produces four or five
young at a litter, and though at all times furious, her
rage rifes to the greatelf extremity in defence of her
young. If robbed of them, Ihe purfues her plunderers
with the greatefl fury and obflinacy, and they are often
obliged to drop fome of the young tigers, to prevent
her from attacking them.
We are told by keepers of wild beajls, that the tiger
wThen full grown, is incapable of being tamed \ but it
appears that when young, they are gentle, and as play¬
ful.as a kitten.
The Ikin of this animal is much efteemed through¬
out the eafl:, efpecially in China, where the feats
of juftice, on which the mandarins fit, are covered so
with it. Panther
3. and 4. F. Pardus and F. Leopardus, the Panther and Leo~
andPard-
Chap. III.
MAMMALIA.
489
81
Gat.
Fig- 34-
Ferse. and the Leopard.—Thefe fpecies have frequently been
—V 1 confounded, and we mention them together for the fake
of marking their diftinguifhing chara&ers. They are
ufually diftinguifhed by the form of the fpots j thofe on
the panther having commonly a central fpot in each
circle, while in thofe of the leopard this is ufually
wanting. This diftinftion, however, by no means
holds univerfally, and the animals are better dillinguilh-
ed by their general (hade of colour, and by their lize.
The panther is of a darker colour, and larger than the
leopard. After all, the diftindlion is by no means fo
ftrongly marked that we can always difcriminate be¬
tween them, and perhaps they (hould rather be conli-
dered as varieties of the fame ipecies. In manners and
difpofition they nearly referable the tiger, yet the leo¬
pard is generally confidered as lefs fierce than the pan¬
ther. Both are found in Africa, efpecially about the
river Senegal. It was fuppofed that they were to be
met with in America, but this appears to be a mif-
take.
16. F. Catus, Common Cat.—This animal is found
wild in feveral parts of the north of Europe, and is lo
formidable, that it may be called the European tiger.
It is three or four times as large as the houfe cat •, the
head larger, and the face flatter. The teeth and claws
tremendous •, its mufcles very (Irong, as being formed
for rapine *, the tail is of a moderate length, but very
thick and flat, marked with alternate bars of black and
white, the end always black } the hips and hind part
of the lower joints of the leg, are always black ; the
fur is very foft and fine. The general colour of thefe a-
nimals is of a yellowifli white, mixed with a deep gray.
Thefe colours, though they appear at firft fight con-
fufedly blended together, yet on a clofe infpeflion will
be found to be difpofed like the (treaks on the (kin of
the tiger, pointing from the back downwards, rifing
from a black lift that runs from the head along the mid¬
dle of the back to the tail.
It is the fierceft and moft deftrucfive bead we have,
making dreadful havock among our poultry, lambs, and
kids. It inhabits the moft mountainous and woody
parts of thefe iflands, living moftly in trees, and feed¬
ing only by night. It multiplies as faft as our common
cats; and often the females of the latter will quit
their domeftic mates, and return home pregnant by the
former.
Mr Bingley informs us, that at Barnborough, a vil¬
lage between Doncafter and Barnfby, in Yorkfliire,
there is a tradition extant of a ferious conteft that once
took place between a man and a wild cat. I he inha¬
bitants fay that the fight commenced in an adjacent
wmod, and that it was continued from thence into the
porch of the church. We do not recolle<ft in w’hat
manner it is reported to have begun ; they, however,
tell us, that it ended fatally to both combatants, for
each died of the wounds he received. A rude paint¬
ing in the church commemorates the event j and as in
many fimilar traditions, the accidentally natural red
tinge of feme of the ftones has been conftrued into
bloody ftains, which all the properties of foap and wa-
# Binvley's*-tx have not been able to efface *.
Animal They are taken either in traps, or by (hooting : in
Biography, the latter cafe it is very dangerous, only to wound
them ; for they attack the perfon w’ho injured them,
and have ftrength enough to be no defpicable enemy.
Vol.XII. Part II. '
wol. i.
p. 281.
Wild cats were formerly reckoned among the beads of Hlftory of
chafe, as appears by a charter of Richard II. to the ab-t^c sPecies;
bot of Peterborough, giving him leave to hunt the hare,
fox, and wild cat ; and in much earlier times it was al-
fo the objedl of the fportfman’s diverfion.
The domeftic cat is fo well known as to render a de-
feription of it unneceffary. It is an ufeful but general¬
ly a deceitful domeftic ; adlive, neat, fedate, intent on
its prey. When pleafed, purs and moves its tail. When
angry, fpits, hides, and ftrikes with its foot. When
walking, it draws in its claws ; it drinks little ; is fond
of fi(h ; its urine is corrofive *, it buries its dung; it
wafhes its face wuth its fore foot (Linnaeus lays at the
approach of a dorm) ; the female is remarkably fala-
cious ; a piteous, fqualling, jarring lover. Its eyes
(bine in the night ; its hair wLen rubbed in the dark
emits eledlric (parks j it is even proverbially tenacious of
life ; always lights on its feet 5 is fond of perfumes, as
Tnarum, cat-mint, valerian, &c.
The cat ufually lives from 6 to 10 years. A friend
of ours had a cat that lived 18 years.
The female brings torth twice, and fometimes
thrice, a year. The period of her geftation is fifty-
five or fifty-fix days, and (lie generally produces 5 or 6
at one litter. She conceals her kittens from the male,
left he (hould devour them, as he is fometimes inclined \
and, if apprehenfive of being difturbed, will take them
up in her mouth, and remove them one by one to a
more fecure retreat. Even the female herfelf, contra¬
ry to the eftablilhed law of nature, which binds the pa¬
rent to its offspring by an almoft indiffoluble tie, is fome¬
times known to eat her own young the moment (he has
produced them.
Iniiances of fuch condudt in the female cat are, how¬
ever, very rare, and few7 mothers exhibit more tender-
nefs or greater attachment to their young. The afii-
duity wfith which (Ire attends them, and the pleafure
(he feems to take in witnefling their playful tricks, are
extremely amufing. She has alfo been known, not
only to fuckle kittens belonging to other cats, but even
the young of fuch animals as are generally objedls of
prey to her kind. A very extraordinary example of
this is recorded by Mr White, in his Natural Hiftory of
Selborne, in a cat belonging to a friend of his.
“ My friend (fays Mr White) had a little helplefs
leveret brought to him, which the fervants fed with
milk from a fpoon, and about the fame time his cat
kittened, and the young were difpatched and buried.
The h are was foon loft, and was fuppofed, as with moft
foundlings, to have been killed by fome dog or cat.
However, in about a fortnight, as the mafter was fit¬
ting in his garden, in the du(k of the evening, he ob-
ferved his cat, with tail ereft, trotting towards him,
and calling with little (liort inward notes of complacen¬
cy, fuch as they ufe towards their kittens, and fome-
thing gamboling after, which proved to be the leveret,
that the cat had fupported with her milk, and continued
to fupport with great affeftion.—Thus was a grani-
vorous animal nurtured by a carnivorous and predacious
one !
“ This ((range affe&ion was probably occafioned by
that defiderium, thofe tender maternal feelings which
the lofs of 1 ter kittens had awakened in her bread 5 and
by the complacency and eafe (he derived to herfelf from
the procuring of her teats to be drawn j which were
3 Q.
490
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Hiftory of too much diflended with milk ; from habit, (he became
the Species. as delighted with this foundling as if it had been
v’" ' hei real offspring.
“ A boy (fays the fame gentleman) had taken three
young fquirrels in their neft. Thefe Imall creatures he
put under a cat who had lately loft her kittens, and
finds that {he nurfes and fuckles them with the fame
afiiduity and affection as if they were her own off-
fpring.
“ So many people wrent to fee the little fquirrels
fuckled by a cat, that the fofter-mother became jealous
of her charge, and in pain for their fafety, and there¬
fore hid them over the ceiling, where one died. This
circumilance fliewmd her affedHon for thefe found¬
lings, and that Ihe fuppofed the fquirrels to be her own
young.”
The cat is ufually ftigmatized as an ungrateful ani¬
mal, incapable of attachment to her mafter. There
are, however, not wanting inftances that {hew this cha¬
racter to be unmerited. Mr Pennant, in his hiftory of
-> London, tells us that Henry Wriothfley earl of South¬
hampton, the friend and companion of the earl of Effex
in his fatal infurreflion, having been fome time con¬
fined in the tower, was one day furprii’ed by a vifit from
his favourite cat, wdrich, fays tradition, reached its
mafter by defcending the chimney of his apartment.
The following anecdote affords a ffriking example,
both of the fagacity of this animal, and of its grateful
remembrance of thofe with whom it had been ac-
cuftomed to live. A phyfician of Lyons wras, in July
1800, requefted to inquire into a murder that had been
committed on a woman of that city. In confequence
of this requeft he went to the habitation of the deceaf-
ed, where he found her extended lifelefs on the floor
and weltering in her blood. A large white cat was
mounted on the cornice of a cupboard, at the far end
of the apartment, where he feemed to have taken re¬
fuge. He fat motionlefs, with his eyes fixed on the
corpfe, and his attitude and looks expreffxng horror and
affright. The following morning he was found in the
fame ftation and attitude •, and when the room was fill¬
ed wdth officers of juftice, neither the clattering of the
foldiers arms, nor the loud converfation of the compa¬
ny, could in the leaft degree divert his attention. As
foon, however, as the fufpefted perfons were brought
in, his eyes glared with increafed fury, his hair bridled,
he darted into the middle of the apartment, where he
gazed for a moment at them, and then retreated pre¬
cipitately under the bed. The countenances of the
affaflins vere difconcerted, and they wxre nowq for the
firft time during the whole courfe of the horrid bufinefs,
■abandoned by their atrocious audacity.
Our anceftors feem to have had a high fenfe of the
utility of this animal. That excellent prince Howel
the good, did not think it beneath him to include that
of the cat, and to defcribe the qualities it ought to
have. The price of a kitten before it could fee, ivas
to be a penny j till it caught a moufe, 2d ; when it
commenced moufer, 4d. It was required befides, that
it fhould be perfeft in its fenfes of heariifg and feeing,
be a good moufer, have the claws whole, and be a good
nurfe ; but if it failed in any of thdfe qualities, the
feller was to forfeit to the buyer the third part of its
value. If any one Hole or killed the cat that guarded
the prince’s granary, he was to forfeit a milch ewe, its
fleece and lamb, or as much wheat as, when poured on
the cat fufpended by its tail, wxuld form a heap high
enough to cover the tip of the former. This is an evi¬
dence of the fimplicity of ancient manners ; and it al-
moft proves to a demonftration that cats are not abori¬
gines of thefe itlands, or known to the earlieft inhabi¬
tants. The large price fet on them, and the great
care taken of the improvement and breed of an animal
that multiplies fo faff, are almoft certain proofs of their
being little knowm at that period.
A beautiful variety of the cat, the Cat of Angora, is
defcribed in an interefting manner by M. Sonnini in his
Travels in Egypt, vol. i.
Fens.
Genus 17. VlVERRA. IVejsf.ls. Viverra.
Six fharpifh cutting teeth ; canine teeth longer than
the former. Tongue fmooth in fome fpecies, in
others furnifhed with reverfed prickles. Body of a
lengthened form.
The laft circumftance mentioned in the generic cha-
rafler is one of the principal ehara&eriftics of this tribe,
moft of the fpecies being remarkable for the length and
flendernefs of their form. The vifage is ufually Ihari),
the feet fhort, and the tail in moft fpecies long. Many
of tire fpecies are notorious for a moll abominable
odour, wdth which they are capable of annoying their
enemies when attacked or difturbed. If the accounts
given of this odious vapour are not aggravated by the
abhorrent recolledlion of thofe who have experienced
its effecls, every other ill fmell which nature can pro¬
duce, is furpaffed by the overpowering foetor of thefe
extraordinary quadrupeds. In confequence of this dread¬
ful emanation, the dogs are faid to relinquiih the pur-
fuit, and the men to fly with precipitation from the
tainted fpot 5 but if unfortunately the leaft particle of
the fluid which the animal commonly difcharges at this
jun&ure, fliould happen to light cn the clothes of the
hunter, he becomes a general nuifance wherever he ap¬
pears, and is obliged to diveft himfelf of his drefs, and
pra6life all the arts of ablution, in order to be reflored
to the fociety of mankind. They are generally harm-
lefs animals, live on rabbits, birds, and vermin, and
many of them are extremely ufeful in deftroying rats
and mice, and catching rabbits. The Ikins of many
of the fpecies form a valuable article of the fur trade.
There are about 43 fpecies that have been diitin-
guilhed by fpecific charafters.
1. V. Ichneumon, Ichneumon. Gray, with dif-
tant thumbs, and tail tapering gradually from a thick
bafe, and tufted at the end.—2. V. Cafra, Caffrarian
W. Yellowish brown, with tail gradually tapering
from a thick bafe, and black at the tip.—3. V. Zenik,
Zenik. Gray, four-toed, with 10 tranfverfe black
bands, and deep chefnut-coloured tail, black at the
tip.—4. V. Surihatta, Surikate. Gray brown, with
long moveable fnout, four-toed feet, and rufty black-
tipped tail.—5. V. Nafua, Coatimondi. Reddifh,
tail marked with white rings, and a lengthened move-
able fnout.—6. V. Vulpecula, Coeffe. Dark chef-
nut, with lengthened fnout.—7. V. Striata, Striated W.
Blackifh, with five parallel white ftrines on the back.
—8. V. Conepati, Conepati. Blackilh, with two white
lines on the back extending to the tail.—9. V. Mephi-
tica, Mephitic W. or Chinche. Brentn, with white
back,
Chap. III.
Ferse. back,, marked with a longitudinal black ftripe.—10.
'“■—*"**  V. Chinge, Chinge. Black, with a changeable call
of blue, and a row of white fpots from head to tail.
 II. V. Zorilla, Zorilla. Variegated black and
white.—i 2. V. Mapurito, Mapurito. Black, with
white band from the forehead to the middle of the
back, and no external ears.—13. V. Vittata, Grilon.
Blackilh, with a broad white band from the forehead
to each Ihoulder.—14. V. ^uafge, Quafge. Chef-
nut, yellowilh beneath, with lengthened moveable fnout,
and ring-marked tail.—15. V.Zeylanica, CeylonefeW.
Aih, mixed with gray, whiiiih beneath.—16. V. Ca-
pctijis, Cape W. Black, with gray back, edged with
white.—17. V. Mellivora, Honey W. Back aih, with
a black lateral band-, belly black 5 claws long.—18.
V. Civetta, Civet. Alh-coloured, fpotted w-ith black,
with chefnut-ccloured mane, and dulky fpotted tail.
—19. V. Zibet ha, Zibet. Afh gray, waved with
black and ring-marked tail.—20. V. Hermaphrodita,
Three-ftriped W. Dark gray, with long black-tipped
tail, and three black Itripes on the back.—21. V. Ge-
netta, Genet. Fulvous gray -, body fpotted with
black, and ring-marked tail.—22. V. FoJJa, Fcflane.
Alh-coloured, (potted with black, and ring-marked tail.
—23. V. Caudivolula, Prehenfile W. Yellow, (haded
with dulky, and prehenfile tail.—24. V. Fafciata, Faf-
ciated W. Gray, with fix longitudinal black bands.—
25. V. Malaccenfis, Malacca W. Gray, with longi¬
tudinal black (tripes on the neck and rump, and round
black fpots on the ildes. 26. V. Tigrina, Tigerine W.
Ytllowiih gray, with brown variegations, ring marked
black-tipped tail, and a black ftripe along the back.
 27. * V. Faina, Martin. Blackilh, fulvous, with
white throat.—28. * V. Maries, Pine Martin. Black-
jih, fulvous, with yellow throat.—29. V. Zibellina,
Sable. Blackifti, fulvous, with gray throat.—30.
V. Pifcator, Filher W. Back, belly, feet and tail
black j (ides brown, and face fubcinereous, with black
ncfe.—31. * V. Putorius, Pole-cat. Blackifti, taw¬
ny, with whitiih muzzle and ears.—32. V. Furo, Fer¬
ret. Yellow, with red eyes.—33. * V. Vulgaris,
Common W. Pale-reddilh brown, white beneath.—
34. * V. Ernnnia, Stoat. Tip of the tail black.
V. Galera, Galera. Entirely brown.—36.
V. Barbara, Guiana W. Black, with a wdiite trilo¬
bate fpot belowT the throat.-—37. V. ^uadricolor, White¬
cheeked W. Yellow-, cinereous, w-ith black head,
legs, and tail, bright yellow throat, and wdnte cheeks
^ and chin.—38. V. Canadenjis, Pezan. Blackifti
fulvous, with white pedloral fpot.—39. V. Sarmatia,
Sarmatian W. Variegated above with brown and yel¬
low.—40. V. Sibirica, Siberian W. Fulvous, w-ith ex¬
tremely hairy feet.—41. V. Touan, Touan. Fer¬
ruginous, white beneath, with the tail naked towards
the tip.—42. Quiqui, Quiqui. Brown, w-ith w-edge-
(haped fnout.—43. V. Cuja, Cuja. Black, with
turned-up fnout.—The following are enumerated by Dr
Shaw-, without charader, viz. 44. Gray-headed W.
—4s. South American W.—46. Woody W.—47.
Mufky W. and 48. Sknder-toed W.
Ichmuri-n I* V. Ichneumon, the Ichneumon.—Of this fpecies
DgAS-* there are tw-o diftindt varieties found in different coun¬
tries, varying chiefly as to (ize, the larger being com¬
monly about 40 inches from the nofe to the tip of the tail,
tvhiie the kifer fcarcely exceeds two-thirds of that length.
491
The greater variety has alio the tail (lightly tufted at Hiftory of
the end. In other refpe&s they bear a near rei'em lhe
blance to each other. They are commonly of a pale
reddifli gray colour, each hair being mottled with
brown, fo as to make the whole body appear fpeckled.
The eyes are of a bright red or flame colour j the ears
rounded and almoft naked ; the nofe long and (lender,
and the body rather thicker than in mod other fpecies of
this genus. The tail is very thick at the Laic, and the
hair on the w-hole animal is hard and coarfe.
The larger ichneumon is found chiefly in Egypt,
and in fome other parts of Africa j the fmaller leems
confined to the Eaft Indies. In their wild (late thele
animals frequent the banks of riv-ers, and, during
floods, approach the highell grounds and inhabited
places in queft of prey. They are faid to fwim and
dive occafionally, and are able to continue under water
for a confiderable time. J he voice of the ichneumon
Is very (oft, refembling a murmur but it is faic never
to exert it unlefs ftruck or irritated. When going to
fleep, it rolls itfelf up like a ball, and is not cafily.
awakened.
Both varieties, but efpecially the Egyptian, are great,
enemies to ferpents, rats, and other noxious animals j
and the Indian variety attacks with great eagernefs that
dreadful (hake, the cobra-di capello. Hence they are
held in great efteem both by the Egyptians and the na¬
tives of India, and are kept like our dogs and cats as
domeftic animals. It is eaTily tamed, is very aaiye,
and fnrings with great agility on its prey. It will_ glide
along the ground like a lerpent, and (eem as if without
feet. It (its up like a fquirrel, and eats with its fore
feet 5 catches any thing that is flung to it. It is a great
enemy to poultry, and will feign itfelf dead till they
come within its reach. It is faid to be extremely (kil-
ful in feizing the ferpents by the throat, in fuch a man¬
ner as to avoid receiving asy injury. Lucan has beau¬
tifully deferibed the fame addrefs of this animal in con¬
quering the Egyptian afp.
M. d’Obfonville had an ichneumon very young,
which he brought up 5 he fed it at firft with milk, and
afterwards with baked meat, mixed with rice. It foon
became tamer even than a cat j for it came when call¬
ed, and followed him, though at liberty, into the
country. One day he brought to the animal a fmall
water (erpent alive, being defirous to know how far
his inflinT w-ould carry him againft a being with which
he had been hitherto unacquainted. His firft emotion
feemed to be aftonifhment mixed wdth anger, for his
hair became ereil but an inftant after, he (lipped be¬
hind the reptile, and with a remarkable fwiftnefs and.
agility leaped upon its head, feized it, and cruftied it
between his teeth. This efiay, and new aliment, feein-
ed to have aw-akened in him his Innate and deftru£live
voracity, which till then had given way to the gentle-
nefs he had acquired from his education. M. d’Ob¬
fonville had about the houfe feveral curious kinds of
fowls, among which the ichneumon had been brought
tip, and which before the above adventure he had fuf-
fered to go and come unmokfted and unregarded j but
in a few days after, when he found himfelf alone, he
ftrangled every one of them, ate a little, and, as appear¬
ed, had drunk the blood of two.
The ichneumon is laid to be (hort-lived, but grows
very rapidly. They have been brought iato our cli-
3 (£ 2 mates,
MAMMALIA.
492 M A M M
Hiftory of mates j but cannot, without great difficulty, be either
the Species. reare(j Gr preferved. They appear much incommoded
v "" by frofty weather, and Toon fall viflims to the change
84 of climate.
Civet. jS. V. Civetta, Civet, or Civet Cat.—This animal is
I if- 3^ about two feet long from nofe to tail, and the tail mea-
fures about 14 inches. The ground colour of the body
is a yellowilh gray, marked with large blackifh or
dufky fpots, difpofed in longitudinal rows on each fide,
and fometimes intermixed with a tinge of rufty colour.
The hair is coarfe, and ftands up along the top of the
back like a fort of mane ; the ears are ftrort and round¬
ed $ the eyes of a bright Iky blue ; the tip of the nofe,
ndes of the face, chin, breaft, lips, and feet, are black ;
the remainder of the face and part of the fides of the
neck of a yellowilh white j and from each ear there are
three black (tripes terminating at the throat and (boul¬
ders. The tail is generally black, but is fometimes
marked with pale fpots near its bafe. At a little dif-
tance below the tail there is a large, double, glandular
receptacle, which contains the fecretion called civet,
employed as a perfume. See ClVET.
This animal is found in feveral parts of Africa and
India. It is of a wild difpofition, living, like mod of
its kind, on birds and the fmaller quadrupeds. It is
faid to be very voracious, and will fometimes roll itfelf
for (ome time on its food before it eats it. It is very
deftru£tive to poultry, which it feizes whenever it can
deal into a farm yard. It is very prolific, aftive, and
nimble, jumping like a cat, and running very nimbly.
Its voice is ftronger than that of a cat, and fomewhat
refembles the cry of an enraged dog. It is capable of
being tamed, and is ufually kept by perfumers at Am-
(lerdam and feme other places for the fake of the
civet.
Thefe animals, in a (late of confinement, are placed,
from time to time, in ftrong wooden cages or recepta¬
cles, fo conftru£ted as to prevent the creature from
turning round, and biting the perfon employed in col-
leiffing the civet: this operation is faid to be performed
twice a week, and is done by feraping out the civet
with a (mall fpoon. The quantity ufually colle£led at
each time amounts to about a dram.
Foina 27‘ ^ Fcina, the Martin.—This is an animal of a
Martin. veI7 elegant appearance. It is about 18 inches long
Fig. 37. from nole to tail, and its tail is about 10 inches. It is
of a blackifli tawny colour, wfith a white throat, and a
du(ky brown belly. The tail is bulhy, and darker than
the reft of the body •, the ears are pretty large and
rounded, and the eyes are very lively.
It is found in moft parts of Europe, and is not un¬
common in Britain. It inhabits woods and fields, and
preys on birds and other fmall animals. It breeds in
the hollows of trees, and brings forth from three to five
young at a birth.
The martin attacks pheafants when at rooft, and
makes great havock among them. For this reafon
game-keepers are careful to fet traps for them, which
are baited with a piece of pheafant or wood-pigeon.
Mr Daniel recommends the following mode of catching
them, in parks or places that are paled in. As they
conftantly run to the pales and pods to dry themfelves
in the morning, have a groove cut in fome of the pods
or gate-pods where they run, fufficient to contain a
ALIA.
Part II.
ftrong hawk or rat trap j the trap muft be fet in this Ferae,
groove without a bait j in leaping upon the place they v
are fure to be taken •, a fmall chain Ihould be fixed to
the trap and faftened to the poft. The (kin of the mar¬
tin affords a valuable fur. 8(j
29. V. Zibelhna, the Sable.—This animal is very ft- Zibellina,
milar in its general appearance to the martin, but itsSable*
fur is finer, and of a deep gloffy brown j the hair being
a(h-coloured at the root, and black at the tips. The
tail is alfo much (horter than in the martin.
It inhabits the northern parts of Afia,. where it lives
in holes under ground, efpecially below the roots of
trees. In manners and difpofition it greatly refembles
the martin.
The (kins of fables form one of the moft valuable ar¬
ticles of the fur trade 5 and for thefe the animals are
hunted with great eagernefs.
The hunting is ufually carried on by criminals con¬
fined to the defert regions of Siberia, or by foldiers fent
thither for that purpofe, who generally remain there for
feveral years. Both are obliged to furnilh a certain
quantity of furs. They (hoot with a (ingle ball, to in¬
jure the (kin as little as poflible. They frequently take
them in traps, or kill them with blunt arrows. As an
encouragement to the hunters, they are allowed to (hare
among themfelves whatever (kins they take above the
allotted number $ and this, in a few years, amounts to
a confiderable premium.—The hunters form themfelves
into fmall troops, each of which is diretted by a leader
of their mvn choofing.
The feafon of hunting is from November to Febru¬
ary •, for at that time the fables are in the higheft per¬
fection. Thofe caught at any other time of the year
are full of (liort hairs, and are fold at inferior prices.
The beft (kins are fuch as have only long hair, which
is always black, and of a gloffy brightnefs. Old furs
do not retain their glofs.—Both the Ruffians and Chi-
nefe have a method of dyeing their furs j but the dyed
fables are eafily difeovered, having neither the fmooth-
nefs nor the brightnefs of the natural hair. 8_
29. V, Putorius, the Polecat, Fitchet, or Foumart. Pwrorzkr,
—The length of this animal is about 17 inches, exclu-Polecat>
five of the tail; that of the tail fix. Its (hape is long or Foumar*
and (lender ; the nofe (harp-pointed, and the legs (hort:
in fine, admirably formed for infinuating itfelf into the
fmallelt holes and paflages, in fearch of prey. It is />
very nimble and aClive, runs very fall, will creep up
the fides of walls with great agility, and fpring with
vaft force. In running, the belly feems to touch the
ground ; in preparing to jump, it arches its back, which
affifts it greatly in that aClion. The ears are (hort,
rounded, and tipt with white ; the circumference of the
mouth is wholly of a chocolate colour, almoft black.
The fides are covered with hairs of two colours, the
ends of which are of a blackifti hue, like the other
parts ; the middle of a full tawny colour.
The toes are long, and feparated to the very origin j
the tail is covered with pretty long hair.
The polecat is very deftruftive to young game of all
kinds, and to poultry: it generally refides in wmods,
or thick brakes, burrowing under ground, forming a
(hallow retreat, about two yards in length, which com- >*
monly ends, for its fecurity, among the roots of fome
large trees. It will fometimes lodge under hay ricks,
aad
Chap. HI.
MAMMALIA.
493
Ferae, and in barns ; in the winter it frequents houfes, and
—v  makes a common pra&ice of robbing the dairy of the
milk. It alfo makes great havock in warrens.
Though the fmell of the polecat, when alive, is rank
and difagreeabl.e, even to a proverb, yet the fkin is
drefled with the hair on, and ufed as other furs for tip¬
pets, &c. and is alfo fent abroad to line clothes.
Mr Bewick mentions an extraordinary method which
this animal fometimes pra&ifes to procure itfelf fubfilt-
During a fevere ftorm, one of thefe animals was
88
Furo, Fer¬
ret.
rig. 38.
89
Vulgaris,
Weafel.
traced in the fnow from the fide of a rivulet to its hole,
at fome diftance from it. As it was obferved to have
made frequent trips, and as other marks were to be feen
in the fnow tvhich could not be eafily accounted for, it
was thought a matter wrorthy of greater attention. Its
hole was accordingly examined, the foumart taken, and
11 fine eels were difcovered to be the fruits of its noc¬
turnal excurfions. The marks in the fnow were found
to have been made by the motion of the eels in the crea¬
ture’s mouth.
30. V. Furo, the Ferret.—This animal is about 14
inches long, and its tail about five. Its nofe is (harper
than that of the polecat; its ears are round, eyes red
and fiery, and the colour of its whole body a very pale
yellow. It breeds twice in the year, unlefs it devours
its offspring, as it fometimes does as foon as brought
forth *, it then has three litters. The ferret goes with
young fix weeks, and has generally fix or feven young,
which are blind for a month.
It is a native of Africa, and was originally brought
into Spain, to free that country from the multitudes of
rabbits with which it was overrun.
After two months the young are fit for fervice m
catching rabbits; they (hould be kept in tubs, or fmall
boxes, where they can be fupplied with plenty of clean
draw, as they are offenfive and fmell ftrong ; before
you ufe, do not feed them, for with their bellies full
they will not hunt, but deep in the burrows for hours.
The ferret is the natural enemy to the rabbit, infomucn,
that if a dead rabbit be laid before a ferret, it indantly
feizes upon it, although it has never feen one before ;
if (hewn a living rabbit, the ferret is dill more eager,
fadens on the neck, winds itfelf round and fucks the
blood until fatiated. The ferret, however, is apt to
lofe its favage nature, unlefs the breed is eroded with
the polecat, which the warreners frequently do, and
the produce is of a much darker colour, partaking of
that of the fire. rT,1 . . c
a 1. V. Vulgaris, Common Weafel.—This is one ot
the fmalled of the tribe ; its general length being a-
bout feven inches, with a tail little more than two inches
long. It is ufually of a reddidi brown on the back
Tides, and legs, white on the throat and belly, and
below the corners of the mouth on each jaw is a (pot ot
brown. The ears are fmall and rounded ; the mouth
furniflied with whifkers, and the eyes are black.
The female brings forth in the fpring, and produces
four or five at a birth. Of thefe (he is very careful,
and, as we are told by Aldrovandus, will carry them
about from place to place, when (he fiifpefts that they
will be dolen from her.
The food of this animal is fimilar to that of the other
fpecies, and it is very deftruftive to young birds, P01^1
try, and rabbits. Its favourite food feems to be the
field moufe. It is alfo very fond of eggs. It is exceed¬
ingly aftive, and will run up the Tides of w’alls with
fuch facility, that fcarcely any place is fecure from it ;
and its body is To fmall, that there are few holes through
which it canflbt creep.
It is found in moft of the temperate parts of Europe,
is very common in this ifland, and is ailo oCcafionaby
met with in Barbary. It inhabits the cavities below
the roots of trees, and the banks of rivulet', trom
which it fallies out in quefl of its prey.
The weafel w7as fuppofed by Buffon to be untame-
able •, but it appears from a communication made to
him by a lady, and publiihed in his 7th fupplemental
volume, that it may be rendered very gentle and do-
meftic. The account is very amufing, but we have not
room for it here. It is given by Dr Shaw, vol. i.
p. 521. and Mr Bingley, vol. i. p. 314.
90-
Genus 18. Lutra. Otters. Lutra.
Teeth as in the former genus. Feet webbed.
Linnaeus formed two genera of the animals which
are ufually called weafels, viz. viverra and mujlela, in
the latter of which he comprifed the otters. Mr Pen¬
nant and Dr Shaw have united the mullelae to the vi-
verrae, and have made a new genus of the otters, to
which Dr Shaw7 gives the name of lutra.
There are eight fpecies, viz.
X. * L. Vulgaris, Common O. Brown, with naked
feet, and tail "half as long as the body.— 2. L. Luireola,
Smaller O. Blackifla tawmy, with hairy feet, equal
toes, and white muzzle.—3* l" Manna, Sea O. Black,
with hairy feet, and very (hort tail.—4. L. Brajihana,
Brazilian O. Black, with yellow throat.—5. L. San-
covietma, Saricovienne O. Gray, fpotted with black.
 6. L. Gracilis, Slender O. Brown, with extremely
(lender body.—-7. L. Vifon, Vifon O. Body entirely
of a deep chefnut colour.—8. L. Felina, Chinchemin O.
Of the (hape and appearance of a cat. 9t
I. L. Vulgaris, Common O ’—The ufual length of Vulgaris,
this animal is about two feet from nofe to tail, and the Common
tail is about 16 inches long. The head and nofe are^®^
broad and flat ; the eyes are fmall, but very brilliant,
and are placed nearer to each other than in moil qua¬
drupeds, which gives the otter a Angular appearance,
not unlike an eel. The ears are extremely (hort; the
opening of the mouth fmall •, the lips very mufcular, ca¬
pable of being brought very clofe together ; and the
nofe and corners of the mouth are furniflied with long
whilkers. The legs are remarkably (hort, but very
mufcular •, and the joints are articulated fo loofely, that
the animal can bring its legs on a line with its body,
and ufe them as fins for fwimming. Its fur is of a deep
brown colour.
Otters are found in mod parts of Europe, and are
met with occafionally in Britain. They inhabit the
banks of rivers, and their principal food confilts of fifn,
though they will fometimes attack poultry and the fmal-
ler quadrupeds. They are faid to be as deflrudlive in
a fiflipond as a polecat is in a henhoufe.
The otter makes its neft in fome retired fpot, where
it can have an eafy and fecure accefs to the water, to
which it immediately flics on the lead alarm and as it is •
very aftive, and (wims w’ith great rapidity, it is not ea¬
fily taken. This animal is very nice, and will eat no '
fidi but fuch as are perfe&ly frefh. As foon as he J
•catches *
c
494 MAM M
the ^Species ^a^cnes a ^Ill» ^rags it on fhore, and devours it as
> 1—- ■ -ar as tlie vent 5 but unlefs extremely prefled with hun¬
ger, he always leaves the reft. It Ivvims againft the
llream in rivers, and may fometimes be fee# in concert
with a companion hunting the falmon. It has been
luppofed that the otter never goes out to fea, but this
appears to be a miftake, for they have been feen about
the Orkneys, hunting fea filh, efpecially cod.
When taken young, the otter is eafily tamed, and
'"may be made to catch fifti for its mailer’s ufe. The
ufual w^ay of teaching them is, firlt to make them fetch
and carry like a dog ; they have then given them a
tiufs ftuxfed with wool, in the fhape of a ftfti, wrhich
they are accuftomed to take in their mouths, and drop
at command. From this they proceed to real fifti,
which are thrown dead into the water, whence they
are taught to fetch it ; and thus by degrees they are
made to catch living ffth. Mr Bewick informs us that
a man near Wooler had a tame otter, which followed
him wherever he went. He frequently carried it to
fifti in the river, and, when fatiated, it never failed re¬
turning to its mailer. One day, in the abfence of his
mailer, being taken out by his fon to fifti, inftead of
returning as ufual, it refufed to come at the accuftomed
call, and was loft. The father tried every means to re¬
cover it ; and after feveral days fearch, being near the
place where his fon had loft it, and calling it by its
name, to his inexpreftible joy it came creeping to his
feet, and Ihewed many marks of affettion and firm at¬
tachment. Its food, exclufive of fifti, conlifted chiefty
of milk and hafty pudding.
Some years ago, one James Campbell, near Inver-
nefs, had a young otter, which he brought up and
tamed. It would follow him wherever he chofe, and
if called on by its name, would immediately obey.
When apprehenfive of danger from dogs, it fought the
prote&ion of its mailer, and would endeavour to fty in¬
to his arms for greater fecurity. It was frequently em¬
ployed in catching fifti, and would fometimes take eight
or ten falmons in a day. If not prevented, it always
made an attempt to break the fifti behind the fin next
■to the tail 5 and as foon as one was taken away, it im¬
mediately dived in purfuit of more. When tired, it
would refufe to fifti any longer, and was then rewarded
with as much fifti as it could devour. Being fatisfied
with eating, it always curled itfelf round, and fell
alleep, in which ftate it was carried home. The fame
otter fiflied as well in the fea as in the river, and took
great numbers of codlings and other filh. Its food was
generally frefti fifti, and fometimes milk. What is Hill
more extraordinary, the otter has been made to hunt
fifti along with dogs, who never gave him the fmall-
eft moleftation, though accuftomed to hunt other ot¬
ters.
The flefti of the otter is rank and difagreeable, and
partakes fo much of the nature of fifti, that by the Ro¬
man Catholic religion it is allowed to be eaten on fall
days j and Mr Pennant tells us, that he faw in the
kitchen of the Carthufian convent, near Dijon, an ot¬
ter preparing for the dinner of that religious order, who
by their rules are prohibited during their whole lives
the eating of flefti.
The fea otter is chiefty valuable on account of its fur
which is thick and long, generally of a ftiining black
colour, but fometlmes of a ftlvery hue. It is "hunted
2
ALIA.
Part II.
for its iurs in Kamtichatka, and the oppofite coafts of Ferae.
America. ' y—
pz
Genus 19. Ursus. Bejrs. Urfus.
Six fiont teeth in both jaws j the two lateral of the
lower jaw longer than the reft, and lobed, with fmal-
ler or lecondary teeth at their inner/ bafes. Canine
teeth folitary. Grinders five or fix on each fide, the
fiift very near the canine teeth. Tongue fmooth.
Snout prominent. Eyes furniftied with a nidlitatinf
membrane. 0
The individuals of this Ipecies have not many circum-
ftances in common, except thofe mentioned in the gene¬
ric charaaer. The foies of their feet are long, and
extend to the heel, from which circumftance they tread
very firmly. Their claws are long and ftiarp, and they
are thus enabled to climb trees with great dexterity, ei¬
ther in fearch of prey, or to efcape from their epemies.
Some of the fpecies ufe their fore paws as hands.'
There are about nine fpecies, which are thus diftin-
guiftied.
1. U. stfreios, Brown Bear. Blackifli brown, with
abrupt tail.— 2. U. /hnericaims, American B. Black,
with rufty cheeks and throat.—3. U. Maritimus, White’
or Polar Bear. White, with elongated neck and
head, and abrupt tail.—4. U. Gu/o, Glutton. Reddifti
brown, with tail of the fame colour, and the middle
of the back black.—3. JJ. Lufcus^ Wolverine. Rufty,
with dulky fnout, and forehead and lateral band of
the body whitifti.—6. JJ. Lotor^ Racoon. Tail rine-
marked, and a black band acrofs the eyes. 7. fj.
Ale/es, Badger. Tail unmarked; body gray above,
black below, and a longitudinal black band through
the eyes and head.—8. U. Lahradorius, American Bad¬
ger. Pale yellowifti gray, with the throat and belly
white, and head ftriped with black.—9. C7. Indians
Indian Badger. White above, black beneath. ’ 93
1. Urfus ArSios, Common or Brown Bear. There is Arflos,
a confiderable variety of colour in different individuals £ommoii
of this fpecies, according to the climate it inhabits. fTL
I he prevailing colour is a blackiih brown, but they are ’
fometimes feen gray, or even quite white. His <reneral
appearance is very clumfy j his body thick, legs very
ftrong, head round, neck ftiort, and he is covered with
a very long thick fur.
He is a native of aim oft all the northern parts of
Europe and Afia, and is faid to be found in fome of the
Indian iflands, efpecially Ceylon. He inhabits woods
and unfrequented forefts, where he paffes the greateft
part of winter in a ftate of repofe and abftinence, com¬
ing out only at diftant intervals, and again concealing
Linijelf lill the approach of fpring. He lives chiefty on
vegetables, fuch as roots and fruits; but when prefled
by hunger, he becomes fierce and ravenous, and will
attack animals of almoft every defeription. He is faid
to_ be particularly fond of honey, in fearch of which he
climbs trees, in order to get at the nefts of wild bees.
He will catch and devour fiih, and occafionally frequents
the banks of rivers for that purpofe. It is obferved that
the brown and black varieties differ fomewhat in their
choice of food, the former living almoft entirely on ve¬
getables, while the latter frequently attack cattle, lambs
and kids, the blood of which they luck, like many of the’
cat and weafel tribe.
The
Chap. HI. _ MAM M
Ffra The females bring forth two young at a birth. It
was formerly fuppofed that thefe cubs were nearly (hape-
lefs maifes, that w7ere gradually licked and falhioned
into drape by the parent, whence the e.xprcflion ofan un-
ilched cuby for an awkward-ill mannerd booby. This
has long been proved to be a vulgar error. Though
not Ihapelefs, the cubs are, however, ufually blind tor
about a month. The bear is an animal that is extremely
ufeful to the inhabitants of the north of Europe 5 his
flefh is nearly as good as pork, and makes excellent
bacon. His fkin is ufed for muffs, tippets, and other
articles of drefs, and the fat is held in great eftin-ation
bv the inhabitants of Karntfchatka as a very favoury
and wholefcme nourithment.
When tamed, it appears mild and obedient to its
maker, but is not to be trufted without the utmoft cau¬
tion.—It may be taught to walk upright, to dance, to
lay hold of a pole with its paws, and perform various
tricks to entertain the multitude, who are highly plead¬
ed to fee the awkward meafures of this rugged creature,
which it feems to fult to the found of an inftrament,
or to the voice of its leader. But to give the bear
this kind of education, it muff be taken when young,
and early accukomeJ to reilraint and difcipline. An
old bear will fuffer neither, without difcovering the
molt furious refentraent *, neither the voice nor menace
of his keeper has any effedt upon him ; he equally
growls at the hand that is held out to ieed, as at that
which is ra!fed to correct him.
The exceffive cruelties pradlifed upon this poor ani¬
mal, In teaching it to walk eredt, and regulate its mo¬
tions to the found of the flageolet, are' fuch as make
fenfibility fliudder. Its eyes are put out, and an iron
ring being put through the cartilage of the nofe, to
lead it by, it is kept from food, and beaten, till it yield
obedience to the will of its favage leaders. Some of
them are taught to perform by fetting their feet upon
hot iron plates, and then playing to them whilft in this
uneafy fituation. It is truly fhocking to every feeling
mind to reflect, that fuch cruelties ftiould be exercifed
upon any part of the brute creation by our fellow men.
That they ihould be rewarded by numbers of unthink¬
ing people, who crovcd around them to fee the animal’s
rude attempts to imitate human adtions, is not to be
wondered at \ but it is much to be w’ithed, that the
timely interference of the magiftrate would prevent
every exhibition of this kind, that in Britain at leaft,
w7e might not be reproached with tolerating pradtices fo
difgraceful to humanity.
One of thefe animals, prefented to the prince of
Wales a few years ago, was kept in the tower. By
the careleflhefs of the fervant, the door of his den was
left open, and the keeper’s wife happening to go acrofs
the court at the fame time, the animal flew out, feized
the woman, threw her down, and faftened upon her
neck, which he bit, and without offering any farther
violence, lay upon her, fucking the blood out of the
wound. Refiflance was in vain, as it only ferved to
irritate the brute, and fhemuft inevitably have perifhed,
had not her hufband luckily difcovered her fituation.
By a hidden blow he obliged the bear to quit his hold,
and retire to his den, which he did with great reluc¬
tance, and not without making a fecond attempt to come
at the woman, who was almoff dead through fear
and lofs of blood. It is femcwhat remarkable, that
ALIA. 495
whenever it happened to fee her afterwards, it always Hiilory of
growled, and made moft violent ftruggles to get out!he Specie;.
to her. The prince, upon hearing oi the circumflance, ^
ordered the bear to be killed.
A few years ago, a man exhibited at Edinburgh a
bear, which it was difcovered he chiedy fed with dead
bodies taken from the burying-grounds. On complaint
being made to the magiftrates, they ordered the bedv
to be {hot. What punhhment was infli&ed cn the man
we do not reeollefl. ^.
3. U. Maritimus% the White or Polar Bear.—ThisMaritimuf,
fpecies is confiderably larger and longer than the com-Polar Bear,
men bear, having been fometimes found 12 feet inrlg-4r'
length. It is exceedingly ftrong and fierce, and its
body is covered with a very long, thick, white fur. It
inhabits the coldeft regions of the north, and is fometimes
carried on floating ice as far to the fouthward as New¬
foundland. In winter it buries itfelf in the fnow, where it
lies in a torpid flate; but in fummer it takes up. its refi-
dence in the cliffs and caverns of the numerous ice
iflands that are found in thofe high latitudes. Here it
brings forth its young, ufually one or two at a birth.
The parent is exceedingly tender and and affeclionate
to her young, of which the following anecdote affords"
a ftriking and interefting example.
While the Carcafe frigate, which went out fome
years ago t® make difeoveries towards the north pole,
was locked in the ice, early one morning the man at the
maft-head gave notice that three bears were making
their way very faff over the frozen ocean, and were
direfling their courfe towards the ffnp. They had, no
doubt, being invited by the feent of fome blubber of a
fea-horfe that the crew had killed a few days before,
which had been fet on fire, and drew out of the flames
a part of the flefh of the fea-horfe that remained uncon¬
firmed, and ate it voracioufly. The crew from the fliip
threw great lumps of the fleflr of tlje fea-hode, which
they had Hill left upon the ice, which the old bear fetched
fingly, laid every lump before her cubs as {he brought
it, and dividing it, gave to each a fhare, referving but
a fmall portion to herfelf. As flie was fetching away
the laft piece, they levelled their mulkets at the cubs,
and fhot them both dead, and in her retreat they wound¬
ed the dam, but not mortally. It would have drawn
tears of pfty from any but unfeeling minds, to have mark¬
ed the afteflionate concern expreffed by this poor beaff
in the dying moments of her expiring young. Though
ftie was herfelf dreadfully wounded, and could but juft
crawl to the place where they lay, flie carried the lump
of flefli {he had fetched away, as {he had done others
before 5 tore it in pieces, and laid it before them ; and
when {he faw that they refufed to eat, fhe laid her paws
firft upon one, and then upon the other, and endeavoured
to raife them up : all this while it was pitiful to hear
her moan. When flie found Are could not ftir them,
flie went off, and when ftie had got at fome diffance,
looked back and moaned 3 and that not availing her to
entice them away, {he returned, and imelling round
them, began to lick their wounds. She went off a
fecond time as before, and having crawled a fewT paces,
looked again behind her, and for fome time flood moan¬
ing. But flill, her cubs not rifing to follow her, fhe
returned to them again, and with figns of inexpreflible
fondijefs went round one, and round the other, pawing
them, and moaning. Finding at laft that they were
495 M A M M A L I A. Part II.
Hi'lory or cold and lifelefs, (he ralfed her head towards the fhip,
l'1" S‘ c"1 and uttered a growl of defpalr, which the murderers
returned with a volley of mulket balls. She fell between
her cubs, and died licking their wounds.
The polar bear lives chiefly on fifli, but fometimes
attacks the feals. lie in his turn becomes a prey to the
inhabitants of the ardtic regions, who eat the flefh,
though it is very coarfe, and ufe the Ikin for coverings
of various kinds.
Litfais, 5. U. Lufcus. Wolverine.—This, by moft naturalifts,
Wolverine, i$ confidered only as a variety of the glutton. It is a
large animal, almoft equalling the wolf in fize. It is
pretty common in the northern parts of North America,
where it burrows under ground. It is a bead of prey,
living on deer and fimilar animals. Though its pace
is. very flow, it has a very acute fcent, is extremely
drong, and poffeffed of great fagacity. It is faid to be fo
fierce as to be a terror even to the wolves and bears j
and its drength is fo great, that it has been known to
pull down a pile of immenfe logs of ivocd, in order to
get at home provifiens that had been hidden there,
though fome of the logs were as much as two men
could carry. It is a great enemy to badgers and foxes.
It is hunted in North America for the fake of its
fldn.
Meles, 7* ^ Me/es, The Badger.—This is an animal of a
Badger. very clumfy make, being thick-necked and thick-bo-
iig. 43. died, with very flrort legs. His ufual length from
nofe to tail is about two feet and a half, and the tail
itfelf feldom exceeds fix inches. His eyes are very
fmall, ears fliort and rounded. The body is covered
with long coarfe hairs like bridles, that are of a dirty
yellowifh white next the root, black in the middle, and
gray at the tips. The badger differs from mod other
animals in having his back of a lighter colour than
his belly. He is exceedingly drong, efpecially about
the legs and feet, which are formed for burrowing in
the earth.
1 his animal is found in all the temperate parts of
Euro pe and of Afia. It makes its habitation below
ground, and is a very cleanly animal, fo that when his
retreat is defiled by any other animal, as the fox, he
quits it for another. It ieldom leaves its hole during
the day, feeding only by night. Its principal food ap¬
pears to confid of the fmaller quadrupeds, as rabbits,
birds, &c. though Mr Pennant wall fcarcely allow it
to be a carnivorous animal. It is alfo laid to be very
fond of honey. It deeps much during wnnter, con¬
fining itfelf like the bear, in a half torpid date-.
The female brings forth three or four young, in the
early part of fummer.
Badgers were formerly didlnguidied into fow bad¬
gers and dog badgers, from the fuppofed refemblance
of their heads to thofe animals, though w!e do not
know of any with a head like that of fwine, its ufual
.appearance being that of the dog.
No animal has differed more from vulgar prejudices
than the badger : harmlefs in his nature, he feems to
have had the character of ferocity given him, merely
becaufe he is a bead o. great drength, and is furnidied
with drong teeth, as if formed to live by rapine ; he is,
however, found to be an animal perfectly inoffenfive.
Nature has denied the badger the fpeed requifite to
efcape its enemies, but has fupplied it with fuch wea¬
pons of cffcnce that fcarcely any creature will attack 5
3
few animals defend themfeives better, or bite harder, Ferae.
w7hen purfued ; it foon comes to bay, and fights with '
great obdinacy 5 the badger is very tenacious of life,
yet a fmall blow on the Incut is mortal both to him and
the otter. It is hunted with terriers, and its obdinate
defence affords great diverfion to thofe human brutes
who are capable of finding pleafure in the torments of
a harmlefs, inoffenfive creature.
Its Ikin is ufed for pidol furniture, when dreffed
with the hair on ; the hairs are made into brudies
that are ufed by painters to foften their fhades, and
the defh is faid to make excellent bacon.
97
Genus 20. Didelphis. Opossums. Didelphis*
Front teeth fmall and rounded; fuperior 10, the twro
middle ones longer ; inferior eight, the two middle
ones broader and very diort ; canine teeth long ;
grinders denticulated ; tongue ciliated with papillte ;
abdominal pouch (in mod fpecies) containing the
teats.
This curious tribe of animals fird became known to
naturalids on kthe difeovery of America, where only,
mod of the fpecies are met writh. They are principally
didinguifhed by the extraordinary contrivance which
nature has adopted for enabling mod of the genus to
fecure their young, and which confids of a pouch or
bag formed by a fold of the {kin of the belly. Into
this the young are received foon after birth, and are
there fuckled at teats within the bag, till they are able
to fliift for themfeives. In fome of thefe there are two
or three didimff cavities that can be opened or (hut at
pleafure, by means of bones with which they are pro¬
vided for that purpofe. Some of the fpecies carry
their young on their backs, covering them with their
tail.
This is a numerous genus, comprehending about 19
fpecies.
1. D. Virginiana, Virginian O. Yellowifh gray,
with naked tail, and black, naked, rounded ears, edged
with white.—2. D. Marfupialis, Molucca O. Brown,
wuth naked tail.—3. D. Cayepollin, Mexican O.
Brown, with tail longer than the body, and the eyes
furrounded with a blackidi border.—4. D. Brachyura,
Short-tailed O. With hairy tail ; very fhort, naked
ears, reddidi body, and no pouch.—5. D. Brunii, Ja¬
van O. Short naked tail, and long three-toed hind
feet.—6. D. Orientalis, Phalanger. Rudy white be¬
neath, with blackidi dorfal line ; tail of the length of
the body, and hairy almod to the middle, and the two
middle toes of the hind feet united.—7. D. Caacrivora,
Cayenne O. Nearly naked ; fcaly tail almod the
length of the body, and the nail of the thumbs flat.—
8. D. Philander, Philander. The tail hairy at the
bafe, and with four teats in the abdominal pouch.—
9. D. Murina, Murine O. Tail half-naked, and fix
teats.—10. D. Dorf.gera, Merian O. Tail naked,
hairy at the bafe, and the fore feet without claw:..—
11. Z). Letnurina, Lemurine O. Afh-coloured, tawny
beneath, with cylindric, black, furry, prehenfile tail.—
I 2. D. Obefula, Porcupine O. Subferruginous, whitifli
beneath, with longifh tail; the fore feet five-toed,
with fmall exterior claws; the hind feet four-toed, with
two interior toes united.—13. D.Petciurus, Petaurine
O. Blackifli-gray, tinged with ferruginous; whitifli
beneath
OpofTum.
Tig- 43-
Chap. III. M A M M
Ferse. beneath^ with lateral flying membrane, and long, fub-
v 1 cvlindric, very villofe tail.—bciiivea. Squirrel
6. Pale gray, fnow-white beneath, with lateral Hying
membrane, and very villofe prehenfile tail.—-15. -D*
Macrourhy Long-tailed O. Alh-coloured, whitilh be¬
neath, with lateral Hying membrane, and very long
black tail.—16. D. Pygnuea, Pygmy O. With lateral
Hying membrane, and flatly pinnated linear tail.—17*
D. Vulpina, Vulpine O. Ferruginous, with black villous
tail.— 1 8.2). ylujlralafiaticus^ New Holland O.—19*
o8 Urfina, Urfine O. Yellowifh, with cleft upper lip.
Virginiana, I. /). Virginian a, Virginian Opoffurn.— Ihis animal
Virginian Js about the fize of a cat, but appears of a thicker
form, from the length and ereft pofition of the hair.
It has an inelegant afpe£l, having a long fnarp face,
and very wide mouth, armed with numerous (harp teeth.
The legs are fliort, and all the toes, except the thumbs
of the hind feet, are furnifhed with (harp claws. The
tail is ftrongly prehenfile* enabling the animal to fuf-
pend itfelf thereby. ^ _ .
This is one of thofe fpecies in which the abdominal
pouch is moft ftrongly marked, and into this receptacle
the female receives her young when they are in dangei,
or when fatigued.
The Virginian opoffum, like all the other American
fpecies, is a carnivorous animal, and preys on poultry,
fmall birds, &c. in the manner of the European pole¬
cat $ it is alfo frugivorous, eating feveral kinds of fruits,
roots, &c. It is of a gentle difpofition, and may ea-
fily be tamed ; but, like fome other fpecies, it has a
difagreeable fmell. Its voice is a fort of grunting fqueakj
its pace in running is not fwift, but it is very expert in
climbing trees, and readily pafles, by means of its
clinging tail, from bough to bough, in the manner of
a monkey. The female produces four or five at a
birth, and has the power of doling the pouch fo ftrong¬
ly as to make it extremely difficult to open it by the
hand, nor will any torture compel the animal to loofen
it. The female, when ready to bring forth her young,
is faid to make herfelf a neft of dry grals, in fome buffi
near the root of a tree.
10. 2). Dorjigera, Merian O.—Almoft the only ac¬
count we have of this animal is given by Madame
Merian, in her work on the infe£ls of Surinam. Her
account is as iollows. “ By way of filling up a plate, I
have reprefented a kind ol wood-rat, which always car¬
ries her young ones upon her back j fhe is of a yellowilh
brown colour, and white beneath. When thefe rats
come out of their hole, either to play or to feek their
food, they run about with their mother; but when they
are fatisfied with food, or are apprehenfive of danger,
they climb up again on the back of the mother, and
twill their tails round that of the parent, who runs with
them into her hole again.”
?*>
X)orJigera,
Merian
Qpoflum.
Pg* 44-
loo
Dafyums.
Genus 21. Dasyurus.
The organs of generation and abdominal pouch in the
female, as in the laft genus. Front teeth in the up¬
per jaw eight, in the lower fix. Canine teeth, two in
each jaw. Grinders 14, of which fix are (harp.
conical ; fnout furniffied with large whilkers. I ail
furniihed with long hair. Five toes on each foot,
all feparate ; the thumb of the hind feet extremely
Iho’t.
Vol. XII. Part II.
ALIA. 497
This is a new genus, formed by Geoffrey, to com- Hiftcny of
prebend feveral fpecies which are piaced by Hr Shaw . 1 —1
under Viverra and Didelphis, but which Geoffroy thinks
have fufficiently diftinguiffiing charafters to be feparated
from both. They are all found in New Holland, and
are herbivorous animals.
Geoffroy enumerates fix fpecies, to wnich he gives
the following names and charafters.
I. 2). MacrouruSy Long-tailed D. Chefnut-colour
fpotted with white. Tail equally fpeckled.—2. D.Mau-
geiy Maugei D. Olive-coloured, fpotted with white ;
tail without fpots.—3. 2). Viverrinus, Viverrine D.
Black, fpotted with white ; tail without fpots.—4. D.
Tafa, Tafa D. Entirely brown, tail of the fame co¬
lour.—5. 2). Penicillatus, Brufti-tailed D. Afti-co-
loured, without fpots.—6. D. Minimus, Leait D. En¬
tirely red; tail of the fame colour. _ iox.
M. Geoffroy has alfo formed a new genu', which he Peramelesi
calls Perameles, in which he includes the didelphis obe-
fula of Shaw, and another fpecies that had not before
been deferibed. As we are not very certain of the ne-
ceflity of this new genus, we have not included it in
the arrangement of the generic characters ; and for a
defeription of the genus, we mull refer to Geoffroy’s
Memoir, in the fourth volume of Annates de Mufeum
National, page 56. xoa
Geoffroy calls the fpecies Perameles nafuta, and P. Obefula.
obefula. The latter has been thus deferibed by Dr
Shaw. It is about the fize of a half-grown domeftic
rat, and is remarkable for a thicker or more corpulent
habit than moft others of the genus. The hind legs
are confiderably longer than the fore legs, and have in
miniature the form of thofe of the kanguroo, and fome
other Auftralalian quadrupeds ; though the middle
claws are far lefs in proportion ; the interior ones are
double, or both covered by a common Ikin. The co¬
lour of this fpecies is a pale yellow brown, paler and
inclining to whitiih below ; and its hair is of a coarfer
or harfher appearance than in the reft of the finall opofi-
fums; the ears are rounded, the tail rather long. When
viewed in a curfory manner, the animal bears a diftant
refemblance to a pig in miniature. I03
In Collins’s account of New South Wale:?, there is Wombat,
deferibed a very curious animal under the name of 's‘4
wombat, which feems nearly allied to the opoifums, and
the other animals which we have juft mentioned. The
teeth, however, differ fo much from thofe of the three
laft genera, that it can fcarcely be ranked as a fpecies
of any of them, and perhaps it may hereafter conftitute
a new genus. The account given in the work referred
to is as follows.
Its length, from the tip of the tail to the tip of the
nofe, is two feet feven inches, of which its body takes
up one foot eleven inches. The head is feven inches,
and the tail five-tenths of an inch. Its circumference
behind the fore legs, 27 inches; acrofs the thickeft
part of the belly, 31 inches. Its weight by hand is
between 25 and 30 pounds. The hair is coarfe, and is
about one inch, or one and five-tenths in length, thinly
fet upon the belly, thicker on the back and head, and
thickeft upon the loins and rump ; the colour of it a
light fandy brown, of varying fhades, but darkert along
the back.
The head is large and flattifh, and, when looking
the animal full in the face, feems, excluding the ears,
3 R to
M A M M ALIA. Part IT.
to form nearly aa equilateral triangle, any fide of which
is about feven inches and five-tenths in length ; but the
upper fide, or that which conftitutes the breadth of the
head, is rather the fhortefi. The hair upon the face
lies in regular order, as if it were combed, but its ends
pointed upwards in a kind of radii, from the nofe their
centre.
The ears are (harp and eredl, of two inches and
three-tenths in length, Hand well afunder, and are in
nowife difproportionate. The eyes are {'mall, and ra¬
ther funk than prominent, but quick and lively. They
are placed about twTo inches and five-tenths afunder, a
little below the centre of the imaginary triangle to¬
wards the nofe. The nice co-adaptation of their ciliary
proceffes, which are covered with a fine hair, feems to
afford the animal an extraordinary power of excluding
whatever might be hurtful.
The nofe is large or fpreading, the noftrils large,
long, and capable of being clofed. They Hand angu¬
larly with each other, and a channel is continued from
them towards the upper lip, which is divided like the
hare’s. The whilkers are rather thick and ftrong,
and are in length from two to three inches and a
half.
The opening of its mouth is fmall 5 it contains five
long grafs-cutting teeth in the front of each jaw, like
thole of the kanguroo j within them is a vacancy for
an inch or more, then appear two fmail canine teeth of
equal height with, and fo much fimilar to, eight mo-
lares fituated behind, as fcarcely to be diftinguifhable
from them. The whole number in both laws amounts
to 24.
The neck is thick and fhort, and greatly reftrains
the motions of the head, which, according to the
common expreffion, looks as if it were ftuck upon the
ihoulders.
From the neck the back arches a little as far as the
loins, wdience it goes off at a flat flope to the hinder-
moil parts, where not any tail is vifible. A tail, how¬
ever, may be found by carefully prefling the finger
over the flat flope in a line with the back bone. After
feparating the hairs, it is feen of fome half an inch in
length, and from three-tenths to one-tenth of an inch
in diameter, naked, except a few fine ihort hairs near
its end. This curious tail feemed to hold a much
bolder proportion in the young than in the full grown
animal.
The fore legs are very ftrong and mufcular : their
length, to the foie of the pawq is five inches and a half,
and the diftance between them is five inches and a half.
The paws are flefhy, round, and large, being one inch
and nine tenths in diameter. Their claws are five in
number, attached to as many fhort digitations. The
three middle claws are ftrong, and about nine-tenths of
an inch in length *, the thumb and little finger claws
are alfo ftrong, but ftrorter than the others, being only
feven-tenths of an inch long. The fleftry root of the
thumb claw is ftronger and more flexible than the others.
The foie of the paw is hard, and the upper part is co¬
vered with the common hair, down to the roots of the
claws'which it overhangs. The hind legs are lefs ftrong
and mufcular than the fore; their length, to the foie, is
five inches and a half; the diftance between, about
feven inches and a half. The hind paw is longer than
the fore, but not lefs fleftiy 5 its length is two inches
and feven-tenths, in brpadth two inches and three- Hiftory of
fifths. The claws are four in number j the three innerthe sPeaes-
ones are lefs ftrong, but about one-fifth of an inch *
longer than the longeft of the fore claws, and there is a
fldhy fpur in the place of the thumb claw. The whole
paw has a curve, which throws its fore part rather
inward.
In fize the two fexes are nearly the fame, but the fe¬
male is perhaps rather the heavieft.
In the opinion of Mr Bafs, this wombat feemed to
be very economically made ; but he thought it unne-
ceffary to give an account of its internal ftruflure in his
journal. •
This animal has no claim to fwiftnefs, as moft men
could run it down. Its pace is hobbling, like the awk¬
ward gait of a bear. It is mild and gentle as becomes
a grafs-eater 5 but it bites hard, and is furious when
provoked. Mr Bafs never heard its voice but then ; it
was a low cry, between a hilling and a whizzing which
could not be heard at a diftanee of above 40 yards. lie
chafed one, and fuddenly lifted it off the ground with
his hands, and laid him along his arm like a child. It
made no noife, nor any effort to efcape. Its counte¬
nance was placid, and feemed as content as if Mr Bafs
had nurfed it from its infancy. He carried it more
than a mile, on his arm or his {boulder, which it
took in good part; but when he fecured his legs, in
order to go into a buih to cut a fpecimen of new
wmod, its anger rofe, and it fnapped a piece from the
elbow of Mr Bafs’s jacket with his grafs-cutting teeth.
Here their friendflnp ended, and the creature remained
implacable all the way to the boat, and kicked till he
was exhaufled.
This circumftance feemed to prove, that with kind
treatment the wombat might foon be rendered do¬
cile and affedlionatej but let his tutor beware of giv¬
ing him provocation, at leaft if he fhould be full
grown.
Befides Furneaux ifland, the wombat inhabits the
mountains to the weft of Port Jackfon. It lives below
ground, being admirably formed for burrowing j but to
what depths it defeends, does not feem to be afeertain-
ed. According to the account given of it by the na¬
tives, the wombat of the mountains is never feen dur¬
ing the day, but lives retired in his hole, feeding only
in the night; but that of the iflands feems to feed in all
parts of the day. His food is not well known, but it
is probably varied according to the fttuation in which
he may be placed. The ftomachs of fuch as' Mr Bafs
examined were diftended by the coarfe wiry grafs j
and he, as well as others, had feen the animal fcratch-
ing among the dry ricks of fea-weed thrown upon the
fiiores, though he copld never difeover what the animal
was in fearch of.
IC4
Genus 22. Macropus. Kanguroo. Macropus.
Front teeth in the upper'jaw fix, emarginated 5 in the
kwer jaw two, very large, long, fharp, and
pointing forwards 5 grinders five on each fide, both
in the upper and low'er jaw7, diftant from the other
teeth j fore legs very fhort •, hind legs very long}
abdominal pouch in the female.
There are only two fpecies at prefent known, viz.
I. M. Major) Grjat K. Browniftt, with fiiarpifti ears,
and
Chap.
Fer®.
ipS
Major,
anguroo.
g- 47-
III. ' M A U
and five-toed fore feet.—-2. M. Minor, Rat K, or kan-
“ guroo’rat. Brown, aih-coloured below, with rounded
ears, and four-toed fore feet.
Thefe were ranked by Linnceus under the genus
Didelphis, but differ fo much in many circumftances,
that they have been very properly formed into a fepa-
rate genus.
i. M. Major, Great K.—This animal was firft dif-
covered by Captain Cook’s people, while at Botany
Bay in New Holland, in 1770, and an interefting,
though not ftridtly accurate account of it, is given in
Captain Cook’s firft voyage. It is thus deferibed by
Shaw. The general fize of the kanguroo is, at leaft,
equal to that of a full grown ftieep the upper parts of
the animal are fmall, while the lower are remarivably
large in proportion ; yet fuch is the elegance of grada¬
tion in this refpeft, that the kanguroo may juftly be con-
fidered as one of the moft piifturefque of quadrupeds.
The head bears fome refemblance to that of a deer, and
the vifage is mild and placid 5 the ears are moderately
large, of a flightly (liarpened form, and upright ; the
eyes large, and the mouth rather imall ; the neck thin
and finely proportioned, the fore legs extremely Ihort,
with the feet divided into five toes, each furnilhed with
a fharp and fornewhat crooked claw. From the bread
downwards the body gradually enlarges, and again de-
creafes a little towards the tail, the thighs and hind
legs are extremely flout and long, and the feet are fo
conftru&ed as to appear, at firft fight, to confift but of
three toes, of which the middle is by far the largeft,
and is furnifhed with a claw of great fize and ftrength j
the exterior toe is alfo furniiheff with a very ftrong
claw, but far fmaller than that of the middle one ; and
the interior confifts of two very fmall toes united under
-a common fkin, with their refpeftive claws placed fo
clofe to each other as to appear like a fplit or double
claw ; the whole appearance of the foot bears a diftant
refemblance to that of a bird. The kanguroo refts on
the whole length of the foot, wliich is callous, black-
ifh, and granulated beneath. The colour of the animal
is an elegant pale brown, lighter or more inclining to
whitenefs on the abdomen; the ventral pouch, or re¬
ceptacle for the young, is fituated in the fame man¬
ner as in the opoflums, and is extremely large and
deep.
' The dimenfions of a full growm kanguroo are given as
follows, in Governor Phillip’s Voyage to Botany Bay,
viz. eight feet from the tip of the nofe to that of the tail:
length of the tail thiee feet and an inch ; of the head
eleven inches ; of the fore legs two feet ; of the hind,
three feet feven inches : circumference of the fore part
of the animal near the legs, three feet nine inches ; of
the lower part near the legs, four feet five inches ; round
the thickeft end of the tail 13 inches. The weight of
the largeft fpecimens is faid to have been about 150
pounds ; but it is imagined that this animal attains a
ranch larger fize.
Though the general pofition of the kanguroo, when
' at reft, is Handing on its hind feet, yet it frequently
places its fore feet on the ground alfo, and thus feeds
in the manner of other quadrupeds. It drinks by lap¬
ping. In its natural ftate it is extremely timid, and
fprings from the fight of mankind by vaft bounds of
many feet in height, and to a furprifing diftance.
W1 ;en in a ftate of captivity, it has fometimes a way of
M ALIA. 499
fpringing forwards and kicking with its hind feet in a Biftory^
very forcible and violent manner *, during which aftion tafc Pecic5;
it refts or props itfelf on the bafe of the tail. In a na¬
tural ftate it lometimes ufes its tail as a weapon of de¬
fence, and will give fuch fevere blows with it to dogs
as to oblige them to defift from their attack. I he fe¬
male kanguroo has two mammae fituated in the aodo-
minal pouch, and in each are feated two teats ; yet lo
far as has hitherto been obferved, the animal produces
but one young at a birth ; and io exceedingly diminu¬
tive is the young, when firft found in the pouch, as
fcarcely to exceed an inch in length. The young con¬
tinues in the pouch till it is grown to a large fize, and
takes occafional refuge in it long after it has been ac-
cuftomed to come abroad.
The kanguroo feeds entirely on vegetable fubftances,
and chiefly on grafs. In their native ftate thefe ani¬
mals are faid to feed in herds of 30 or 4^ tog^hei,
and one is generally obferved to be ftationed, as if ap¬
parently on the watch, at a diftance from the left.
The flefh of the kanguroo is faid to be rather coarle;
and fuch as to be eaten rather in defeft of other food
than as an article of luxury.
i®6
Talpa.
Genus 23. Talpa. Moles.
Front teeth in the upper jaw' fix, unequal; in the lower
eight. Canine teeth one on each fide, the upper
larger. Grinders in the upper jaw feven, in the
lower fix.
The moles are furnilhed by nature for perforating
the earth in the moft expeditious manner. Their head
is long, and provided with very ftrong mufcles for ena¬
bling it to raife up the earth ; their fnout is much
lengthened, and is moveable ; their hands are large,
broad, and fiat, and armed with ftrong, flat, pointed
claws, direfted backwards for throwing the earth be¬
hind them, and the fore legs are very Ihort and ftrong,
and nearly hidden below the fkin. I hey have no ex¬
ternal ears, and their eyes are very fmall, and hidden
in the fur. They moftly feed on worms and inleifts,
and in this way would be of fervice, were it not that in
feeking for thefe, they make much havock among
young plants by turning up the earth. ihis circum-
ftance renders them very troublefome to gardeners
and farmers, who take every method to deftroy
them.
Naturalifts have deferibed about 7 fpccies, viz. 1.
* T. Eurofxea, Common M. Black (ufually) with fhort
tail and five toed feet.—2. T. Purpurafcens, Purple M.
Black, with a glofs of purple, with white tail and five¬
toed feet. 3. T. Capenfis, Cape M. Gold-green, with
a glofs of copper colour, with three-toed fore feet.—
q.’/'. Rufa, Red M. Red, with fhort tail; three¬
toed fore feet, and four-toed hind feet.—5. T. Longi-
caudata. Long-tailed M. Brown, with tail moderate¬
ly long, and five-toed feet, hinder fealy.—6. T. Radia-
ta, Radiated M. Black, with white feet, aad nofe
radiated with papillae.— 7. 7. Fnfca, Brown M.
Brown, with white feet and tail, and very broad fore
feet. 137
S. 1. T. Europera, Common M. Moldwarp, or T.nropxa,
Moudiewarp. Common
The figure of this animal is well known. Its eyes ’^ie-
are lo hnall that it was long doubted whethek it really
3 R 2 -had
5°°
> \Puryof had any. It has, however, heen proved by difi'e6Hons
!a' -^'^Cies; aflifted by the microlcope, that this animal not only
has eyes, but that its eyes are every way calculated for
diilinft vilion. It pofieffes the ienfes of hearing and
fmelling in a very acute degree, and according to Ray
and Buffbn is peculiarly gifted in another faculty, on
which it would be improper here to enlarge. It is
fometimes found white.
Moles are found in every part of Europe, and are ex¬
tremely common in Britain.
Thefe animals, as is well known, live below the
earth, where they make fubterranean paffages leading
from one hillock to another. They live in pairs, and
are faid to be the moft domeftic of all quadrupeds.
They feldom quit their holes except when compelled
to do fo by heavy rains, or when the earth is fo much
parched by conflaut drought, that they are unable to
continue their work of burrowing. In winter they re¬
tire to elevated places, wThere they may be belt fecured
from inundations; but in fummer, defcend to the low
and flat lands, efpecially meadows, which they prefer
on account of the earth there being frefher and
fofter.
1 hey generally breed in the fpring, being found big
with young in January and February, and in April a
great many of their young may be feen.
It appears that moles are capable of fvvimming to a
confiderable diftance; and a remarkable inflance of one
having been feen fvvimming towards a fmall ifland in
the middle of a lake 180 yards from land, is given by
Mr Bruce in the third volume of the Lmnaean Tranf-
aftions.
People in general are not aware of the great mifchief
occafioned in fields and gardens by thefe animals. We
are however informed by Buffon, that in the year 1740
he planted 15 or 16 acres of land with acorns, and that
the greater part of them was in a little time carried
away by the moles to their fubterranean retreats. In
many of thefe there were found half a bufhel, and in
others a bulhel. Buffon, after this circumllance, cauf-
ed a great number of iron traps to be conftrucled, by
which in lefs than three weeks he caught 1300. To
this inftance of the devaftation occafioned by thefe ani¬
mals, we may add the following : In the year 1742
they were fo numerous in fome parts of Holland, that
one fanner alone caught between 5000 and 6000 of
them. The deilrudfion occafioned by thefe animals is
however no new phenomenon. We are informed by
hiftory, that the inhabitants of the ifland of Tenedos,
the Trojans, and the TEolians, were infefted by them
in the earlieft ages. For this reafon a temple was
credled to Apollo Smynthius, the deftroyer of moles.
i he catching of moles conftitutes a profefiion which
is well underilood in this country. For the particular
modes of taking them, wre muft refer our readers to
Dr Darwin’s Phytologia, p. 370, and to the fecond
volume of the Philofophical Magazine, p. 34. Accord¬
ing to Mortimer, as quoted by Pennant, the roots of
white hellebore made into a pafte and laid into their
holes, will defiroy them. They feem to have few ene¬
mies among other animals, but we are told by Sir Ro¬
bert Sibbald, that there is a kind of moufe with a
beak that deftroys moles. We are allured that thefe
animals are ret found in Ireland.
Part II.
The Ikin of the mole is extremely tough ; its fur Ferse.
dole fet, and loiter than the fineft velvet, or perhaps '““"v J
than the fur of any other animal ; it is ufually black,
but moles have been found fpotted with white, and
fometimes, though rarely, they have been feen altoge¬
ther white.
Genus 24. Sorex. Shrews. Sores3
Front teeth in the upper jaw two, long, bifid. In the
lower two or four ; the intermediate ones fhorter;
canine teeth feveral on each fide ; grinders cufpi-
dated.
This genus is nearly allied to the laft, and indeed a
few of its fpecies are fcarcely to be dillinguilhed from
fome of the moles. It is therefore not furprifmg that
Linnaeus, in the twelfth edition of his Syftema Naturae,
ranked two fpecies under Sorex, which fhould more
properly have been placed under Talpa.
There are 16 fpecies, which are thus diftinguilhed.
I. * S. j4raneus, Common S, or Shrew moufe. Rufty
brown, whitilh below, with tail rather fhorter than the
body.—2. S. Mofchatus, Mulk S. Web-footed, with
naked compreffed tail.—3. S. Radiatus, Canada S.
Blackilh, with lengthened fnoat, radiated at the tip
with tentacula.—4. 5. Carulefcens, Perfuming S. Blue-
gray, with fleih-coloured fnout, feet and tail.—5, S.
Fodien.r, Water S. Black, and white below.—6. S.
Bra%i!ienjis, Brazilian S. Brown, with three black
ftripes on the back.—7. S. Surinamenfis, Surinam S.
Bay, yellowilh alh colour below, with tail fhorter than
the body.—8. S. Probofcideus, Elephant S. Brown,
with very long cylindric fnout.—9. S. Leucodon, White¬
toothed S. Dulk, white below, with tail of middling
length.—10. S. Tetragonurus, fquare-tailed S. Qua¬
drangular tail.—11 S. Leucurus, White-tailed S. Brovvn-
ilh, whitifh beneath, with fhort tail, whitifh towards
the tip.—1 2. S. Unicolor, Cinereous S. Dufky alh-co-
loured, with tail narrowed at the bafe.—13. S. Mnri-
nus, Murine S. Brown, with afli coloured feet and tail,
the latter of middling length.—15. S. PuJtHus, Perfian
S. With rounded ears, and fhort fubdiftichious tail.—
15. iS1. Minutus, Minute S. With very long fnout.—
16. S. Exilis, Pygmy S. Extremely fmall, with very
thick cylindric tail. 10-
1. S. Araneus, Shrew Moufe, or Hardy S. The Aranevs,
length of this little animal, from the end of the nofe to Common
the origin of the tail, is two inches and a half; that of^?rew*
the tail, near one inch and a half; the nofe is very “
long and (lender, and the upper mandible is much
longer than the lower ; the ears are fhort and rounded,
the eyes very fmall, and like thofe of the mole, almoft
concealed in the hair. The colour of the head, and
upper part of the body, is of a brownifh dark red, the
belly of a dirty white; the tail is covered with fhort
dark hairs, the legs are very fhort ; the hind legs are
placed very far back ; the feet are divided into five dh
ftin£l toes.
The teeth are 28 in number, and of fo lingular a
form, as to engage the attention of moft naturalifis.
Gefner is of opinion, that nature feems to have formed
in this animal teeth of mixed fliape, between thofe of
mice and ferpents ; the two upper fore teeth are very
lharp, aad on each fide of them grows a minute pro-
cefe,
MAMMALIA.
Chap.
HI. M A M M A L I A.
cef% fcarcely vifiblf, except on a near infpefHon ; the
other teeth are placed clofe together, are very fnxall,
and fet m fcarcely feparated.
The threw moufe inhabits old walls, heaps of ftones,
ditches covered with bufhes, lying well wrapped up in Hiftoryof
mofs, grafs, or leaves j its food is roots, fruits, worms, t^e St;,ec‘es'
and infebls. It lies under the undelerved reproach of ” v *
fucking cattle, and hutting their udders j but the fmall-
or holes in the eaith \ is frequently found near out- nefs of its mouth renders that impoffible. It is a mild,
buildings, hay ricks, dunghills, and neceffary houfes; helplefs, and patient animal j and would be liable to in-
it lives on infedts, corn, and any filth, and has been jury from every enemy, had not providence guarded it
obferved rooting like a hog in the laft named places, with a ftrong covering, and the powrer of rolling itfelf
Either from its food or its nature, it has a very difa- into a ball, by that means fecuring the defencelefs
greeable fmell, infomuch that the cat will kill it, yet parts. It is hunted writh dogs ; but few of them will
refufes to eat it. It is faid to bring four or five young venture to attack it while rolled up, .fo that its perfe-
at a time. It is a very common animal in this coun- cutors throw it into water, to oblige it to unroll itfelf.
Its flelh is efteemed good food.
The hedgehog may be tamed 5 and we are told of
one that lived at the Angel inn at Felton in Northum¬
berland in 1799, which performed the duty of a turn-
fpit, as well in every refpeft as the dog of that name \
ran about the houfe as familiarly as any other domeftic
quadruped j difplayed a facility till then unknown in
this fpecies of animals $ and ufed to anfwer to the name
of Tom.
This order contains 12 genera, and about 184 fpecies.
Ettropaus,
Common
Hedgehog.
Fig. 50.
try.
Genus 25. Erinaceus. Hedgehogs.
Front teeth, two both above and below j thofe of the up¬
per jaw diftant, of the lower approximated. Canine
teeth on each fide, in the upper jaw five, in the low¬
er three. Grinders on each fide, both above and
below, four. Body covered on the upper parts with
fpines.
There are five fpecies, viz. 1. * Erinaceus Euro-
pceus, European or common H. With rounded ears
and crefted noftrils.—2. E. Inauris, Earlefs H. With¬
out external ears.—3. E. Auritus, Long-eared H.
With long oval ears, and crefted noftrils.—4. E. Ma-
dagafcarienJiS) Striped H. With fpines and long briftlesj
the body longitudinally banded with black and white,
with long, {harp pointed fnout.—5. E. Malaccenjis,
Malacca H. With long fpines and pendulous ears.
1. Erinaceus Europceus^ Common Hedgehog, or
Urchin.
The ufual length of this animal, exclufive of the
tail, is about ten inches 5 the tail is little more than an
Chap. IV. Glires.
Gen. .26. Hystrix. Porcupine. h
Front teeth two, both in the upper and under jaw, ob“
liquely cut j grinders eight. Body covered with
fpines intermixed with hairs. Four toes on the fore,
feet, five on the hind.
There are fix fpecies $ viz.
1. H. Cri/lata, Long-fpined Porcupine ; with four¬
toed fore feet, and five-toed hind feet j crefted head,
and ftiort tail.— 2. H. Prehenjtlis, Prehenfile P. Short-
inch long, but fo concealed by the fpines as fcarcely to fpined, with four-toed feet •, and long half-naked pre-
be vifible. The fnout is like that of the hog ; the up- henfile tail.—3. H. Mexicana, Mexican P. Short-
perjawr being much longer than the lower, and the fpined, with four-toed feet, and tail of moderate length.
end flat 5 the noftrils are narrow7, terminated on each
fide by a loofe thin flap j the colour of the fnout is
dulky $ it is covered with a few fcattered hairs; the
upper part of the head, the Tides, and the rump, are
clothed with ftrong ftiff hair, approaching the nature
of briftles, of a yellowfllh and a(h hue.
—4. H. Macroura, Long-tailed P. Short-fpined, with
five-toed feet, and very long tail,' tufted at the end
wflth club-ftiaped briftles.—5. H Fafciculata, Brufli-
tailed P. Four-toed fore feet, five-toed hind feet, and
tail terminated by a tuft of flattened briftles.—6. H.
Dorfata, Canada P. Short-fpined, with very long
The legs are Ihort, of a dulky colour, and almoft fur ; • four-toed fore feet, five-toed hind feet j fpiny
bare *, the toes on each foot are five in number, long, back, and ftiortUh tail.
and feparated the whole way 5 the thumb or interior i.H. Common Porcupine.—The figure which
toe is much fliorter than the others *, the claws long wre have given of this animal will convey a better ideaCommon
but weak ; the whole upper part of the body and fides of it than any defcription. We may remark only that Po^upm6*
are ftrongly covered with clofe fpines of an inch in it is about two feet long from head to tail j and that the S1,
length, and very {harp pointed ; their lower part is tail is about four inches long, being almoft entirely bid-
white, the middle black, the points white. The mouth den by the quills and long hair.
It is a native of Africa, India, and the Indian iflands,
and is found in fome of the wrarmer parts of Europe,
is final], but full cf teeth. The barbarity of anatomifts
furnifhes us with an amazing inftance of its patience ;
one that was differed alive, and whofe feet were nailed
down to the table, endured that, and every ftroke of
the operator’s knife, without even one groan.
It is found in moft parts of Europe, and is not un¬
common in this ifland.
It produces four or five young at a birth, which are
foon. covered wdth prickles like thofe of the parent, but
Ihorter and weaker.
It is a nofturnal animal, keeping retired in the day,
but is in motion the whole night in fearch of food. It
generally refides in fmall thickets, in hedges, or in
ome
particularly in Sicily and Malta.
It was long believed that the porcupine had the
power of darting its quills to a confidcrable diftance, at
any enemy that affaulted it. This is proved to have
been a vulgar error, ariiing probably from the manner
in which the quills are detached when the animal is
moulting, at wdiich time they are often thrown with a
jerk to a little diftance. The quills feem intended
merely as weapons of defence, and when attacked, the
animal has the power of railing them, as wras remarked
with refpect to the fcales of the manis.
The
562
H'ftory of
the- Species
Gavia.
,115
Cobaya,
Giunea Pig.
116
Gaftor.
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Tile flefh of tie porcupine is eaten in fome places j
and we are told by Mr Brydone, that when in Sicily,
he dined on it, and found it extremely lufeious, foon
palling on the appetite.
This animal feeds chiefly on fruits, roots, and vege¬
table fubftances. It commonly lives under ground,
fleeps much by day, and goes in fearch of food only
during the night. The female produces' two young
at a birth, and thefe, when taken early, are ealily
tamed.
Gen. 27. Cavia, C^rr.
Front teeth two, w’edge-fhaped ; grinders eight. Toes
on the fore feet, four or five } on the hind feet, from
three to five. Tail very fliort, or wanting. No cla¬
vicles.
The animals of this g£nus are chiefly found in Ame-
lica; they live on vegetable fubftances, and inhabit
holes in the ground, or beneath the roots of trees.
There are feven fpecies 5 viz.
1. Cavia Cobaya, Variegated Cavy, or Guinea Pig.
Taillefs; generally variegated either with black and
white, or rufous, &c.—2. C. Paca, Spotted C. Tail¬
ed, with five-toed feet, and Tides marked by rows of
yellowifli white fpots.—-3. C. Capybara, Capybara.
Taillefs, with three-toed palmated hind feet.—4. C.
Aguti, Aguti. Tailed, with the body reddifh brown,
and the belly yellowifli.—5. C. Acouchy, Acouchy.
Tailed, with olive-coloured body.—6. C. Apefia,
Rock C. Taillefs, with reddifli afli-coloured body.—
*1. C. Patagonica, Patagonian C. Rufty gray, whitifli
belowT, with extremely fhort naked tail; large white
patch on each thigh, and black rump.
1. C. Cobaya, Refllefs Cavy, or Guinea Pig.—This
animal is pretty wTell knowm among us, being frequently
kept as a kind of pet. It is a native of South America,
and naturally of a chilly tender confutation ; yet it
lives and breeds in our climates when kept in the houfe,
and properly fed. Few animals breed fo early as the
Guinea pig. Though it does not attain its full growth
till eight or nine months old, it has been known to bring
forth at two months. The female goes with young
about three weeks, and at her firfi litter produces four
or five young, but her fubfequent litters often confift of
ten, or twelve. As thefe animals are thus prolific, and
will breed five or fix times in a year, it is computed that
a thoufand of them may be produced in one year from a
Angle pair. 'rhey ftem capable of no fentiment but
the low'efl: fenfuality, and pafs their whole time in eat¬
ing, fleeping, Stc. They live entirely on vegetable
food, and are very fond of parfley, apples, and other
fruits. They eat often, but little at a time.
They are very neat and cleanly, and are often feen
drefling each other’s fur. They are eafily tamed, but
feem to feel no attachment to man. They grunt like
a pig, make a chirping noife wdien pleafed, and utter a
fh arp cry.when hurt.
The fielh may be eaten, but is very indifferent.
Gen. 28. Castor. Beaver.
Front teeth m the upper jaw truncated, and hollowed
with a tranfverfe angle j in the kwver jaw tranfverfe
at the tips. Grinders on each fide four. Tail long,
de-reffed and fcaly. Collar bones in the fkeleton.
Glires.
There are two fpecies j viz. Ir
1. C. Fiber, Common Beaver. Chefnut-coloured, Filer,
with flat ovate naked tail.— 2. C. Huido
B. With long, compreffed, lance-fliaped,
lobed fore feet, and webbed hind feet.
1. C. Fiber, Common Beaver This animal is eafily
diiiinguifhed from all quadrupeds by the peculiar ap¬
pearance of its tail, which is of an oval form, nearly
flat, except on its upper furface, where it is flightly
convex, entirely deftitute of hair, except at the bafe,
and marked with fcaly divifions like the ikin of a fifli.
The body is about three feet long, and the tail about a
foot in length. The general colour of the fur is a deep
chefnut, but it is fometimes found perfedtly black,
white, cream-coloured, or fpotted.
The beaver is found in rnoft of the northern parts of
Europe and Afia, and is very abundant in North Ame¬
rica. It was once met with in Britain, but the fpecies
has long been there extinft.. It delights in fhady wa¬
tery fituations.
Many accounts have been given of the manners and
labours of this extraordinary animal, but we believe
none are in general more correft than the following by
Buffon.
The beavers begin to affemble in the month of June
or July, for the purpofe of uniting into fociety. They
arrive in numbers from all corners, and foon form a
troop of 200 or 30b. The place of rendezvous is gene¬
rally the place fixed for their eftablilhment, and is al¬
ways on the banks of waters. If the waters be flat,
and never rife above their ordinary level, as in lakes,
the beavers make no bank or dam 5 but in rivers or
brooks, where the waters are fubjeef to rifings and fall¬
ings, they build a bank, and by this artifice they form
a pond or piece of wTater which remains always at the
fame height. The bank traverfes the river from one
fide to the other, like^a fluice, and it is often from 83
to 100 feet long, by 10 or 12 broad at the bafe. This
pile, for animals of a fize fo fmall, appears to be enor¬
mous, and fuppofes an incredible labour. But the folidi-
ty with which the work is confirudted is flill more
aftonifliing than its magnitude. The part of the river
w’here they erect this bank is generally (hallow-. If
they find on the margin a large tree, which can be
made to fall into the water, they begin with cutting it
down, to form the principal part of their work. This
tree is often thicker than the body of a man. By gnaw--
ing the foot of the tree with their four cutting teeth,
they accomplith their purpofe in a very fliort time, and
alw-ays make the tree fall acrofs the^ river. They next
cut the branches from the trunk to make it lie level.
Thefe operations are performed by the whole commu¬
nity. Several beavers are employed in gnawing the
foot of the tree, and others in lopping off the branches
after it has fallen. Others at the fame time traverfe
the banks of the river, and cut down fmaller trees,
from the fize of a man’s leg to that of his thigh. Thefe
they drefs, and cut to a certain length to make flakes
of them, and firft drag them by land to the margin of
the river, and then by water’ to the place where the
building is carrying on. Thefe piles they fink down,
and
nus, Chili Commo*
hairy tail: ^eaver-
Fig 5*-
I
Chap. IV. M A M M
Glares, and interweave t7.e branches with the larger hakes,
v ' This operation implies the vanquifliing of many diffi¬
culties j for to drefs tliefe Rakes, and to put them in a
Rtuation nearly perpendicular, fome of the beavers muft
elevate, with their teeth, the thick ends againR the
margin of the river, or againit the crofs tree, while
others plunge to the bottom, and dig holes with their
fore feet, to receive the points that they may Rand on end.
While fome are labouring in this manner, others bring
earth, which they plafii with their feet, and beat firm
with their tails. They carry the earth in their mouths,
and with their fore feet, and tranfport it in Inch quan¬
tities that they fill with it all the intervals between the
piles. Thefe piles confift of feveral rows of Rakes of
equal height, all placed oppofite to each other, and
extend from one bank of the river to the other. The
Rakes facing the under part of the river, are placed
perpendicularly j but the relt of the work Ropes up¬
wards, to fufiain the preffure of the fluid, fo that the
bank, which is 10 or i 2 feet wide at the bafe, is re¬
duced to two or three at the top. It has, therefore,
not only all the neceffary thicknefs and folidity, but the
mofi advantageous form for hipporting the weight of
the water, for preventing its iffiue, and to repel its
eflbrts. Near the top, or thinnefl part of the bank,
they make two or three floping holes, to allow the fur-
face water to efcape, and thefe they enlarge or contradl,
according as the river rifes or falls and when any
breaches are made in the bank by ludden or violent in¬
undations, they know how to repair them as fcon as the
water fubfides.
It would be fuperfluous, after this account of their
public work, to give a detail of their particular opera¬
tions, were it not neceffary, in a hiRory of thefe ani¬
mals, to mention every fa<R, and were not the firR
great Rrudlure made with a view to render their fmaller
habitations more commodious. Ihefe cabins or houfes
are built upon piles near the margin of the pond, and
have two openings, the one for going to the land, and
the other for throwing themfelves into the water. The
form of the edifices is either oval or round, fome of
them larger and fome lefs, varying from four or five,
to eight or ten feet diameter. Some of them confiR
of three or four Rories, and their w'alls are about two
feet thick, raifed perpendicularly upon planks, or plain
Rakes, which ferve both for foundations and floors to
their houfes. When they confiR but of one Rory, the
walls rife perpendicularly only a few feet, afterwards
affume a curved form, and terminate in a dome or vault,
which ferves them for a roof. T. hey are built with
amazing folidity, and neatly plaRered both without and
within. They are impenetrable to rain, and refiR the
mofl impetuous winds. The partitions are covered
with a kind of flucco, as nicely plaflered as if it had
been executed by the hand of man. In the appli¬
cation of this mortar, their tails ferve for trowels, and
their feet for plafiiing. They employ different materi¬
als, as wood, Rone, and a kind of fandy earth, which is
not fubjeft to diffolution in water. 'I he wood they ufe
is almoR all of the light and tender kinds, as alders,
poplars, and willows, which generally grow on the
banks of rivers, and are more eafily barked, cut, and
tranfported, than the heavier and more folid fpecies of
timber. When they once attack a tree, they never
abandon it till they cut it down, and, carry it off.
ALIA. 5°3
They always begin the operation of cutting.at the foot, Hiftory of
or a foot and a half above ground ; they labour in athe S‘:eues,‘
fitting poRure ; and, befide the convenience of this fi'.u-
ation, they enjoy the pleafure of gnawing perpetually
the bark and wood, which are mofi palatable to their
tafie} for they prefer frefli bark and tender wood to
moR of their ordinary aliment. Of thefe provilions
they lay up ample Rores, to fupport them during the
w’inter ; but they are not fond of dry wood. It is in
the water, and near their habitations, that they efia-
blifii their magazines. Each cabin has its own maga¬
zine, proportioned to the number of its inhabitants,
■who have all a common right to the flore, and never
pillage their neighbours. Some villages are comnofed
of 23 or 25 cabins. But thefe large efiablifiiments are
rare, and the common republic feldom exceeds 10 or
12 families, of which each has his own quarter of the
village, his own magazine, and his feparate habitation.
They allow no flrangers to fit down in their neigh¬
bourhood. The fmallefl cabins contain 2, 4, or 6, and
the largefi 18, 20, and, it is aliedged, fometimes 30
beavers. They are almoR always equally paired, be¬
ing the fame number of females as of males. Thus,
upon a moderate computation, the fociety is often com-
pofed of 150 or 203, who all, at fhfi, laboured jointly,
in raifing the great public building, and afterwards in
feleff tribes or companies, in making particular habi¬
tations. In this fociety, however numerous, an uni-
verfal peace is maintained. Their union is cemented
by common labours, and it is rendered perpetual by
mutual convenience, and the abundance of provifions
which they amafs, and confume together. Moderate
appetites, a fimple tafie, an averfion againfl blood and
carnage, deprive them of the idea of rapine and war..
They enjoy every poffible good, while man only knows
how to pant after it. Friends to each other, if they
have fome foreign enemies, they know how to avoid
them. When danger approaches, they advertife one
another by flriking their tail on the furface of the wa¬
ter, the noife of which is heard at a great diRance, and
refounds through all the vaults of their habitations.
Each takes his pofl •, fome plunge into the lake, others
conceal themfelves within their walls, which can only
be penetrated by the fire of heaven, or the Reel of man,
and which no animal will attempt either to open or to
overturn, Thefe retreats are not only very fafe, but
neat and commodious. The floors are fpread over with
verdure •, the branches of the box and the fir ferve them
for carpets, upon which they permit not the leafl dirti-
nefs. The window that faces the water anfwers for a
balcony to receive the frelh air, and to bathe. During
the greateR part of the day, they fit on end, with their
heads and anterior parts of the body elevated, and their
poflerior parts funk in the water. This window is
made with caution, the aperture of which is lufficiently
raifed to prevent its being flopped up with ice, which,
in the beaver climates, is often two or three feet thick.
'When this happens, they Rope the foie r the window,
cut obliquely the flakes which fupport it, and thus open
a communication with the unfrozen water. This ele¬
ment is fo neceffary, or rather fo agreeable to them,
that they can feldom dilper.fe with it. They often
fwim a long way under the ice j it is then that they are
moil eafily taken, by attacking the cabin on one hand,
and, at the fame time, watching at a hole made at feme
diflance.
504
M A M M A L I A.
Part IT.
Hiftory of diftance, where they' are obliged to repair for the pur-
the -Species. pQfe Qf refpiration.' The continual habit of keeping
their tail and poflerior parts in the water, appears to
have changed the nature of their flefh. ihat of their
anterior parts, as far as the reins, has the tafte and con¬
fidence of the flefli of land or air animals j but that of
the tail and pofteriors has the odour and all the other
qualities of fifh. T-he tail, which is a foot long, an
inch thick, and five or fix inches broad, is juft like an ex¬
tremity or genuine portion of a filh attached to the
body of a quadruped. It is entirely covered with fcal a,
and with {kin perfe&ly fimilar to thofe of large fifties.
They may be fcraped off with a knife, and, a?ter fall¬
ing, they leave an impveffion on the {kin, as is the cafe
'With all fifties.
It is in the beginning of fummer that the beavers af-
femble. They employ the months of July and Auguft
in the conftru£lion of their bank and cabins. T hey
colled!, in September their provifions of bark and wood;
afterwards they enjoy the fruits of their labours, and
tafte the fweets of domeftic happinefs. This is the time
of repole and the feafon of love. Knowing and loving
one another from habit, from the plealures and fatigues
of a common labour, each couple join not by chance,
nor by the preffing neceffitics of nature, but unite from
choice and from tafte. They pafs together the autumn
and the winter, and perfedlly fatisfied with each other,
they never feparate. At eafe in their cabins, they go
not out but upon agreeable or ufeful excurfions, to bring
In fupplies of freftr bark, which they prefer to what is
too dry, or too much moiftened with water. I he fe¬
males are faid to go pregnant for four months ; they
bring forth in the end of winter, and generally pro¬
duce two or three young ones. About this time, they
are left by the males, who retire to the country to en¬
joy the pleafures and the fruits of the ipring. ..They
return ©ccafionally to their cabins, and are occupied in
nurfing, prote&ing, and rearing their young, who at
the end of a few weeks, are in a condition to follow
their dams. T he females, in their turn, make little ex¬
curfions to recruit themfelves by the air, by eating freth
bark and herbage ; and in this manner pafs the fummer
upon the wTaters, and in the woods. They affemble not
again till autumn, unlefs their banks or cabins be over¬
turned by inundations ; for when accidents of this kind
happen, they fuddenly colleft their forces, in order to
repair the breaches which have been made.
Some places they prefer to others for their habita¬
tions ; and they have been cbferved, after having their
labours frequently deftroyed, to return every fummer to
repair them, till, being fatigued with this perfecution,
and weakened by the lofs of feveral of their numbers,
they took the refolution of changing their abode, and of
retiring to folitudes ftill more profound. It is in winter
that they are chiefly fought by the hunters, becaufe
their fur is not perfeflly found in any other feafon :
and, after their village is ruined, and numbers of them
are taken, the fociety is fometimes too much reduced
to admit of a frefti eftablilhment; but thofe which ef-
cape death or captivity, difperfe and become vagabond.
Their genius, withered by fear, never again expands.
They hide themfelves and their talents in holes ; or,
funk to the condition of other animals, they lead a ti¬
mid and fohtary life Occupied only by preffing wants,
and exerting {olely their individual powers, they lute
2
for ever thofe focial qualities which we have been fo
juftly admiring.
The beaver is hunted for the fake of its fur, which,
as is well known, forms a confiderable article in the
manufaifture of fine hats, as well as for the drug called
Co/ior, for an account of which fee Materia Medica.
Its flefli is eaten in fome places, and is faid to have a
fifhy tafte.
Genus 29. Mus, Rats and Mice.
Upper front teeth wedge-ftiaped. Grinders on each
fide three, fometimes only two. Clavicles or collar¬
bones in the {keleton.
iThefe animals generally live in holes in the ground,
are very fwift, and able to climb trees. Their food is
chiefly vegetable, which moft of them feek in the night,
keeping in their retreats during the day. They feed
in a fomewhat upright pofition, carrying the food to
their mouth with their paws. They are very proli¬
fic, the females breeding many times a year and bring¬
ing numerous litters. The females have ufually eight
teats. The ears of thefe animals are ufually Ihort
and rounded; their fore feet are commonly four-toed,
with a warty excrefcence in place of a fifth. Many of
them are almoft amphibious, living much in the water
and fwimming very well. A few ef them are furniflied
with cheek pouches for carrying food to their holes.
They are found in almoft all parts of the world,
and many of them are natives of Britain.
The fpecies are very numerous, and are therefore by
Dr Shaw diftributed into the following fedlions.
A. With flattened tails.
1. M. Zibethicus, Mulk Rat. Rufty brown, with
long compreffed lanceolate tail, and unwebbed feet.
B. With round naked tails.
2. M. Pilorides, Piloris. Whitiih, with longifh,
fcaly, obtufe truncated tail.—3. M. Caraco, American
rat. Gray, with long, fcaly, fomewhat obtufe tail,
and {lightly femi-palmated hind feet.—4. * M. Decu-
manus, Norway R. Gray, ftiff-haired, with very long
icaly tail, and body whitiftr below.—5. * M Rattus,
Black R. Blackifh, aftr-coloured beneath, with very
long fcaly tail.—6. M. Ma/abaricus, Bandicot R.
Gray, with naked round ears, and the two exterior
toes of the hind feet ffiorter than the reft.—7. M Per-
cha/, Perchal R. Rufty brown, with the hind legs
larger than the fore.—8. *M Mufculus, Common M.
Brown, afti-coloured beneath, with four toed fore feet,
five-toed hind feet, and long nearly naked tail.—9. *
M. Sylvaticus. Wood M. Yellowilh brown, with
long naked tail, and body white beneath, the colours
being abruptly feparated on the fides.—10. M. ^/gra-
riuSj Rurtic M. Yellowiffi brown, with long Icaly
tail and black dorfal ftreak.—11. M. Mefbrius, Har-
veft M. Rufty, white beneath, with long {lightly
hairy tail, and ears longer than the fur of the head.—
12. M. Minatus, Minute M. Rufty, whitiih beneath,
with long fcaly tail.—13. M. Soricinus, Soricine M.
Yellowiffi gray, with long fnout, round furred ears,
and hairy tail of moderate length.—14 M. Vagus, Wan¬
dering M. Affi-coloured, with black dorfal band,
very long naked tail, and plaited ears.—15. M. Be-
tuhnus,
Glires.
118
Mus.
Chap. IV.
Glires. tu/inus, Birch M. Fulvous, with black dorfal band,
' —1 plaited ears, and very long naked tail.—16. M. Stria-
tus, Streaked iVl. Rufous brown, with longifh naked
tail, and the body marked by feveral longitudinal
rows of white fpots.—17. M. Barbarus, Barbary M.
Rrowrn, marked with ten pale flreaks 5 with tail of
middling length, three-toed fore feet, and five-toed
hind feet.
5°5
brown, pouched, white beneath.—38. M. Songarus. Afh- Hiftory of
coloured, pouched, white beneath, with black fpinal *he ^PecieSl
line, and the fides fpotted with white.—39. M. Furun-
culus, Baraba R. Yellowilh gray, pouched, whitiih
beneath, with black dorfal ftreak.
E. Subterranean or Ground Rats, refembling Moles in
habit and manner of life'.
MAMMALIA.
C. JT ith hairy tails, in general either of a middling
length or Jhort.
18. M. Cyanus, Blue R. Blue, whitiih beneath,
with four-toed lore feet, five-toed hind feet, and llightly
hairy tail of middling length.—19. M. Saxatilis, Rock
R. Grayilh brown, with longilh tail j ears longer than
the fur, and feet about four-toed.—20. M. Amphibins,
W ater R. Blackiih brown, alh-coloured below, with
ears fcarcely projefting from the fur ; fore feef about
four-toed, and tail about half as long as.the body.—
21. M. Scherman, Scherman R. Deep brown, alh-co¬
loured below, with fiightly hairy tail of moderate length,
fmall feet, and ears Ihorter than the fur.—22. M. Lem¬
mas, Lemming R. Short-tailed, with ears Ihorter
than the fur, five-toed fore feet, and body white below,
variegated above with black, white and fulvous.—23.
M. Arvalis, Meadow M. Bulky rufty, Ihort-tailed,
deep alh coloured beneath, with ears longer than the
fur, and about four-toed fore feet.—24. M. Torquatus,
Collared M. Short-tailed, rulfy, with dulky variegations;
ears Ihorter than the fur} five-toed fore feet, interrupted
white cobar, and black ipmal ftripc,-——2 if/. Lagurus
Hare-tailed M. Short-tailed, alh-coloured, white be¬
low 5 ears Ihorter than the fur j about four-toed fore
feet, and black dorfal line.— 26. M. Kconomus, Econo¬
mic R. Short-tailed, tawny whitiih below, with nak¬
ed ears concealed by the fur, and about four-toed
fore feet.—27. M. AJliarius, Garlick M. Alh-colour-
ed, whitiih below, with rather large ears {lightly hairy,
and tail about an inch long.—28. M. Rutilus, Red M.*
Fulvous alh-coloured beneath, with tail about an inch
long j ears longer than the fur, and about four-toed
feet. 29 M. Laniger, Woolly M. Alb-coloured, w-ith
four-toed fore feet, five toed hind feet, and tail of mid¬
dling length.—30. M. Gregalis, Baikal M. Gray,
with ears Ihorter than the fur, about four-toed fore
feet, and tail about one inch and a half long —31. M.
Socialis, Social M. Pale gray, white beneath, with
very fiiort rounded ears, about four-toed fore feet, and
tail of half an inch long.—32. M. Hudfonius, Hudfon’s
Bay M. . Short-tailed, earlefs, alb-coloured, wrhite be¬
neath, with yellowilh browm dorfal ftripe, and five-toed
hind feet. ' •
D. With cheek pouches for the temporary reception of
their food.
Cncetus, Hamller R, Reddilh brown, pouch¬
ed, with three white Ipots on each fide, and deep black
beiiy.—34. M. Burfarius, Canada R. Alh-colour¬
ed, with fhort nearly naked tail, pouched cheeks, and
the claw s of the fore feet very large, an$ formed for
burrowing in the ground—35/ M. Accedid'a, Yaik R.
Yellowilli gray, whitiih beneath, with pouched cheeks
and finuated ears—36. M. Arenarius, Sand R. Alh-
coloured, pouched ; with the feet, fides of the body, belly
and tail white.—37. M. Phceus, Aftracan M. Alh
VOX. XII. Part II.
40. M. Maritimus, Coal! R. Pale yellowilh brown,
whitiih beneath, wfth very large and long naked teeth,
five-toed feet, no external ears, and Ihort tail.—41. M.
Typhlus, Blind R. Short-tailed, rufous brown, dulky
beneath, with five-toed fore feet, broad front teeth and
without eyes or external ears.—42. M. Afpalex, Dau-
rian R. Short-tailed, earlefs, yellowulh alh-coloured,
with large wedged fore teeth, and long claws on the
fore feet.—43. M. Capenjis, Cape R. Short tailed, red¬
dilh alh, paler below, with very large naked fore teeth,
five-toed feet and white muzzle.—44. M. Talpinus,
Mole R. Short-tailed, brown, with large wedged front
teeth, no external ears, and five-toed fore feet formed
for burrowing. rif1
4. * M. Decumanus, Common brown or Norway rat. Decuma-
— Inis is one of the moll common fpecies of rat, by ww,f’D. * * * * * J,^or"
which our houfes and granaries are infelled, and is too
well known to require any delcription. It was original¬
ly, it is faid, brought to this country from Norw'ay, and
has multiplied fo prodigioully, and is fo llrong and
voracious, as to form one of our moll unpleafant inrnates.
St Pierre informs us that in the Ille of France thefe
rats are found in fuch prodigious fwarms, that 30,000
of them have been killed in. fome of the houles in a
fingle year. It is even faid that the Dutch entirely
abandoned that poll from the number of rats by which
it was infelled. I hey will in a fingle night entirely
deftroy a whole crop of corn. They frequently infell
fhips in fuch numbers as to dellroy large quantities of
provifions, and even endanger the veffel by gnawing its
timbers. When the Valiant came from the Havannah,
m the year 1766, the rats had increafed on board her
fo much as to dellroy nearly one hundred weight of
bifcuit in a day ; and on the Ihip being fmoked between
decks, to fuftocate the rats, fix hampers were for fome
time filled every day with thofe that had been thus killed.
In fummer it frequents the banks of rivers, ponds,
and ditches ; where it lives on frogs, filhes, and fmall
animals. But its rapacity is not confined entirely to
thefe ; It dellroys rabbits, poultry, young pigeons, &c.
It in fells the granary, the barn, and the llore-houfe :
does infinite mifchief among corn and fruit of all kinds •
and, not content with fatisfying its hunger, frequently
carries oft large quantities to its hiding place. It is a
bold and fierce little animal 5 and when clofely purfu-
ed, will turn and fallen on its aflailant. Its bite is
keen, and the wound it inflias is painful, and difficult
to heal, owing to the form of its teeth, which are W
lharp, and irregular. 6’
Their produce is enormous, as the female brings
forth from 12 to 18 at a litter, and ufually breeds
thnce a year, fo that from a fingle pair, provided food
were fufficiently plentiful, and they had no enemies to
dimimlh their numbers, there might be propagated
above 1,000,000 in the fpace of two years ! Their ene¬
mies are, however, numerous. They are deltroyed by
dogs, cats, and efpecially weafels j and it is faid that
3 S a
ZoS M A M M A L I A. Part IT
Hiftory of a (rrong rat is as much dreaded by its own fpecies, as the
the Species. w]1Qre
race is by thofe animals that are their prey.
They are commonly taken by traps, or. deftroyed by
poifon, which latter is the fureft method. Mr Bewick
recommends for the purpofe. a compofition of rrjx vomi¬
ca mixed with oat meal, and a fmall proportion of muik
and oil of rhodium.
ITarafter. 33. TJf, Cricetus, Hamfter, or Hamfler Rat.—This is
^4* one of the fierceft of the rat tribe, being rather larger
and much ftronger than the Norway rat. It is of a pale
reddilh brown colour above, and blackifh below, with
a whitilh muzzle, reddilh cheeks, pretty large rounded
ears, and a Ihort tail almoft bare. The male is always
larger than the female.
The hamfter is the only European fpecies of rat that
is furnilhed with pouches. It is found in Auftria, Si-
lefia, and many parts of Germany. It lives under
ground, burrowing down obliquely. At the end of its
paffage, the male finks one perpendicular hole, and the
female feveral, fometimes feven or eight. At the end
of thefe are formed various vaults, either as lodges for
themfelves aud young, or as ftore-houfes for food. Each
young has its different apartment, and each fort of
grain its different vault; the former is lined with ftraw
or grafs. The vaults are of different depths, according
to the age of the animals : a young hamfter makes them
fcarcely a foot deep : an old one finks them to the depth
©f four or five. The whole diameter of the habitation,
with all its communications, is fometimes eight or 10
feet. The female breeds twice or three times a year,
and produces from fix to 18 at a litter. The young
grow very rapidly, and are foon able to ftrift for them¬
felves. The male and female have always feparate bur¬
rows ; for, except in their ftrort feafon of courtftrip,
they have no intercourfe. The whole race is fo male¬
volent, as conftantly to rejeft all fociety with one another.
They will fight, kill, and devour each other. The fe¬
male (hows little affedlion even for her young; for if
any perfon digs into the hole, Are attempts to fave herfelf
by burrowing deeper into the earth, leaving them a prey
to the intruder. They would willingly follow her, but
(he is deaf to their cries, and even Hurts up againft them
the hole which (he has made. They feed on grain and
fruits, which they colleft in large quantities in their
granaries; and in fome countries they do fo much
damage among the corn, that a confiderable reward is
offered for deftroying them. According to Mr Sultzer,
they abound to fuch a degree in Gotha, that in one year
•11,564, in another 54,429, and in a third 80,136 of
their Ikins were delivered in at the hotel de ville of that
capital.
The life of a hamfter (fays Buffon) is divided be¬
tween eating and fighting. He feems to have no other
paftion than that of rage, which induces him to attack
every animal that comes in his way, without in the
leaft attending to the fuperior ftrength of the enemy.
Ignorant of the art of faving himfelf by flight, rather
than yield, he will allow himfelf to be beaten to pieces
with a ftick. If he feizes a man’s hand, he muft be
killed before he quits his hold. The magnitude of the
horfe terrifies him as little as the addrefs of the Glires.
dog, which laft is fond of hunting him. When the sr—-
hamfter perceives a dog at a diitance, he begins by
emptying his cheek pouches, if they happen to be filled
with grain. He then blows them up fo prodigioufly,
that the fize of the head and neck greatly exceeds that
of the reft of the.body. He raifes himfelf on his hind legs,
and thus darts upon the enemy. If he catches hold, he
never quits it, but with the lofs of life. But the dog
generally feizes him behind, and ftrangles him. This
ferocious difpofition prevents the hamfter from being at
peace with any animal whatever. He even makes war
againft his own fpecies, not excepting the females. When
two hamfters meet, they never fail to attack each other,
and the ftronger always devours the weaker. A combat
between a male and a female commonly lafts longer
than between two males. They begin by purfuing and
biting each other j then each of them retires to a fide,
as if to take breath ; a little after they renew the com¬
bat, and continue to fly and to fight, till one of them falls.
The vanquiftied uniformly ferves for a repaft to the con¬
queror.
Genus 30. HVDROMYS (F). HydVomjs.
Cutting teeth two in each jaw ; canine j grinders two
in each row, furrowed on the fide, and having a
double excavation on the crown. Eeet five-toed \
toes on the fore feet three j thofe on the hind web¬
bed. Tail round, and covered with ftiort hair.
This is a new genus, conftituted by Geoffroy to com¬
prehend the coypou, which is commonly ranked as a
fpecies of mus, and two other fpecies that had not been
defetibed.
His account of the genus is contained in the fixth vo¬
lume of the Annales de Mufeum National, and a tranf-
lation of his memoir is given in the 22d volume of the
Philofophical Magazine.
The three fpecies are thus diftinguiftied by Geof¬
froy.
I. H. Coypus, Coypou H. Hair chefnut brown on
the back, red on the flanks, and bright brown below
the belly.— 2. H. Chrysogajler, Yellow-bellied H. Hair
chefnut brown above, orange below.—3. H. Leucoga-
Jler, White-bellied H. Hair brown above, white be¬
low.
J. H. Coypus, Coypou, or Coypu Rat.—This curi- Coypns,
ous animal was firft deferibed by Molina, who fpeaksCoupou
of it as a fpecies of water rat, of the fize and colour ofRa1:-
an otter. According to Geoffroy, it is a large animal,55*
being about 14 inches from nofe to tail, with a tail
about two inches long. The general tint of the hair
and on the back is a chefnut brown. This colour be¬
comes brighter on the flanks, and paffes to bright red ;
under the belly it is only a dirty and almoft dark ruf-
fet. Yet this colour is fufficiently changeable accord¬
ing to the manner in which the coypou raifes or lowers
its hair. This mobility in the tone of its fur arifes from
each hair being of an afh-coloured brown at the root,
and bright red at the point. The felt concealed under
(f) Geoffroy choofes to fpell this word hydromis ; but we have thought the orthography that we adopt mors
(Conformable to the Greek origin of the name, viz or water-rat.
Chap. IV.
Glires. the long hair Is an a(h brown, of a brighter tint under
'“—■'V*—-'' the belly. The long hair on the back has the points
only reddifh, and that on the flanks is of the latter co¬
lour throughout the half of its length.
As in all animals which go frequently into the water,
the hair of the tail is thin, fliort, ftiff, and of a dirty
red colour : in its naked parts it is fcaly. The contour
of the mouth and extremity of the muzzle are white.
The whilkers, which are long and ftiff', are alfo white,
fome black hairs excepted. Among the great number
of Ikins which form part of the collection of M. Be-
ehem, M. Geoffrey faw fome belonging to animals
which had no doubt been affliCted with the albine dif-
eafe ; in one of thefe the filky hairs were entirely ruf-
fet, fo that the back appeared of the fame tint as the
fides and the belly $ in another, the dorfal ftripe, in-
ftead of being chefnut, had paffed entirely to a red co¬
lour, the flanks being of a very pale red. He could
not believe that thefe varieties, on the one hand, w'ere
the charader of youth or of the female, becaufe thefe
accidents were rare, confidering the great number of
fldns which he examined j and, on the other, becaufe
M. d’Azzara has exprefsly told us that the female is
entirely fimilar to the male.
Molina and d’Azzara agree in regard to the mild
qualities by which the coypou is diftinguiihed. It eats
every thing given to it. It may be eafity tamed, and
foon becomes accuftomed to the ftate of domefticity. It
is never heard to cry but when harfhly ufed ; it then
emits a piercing cry. The female produces five young,
which ftie always carries with her.
The coypou is very common in the provinces of Chi¬
li, Buenos Ayres, and Tucuman. On the other hand,
it is rarely found in Paraguay.
. Genus ai. Arctomys. Marmots.
Arctomys. 0
Front teeth two in each jaw, ftrong, {harp, and wedged-
Grinders in the upper jaw five on each fide j in the
lower jaw four. Clavicles or collar bones in the Ike-
leton.
This genus differs in very few particulars from that
of mus. The marmots are of a thick form, with large,
roundifh, and fomewhat flattened heads, fmall mouths,
the fiffure having fomewhat of a perpendicular appear¬
ance $ ears very ftiort, and fometimes none $ a fliort
villous tail, and five-toed hind feet : the fkeleton is
furnifhed with clavicles or collar-bones, and the coecum
or appendicular inteftine is very large. They are diur¬
nal animals 5 feed on roots, and grain, refide in fubterra-
neous holes or burrowrs, and fleep during the winter.
There are eight fpecies, viz.
1. Marmota, Alpine M. Brown, reddifti be¬
neath.—2. Si. Monax, Maryland M. Rufty brown,
with bluiih gray fnout, and longilh villous tail.— 3.
si. Empctra, Quebec M. Gray, waved with darker
and lighter (hades, reddifti below, with dufky tail.—
4. A. Bobac, Bobac. Gray, reddifti below, with a
thumb claw on the fore feet.—5. A. Pruinofa, Hoary M.
Hoary, with black legs and tail.—6. A. Maulina, Mau-
line M. Tail of middling length ; ears ftiarp-pointed,
and feet five-toed.—*7. A. Gundi, Gundi M. Reddifti,
with abruptly terminated ears.—8. A. Citillus, Varie¬
gated M. Earlefs, with villous tail.
I. A. Mar mot a ^ Alpine M.—This animal is rather
507
larger than a rabbit, being about 16 inches long, ex- Hiftery of
clufive of the tail, which meaiures about 6 inches. Its t^e Species.
head is rather large and flattifti ; the ears ftiort and hid- x ^
den in the fur, and the tail thick and buftiy. Marmota,
It is a native of the Alps and Pyrenees, being moft Alpine
frequently found in Savoy and Switzerland, where it in-^0™?1'
habits the higher regions, and feeds on various roots, ^ ^
plants, infedts, &c. It climbs readily, and afeends
with eafe the rocky eminences and fiffures.
It is an animal which delights in the regions of high
mountains. In fuch fituations feveral individuals unite
in forming a place of retreat, which is contrived with
great art, and confifts of an oval cavity or general re¬
ceptacle, large enough to contain feveral of the ani¬
mals, and having a large canal or paffage, which diva¬
ricates in fuch a manner as to prefent two outlets to the
furface of the ground. Thefe receffes are prepared on
the declivity pf elevated fpots ; and the cavern or recep¬
tacle is well lined with mofs and hay, which they pre¬
pare during fummer, as if confcious of the necelTity of
providing for their long hybernal deep. In fine wea¬
ther they are feen fporting about the neighbourhood of
their burrows, and delight in bafleing in the funftiine,
frequently affirming an upright pofture, fitting on their
hind feet. When affembled in this manner, it is ob-
ferved, that one of the exterior number feems to act as
a fentinel j and, on the approach of any danger, alarms
the fraternity by a loud and {brill whiffle, on which they
inftantly retire to their cavern. Thefe animals make
no provifion for winter j but as foon as the autumnal
frofts commence, they carefully flop up the entrances to
their manfions, .and gradually fall into a ftate of torpi¬
dity, in which they continue till the arrival of fpring,
when they again awake, and recommence their excur-
fions. Before they retire to their winter quarters they
are obferved to grow exceflively fat •, and, on the con¬
trary, appear greatly emaciated on firft emerging from
them. If carefully dug up during the winter, from
their holes, they may be conveyed away in their deep¬
ing ftate; and when brought into a warm chamber,
gradually awaken, nearly in the fame manner as the
hamfter. If kept in a warm fituation, they do not be¬
come torpid in winter. They breed early in fummer,
and the litter commonly confifts of three or four, the
growth of which is obferved to be very rapid.
When taken young, the marmot may be eafily tamed,
and is often taught to perform various gefticulations.
In a domeftic ftate it will alfo eat almoft any kind of
animal or vegetable food, and is extremely fond of milk.
In feeding it generally fits in an upright pofition, mak¬
ing ufe of its paws in the manner of a fquirrel,
125
Genus 32. Sciurus. Squirrels. Sciurus.
Upper front teeth wedged ; lower (harp. Upper grind¬
ers five on each fide, lower four. Clavicles. Tail in
moft fpecies fpreading towards each fide.
The beautiful animals which compofe this genus are
remarkable for the livelinefs of their difpofition, the ra¬
pidity of their movements, and the general neatnefs and
elegance of their appearance. A few of the fpecies are
furniftied with an expanfile lateral {kin, fimilar to that
in the calugo, by means of which they are enabled to
fpring to a great diftance, and to tranfport themfelves
occafiooally from tree to tree. Like the calugo, they can,-
3 S 2 not,
M A M M ALIA.
JOS ' M A M M
Hiftory of not, liowevor, cohtinue this motion, and are therefore
the .Species, improperly called flying fquirrels. The fquirrels inha¬
bit woods, and prepare their nefts in hollow trees.
They live entirely on vegetable food.
There are 26 Ipecies, viz.
A. Notflriped.
I. 5. Maximus, Great S. Rufty, yellowifh below,
with the outlides of the limbs and tail black.— 2. S. Ma-
dagafearienfls, Madagafcar S. Black, with the nofe,
ears, and under parts yellowifh white, and very long ta¬
pering tail.—3. S. Macrourus, Long-tailed S. Dark
brown, yellowifh white below, with the tail twice the
length of the body.—4. S. Bicolor, Javan S. Black-
ifli, fulvous below, with pointed beardlefs ears, and
large rounded thumb claw.—5. S. ^nomalus, Geor¬
gian S. Dufky rufly, with tail and lower parts ful¬
vous, and rounded beardlefs ears.—6. S. Erythrceus,
Ruddy S. Yellowifh brown, with the under parts and
tail red rufty, and ciliated ears 7. & Indicus, Bom¬
bay S. Purple brown ; yellow below $ tip of the tail
orange-coloured.—8. * S. Vulgaris, Common S. Red-
difh brown, white below, with pencilled ears.—9.
S. Cinereus, Gray S. Afh-coloured, white below,
with beardlefs ears.—10. S. Niger, Black S. Black,
with beardlefs ears.—11. S. Hudflpnius, Hudfon’s Bay S.
Iron gray, dafhed with rufly, whitifh below, with dufky
fide-ftripe, and lance-fhaped tail edged with black.—
12. S. Perflcus, Perfian S. Dufky, yellow belowq with
white fides, beardlefs ears, and blackifh gray tail, with
a white band.—13. S. Flavus, Fair S. Yellow, with
roundifh ears and five-toed feet.—14. S. JEfluans, Bra-
filian S. Dufky; yellow below', with longitudinal
white ftripe in the middle.
B. Striped or variegated.
15. S. Vamegatus, Coquallin S. Ruftyifh, orange-
tawny below, with the upper parts varied crofswife
with black, brown, and whitifh.—16. S. Mexicanus,
Mexican S. Afh brown, wnth five or feven longitudi¬
nal white ftripes.—17. S. Gctulus, Barbary S. Brown,
with four longitudinal w’hite ftripes.—18. S. Palmarum,
Palm S. Brown, pale below, marked above with three
longitudinal yellowifh ftripes, and the tail with blackifh
ones.—19. S. Ginginianus, Gingi S. Gray brown,
with a longitudinal w'hite ftripe on each fide, and black¬
ifh tail.—20. S. Degus, Chilian S. Yellowifh browm,
wuth a black ftripe on each fhoulder.— 21. S. Striatus,
Striped S. Yellowifh brown, with five longitudinal
blackifh ftripes.
C. Flying Squirrels.
22. S. Volans, Common-flying S. Pale gray, white
belowq with the fide fkin dilated into a flying mem¬
brane.—23. S. Volucella, Virginian flying S. Browm,
yellowifh white below, with a flying membrane.— 24.
S. Sabnnus, Severn flying S. Rufty brown, yellowifh
white below, with flattifti villous tail.—25. S. Sagitta ?
Hooded flying S. Rufty brown, pale rufty below, with
the flying merqbrane commencing on each fide of the
head.— 26. S. Petaurifla, Taguan S. Chefnut-colour-
126 ed ; pale rufty beneath, with very long, round, taper-
Vtilgaris, villous tail.
Squirrel ^ Vulgaris, Common Squirrel.—The tail of this
Fig. 57. fpecies is long enough to cover the whole body, and is
ALTA. Part II.
covered with long hairs, difpofed on each fide horizon- Glires.
tally, which gives it a great breadth. Thefe ferve a
double purpofe. When eredted, they prove a fecure
protection from the injuries of heat or cold : When ex¬
tended, they are very inftrumental in promoting thofe
vaft leaps the fquirrel takes from tree to tree. On the
authority of Klein and Linnaeus, wTe may add a third
application of the form of the tail. Thefe naturalifts
tell us, that when the fquirrel is difpofed to crofs a ri¬
ver, a piece of bark is the boat, the tail the fail.
This animal is remarkably neat, lively, adlive, and
provident, never leaves its food to chance, but fecures
in fome hollow tree a vaft magazine of nuts for winter
provifion. In the fummer it feeds on the buds and
young fhoots, and is particularly fond of thofe of the fir
and pine, and alfo of the young cones. It makes its
neft of mofs or dry leaves, between the fork of two
branches, and brings forth four or five young at a time.
Squirrels are in heat early in the fpring, when it is very
diverting to fee the female feigning an efcape from the
purfuit of tw’o or three males, to obferve the various
proofs they give of their agility, which is then exerted
in full force.
The colour of the whole head, body, tail, and legs
of this animal, is a bright reddiih brown : the belly
and bread white. In fbme parts of Wales there is a
variety of the fquirrel kind, with a cream-coloured tail.
The ears are very beautifully ornamented with long
tufts of hair, of a deeper colour than thofe of the body.
The eyes are large, black, and lively. The fore teeth
ftrong, fharp, and well adapted to its food. The legs
are ftiort and mufcular 5 the toes long and divided to
their origin : the nails ftrong and fharp ; in ftiort, in
all refpedls fitted for climbing, or clinging to the fmall-
eft boughs. On the fore feet it has only four toes, with
a claw in the place of the thumb or interior toe : on the
hind feet there are five toes. When it eats or drefles
itfelf, it fits eredl, covering the body with its tail, and
making ufe of the fore legs as hands. It is obferved
that the gullet of this^animal is very narrow, to prevent
it from difgorging its food, in defeending of trees, or in
down leaps.
In northern climates thefe animals change their co¬
lour to gray on the approach of winter; and it is lingu¬
lar that this change wall take place, even though they
are kept in the warmth of a ftove.
Genus 33. Myoxus. Dormice.
127
Myoxus.
Front teeth two; upper wedged, lower compreffed.
Grinders four in each jaw7. Whifkers long. Tail
cylindric, villous, thicker towards the end. Legs of
equal length 5 fore feet four-toed.
There are feven fpecies, viz*
1. M. Glis, Fat D. Gray, whitifh below7.—2. M.
Nitela, Garden D. Rufous, grayifh white below, with
a black mark above the eyes and behind the ears.—
3. M. Dryas, Wood D. Grayilh rufous, whitilh be¬
low7, with a ftraight black ftripe acrofs the eyes to the
ears.—4. * M. Mufcardinus, Common D. Rufous,
with whitifti throat, and the thumbs of the hind feet
without claws.—5. M. Chrysurus, Gilt-tailed D. Purp-
lilh brown, with the hind part of the tail and longitu¬
dinal ftripe on the head gold yellow.—6. M. Guerlin-
gus GuerlnguetD. Rufty, yellowilh rufous beneath,
with
Chap.
Glires.
128
Mufcardi
nus, Com¬
mon Dor-
moule.
Fig. 5S.
129
Dipus.
130
Sagitta,
Common
Jerboa.
F'g- SP¬
IV. M A M M
with long rather deprefled tapering tail.—7. M. Afri-
J canus, African D. Rufty gray, whitifh below, with a
white fuperciliary and lateral line ; tail black in the
middle, and claws on the fore feet very long.
. 4. M. Mi/fcardimis, Common D.—The lize of the
dormoufe is equal to that of a moufe, but has a plumper
appearance, and the nofe is blunter 5 the eyes are large,
black, and' prominent; the ears broad, rounded, thin,
and femitranfparent. The fore feet are furnifhed with
four toes, the hind feet with five ; but the interior toes
of the hind feet are defiitute of nails. The tail is about
two inches and a half long, covered on every fide with
hair : the head, back, fides, belly, and tail, are of a
tawny red colour; the throat white.
Thefe animals feldom appear far from their retreats,
or in any open place, for which reafon they feem lefs
common in England than they really are. They make
their nefts of grafs, mofs, and dead leaves, and dually
bring forth three or four young at a time.
This animal agrees with the iquirrel with refpeft to
its food, refidence, and in many of its adlions ; but it
wants much of the fprightlinefs of this animal, never
afpiring to the tops of trees, nor, like it, attempting to
bound from fpray to fpray. Like the fquirrel, it forms
little magazines of nuts for winter provifion, takes its
food in the fame manner, and fame upright polture.
The confumption during the rigour of the feafon is but
ftnall, for it deeps moft part of the time, retiring into
its hole at the firfl: approach of the winter, -where it lies
torpid for the greated part of that gloomy feafon. In
that fpace it fometimes experiences a Ihort revival, in a
warm funny day, when it takes a little food, and then
relapfes into its former date.
Genus 34. Dipus. Jerboa.
Front teeth two both above and below'. Fore legs very
droit; hind legs very long. Clavicles.
There are fix fpecies, viz.
1. D. Sagitta, Common Jerboa.—Pale brown, white
beneath, with extremely long three-toed hind feet, and
very long tail, wdth fubpinnated black and white tip.— 2.
D. Jaculus, Alaglaga J. Pale brown ; white below,
with extremely long five-toed hind feet, and very long
tail, with fubpinnated black and white tip.—3. D. Ca-
fer. Cape J. Rudy, pale adi-coloured below, with
five toed fore feet, four-toed hind feet, and very vil¬
lous tail, tipped with black.—4. D. Meridianus, Tor¬
rid J. Yellowidr brown, white below', with about four
toes on the fore feet and five-toed hind feet, and taper¬
ing tail.—5. D. Tamaricinus, Tamarilk J. Yellow¬
ish brown ; white below, with about four toes on the
fore feet, five-toed hind feet, and tapering tail obfeure-
ly ringed with brown.—6. D. Canadenjisy Canadian J.
Yellowilh brown, whitifh below, with four-toed fore
feet ; five-toed hind feet, the tail long and moufe-
like. ^
1. D. Scgitta, Common J.—This animal appears to
have been known to the ancients, under the name of
(ttv; oiTrovg, or two-footed moufe, and is reprefented,
though not very correftly on fome coins of Cyrene,
where it is found in great abundance. By fome it is
fuppofed to be xht faphan of the facred writings (in our
tranflation rendered coney'), though this is denied by Mr
BrucC. It is found in Egypt, Barbary, Paleftine, in
ALIA. 509
the deferts between Baffora and Aleppo ; the fandy Hiftory of
tracts between the Don and Volga, and fonae other the Specie-^
parts of Afia. M. Sonnini has given a long account of
it, as he found it in Egypt, and from this we fhall ex-
trafl the following defeription.
“ Its fize is nearly equal to that of a large* rat. Its
head is btoa^, large in proportion to the body, the up¬
per part flat, and of a light-fawn colour, flriped with
black ; the upper jaw projedls beyond the lower : they
are both provided with two cutting teeth ; the upper
ones broad, fquare, flat, and divided lengthwife by a
groove in the middle; the lower ones longer, convex-
externally, pointed, at their extremity, and bent in¬
wards. The muzzle is fhort, wide, and obtufe; a num¬
ber of ftiff hairs grow out on each fide, and form long
whifkers. The nofe is white, bare, and cartilaginous.
The iris of its large and projedling eye is brown ; the
ears long, large, and covered with hair, fo fhort that
they appear naked except on very clofe infpecldon ; ex¬
ternally they are white in the lower part, and gray up¬
wards : their middle, as well as the tides of the head,
is of a very light-fawn colour, mixed with gray and
black : they entirely furround the meatus auditorius for
about one-third of their length, fo that they exadlly re- •
femble the larger end of a cone. This conformation
muft increafe the animal’s faculty of hearing, and is -
particularly well calculated to defend the inner part of
the organ from the extraneous fubflances that migln:
lodge there. The body.is Ihort, well provided with
long, foft, filky hair ; that which covers the back and
fides is of an alb colour throughout almoft the w'hole of
its length, and of a light fawn colour where it ap¬
proaches the points, which are black ; but as the afh-
coloured part is not vifible, it may be faid that the fur
is fawn-coloured, with blackifh zigzag ftripes. Thefc
tints, which are fomewhat dufky, form an agreeable
contrail; with the fine white of the belly. The fore legs
are fo fhort that they fcarcely extend beyond the hair :
they aie white, and have five toes, the inner of which
is fhort, rounded at the end, and has no nail. The
four other toes, the fccond outer one of which is the
longeft, are long, and armed with great hooked nails ;
the heel is very high, and the middle of the foot is n -
ked and of a flefh colour. Thefe fi re feet are of no u »
to the animal in walking, but ferve him. only to lay
hold of his food, and to carry it to his mouth, as alfo
to dig his fubterraneous abode. The hind legs are co¬
vered with long hair, fawn-coloured and white ; its
long feet are almoft entirely bare, efpecially on the out-
fide, which mufi: neceffarily be the cafe, fince the ani¬
mal, whether in motion or at reft, conltantly leans on
that part. Thofe feet, fo exceedingly long, have each
three toes ; the middle one lomething longer than the
other two : they are all provided with nails, which are
fhort, but broad and obtufe ; they have alfo at the heel
a kind of fpur, or rather a very fmall rudiment of a
fourth toe, which gives the jerboa of Egypt fome refem-
blance to the alagtaga of Tartary, deferibed by Gmelin
in the Peterfburgh Tranfa£Hons, and which part proba¬
bly eicaped Haflelquift, as well as many others. The
toes and the heel are furnifhed below with long gray-
hairs tinged with yellow, except that at the origin of
the toes, which is of a blackifh caft ; the nails, both of
the fore and hind feet, are of a dirty white. Accord¬
ing to Haffelquift the tail of the jerboa is three times
the.
51
MAMMALIA.
Fart II.
Hiftory of t1ae lengtli of tlie body,
the Species.   1,     i._ic .
Sovnini's
Travels in
Egypt.
131
£epus.
132
Ti'nidus.
Common
Hare.
3; ig. 60.
I never, fays Sonnini, found it
much more than half that length. It fcarcely exceeds
the circumference of a goofe quill, but is of a quadran¬
gular and not a round fhape. It is of a deeper gray
above than below, and is furnifhed with (hort hairs as
far as the extremity, which ends in a tuft of long filky
hair, half black and half gray
This animal is as fingular in its motions as in its
form. It always ftands erect on its hind feet, the fore
feet performing the office of hands. It runs fait, and,
when purfued, jumps five or fix feet from the ground 5
burrows like rabbits; keeps clofe in the day ; deeps
roiled up ; is lively during night : wffien taken, emits a
plaintive feeble note ; feeds on vegetables, and has
great ftrength in its fore feet. Two wffiich Mr Pen¬
nant faw living in London, burrowed almolt through
the brick w-all of the room they were in, came out of
their hole at night for food, and, when caught, were
much fatter and ileeker than when confined to their
box.
The jerboa is eafily tamed. M. Sonnini kept fix of
them for fome time in a large iron cage, but found it
was very difficult to preferve them, owing to their great
tendernefs.
Genus 35. Lefus. Hares and Rabbits.
Trent teeth two in each jaw, the upper pair duplicate ;
two fmall inner teeth Handing behind the outer.
This genus approaches very nearly to the order of
Pecora, and it has even been fuppofed that the com¬
mon hare aclually ruminates •, an opinion which is ow¬
ing not merely to the peculiar motions of its mouth, fi-
milar to thofe in ruminating animals, but to the llruc-
ture of the ftomach, which appears to be divided into
two regions by a particular fold. All the fpecies are
herbivorous.
There are I 2 fpecies, viz.
j. * L. Timidus, Common H. Ruftyifh brown, ffiort-
tailed, wdth ears longer than the head and tipped with
black.—2. * L. Variabi/is, Varying H. Tawny-gray,
fhort-tailed, (white in winter) with ears Ihovter than the
head, and tipped with black.—3. L. Americanus, A-
merican H. Tawny-gray, fhort-tailed, wffiite below,
with the hind legs longer than the body, and the ears
and tail tipped wdth gray.—4. L. Tolai, Baikal H.
Pale brown, ffiort-tailed, wdth the upper edges of the
ears black.— 5. * L. Cunicu/us, Rabbit. Short-tailed,
brown, with the tips of the ears black, and the hind
legs Ihorter than the body.—6. L. Braxilienjis, Brazi¬
lian H. Taiilefs, browm, white below, with a white
collar round the neck.—7. L. Capenfis, Cape H. Brown,
wdth reddilh legs, and tail the length of the head.—8.
Z. Vifaccia, Vifaccia. Brownilh, wdth long briftly
tail.—9. L. Alpinus, Alpine H. Taiilefs, rufty, with
rounded ears, and brownilh feet.—10. L. Ogotana, O-
gotana H. Taiilefs, pale brown, with oval lharpilh
ears of the fame colour.—10. L. Puji/lus, Calling H.
Taiilefs, gray-brown, with nearly triangular ears edged
with white.—1 2. Z. Minimus, Minute H. Short-tail¬
ed, brown, long-nofed, with fmall hairy pointed ears.
1, Z. Timidus, Common H.—To deferibe an animal
fo well known would be fuperfluous ; we may only re¬
mark, that nature, ever kind and provident, in pity to
its defencelefs Hate again!! its numerous enemies, has
3
bellowed on it many faculties, by wduch it is frequent- Glires.
ly enabled to evade their purfuit. Fearful of every ——nr""*
danger, and attentive to every alarm, the hare is conti¬
nually upon the watch, and being provided with very
long ears, moveable at pleafure, and ealily directed to
every quarter, is warned of the moll dillant approaches
oi danger. Its eyes are large and prominent, adapted
to receive the rays of light on every fide, and give no¬
tice of more immediate alarms. To theie may be add¬
ed its great fwiftnefs, by which it foon leaves molt of
its purfuers far behind.—The hind are much longer
than the fore legs, and are furnilhed with llrong muf-
cles, which give the hare a fingular advantage in run¬
ning up a hill ; and, as if fenfible of its powers in this
refpeft, it is always obferved to fly towards riling ground
when firlt darted.
Thus formed for efcape, the hare might be fuppofed to
enjoy a date of tolerable fecurity ; but as every rapaci¬
ous creature is its enemy, it is leldom permitted to live
out its natural term. Dogs and foxes purfue it by in-
dinft; wild cats and weafels of all kinds, catch and
devour it ; birds of prey are dill more dangerous ene¬
mies, whild man, far more powerful than all, makes
ufe of every artifice to obtain an animal which condi-
tutes one of the numerous delicacies of his table. If
we were to enumerate the various dratagems which in¬
genuity has fuggeded to circumvent this perfecuted
creature, w7e would wdllingly omit the notable atchieve-
ments and gallant exploits of the chafe, which, to a
cool and difpaffionate obferver, feem to demand a no¬
bler game. This animal has alfo another means of fafety
from her colour very much refembling that of the
ground where die fits. In the colder regions die is laid
to become white during the wdnter, when the ground is
covered with fnow.
The hare is very prolific, breeds four or five times in
the year, goes with young 30 days, and generally pro¬
duces three or four at a litter. They are fird in heat
about February. Hares generally keep within their
feats during the day, going out only at night in fearch
of food, and they ahvays return to their forms by the
fame paths by wdiich they left them.
The folloxving indances of the fagacity of the hare,
in endeavouring to efcape from its enemies, are quoted
by Mr Bewdck. Touilloux fays, he has feen a hare
Hart from its form at the found of the hunter’s horn,
run towards a pool of water at a confiderable didance,
plunge itfelf in, and fwim to fome rufhes in the middle,
where it lay down, and concealed itfelf from the pur¬
fuit of the dogs. He mentions another, which, after
running two hours before the dogs, pulhed a hare from
its feat, and took pofleffion of it. Others he has feen
run into a Iheepfold, and lie down among the dieep j
and fome have effefted their efcape by mounting an old
w-all, and clapping themfelves down in the midlt of the:
ivy which covered it.
The hare has been fometimes tamed, and rendered
very familiar. When I3r Townfon was at Gottingen,
he had a young hare that became fo froliefome in the
evenings, as to run about upon the fofa and bed, fit
upon its hind legs, and pat him with its fore feet ; and,
while he was reading, it would even knock the book
out of his hand. Mr Borlafe faw a hare that w^as fo fa¬
miliar as to feed from the hand, lay under a chair in a
common fitting room, and appeared, in every other re-
Ipedl,
Chap. V. PECORA.
Chap. IV.
MAMMALIA.
Si*
133
Cuniculus,
Rabbit.
fpefl, as eafy and comfortable in its fituation as a lap-
dog. It now and then went out into the garden ; but
after regaling itfelf, always returned to the houfe as its
proper habitation. Its ufual companions were a grey¬
hound and a fpaniel, both fo fond of hare-hunting, that
they often went out together without any perfon ac¬
companying them. With thefe two dogs this tame hare
fpent its evenings 5 they always flept on the fame
hearth, and very frequently it would reft itfelf upon
them.
The fur of the hare is ufed for hats; and for this pur-
pofe many thoufands of their fkins are imported into
this country from Ruflia, befides what are colle&ed
here.
5. L. Cuniculus, the Rabbit.—Refpe&ing an animal
fo well known as the rabbit, we (hall remark only, that
its fecundity is truly aftonilhing. It breeds feven times
in the year, and generally produces eight young at a
time. Hence it is calculated, that the produce of a
Angle pair may, in the courfe of four years, amount to
the amazing number of 1,274,840, fo that if frequent
reductions were not made by various ways, there is rea-
fon to apprehend that they rvould foon exceed the
means of their fupport, and overrun the face of the
country. They are, however, expofed to numerous
enemies. Befides the havock made among them by
man for their flefh and fkins, which latter are alfo ufed
in the manufacture of hats, they are the prey of foxes,
weafels, polecats, and other beafts of prey.
The rabbit is often kept in a domeftic ftate ; but the
flefh of the domeftic rabbit is far inferior to that of the
wild animal.
134
Hyrax.
Genus 36. Hyrax. Hr rax, or Dam Ah.
Front teeth in the upper jaw two, broad, and rather
diftant j in the lower four, broad, flat, twice notch¬
ed. Grinders four on each fide in both jaws, large.
Fore feet four-toed j hind feet three-toed. No tail
or clavicles.
There are three fpecies, viz.
I. H. Capenjis, Cape H. Gray brown, paler be¬
low7, with flat nails on the fore feet, and a Angle fharp
crooked claw on the hind feet.—2. H. Syriacus, Sy¬
rian H. Reddifh gray, white below, with three-toed
feet, and nearly equal claws.—3. H. Hudfonius, Hud-
fon’s bay H. A(h brown, with the.hair whitifh at the
tips, and all the feet four-toed.
A long account is given of the fecond fpecies in Mr
Bruce’s Travels to Abyflinia. Mr Bruce calls it
ajkoko, and fuppofes it to be the faphan or coney of
the facred writings. For his defcription we muft refer
to the work itfelf.
This order contains 11 genera and 124 fpecies.,
Genus 37. Camelus. Camzls.
Iliftory jof
the Species.
I3S -
Camelus,.
Horns wanting. Front teeth in the lower jaw fix ; ra¬
ther thin and broad. Canine teeth diftant, three in
the upper jaw, two in the lower. Upper lip di¬
vided.
There are ufually enumerated feven fpecies, viz.
1. C. Dromedarius, Arabian C. "With a Angle-
bunch on the back.—2. C. BaBrianus, BaClrian C. With ‘
two bunches on the back.—3. C. Glama, Glama. Pale
rufty, whitifh below, with level back and peftoral
bunch.—4. C. Vicugna, Vicuna. Purplifh brown, whit¬
ifh below, with level woolly back, blunt fnout, and up¬
right tail.—5. C. Paco, Paco. Purplifh brown, wool¬
ly, white below, with oblong fnout.—6. C. Huanacus,.
Guanaco. Tawny, white below, with gibbous back,
and upright tail.—7. C. Arcuranus, Chilihuque. With
fmooth woolly body, curved fnout, and pendulous ears
and tail. _ ^
1. C. Dromedarius, Arabian Camel. Dromedary. A Dromedary,
fingle bunch on the back.—This fpecies is thus defcrib-or Arabian
ed by Dr Shaw. Camel.
The general height of the Arabian camel, meafured1712'
from the top of the dorfal bunch to the ground, is about
fix feet and a half y but from the top of the head, when
the animal elevates it, not lefs than nine feet. The
head, however, is generally fo carried as to be nearly
on a level with the bunch, or rather below it, the ani¬
mal bending the neck extremely in its general pofture.
The head is fmall *, the neck very long : the body of a
long and meagre fhape ; the legs rather flender, and
the tail, which is flightly tufted at the end, reaches to
the joints of the hind legs.- The feet are very large,
and are hoofed in a peculiar ftyle, being divided into
two lobes not reaching through the whole length of the
foot*, and the extremity of each lobe is guarded by a
fmall hoof. The under part of the foot is covered with
an extremely ftrong, tough, and pliable fkin, wdnch,
by yielding in all direftions,.enables the animal to tia-
vel with peculiar eafe and fecurity* over dry, ftony, and
fandy regions. On each- leg are fix callofities, viz. one
on each knee, one on the infide of each fore leg on the
upper joint, and one on the infide of each hind leg at
the bottom of the thigh. On the lower part of the
breaft is alfo a large callus or tough tubercle (g).
The camel is generally of a dulky-brown colour, with 1
a rufty tinge.
Its hair is very fine and foft, and is employed ini
making pencils for painters,. and in the manufacture of
various fluffs..
This
(g) It rvas formerly fuppofed that, befides the four ftomachs common to all ruminating animals, the camol had
a fort of fifth ftomach or appendage to the fecond ftomach, calculated for receiving a large quantity of water to
fupply the animal in his long journeys over the deferts. There is no fuch receptacle : but in the firft, and more
efpecially the fecond ftomach, there are feveral rows of cells, furnifhed round their edges with ftrong mufcular
fibres, by which they can be clofed at pleafure. Into thefe cells part of the water which the camel drinks is, by
a peculiar mechanifm, received, and retained, in a pure ftate, till the animal has occafion for it. In an intereft-
ing paper on this fubjeft in the Philofophical TranfaClions for 1806, Mr Home has given a comparative view of
the ftru&ure of the ftomachs in the ox and the camel, illuftraied by plates*■
512
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Hiftory of This animal attains its full ftrength at about the age
the Species.Qf fix yCarSj ancl iives about 40 years, or fometimes 50.
v Only the males are ufually employed for labour j the
females being kept for breeding, and fuffered to range
at liberty. Thefe go with young about 12 months, and
ufually bring forth one at a time.
The carnet is found wild in the deferts of Arabia, in
Africa, and in molt of the temperate parts of Alia. It
is domefticated chiefly among the Arabs, of whom it
forms the principal riches.
We are chiefly acquainted with this animal in a Hate
of domeftication ; and to this ftate only the accounts
that have been given of him are applicable. A few
days after birth the legs of the young camels are folded
up below their belly, and they are conftrained to re¬
main in this pofition on the ground, and are loaded
with a pretty heavy weight, which is never taken off
but to replace it by a greater. Inftead of allowing
them to feed and drink at pleafure, they begin by regu¬
lating their repafts, and increafing the intervals between
them, and diminilhing the quantity of their nourifh-
ment. When they have acquired a little more ftrength,
they are exercifed in running, in which they are ex¬
cited to emulation by the example of horfes $ and thus
in time they become both robuft <and a£Hve.
Thus inftrufted, the camdstraverfe with great rapidi¬
ty the immenfe deferts of Arabia, marching night and
day almoft without Hopping, and almoft without ta¬
king food or drink. They are often made with ap¬
parent eafe to travel 3QO leagues in eight1 days j and
during the whole of this time they are allowed but
one hour of the day for repofe, and for nourifhment :
often they will run for even nine or ten days with¬
out finding water; but when they happen to find wa¬
ter at fome diftance in their route, if permitted, they
eagerly make towards it, and are laid to fcent it at more
than half a league’s diftance.
The march of camels acrofs the fandy plains of Ara¬
bia has been elegantly defcribed by Buffon. “ Figure
to yourfelf (fays this animated writer) a country with¬
out verdure and without water, a burning fun, an
air always parched, fandy plains, mountains ftill more
aduft, which the eye runs over without perceiving an
animated being y a dead earth perpetually toffed with
the wind, and prefenting nothing but bones, fcattered
flints, rocks perpendicular or overturned ; a defart to¬
tally void, where the traveller never breathes under a
ftiade, where nothing accompanies him, nothing recals
the idea of animated nature ; abfolute folitude, more
dreadful than that of the deepeft forefts: more folita-
tary and naked, more loft in an unlimited wuld, he
every where beholds fpace furrounding him like a
tomb ; the light of day, more difmal than the dark-
nefs of night, ferves only to give him a clear idea of
his own wretchednefs and impotence, and to conceal
from his view the boundaries of the void, by extending
around him that immenfe abyfs, which feparates him
from the habitable parts of the earth.
“ The Arab, however, by the affiftance of his ca¬
mel, has learned to furmount, and even to appropriate
thefe frightful intervals of nature. They ferve him
for an afylum, they fccure his repofe, and maintain
his independance •, but man never ufes any thing with¬
out abufe. This fame free, independent, tranquil, and
^even rich Arab, inftead of regarding his deferts as
2
the ramparts of his liberty, pollutes them with his Pecora.
crimes’, he traverfes them to carry off goods and flaves y
from the adjacent nations 5 he employs them for per-<
petrating his robberies, which unluckily he enjoys
more than his liberty, for his enterprifes are almoft
always fucceisful $ not with handing the vigilance of his
neighbours and the fuperiority of their ftrength, he:
carries off with impunity all that he ravilhes from
them. An Arab who gives himfelf up to this kind of
land piracy, is early accuftomed to the fatigues of tra¬
velling, to want of fleep, and to hunger, thirft, and heat,
and with the fame view he ufes and inffrudls his ca¬
mels. After he is certain of the ftrength, fleetnefs,
and fobriety of his camels, he loads them both with
his own and their food, fets off with them, arrives un-
gerceived at the confines of the defert, robs the firft
paffenger he meets, pillages the folitary houfes, loads
his camels with the booty ; and, if purfued, he is obli¬
ged to accelerate his retreat. It is on thefe occa-
fions, that he unfolds his own talents and thofe of the
camels-, he mounts one of the fleeteft, and condudls
the troop, and makes them travel night and day,
wnthout almoft either Hopping, eating, or drinking;
and in this manner he eafily performs a journey of 300
leagues in eight days. During this period of motion
and fatigue his camels are perpetually loaded.”
In Turkey, Perfia, Arabia, Egypt, and Barbary, the
only means of tranfporting merchandife is by camels,
as this is of all others the cheapeft and moft expediti¬
ous method. The merchants and other travellers unite
in a caravan, in order to avoid the infults, piracies,
and robberies of the Arabs. Thefe caravans always
confift of a greater number of camels than of men •,
each of thefe animals is loaded according to his ftrength,
and he fo well knows the proper extent of his load,
that when he is overloaded, he utters the moft la¬
mentable cries, and continues lying down till his bur¬
den is lightened. The large camels ufually carry 10
or even 12 hundred weight, and the fmaller 6 or 7 hun¬
dred weight.
In thefe commercial journeys they never hurry the
camels in their march, but regulate their days work 5
they generally go a certain fpace, and travel about 10
or \ 2 leagues every day *, every evening their load is
taken off, and they are fuffered to feed at liberty. If
they are in a country abounding with herbage, they
ufually eat as much in an hour as is fufficient to ferve
them for the next twenty-four hours •, and, during the
remainder of the night, they continue to ruminate :
but they feldom find fuch good pafturage ; and indeed
this delicate nouriftiment does not appear to be neceffa-
ry for them j they even feem to prefer wormwood, thi-
ftles, nettles, broom, caffia, and other prickly plants, to
more pleafant herbage. So long as they find plants to
browfe, they eafily go without drink.
Nothing is more admirable than their docility. At
the firft fign they bow their knees, and crouch to the
earth to fuffer themfelves to be loaded in this fituation,
and, when loaded, they rife of their own accord without
affiftance. They follow exaflly the motions of their
condu&or, and require neither whip norfpur to urge them
forward : but, when they begin to be fatigued, their ma-
' fters fupport their rpirit, or rather beguile their fatigue,
by finging o. by the found of mufical inftruments.
When they wilh to prolong their journey, they give
them
Chap. V.
Pecora. them only an hour for repofe ; and then refuming their
fong, they continue the march for feveral hours longer,
and give over finging only when they intend to ftop j
then the camels crouch again with their burdens, from
which they are freed by loofening the cords and faften-
ings on each fide, while the poor animals remain kneel¬
ing on the earth, and fleep in this pofture in the midft
of their baggage! Mr Pennant and fome other writers
tell us, that camels are made to go more expeditioufly
by being whiffled to by the drivers 5 but this is at leaft
not an univerfal praflice, as we are told by Sonnini,
that the Bedouin Arabs, who poffefs great numbers
of camels, not only never ufe whiffling themfelves,
but exprefs much uneafinefs when they hear others
whiffle.
When the caravan on thefe long journeys acrofs the
deferts find themfelves in want of water, and have no
other means of procuring it, it is not uncommon for
them to kill a camel for the fake of the water contained
in his ftomach, which is faid to be always fweet and
pleafant.
This animal, fo patient, and fo obedient to the voice of
man, has, however, his periodical fits of rage, at which
he becomes wholly unmanageable. Thefe fits take
place at the rutting feafen, which happens every year
about fpring, and continues about 40 days. At thefe
times they are quite outrageous, eat little, foam at the
mouth, and bite at other animals, and even their ma¬
ilers j and they have been known to take up a man in
their teeth, throw him on the ground, and trample him
under their feet. Though fo remarkably docile, except
during the rutting feafon, they are, however, abundant¬
ly fenfible of injufflee and ill treatment; and, w’hen
♦hey experience thefe, they feldom fail to (hew their re-
fentment, and endeavour to wreak their vengeance ©n
their unfeeling driver, who will not find it eafy to efcape
their vengeance, as they are faid to retain for a long
time the remembrance of an injury. Though eager to
exprefs their refentment, they feem incapable of har¬
bouring any rancour, when they are once fatisfied j and
it is fufficient to make them believe that they have ta¬
ken their defired vengeance on their perfecutor. When¬
ever the Arab finds that he has excited the rage of his
camel, as he w'ell knows that the animal will take the
firfl opportunity of feeking revenge, he lays down his
clothes in a fituation which the animal is to pafs, and
arranges them in fuch a manner as to feem as if he
himfelf W’ere lying there. The camel recognifes the
clothes, feizes them in his teeth, fliakes them violently,
and tramples them under his. feet} but when his rage
has been thus fatisfied, he leaves them, and after this
his owner may approach, load, and guide him as ufual.
M. Sonnini fays, that he has fometimes feen them, when
weary with the impatience of their riders, flop fhort,
turn round their long necks to bite. them, and utter
cries of rage. Under thefe circumftances the rider
muft be careful not to difmount, or he would infallibly
be torn to pieces j and he muft alfo beware ftriking the
beaft, as that wTould only increafe his fury. Nothing
can be done but to wait with patience, and endeavour
to appeafe the animal by patting him with the hand.
When once appeafed, which fometimes is not fpeedily
effefted, he can proceed on his journey at his ufual
fiace.
Vol. XII. Part II.
5*3
Genus 38. Moschus, Musk. Hiftory of
the Species..
Horns wanting *, front teeth eight in the lower jaw $'——v—
tufks folitary in the upper jaw, exferted. ^ *.V7
There are 7 fpecies, viz. 1. Mofchus Mofchifcrus,
Tibetian Mufk. Gray-brown, with umbilical follicle.
— 2. M. Indicus, Indian M. Rufous, whitiih below,
with fpurious hoofs, and fomewhat lengthened tail.—
3. M. Pi/gm&us, Pygmy M. Reddifh-brown, white be¬
low, without falfe hoofs.—4. M. Metninna, Meminna.
Olive afli, white below, wuth the fides fpotted with
white, and no falfe hoofs.-—5. M. Javanicus, Java M.
Rufty, longitudinally white beneath, with villous tail,
white below and at the tip, and fmall appendicular hoofs.
—6. M. Americanus, American M. Rufous brown,
with black muzzle and white throat.—7. M. Deli-
catulus, Leverian M. Rufty brown, fpotted above with
white. 13s
Species I. Mofchus Mofchiferus, Tibetian M-utk.. Mofchife-
This is an animal of confiderable importance, as it is r5/>
from it that the article mulk, fo ufeful as a medicine^
and perfume, is derived.
The fize and general appearance of this animal nob
ill refemble thofe of a fmall roebuck. It meafures about
three feet three inches in length, about two feet three,
inches in height from the tip of the ftioulders to the
bottom of the fore feet, and twro feet nine inches from
the top of the haunches to the bottom of the hind feet.
The upper jaw is confiderably longer than the lower,
and is furnifhed on each fide with a curved tuik about
two inches long, and confequently expofed to view
when the mouth is clofed. Thefe tulks are of a differ¬
ent form from thofe of any other quadruped, being (harp-
edged on their inner or lower fide, fo as to refemble in
fome degree, a pair of fmall crooked knives; their fub-
ftance is a kind of ivory, as in the tulks of the babyruffa
and fome other animals. The ears are long and narrow,
of a pale yellow on the infide, and deep brown on the
outfide ; the chin is of a yellowilh caft ; the .general co¬
lour of the whole body a kind of deep iron-gray, the
tips of the hairs being of a rufty caft, the remain¬
der blackifti, growing much paler or whitiih towards the
roots. Each hair is fomewhat waved throughout its
wdiole length ; and is of a ftrong elaftic nature, growT-
ing fomewhat upright on the animal, and very thick.
In fome fpecimens the cheeks are wftntilh, and the fides
of the neck marked by a longitudinal whitifti band,
defeending to the breaft, while the flank and fides are
obfeurely ftriped by a few waved whitiih ftreaks; in
others the colour is uniform, or as at firft deferibed ;.
the hoofs are long and black, the tail extremely ftiort,
and fo concealed by the fur as to be fcarcely, if at all;
vifible on a general view.
The female is fmaller than the male, and wants the
tulks; it has alfo two fmall teats.
The mulk animal is principally found in the king-,
dom of Tibet, in the province of Mohang Meng, Ton-
quin, and Bout an ; and it is alfo found about the lake
Baikal, and near the rivers Jenifea and Argun. Its
favourite haunts are the tops of mountains covered wutli
pines, where it delights to wander in places of the moft,
difficult accefs, bounding with great celerity, and, .
when purfued, taking refuge among the moft inaccef-.
fible fummits.
3 T It
M A M M ALIA.
5’4
Hiftorj* of It is hunted for the fake of the mufk. contained in its
■if: Species.^ umb'tlical follicle, which is an oval receptacle, peculiar
to the male, about the fize of a fmall egg, hanging from
the middle of the belly. As foon as the animal is kill¬
ed, the hunters cut off the bag and tie it up for fale.
Tavernier informs us, that in one of his eailern jour¬
neys, he purchaied no fewer than 7673 of thefe bags j
a proof how numerous thefe animals muit be in the eaft.
For the appearance and ufes of mufk, with the method
of dete&ing its adulteration, fee Musk, Materia Me-
DICA Index. Befides the mufk that they produce, the
fkins of thefe animals are ufeful as clothing. The Ruf¬
fians Icrape off the hair, and prepare the leather, fo as
to render it as fort and bright as filk.
Cervus! Genus 39. Cervus. Due*.
Horns folid, covered while young with a hairy fkin,
growing from the tep, naked, annual, branched.
Front teeth in the lower jawT eight. Canine teeth
none (fometimes fingle in the upper jaw).
There are 1 2 fpecies, viz.— 1. C. Alces, Elk. With
flemlefs palmated horns, and guttural caruncle.— 2. 67
Tarandus, Rein D. Branched, recurvate, round horns,
with palmated extremities.—3. * C. ElaphiiSy Stag.
Reddifh brown, with cylindric, recurvate, branching
horns.—4. * 67. Datna, Fallow D. Yellowifh brown,
with flightly recurvate, compreffed, branching horns,
palmated at the top.—5. C. Virginianus, Virginian I).
Pale brown, with {lender round branched horns, bending
forward, and {lightly palmated at the tip.—6. C. dxis.
Spotted Axis. Pale reddifh brown, fpotted with white,
with {lender three-forked horns.—7. C. Pygargus, Tail-
lefs Roe. Taillefs, brown, yellowifo below, white be¬
hind, with three-forked horns and nofe furrounded with
black.—8. C. MexicamiSy Mexican Roe. Red, with
rough three-forked horns, bending forward.— 9. C.
Porcinus, Porcine D. Brown, afh-coloured belowr,
with {lender three-forked horns.—10, * 67. Capreo/uSy
Common Roe. Reddifh brown, with branching, upright
cylindric horns, bifid at the top.—11. C. Muntjac, Rib¬
faced D. With three-forked horns riling from a cylin¬
dric hairy bafe, with the upper fork hooked.—12. C.
Guineetifis, Gray D. Gray, blackilh below.
Alces Elk. r* dices. Elk, or Moofe Deer.—In conformity
fig. 64. with the opinion, of moft naturalirts, we have given the
two English names of Elk and Moofe Deer as fynoni-
-mous, though it is not yet clearly afcertained whether
they are not really diilimff fpecies. The elk is by far
the largeft of the deer tribe, and if we may believe the
accounts of feme travellers, a full grown moofe is many
times bigger than an ox, the tips of its horns being fome¬
times nearly 12 feet afunder. Itsfhape is reprefented as
very inelegant, having a fhort thick neck, large head,
horns fpreading out immediately from the bafe into a
broad palmated form ; a thick, broad, heavy upper lip,
hanging confiderably over the lower \ high fhoulders
and long legs. Its colour is a dark grayilh brown, much
paler, or inclining to whitenefs, on the legs, and beneath
the tail. The hair, which is of a ftrong, coarfe, and
elaftic nature, is much longer on the top of the {boulders
and on the ridge of the neck than on the other parts, form¬
ing a kind of ftiffifh mane •, beneath the neck the hair
is alfo of confrclerable length, and in feme fpecimens of
the animal, a fort of caruncle or pendant excrcfcence,
Part II.
covered with long hair, is feen hanging from beneath Pecora.
the throat; the eyes and ears are large, the hoofs’broad, '—
and the tail extremely {hort. It is ul'ually bigger than a
horfe, and Mr Pennant effimates its greateit height at
17 hands, and its greateft weight at 1230 pounds. Its
horns fometimes weigh 56 pounds j and on a moderate
calculation, meafure each about 32 inches in length.
The female is {’mailer than the male, and is dettitute of
horns.
This animal inhabits both the Old and New Conti¬
nent, but it is commonly called elk on the former, and
moofe deer on the latter. In Europe it is found chiefly
in Sweden, Norway, and in fome parts of Ruflia ; in
Afia it is met with moft frequently in Siberia, where it
is of a prodigious flze ; and in America it is moft com¬
mon in Canada, efpecially about the great lakes. It
ufually refides in the midtt of forefts, where it lives by
browftng on the branches of the trees, as from its long
legs and fhort neck it cannot eafily graze from the
ground. It feeds chiefly by night. Its ufual pace is a
high, ftiambling, but very fwuft trot, the feet being lift¬
ed very high; and, according to meft writers, the hoofs
during its running feparate as they approach the ground
in order to give the animal a better purchafe, and come
together again when they rife, producing a clattering
noife that is heard at a conliderable diftance.
Its faculty of hearing is fuppofed to be more acute
than either its fight or feent, which renders it very dif¬
ficult to kill it in the fummer time, as the Indians have
then no other method of doing it but by creeping after
it among the trees and bullies, till they get within gun-
fhot. In w inter, when the fnow is fo hard frozen that the
natives can go upon it in their fnow fhoes, they are able
frequently to run it down ; for its {lender legs break
through the fnow at every ftep, and plunge them up to
the belly. It is fo tender-footed, and fo fliort-winded,
that a good runner will generally tire it in lefs than a
day ; there have been fame, however, that have kept
the hunters in chafe for two days. On thefe occaftons
the Indians, in general, take with them nothing more
than a knife or bayonet, and a little bag containing
implements for lighting a fire. 1 When the poor animal
is incapable of further fpeed, it Hands, and keeps its
purfuers at bay with its bead and fore feet, in the ufe of
the latter of which it is fo dexterous, that the Indians
are generally obliged to lafti their knives or bayonets to
the end of a long flick, and ftab the elk at a diftance.
Some who have negletfted this neceffary precaution, and
ralhly -attempted to rufn in upon it, have received very
ferious blows from its fore feet. When wounded, it
fometimes becomes furious, nifties boldly on the hunters,
and endeavours to tread them down : in this cafe the
men are frequently compelled to leave their outer gar¬
ments, and efcape into the trees.
When fuddenly roufed, and endeavouring to make
its efcape, the elk is obferved at times to fall down, as
if deprived for feme moments of motion., Whether-
this be owing, as has been frequently imagined, to an
epileptic fit, or whether it merely aiiies from fear, is not
perhaps eafy to determine. 1’he fact, however, is too
well authenticated to admit our doubting it. This has
given rife to the popular fuperftition of attributing to the
hoofs the virtue of an antiepileptic medicine ; and the In¬
dians even ftiil imagine that the elk has the power of
curing itfelf of its own diforder, or of preventing an
approaching^
M A M M A L I A.
Chap.
Pecora.
141
Tarandus,
V. M A M M
approaching fit, by fcratching Its ear with the hoof till
it draws blood.
The female produces from one to three young at a
time, generally about the end of April or beginning ot
May.
The elk is a animal of great utility. Its flelh is eat¬
en, and is reckoned very good, but coarfer and tough¬
er than any other kind of venifon •, its tongue is excel¬
lent, and the fat of its nofe is fo much like marrow, as
to be efteemed a great delicacy; its fkin makes excel¬
lent tent covers and fhoe leather, and the hair of its
hams, which is of great length, is employed in fluffing
faddles.
2. C. Tarandus, Rein Deer.—This, in a domeflic
Rein Deer, point of view, is the moil ufeful animal to the natives of
the countries where it refides, ferving there moft of the
purpofes of our horfes. I he height of this fpecies, when
full grown, is about four feet and a half. 1 he body
is rather of a thick and fquare form, and the legs
fhorter in proportion that thole of the flag. Its general
colour is brown above, and white below j but as it ad¬
vances in age, it often becomes of a grayilh white, and
fometimes almoft entirely white •, the ipace about the
eves is always black. The hair on the under part of
the neck is of much greater length than the reft, and
forms a kind of hanging beard in that part. Both fexes
are furnifhed with horns, but thofe of the male are mucn
larger and longer than thole of the female. L ne hoofs
are long, large and black, as are alfothe falfe or fecond-
ary hoofs behind ; and thefe latter, while the animal
is running, as was remarked of the elk, make a remark¬
able clattering found, which may be heard at a confider-
able diftance.
The female begins to breed at the age of two years, is
in feafon the latter end of September, goes with young
eight months, and generally brings forth two at a time.
The fondnefs of the dam for her young is very remark¬
able. They follow her for two or three years, but do not
acquire their full flrength until four. It is at this age
that they are trained to labour, and they continue fervice-
ALIA.  5»5
eufiue. In general, they go about 30 miles without IM-ory of
flopping, and that without any dangerous effort. This [ne Pec'^-,
mode of travelling can be performed only in the winter
feafon, when the face of the country is covered with,
fnow ; and although the conveyance is fpeedy, it is in¬
convenient, dangerous, and troublelome.
As the rein-deer conftitutes the lole riches of the
Laplander, it may well be fuppoled that a conilant at¬
tention to preferve and fecure it, forms the chier em¬
ployment of his life. It is no uncommon thing for one
pcrfon to poffefs above 500 in a fingle herd.
Thefe animals are much tormented by gnats, and a
fpecies of gadfly, called by Linnaeus ce/lrus tarandi. I he
havock made among them by the latter is fo great, that
their fkins are often found pierced almoft: full of holes.
The rein-deer has fometimes been brought into Eu¬
rope, and Sir H. G. Liddle, Bart, had feveral of them
in his pofleffion, which he biought over from Lapland.
They do not, however, feem to agree with the more
temperate climates.
14a
Camelofar*
. dalis, or
Llorns permanent, bony, covered wdth a briflly fkin. Giraffe.
Front teeth in the lower jaw eight j the exterior one fig. 65,
on each fide deeply bilobate.
Gen. 40. Camelopardalis, Giraffe.
able lour or five years. They feldom live above 15 or
16 years.
The rein deer is found in all the northern regions of
Europe, Afia, and America, particularly in Lapland,
Siberia, and Greenland, wffiere it is employed to draw
the fledges of the inhabitants over the frozen fnow. To
this exercife the animals are accttftomed from an early
age. They are yoked to the fledge by a collar, from which
a trace is brought under the belly between the legs, and
faftened to the fore part of the fledge. Thefe carriages
are extremely light, and covered at the bottom with the
fkin of the rein deer. The perfon w?ho fits in it guides
the animal with a cord faftened to its horns ; he drives
it with a goad, and encourages it with his voice. I hofe
of the wild breed, though by far the flrongeft, often
prove refraftory, and not only refufe to obey their maf-
ter, but turn againft him, and flrike fo furioufly with
their feet, that his only refource is to cover himfelf with
his fledge, upon which the enraged creature vents his fury.
The tame deer, on the contrary, is pliant, aclive and
willing. When hard pufhed, the rein deer will trot
the diftance of 60 miles wdthout flopping ; but in fuch
exertions, the poor obedient creature fatigues itfelf fo
exceedingly, that its mailer is obliged to kill it im¬
mediately, to -prevent a lingering death that would
This genus was formed to include a fingle fpecies
that Linnaeus and other naturalifts had claffed under
cervus; but as the form and connection of its horns
differ very materially from thofe of the deers and an¬
telopes, it was judged better to conftitute of it a new
genus. This animal, with refpeCl to its height, exceeds
all other known quadrupeds, as it meafures, when full
grown, nearly ly feet from the top of the head to the
fore feet. The female is lower than the male. Not-
withftanding the unufual proportions of this animal, its
general form is in the highefl degree elegant and pic-
turefque \ the head being fmall, the afpeCl rndd, the
neck extremely long and tapering, the fore parts much
higher than the hinder, and the difpofition of the co¬
lours lingular and pleafing. At firfl view, the fore
legs feem nearly twice the length of the hind 5 but this
difference, on accurate examination, appears to refult
chiefly from the extraordinary height of the fhoulders,
compared with that of the thighs ; accordingly, among
the old writers who have deferibed this animal, Petrus
Gyllius perhaps approaches nearefl to the truth, when
he affirms, that all the legs or tibia? of the camelopardi
are of nearly equal length, but that the fore thighs are
fo long in comparifon with the hind, that the back ap¬
pears inclined like the roof of a houfe.
The horns of the Camelopardalis differ in texture from
thofe of all other horned quadrupeds, forming, as it
were, a part of the fkull, and confifling of a porous
bony fubftance covered externally with fhort, coarle,
briflly hair; they terminate abruptly, on a flattiih or
llightly convex head, but little wider than the other
part of the horn, and edged with briilles all round ths
outline. On the middle of the forehead is a con-
fiderahle protuberance, owing to an elevation or bony
riling on that part of the fkull. From the head to the
middle of the back runs a ftiort ftiffifh mane. The tail
is of moderate length, of a cylindrical form, gradually
tapering towards the end, and terminating in a tuft ol
long hair. The hoofs are moderately large and black.
3 T 2 The
5i6 M A M M
Hiftoryof The fore part of* the Lody Is very thick and mufcular,
t..e Sp>.ci^. an(j tjle p,jn(j par(. t]jjn ancj meagre. The ground colour
of the animal is whitilh, variegated on all parts with
numerous, moderately large, and fomewhat fquariih
fpots, which in the male are browm, and in the female
rully. In the younger animals they are fometimes of
a bright reddilh-yellow. Thefe marks or fpots are of a
fomewhat lefs regular lhape on the lides, than on the
neck and {boulders.
This animal is an inhabitant of Africa, where it is
found chiefly in Ethiopia, and other internal parts of
the country, being rarely met with near the coafts. It
refrdes in the torefts, where it lives by browfing on the
branches of trees. It is of a mild and timid difpofition.
When purfued, it trots fo fail, that even a good horfe
- Is fcarcely able to keep pace with it, and it continues
its courfe for a long time without requiring reif. When
it caps, it lifts nrft the fore legs, and then the hinder
ones, in the manner of a horfe whofe fore legs are tied
together. Its general pofition, except when grazing, is
with the head and neck ere£f. It feeds principally on the
leaves of trees, and particular on thofe of a peculiar
fpecies of mimofa, common in the country where it is
found, to which the extreme length of its legs and neck
admirably adapt it. When it feeds from the ground,
it is under the neceflity of dividing its fore legs to a
confiderable diilance. In preparing to lie down, it
kneels like the camel.
It has been generally fuppofed that the giraffe polfeffed
neither the powrer nor the ftrength to defend itfelf
againft the attacks of other animals ^ this, however,
feems to be unfounded, for M. le Vaillant has afferted,
that by its kicks it frequently rvearies, difcourages, and
diftances even the lion. The utility of the horns appears
to be hitherto unknown *, this writer fays that they are
not ufed as weapons of defence.
The giraffe is hunted by the Hottentots for the lake
of its flelh, and its marrow, which latter they efteem as
a great delicacy.
143
Antilope. Gen. 41. Antilope. Antelopes.
Horns hollowT, feated on a bony core, growing upwards,
ringed or wmeathed, permanent. Front teeth in the
lower jaw eight. Canine teeth none.
The individuals of this genus, with the exception of
two or three fpecies, inhabit the hottefl parts of the
globe, or at leafl thofe parts of the temperate zones
that lie fo near the tropics as to form a doubtful climate.
None, therefore, except the faiga and the chamois, are
to be met with in Europe •, and notwithflanding the
warmth of South America is fuited to their nature, not
a fingle fpecies has yet been difcovered in any part of
the new world. Their proper climates feem, therefore,
to be thofe of Alia and Africa, where the fpecies are
very numerous.
As there appears a general agreement in the nature
of the fpecies that form this great genus, it wall prevent
needlefs repetition to obferve, that the antelopes are ani¬
mals generally of amoft elegant and adfive make •, of a
refllefs and timid difpofition ; extremely watchful ; of
great vivacity ; remarkably fwift and agile, and moft
of their boundings fo light, fo elailic, as to ftrike the
fpe .tator ' ith affonifhment. What is very lingular is,
that they will flop in the midd of their courfe, gaze
A L I A. Part tl.
for a moment at theif puifuers, and then refume their Pecora.
flight. -y-—
As the chafe of thefe animals is a favourite amufe-
ment with the eaflern nations, from that may be collect¬
ed proofs of the rapid fpeed of the antelope tribe. The
greyhound, the tleeteft of dogs, is ufually unequal in
the courfe, and the fportfman is obliged to call in the
aid of the falcon, trained for the purpofe, to feize on
the animal, and impede its motions, in order to give
the dogs an opportunity of overtaking it. In India and
Perfia a fpecies of leopard is made ufe of in the chafe.
'I his is an animal that takes its prey not by fwiftnefs of
foot, but by the greatnefs of its fprings, by motions fi-
milar to thofe of the antelope ; but fhould the leopard
fail in its firlf eflay, the game efcapes.
The fleetnefs of the antelope was proverbial in the
country it inhabited, even in the earlieft times: the
fpeed of A fain 1 is beautifully compared to that of the
tzebi, and the Gadites wrere faid to be as fwift as the
antelopes upon the mountains. To this day the great-
eil compliment that can be paid |o female beauty in the
eaflern regions is siine el c%a%el. You have the eyes
of an antelope.
Some fpecies of antelopes form herds of 2000 or 3000,
while others keep in troops of only five or fix. They
generally refide in hilly countries, though fome inhabit
plains. They often brovvfe like the goat, and feed on
the tender fhoots of trees, from which their flefh ac¬
quires an excellent flavour. The flefh of moft of the
fpecies is eaten, but that of fome of them is faid to tafle
of mufk.
This is a very numerous genus, and moft of the fpecies
are comparatively new, only fix having been known to
Linnaeus, who ranked them under the genus Capra.
The following are enumerated by Dr Shaw, though he
confeffes himlelf not certain that they are all dif!in&
fpecies.
A. With Jlraight or nearly Jlraight horns.
1. Antilope Oryx, Egyptian A. Gray, with black
and white face, dufky dorfal fhipe, and very long,,
tapering, fliarply-ringed horns.— 2. A. Leucoryx,\J\iw.z.
A. Milk white, with very long, tapering, flightly-
ringed horns.—3. A. Ga^ella, Gazel. Bay, with
(lightly-bowed, tapering, wrinkled horns.—4. A. Orcas,
Indian A. Slate-coloured, with reddifh head, black
mane on the neck and breaft, and tapering wueathed
horns.—5. A. Ourebi, Ourebi. Rufty brown, with
the breaft, belly, hind part of the thighs, and infides of
the limbs, white •, and fmall horns.—6. A. Oreotragus,
Klipfpringer. Yellowifh tawny j whitifh below, with
very ftraight upright tapering horns, (lightly wrinkled
at their bale—7. A. Scriptus, Harneffed A. Cheinut-
coloured, with white eroded ftripes on the fides j and
tapering wreathed horns.—8. A. Grimmia, Guinea A.
Yellowifh bay, with fhort horns, and black brillly tuft
on the forehead.— A. Pygmaa, Pigmy A. With fhort
convex horns, wrinkled at the bafe.
B. With curved, bent, or twijled horns.
10. A. Picla, Nyl-gbau. Slate-coloured, with the
back of the neck and breaft maned, the feet barred
with black and white, and fomewhat triangular horns
bending forwards.— 11. A. Trajocamelus, Indoflan A.
Gray, with maned neck and breaft, dorfal protuberance,
long
Chap. V.
Pecora. long flocky tail, and tapering horns bending forwards.
—12. A Bt/balis, Cervine A. Reddifh brown, with
large elongated head, thick, ftrongly wrinkled, lyiated
horns, and longifli tail.—13. A.Strepficeros, Striped A.
Reddilh gray, with compreffed fpirally ridged horns,
white longitudinal dorfal, and tranfverfe lateral ftripes.
14. A. Cervicapra, Common A. Tawny brown, white
below, with round, lyrated, ringed horns.—15. A. Ler-
wia, Gambian A. Reddilh, with the nape of the
neck bearded, and recurved wrinkled horns.—16. A.
Saiga, Saiga. Yellowilh gray, with diflant, femitranf-
parent, lyrated, and ringed horns.—17. A. Gutturofa,
Chinefe A. Tawny, whitifh below, with lyrated yel-
.lowilh ringed horns, and prominent throat.—18. A.
Subgutturofa, Guldentted’s A* Gray-brown, white
below, with lyrated horns, and tumid throat.—19. A.
Euehore, Springer. Yellowilh brown, white below,
with dark lateral ftripe, lyrated horns, and expanfile
* white patch above the tail. 20. A. Arundinacea, Rit-
bock. Alh-eoloured, white below, with ringed horns,
bending forwards.—2 r. A. Sylvatica, Bofibock. Brown-
white below, the hind part of the body fpotted with
white, the horns fpirally, and ringed.—22. A. E-
leotragus, Cinereous A. Gray, fnow-white below,
with fpirally ringed horns.—23. A. Dorcas, Barbary
A. Fulvous brown, white below, with lateral-brown
band, and lyrated horns.—24. A. Kevella, Flat-horned
A. Tawny-brown, white below, with brown lateral
band, and comprefied lyrated horns.—25. A. Pygarga,
White-faced A. Rufty brown, white below, with
brown lateral band, white rump, and lyrated horns 
26. A. Corintia, Corine. Fulvous browm, white be¬
low, wdth dark lateral band, and fublyrated, rather
ereti, fmoothifh horns.—27. A. Sumatrenjis, Sumatran
A. Black, with recurved horns, and whitilh briftly
name between the fhoulders.—28. A. Leucophcea, Blue
.A. Blue gray, with roundifh, arcuated, recurved,
ringed horns..
C. With hoohed horns.
29. A. Gnu, Gnu. Rufiy brown, with maned neck,
whitilh tail, and horns dire&ed forwards, and then fud-
denly backw-ards.—30. A. Dama, Nanguer. White,
with fulvous back, and round horns, incurvated for¬
wards.—A. Ridunca, Red A. Red brown, with round
flightly ringed horns, recurved forwards at the tips.—
3 2. A. Rupicapra, Chamois. Brown,, with fmooth up¬
right horns, with the tips hooked forwards.
Pitta^ 10. A. PiEla, the Nyl-ghau.—This curious animal
Nyl-ghau. was firft defcribed by Dr W. Hunter, in the Philofo-
Fig. 66. phical Tranfadiions, vol. Ixi. Its height is about four
feet to the top of the {boulders, and it meafures nearly
about the fame in length from the bottom of the neck to
to the bafe of the tail. It is of a fine flate colour, with
a large white fpot below the throat, and two white
bands above each foot. Its ears are large, edged with
white, white within, where they are marked with two
black ftripes. Along the top of the neck there is a
flight black mane, continued to fome diftance down the
back, and on the breaft (there is a much thicker mane,
or tuft of the fame colour. The tail is moderately
long, and tufted at the end 5 the horns are ihort, point¬
ed, fmooth, and three-cornered at the bafe. The fe¬
male refembles the male in general appearance, but
517
is confiderably fmaller. This animal is a native of the fllftory of
interior parts of India, and was a favourite objedl ofc"e sPecies;
the chafe with the emperor Aurengzebe. Some years v ""
ago two of them were brought into England, and were
kept fome time by Dr Hunter, who has given the fol¬
lowing account of its manners.
Although the nyl-ghau is ufually reported to be ex¬
ceedingly vicious, yet the one he had the care of was
very gentle. It feemed pleafed with every kind of fa¬
miliarity, always licked the hand which either ftroked
it or gave it bread, and never once attempted to ufe
its horns offenfively. It feemed to have much depend¬
ence on the organs of fmell, and fnuffed keenly, and
with confiderable noife, whenever any perfon came
within fight. It did the fame when any food or drink
was brought to it, and was fo offended with an uncom¬
mon hnell, or was fo cautious, that it wmuld not tafte
bread that was offered with a hand that had touched oil
of turpentine or fpirits.
Its manner of fighting was very particular ; this was
obferved at Lord Clive’s, where tw'o males were put in¬
to a little inclofure, and it was thus related by his lord-
ftiip. While they were at a confiderable diftance from
each other, they prepared for the attack by falling down
upon their fore knees, and when they were come with¬
in fome yards, they made a fpring, and darted againft
each other.
At the time that two of them wTere in his ftable, Dr
Hunter oblerved this particularity, that whenever any
attempt was made on them, they immediately fell
down upon their fore knees j and fometimes they would
do fo when he came before them j but as they never
darted, he fo little fuppofed this to be a hoftile pofture,
that he rather fuppofed it to be expreflive of a timid hu¬
mility.
The intrepidity and force with which they dart againft
any objeft may be conceived from an anecdote that has
been related of the fineft and largeft of thele animals
that has ever been feen in England. A poor labouring
man, without knowing that the animal wras near him,
and therefore neither meaning to offend, nor fufpedling
the danger, came up to the outfide of the poles of the in-
clofur.e where it was kept j the nyl-ghau, with the fwift-
nefs of lightning, darted againft the wood-w7ork with
fuch violence that he {battered it to pieces, and broke
off one of his horns clofe to the root. This violence
was fuppofed to occafion his death, wThich happened
not long after. From this it appears, that at certain
feafons the animal is vicious and fierce, however gentle
it may be at other times,
Gen. 42. Capra, Go^rs. Capra.5
Horns hollow, turning upwards and backwarks, rough,
almoft clofe at their bafe. Front teeth in the lower
jaw eight. No tufks. Chin bearded in the male.
There are eight fpecies $ viz,
1. C. Ibex, Ibex. Gray brown, whitifti below, with
large horns, bending over the back 5 and bearded
throat.—2. C. Aegagrus, Caucafan I. Gray brown,
white below, with large, keeled, flightly-wrinkled,
bowed horns, and bearded throat.—3 * C. Hircus, Com¬
mon G. With bowed keeled horns, commonly turning
outw'ards towards the end.—4. C. Mambrica, Syrian G.
With
MAMMALIA.
M A M M
°/ penda’ous ears and horns reclined backwards.—.
- < 5- Anvorenjis, Angora G. With very long, pend*
cnt, fpirally-cnrled hair.—6. C. Depre/Ja, African G.
\Vitii very fmall depreffed horns, clofely incumbent on
tne head.—y. C. Reverja, Whidaw G. With upright
horns, recurved at the tips.—8. C, Ccrpncornus, Capri¬
corn G. With Ihort horns, turning forwards at the
t.ps, and ringed on the fides.
i. Ibex, Ibex.—As this is fuppofed to have been the
original dock from which the common goat has been
derived, we (hall here give a Ihort account of it.
This is an animal of great flrength and aflivity, and
is confiderably larger than the common goat. It is of
a deep hoary, or grayifh brown colour, with a whiter
(hade below, and on the infides of the limbs. The
body is thick and (hong, the head rather fmall; eyes
large, and the horns very large and long, fo as fome-
times to extend the whole length of the body. Thefe
are of a deep brown colour, and are marked above
with tranfverfe femicircular protuberances or knots. The
legs are flrong, with fhort hoofs j the tail is (hort, and
iue chin is furnifhed with a brown or dufky beard. The
iemale is lefs than the male, and has fmaller horns.
The ibex is found in feveral parts of Europe and Afia,
cniefly in the mountainous parts of the country, efpeci-
ally the Carpathian and Pyrenean mountains, the Rhse-
tian Alps, Mount Taurus, the high lands between
Eaftern T artary and Siberia, and on the mountainous
parts of the ifland of Candia.
The fleih of the young ibex is faid to be in good
efleem as an article of food. Its period of geliation is
faid to be the fame as in the common goat j viz. five
months.
In its general habits or manners the ibex refembles
tne common goat, but poffeiles every attribute of
flrength and ailivity in a degree proportioned to its na¬
tural flate of wildnefs. It delights to climb mountains,
and hang upon the brinks of precipices*, and its chafe is
in confequence confidered, like that of the chamois, as
in the higheft degree difficult and laborious. It is even
laid, that when hard preffed, this animal will fling it-
lelf down a deep precipice, and falling on its horns
efcape unhurt from its purfuers j nor will this appear
in the lead incredible, if we may rely on the faith of
Monarches, who affures us that he faw a Caucafan ibex
leap from the top of a high tow*er, and, falling on its
horns, immediately fpring up on its limbs, and leap
about without having received the lead apparent in¬
jury.
Turn or three hunters ufually affociate in this perilous
occupation j they are armed with rifle-barreled guns,
and furniihed with fmall bags of proviiions ; they eredl
a miferable hut of turf among the heights, where, with¬
out fire or covering, they pafs the night ; and on awa¬
king in the morning, they not unfiequently find the
entrance blocked up with fnowr three or four feet deep.
Sometimes, in purfuit of this animal, being overtaken
by darknefs, amid crags and precipices, they are obliged
to pafs the whole night danding, and embraced toge¬
ther, in order to fupport each other, and to prevent
themfelves from fleeping.
For an account of the common goat, we refer our
readers to Buffon and Mr Pennant’s Britifh Zoology,
where they will meet with every thing of confequence
refpefting that ufeful animal.
,I47
A L T A. Part II.
Perora.
Gen. 43. Ovxs, Sheb?.
Horns hollowed, wrinkled, turning backwards, and fpi- Ovis.
rally twided inwards. Front teeth eight in the lower
jaw. Canine teeth none.
1 here are ufually enumerated about eight fpecies,
1. Ovis Ammon, Argali. With arched femicircular
horns, flat below, and loofe hairy dewlaps.—2. * O. A~
ries. Common S. With coropreffed lunated horns.—
3* 0. Strepficeros, Cretan S. With upright, keeled,
Ipirally twided horns.—4. 0. Polycerata. Many-horned
S.—5. 0. Guineenjis, African S. With pendulous ears,
loofe hairy dewlaps, and head prominent at the back,.
■—6. O. Laticaudata, Broad-tailed S.—7. 0. Steatophy-
gci, Fat-rumped S 8. 0. Pudu, Pudu. With fmooth
round diverging horns, and beardlefs throat. * 148
2. Ovis Aries, Common Sheep.—In its prefent date^^’C091
of domeflication, the ffieep feems fo far removed from a™011
date of nature as to make it a difficult matter to point
out its origin. But naturalifls are now generally of
of opinion, that it has proceeded from the argali or wild
fheep, (the tnoujlon of BuSbn).
Climate, food, and above all, the unwearied arts of
cultivation, contribute to render this animal in a pecu¬
liar manner, the creature of man, to whom it is obliged
to truft entirely for its proteftion, and to whofe necef-
fities it largely contributes. Though Angularly inoffen-
five, and harmlefs even to a proverb, it does not appear
to be that dupid, inanimate creature deferibed by Buf¬
fon : “ devoid of every neceffary art of felf-prefervation,
without courage, and even deprived of every indindiive
faculty, ive are led to conclude that the ffieep, of all
other animals, is the mod contemptible and dupid.”
But amidfl thole numerous flocks which range without
controul on extenfive mountains, where they feldom de¬
pend upon the aid of the ffiepherd, it will be found to
aflume a very different charader. In thofe fituations, a
ram or wedder will boldly attack a fingle dog, and
often comes off- victorious •, but when the danger is more
alarming, they have recourfe to the collected drength
of the whole, flock. On fuch occafions they draw up
into a compadt body, placing the young and the fe¬
males in the centre, while the males take the foremod
ranks, keeping clofe by each other. Thus an arm¬
ed front is prefented to all quarters, and cannot be
eaiily attacked without danger of deflrudlion to the af-
failant. In this manner they wait with firmnefs the ap¬
proach of the enemy j nor does their courage fail them
in the moment of attack *, for when the aggreffor ad¬
vances within a few yards of the line, the rams dart
upon him with fuch impetuofity, as lays him dead at
their feet, unlefs he fave himfelf by flight. Againd
the attacks of fingle dogs or foxes, when in this fitua-
tion, they are perfectly fecure. A ram, regardlefs of
danger, will fometimes engage a bull, and his forehead
being much harder than that of any other animal, he
feldom fails to conquer. The bull, by lowering his
head, receives the droke of the ram between his eyes,
which ufually brings him to the ground.
In the feledtion of their food, few animals difeover
greater fagacity than the ffieep, nor does any domedic
animal fhew more dexterity and cunning in its attempts
to elude the vigilance of the ffiepherd, in order to deal
fuch delicacies as are agreeable to its palate.
3
B slides
v. M A M M
Eefides its liardir.efs in enduring great feverities of
weather, the natural inlVmcl of the (heep, in forefeeing
the approach of a florm, is no lels remarkable. In
their endeavours to fecure themfelves under the fhelter
of fome hill, whole flocks have frequently been buried
for many days under a covering of fnovv, and have after¬
wards been taken cut without any material injury.
There have been inftances, where fheep, at the ap¬
proach of a llorm, have fled for {belter to a neighbour¬
ing cottage, and taken refuge under the fame roof with
their (hepheid.
The variety in this creature is fo great, that fcarcely
any two countries produce flieep of the fame kind.
There is found a manifeft difference in all, either in the
fize, the covering, the fliape or the horns. The woolly
iheep is found only in Europe, and the temperate pro¬
vinces of Alia. When tranfported into warmer cli¬
mates, it lofes its wool, and becomes rough and hairy,
is lefs fertile, and its fleffi no longer retains tne fame
flavour.
No country produces finer flieep than Great Britain •,
their fleeces are large, and well adapted to the purpofes
of clothing. The Spanifti fleeces are indeed finer, but
for utility cannot be compared with thofe of Lincoln-
fliire or W^arwickflure. In Edvrard Ill’s time, when
wool was allowed to be exported, it brought into tne
kingdom 150,000!. per annum, at the rate of 2l. 10s.
a pack. At this time, when our woollen manutadlory
Hands unrivalled by any nation of the wTorld, and when
every method is taken to prevent this valuable commo¬
dity from being fent out of the kingdom, the annual
value of wool fliorn in England is fuppofed to be about
5,000,cool, flerling, and when manuladfured together
with the Spainfli wool imported, amounting to about
600,000!. the total value rnufl be above 20,000,000!.
Two of the front teeth in the (beep drop out before
they are two years old, at which time they are replaced
by others j at three years old, tour of them are renewed,
and the remainder at the age of four.
The ewe produces one or two lambs at a time, and
fometimes, though rarely, three or four. Sne bears her
young five months, und brings forth in the fpring. i he
ram lives to the age ot about 15 years, and begins to
procreate at one. When caftrated, they are called vveu-
ders. They then grow fooner tat, and the ilefli becomes
finer and better flavoured.
There is hardly any part of this animal that is not
ferviceable to man : ot the fleece wTe make our clothes ;
the {kin produces leather, of which are made gloves
parchment, and covers for books ", the entrails are
formed into firings for fiddles, and other mufical in-
firuments, likewife coverings for whips its milk a fiords
both butter and cheefe, and its fieffi is a delicate and
wholefame food.
To the foregoing account of the flseep, for which we
are indebted to Mr Bewick, we (had add a few remaiks
from Mr Cully’s oblervations on live flock, on the
inoft remarkable breeds of iheep at prefent cultivated in
this country.
Mr Cully begins with thofe of Lincoln (hire, which
are of a large fize, big-boned, and afford a greater
quantity of wool than any other kind, owing to the
rich fat marfhes on which they feed j but their flefli is
coarfe, leaner, and not fo finely flavoured as that of
fmaller flicep. The fame breed extends, with fome va-
ALIA. _ SJP
riations, through moff of the midland counties of Eng- Hiiloryof
land. But the largeft breed of {beep in this ifland, istiie sPcclcg
to be met with on the banks of the Tees, which runs v
through a rich and fertile country, dividing the two
counties of Yorkihire and Durham. This kind differs
from the preceding, in their wool not being fo long and
heavy j their legs are longer, but finer boned, and hip-
port a thicker, firmer carcafe. Their flefh is likewife
much fatter, and finer grained. Thcfe flieep weigh
from 25 or 45 lbs. per quarter j fonie have been fed to
5c lbs. and one in particular was killed which weighed
6 2 lbs. 10 oz. per quarter, avoirdupois j a circumftance
never before heard of in this ifland. The ewes of this
breed generally bring forth two lambs each feafon ’7
fometimes 3, 4, and even 5. As an infiance of extra¬
ordinary fecundity, it delerves to be mentioned, that
one of thefe ewes;at the age of two years, brought forth
fix lambs at one time, the next feafon five, both within
11 months.
The Dorfetfinre breed is likewife remarkably proli¬
fic, the ewes being capable of bringing forth twice a-
year. It is from thefe, that the tables of our nobility
and gentry afe fupplied with early lamb at Chriftmas,
or fooner if required. Great numbers of tbofe early
vidlims to luxury are yearly fent to the London markets,
where they are fold at the enormous price of 10s. 6d.
or perhaps 15s. per quarter. The manner of rearing
the lambs is curious. They are imprifoned in little
dark cabins 5 the ewes are fed with oil-cakes, hay, corn,
turnips, cabbages, or any other food wfiiich the feafon of
the year affords j thefe are given them in a field con¬
tiguous to the apartments where the lambs are kept;
and at proper intervals, the nurfes are brought in to give
fuck to their young ones, while the attendants, at the
fiime time, make their lodgings perfe&ly clean, and lit¬
ter them with frefii ftraw. Great attention is paid to
this as much of the fuccefs of rearing thefe unfeafon-
able produdlions depends upon warmth and cleanlinefs.
The Dorfetfhire (beep are moftly white-faced, their
legs are long and fmall, and great numbers of them have-
no wool upon their bellies, which gives them an uncouth
appearance. They produce a fmall quantity of wool,
but of a good quality, from which our fine Wiltfhire
cloths are made. The mutton of thefe fiiecp is very
fweet and well flavoured. The variations of this breed,
are fpread through moil of the fouthern counties, but
the true kind is only to be found in Dorfetfhire and
Wiltfliire. There is a breed, not unlike this, in Nor¬
folk and Suffolk, but they are all gray or black-faced.
For fome obfervations on feeding Iheep,. fee Agri¬
culture, N° 600 ; for the bell method of providing
them with {belter agaiaft the weather, fee Farriery,
N* IC9 •, and for fome acc.ount of their difeafes, with
the moil approved methods of treatment, fee. the fame,
article, Part v\. pajjim.,
Gen. 44. Bos, Ox. ecs.
Horns concave, turned outwards, lunated, fmooth.
Front teeth eight in the lower jaw. Canine teeth
none.
There are numerous varieties, but naturalifts have
not difiir guiflied more than about fix fpecies ; viz.
I. * Bos Taurus, Common O. With round horns curv¬
ing outwards, and loofc dewlap.—2. B. Arr.ee, Arnee;.
With;
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Hiftory of With upright lunated horns, flat and wrinkled in their
t ie >pecie% Uper {’urface>—Buba/us, Buffalo. With horns
lying backwards, turning inwards, and flat on the fore
part 4. B. Mofchatus, Mulk O. With very long
pendent hair, and horns approximated at the bale,
bending inwards and downwards, and outwards at the
tips.—5. B. Grunniens, Yak. With cylindric horns
curving outwards, very long pendent, hair, and extreme¬
ly villous, horfe-like tail.—6. B. Coffer, Cape O. With
the horns very broad at the bafe, then fpreading down-
150 wards, next upwards, and at the tips curving inwards.
Common j. Bos Taurus, Common Ox.-—Few animals are more
widely diffufed over the globe than the common ox.
Under different names, diffinguithing feveral varieties,
it is found in a wild or domeftic (fate throughout al-
moft the whole of the old continent, in molt of the
European and Afiatic illands, and is very abundant in
feveral parts of America. It feems capable of enduring
equally the rigours of heat and cold, and inhabits the
frozen as w'ell as the molt fcorching climates. Moft
animals preferve nature in their form with inflexible
perfeverance, but the ox appears to fuit himfelf in
•every refpeft to the wants and conveniences of man¬
kind. In no animal is there to be found a greater va¬
riety of kinds, and in none a more humble and tradable
'difpofition. Though in many countries thefe animals
are larger than thofe of Britain, yet on the whole
our cattle are to be preferred, both for beauty of form,
•excellence of fleth, and general utility, to thofe of moll
other countries.
The climate of the Britilh ifles is, above moft others,
'produftive of the greateft variety and abundance of
wholefome vegetables, which are almoft equally dif¬
fufed throughout every part of them. Hence the num¬
ber, variety, and excellence of our cattle, the richnefs
of our dairies, and innumerable other advantages. Caffar
fpeaks of the numbers of our cattle, and adds that we
negleded tillage, but lived on milk and fleih. Strabo
takes notice of our plenty of milk, but fays we were
ignorant of the art of making cheefe. Mela informs
us, that the wealth of the Britons confifted in cattle j
and in his account of Ireland reports, that fuch was
the richnefs of the paftures in that kingdom, that tne
cattle would even burff if they were fuffered to feed in
them long at a time.
This preference of pafturage to tillage was delivered
down from our Britilh anceftors to much later times ;
and continued equally prevalent during the whole period
of our feodal government: the chieftain whofe power
and fafety depended on the promptnefs of his vaffals to
execute his commands, found it his intereft to encourage
thofe employments that favoured that difpofition •, the vaf-
fal, who made it his glory to fly at the firft call to the
Itandard of his chieftain, was fure to prefer that employ¬
ment which might be tranfadled by his family with equal
fuccefs during his abfence. Tillage would require an at¬
tendance incompatible with the fervices he owed the ba¬
ron •, while the former occupation not only gave leifure for
thofe duties, but furniflied the hofpitable board of his
lord with ample provifion, of which the vaffal was equal¬
ly partaker. The relics of the larder of the elder Spencer
are evident proofs of the plenty of cattle in his days $
for after his winter provifions may have been fuppofed
to be moftly confumed, there were found, fo late as the
month of May, in fait, the carcafes of no fewer than 89
beeves, 600 bacons, and 600 muttons. The accounts
of the feveral great feafts in after times, afford amazing
inltances of the qaantity of cattle that were confumed in
them. This was owing partly to the continued attach¬
ment of the people to grazing •, partly to the preference
that the Englifh at all times gave to animal food. The
quantity of cattle that appear from the lateft calculation
to have been confumed in London, is a fufficient ar¬
gument of the vaft plenty of thefe times j particularly
when we confider the great advancement of tillage, and
the numberlefs variety of provifions, unknown to part
ages, that are now introduced into thefe kingdoms from
all parts of the world.
This animal feems to have originated from a large
wild variety called the bifon, diftinguilhed by its gene¬
ral largenefs, particular ftrength of its fore parts, and
a thick lhaggy mane and beard about its neck and chin.
This variety is found both in Europe and America, and
from this all the varieties at prefent met with are de-
fcended. Befides the bifon, and what may ftri&ly be call¬
ed the common ox, writers enumerate under this fpeciesf
the varieties called %ebu, diftinguilhed by a fmall Angle
bunch over the ftroulders ; the Indian ox, having a
very large double or treble protuberance over the
Ihoulders •, the loofe-horned ox, whofe horns feem attach¬
ed only by the Ikin •, the boury, having a protuberance
on the back •, the Tinian ox, of a white colour with
black ears j and feveral other lefs important varieties.
In Britain we diftinguilh chiefly the Holftein breed,
the Lancajhire, and Lincoln [hire breeds, the Kyloe or
Highland cattle •, the Alderney cow, and a particular
fpecies of wild cattle.
In moft points of view, the female of this fpecies is
of more importance than the niale. The cow goes with,
young nine months, and feldom produces more than
one at a time. She has, as is well known, four teats,
which, in proportion to her young, is a peculiarity
fcarcely to be found in any other animal, the females
of which feldom have more teats than are fufficient to
fuckle the number of young which they produce.
The age of a cow is known by its horns. At the
age of four years, a ring is formed at their roots, and
every fucceeding year another ring is added. Thus,
by allowing three years before their appearance, and
then reckoning the number of rings, the creature’s age
may be exadlly known (h).
The quantity of milk given by cows is very various 5
fome will yield only about fix quarts in one day, while
others give from 10 to 15, and fometimes even 20.
The
Pecora.
(h) In the earlier editions of his natural hiftory, Buffon afferted that the bull and ccw (lied their horns at the
are of three years, and at this time had them replaced by others that were permanent. As this miftake was cor-
reSed in one of his lupplemental volumes, we fliould not now have thought it neceffary to notice it, had we not
feeu it copied into a late work of confiderable merit, and feemingly the refult of much experience, Mr John Law-
fence’s Treatife on'Cattle, p. 17.
1
Chap. V.
MAMMAL I A.
521
fro my.
Pecora. The richnefs of the pafture contributes not a little to its
* V-—' increafe. There have been inflances of cows giving
upwards of 30 quarts of milk in one day. In fuch
cafes there is a neceffity for milking them thrice. From
the milk of fome cows, I2lbs. or I4lbs. of butter are
made in a week.
It is a curious fa61, that, in fome indances, cows
are naturally barren ; and this is faid to happen when a
cow brings forth two calves, one of them a male, the
other a female : the former is a perfeft animal, but the
lav.er is incapable of propagation, and is well known to
farmers under the denomination of a frce-martw. It re-
fembles the ox, or fpayed heifer, in figure, and is con-
liderably larger than the cow. It is fometimes prefer-
ve i by the farmer, for the purpofe of yoking with the
oxen, or fattening for the table. Mr Hunter oblerves,
that the flelh of the free-martin, like that of the ox, is
in common much finer in the fibre than either the bull
or cow. It is fuppoled to exceed that of the heifer in
* See Thm- delicacy of flavour, and bears a higher price at market*.
ter on tie It is unneceffary to enlarge further on the ox in a
domefiic ft ate. We ftiall therefore only give a fhort
account of a very lingular fpecies of wild cattle that
were formerly found in this country, but which are now
nearly extinft.
Numerous herds of them were kept in feveral parts
of England and Scotland, but they have been deftroyed
by various means. The only breeds now7 remaining in
the kingdom are in the park at Chillingham-caftle in
Northumberland •, at Wollatpn in Nottinghamfhire,
the feat of Lord Middleton ; at Gifburne, in Ciaven,
Yorkfhire ; at Limehall in Chefhire, and at Chartley in
Staffordfhire.
The principal external appearances which diftinguifli
this breed of cattle from all others are the following.
Their colour is invariably white, muzzles black ; the
whole of the infide of the enj, and about one-third of
the outfide, from the tip downwards, red 5 horns white,
with black tips, verj fine, and bent upwards. Some
of the bulls have a thin upright mane, about one inch
and a half or two inches long.
At the firft appearance of any perfon, they fet off in
full gallop, and at the diflance of 200 or 300 yards,
make a wheel round, and come boldly op again, tefling
their heads in a menacing manner. On a hidden they
make a full flop, at the diftance of 40 or 50 yards,
looking wildly at the objeft of their furprife 5 but upon
the leaf! motion being made, they all again turn round,
and fly off with equal fpeed, but not to the fame dif¬
tance. Forming a fiiort circle, and again returning
with a bolder and more threatening afpefr than before,
they approach much nearer, probably within 30 yards,
when they make another ftand, and again fly off. This
they do feveral times, (hortening their diftance, and ad¬
vancing nearer, till they come within ten yards, when
molt people think it prudent to leave them, not choofing
to provoke them further, for there is little doubt but
in two or three turns more they would make an attack.
The mode of killing them wTas, perhaps, the only
modern remains of the grandeur of ancient hunting.
On notice being given, that a wdld bull would be kill¬
ed on a certain day, the inhabitants of the neighbour¬
hood came mounted, and armed wdth guns, &c. fome-
tirr.es to the amount of 100 horfe and geo foot, who
VOL. XII. Part II.
flood upon walls, or got into trees, while the horfemen Hiftory of
rode off the bull from the reft of the herd, until he t^e Species.
flood at bay, when a markfman difmounted and (hot. ^
At fome of thefe huntings, 20 or 30 ftiots have been
firedTefore he was fubdued. On fuch occafions the
bleeding vidfim grew defperately furious, from the
fmarting of his wounds, and the thouts of favage joy
that were echoing from every fide. But, from the
number of accidents that happened, this dangerous
mode has been little praftifed of late years ; the park-
keeper alone generally {hooting them with a rified gun
at one fhot.
When the co-.vs calve, they hide their calves for a
week or ten days in fome fequeltered fituation, and go
and fuckle them tw7o or three times a day. If any pei-
fon come near the calves, they clap their heads clofe
to the ground, and lie like a hare in form, to hide
themfelves. This is a proof of their native wildnefs,
and is corroborated by the following circumftance that
happened to the writer of this narrative, who found a
hidden calf, tw7o days old, very lean, and very weak.
On ftroking its head, it got up, pawed two or three
times like an old bull, bellowTed very loud, flepped
back a few fteps, and butted at his legs with all its
force : it then began to paw again, belkwed, ftepped
back, and butted as before ; but knowing its intention,
and ftepping afide, it miffed him, fell, and was fo very
wreak that it could not rife, though it made feveral ef¬
forts. But it had done enough. The whole herd
wrere alarmed, and coming to its refeue, obliged him
to retire ; for the dams will allow no perfon to touch
their calves without attacking them with impetuous fe¬
rocity. When any one happens to be wounded, or
is grown weak and feeble through age or weaknefs,
the reft of the herd fet upon it, and gore it to
death.
The weight of the oxen is generally from 30 to
50 ftones the four hind quarters, the cows about 30.
The beef is finely marbled, and of excellent lla-
vo?r *• . r . * Bewick'.
There is fcarcely any part of the ox that is not of ^t-uadt u-
fome ufe to mankind. Boxes, combs, knife handles,
and drinking veffels, are made of the horns. Thefe,
when foftened with boiling water, become fo pliable,
as to be formed into tranfparent plates for lanterns ; an
invention aferibed to King Alfred, who is faid to have
firft ufed them to preferve his candle time-meafures
from the wind. Their dung is ufeful for manure.
Glue is made of the cartilages, griilles, and the finer
pieces of cuttings and parings of the hides, boiled in
wrater till they become gelatinous, and the parts fufli-
ciently diffolved, and then dried. The bone is a cheap
fubftitute, in many inftances, for ivory. The thinneft
of the calves-fkins are manufactured into vellum. The
blood is ufed as the bafis of Pruflian blue. Sadlers and
others ufe a fine fort of thread, prepared from the
finews, which is much ftronger than any other equally
fine. The hair is valuable in various manufactures,
and the fact, fat, and tallow, for candles. The uti¬
lity of the milk and cream is well known.
From the circumftance
the Gentoos with milk, butter and cheefe, their fa¬
vourite food, they bear for them a fjperftitious venera¬
tion, founded thus principally in gratitude. There is
3 U fcarctiy
of thefe animals furniftiing
tary.
Fig. 71.
522 M A M M
Hiftory of fcarcely a Gentoo to be found that would not, were he
the Species. un(]er a forcec} option, prefer facrificing his parents or
children to the flaying of a bull or caw.
For the application of oxen to the purpofes of agri¬
culture, and for the bed methods of rearing, breeding,
and feeding cows and cattle, fee Agriculture ; for
an account of the internal ftrudfure of this genus, fee
Anatomy, Part IV. Chap. IV. Sevd. III. 5 for the con-
firuitlion of byi'es or cow-houfes, wuth fome obferva-
tions on the feeding of cows and calves, fee FarriePvY
Part IV. ; and for the difeafes incident to cattle, with
I?T their treatment, fee the fame article, Part VI.
Grunniens, 3. B. Gnuiniens, Yak, or Grunting Ox.—The
Yak of Tar-bed account of this Angular fpecies is that given by
Captain Turner, in his account of an embaffy to Tibet.
It is as follows.
The yak of Tartary, called foora goy in Hindodan,
and which Captain Turner terms the bujhy-tailed bull
-of Tibet, is about the height of an Engiidi bull, which
it refembles in the general figure of the body, head,
and legs. He could difcover between them no eflen-
tial difference, except that the yak is covered all over
with a thick coat of long hair. The head is rather
fhort, crowned with two fmooth round horns, which,
tapering from the root upwards, terminate in diarp
points ; they are arched inwrards, bending towards each
other, but near the extremities are a little turned back.
The ears are fmall; the forehead appears prominent,
being adorned wdth much curling hair ; the eyes are
full and large ; the nofe fmall and convex ; the nodrils
fmall, the neck diort, defcribing a curvature nearly e-
qual both above and below ; the withers are high and
arched. The rump is low ; over the Ihoulder rifes a
thick mufcle, which feems to be the fame kind of
protuberance peculiar to the cattle of Hindodan, co¬
vered with a profufion of foft hair, wrhich in general,
is longer and more copious than that along the ridge
of the back to the fetting on of the tail. T he tail is
compofed of a prodigious quantity of long, fiowdng,
gloffy hair, and is fo abundantly furnhhed, that not a
■joint of it is perceptible ; but it has much the appear¬
ance of a large cluder of hair artificially fet on ; the
dioulders, rump, and upper part of the body, are cloth¬
ed with a fort of thick foft wool, but the inferior parts
with draight pendant hair that defcends below the
knee j and Captain Turner lias feen it fo long in fome
cattle, which wrere in high health and condition, as to
trail upon the ground. From the ched, between the
legs, iffues a large pointed tuft of draight hair, grow¬
ing fomewhat longer than the reft ; the legs are very
fhort } in every other refpefl he refembles the ordinary
bull.
Thefe cattle, though not large-boned, feem, from the
profufe quantity of hair with which they are provided, to
be of great bulk. The_y have a downcad heavy look,
and appear, what indeed they are, fullen and fufpicious,
difcovering much impatience at the near approach of
ftrangers. They do not low loud like the cattle of
Britain, any more than thofe of Hindoftan, but make
a low grunting noife, fcarcely audible, and that but
feldora, when under feme impredion of uneafinefs.
Thefe cattle are paftured in the colded parts of Tibet,
upon the diort herbage peculiar to the tops of moun¬
tains and bleak plains. The chain of mountains fitu-
ALIA. Part
ated betwTeen the latitudes of 270 and 28°, which di- Belli
vides Tibet from Boutan, and whofe fummits are mod ~~~~v
commonly clothed with fnow, is their favourite haunt.
In this vicinity the fouthern glens afford them food and
dicker during the feverity of winter; in milder feafons,
the northern afpeid is more congenial to their nature,
and admits a wider range. They are a very valuable
property to the tribes of itinerant Tartars, called D’.:ck-
ba, who live in tents, and tend them from place to
place ; they at the fame time afford their herdfmen an
eafy mode of conveyance, a good covering, and whole-
fome fubfidence. They are never employed in agri¬
culture, but are extremely ufeful as beads of burden,
for they are ftrong, fure-footed, and carry a great
weight. Tents and ropes are manufactured of their
hair, and amongft the humbler ranks of herdfmen, he
has feen caps and jackets made of their fkins. Their
tails are efteemed throughout the eaft, as far as luxury
and parade have any influence on the manners of the
people ; and on the continent of India they are found,
under the denomination of chowries, in the hands of
the meaneft grooms, as well as occafionaliy in thofe of
the firft minifter of date. They are in univerfal ufe
for driving away winged infects, dies, and mufketoes,
and are employed as ornamental furniture upon horfes
and elephants ; yet the bed requital with which the
care of their keepers is at length rewarded, for feleft-
ing them good padures, is in the abundant quantity of
rich milk which they give, and the butter produced
from it, which is mod excellent. It is their cudom to
preferve this in fkins or bladders, and the air being
thus excluded from it, it wull keep in this cold climate
throughout the year ; fo that, after fome time tending
their herds, when a fufficient ftore is accumulated, it
remains only to load their cattle, and drive them to a
proper market with their own produce, which confti-
tutes, to the utmoft verge of Tartary, a mod material
article of commerce.
Dr Pallas informs us, that the calves of this fpecies,
tvhen firft born, are covered with a ftrong woolly hair,
refembling that of a water fpaniel, and that in about
three months they begin to acquire the long hair of the
throat, low7er parts, and tail.
This animal w7as deferibed by Hilian, under the name
of Poephagus.
This order contains eight genera and about 82 fpecies.
Chap. VI. BEL LUTE.
Genus 45. Equus. Horse.
Front teeth in the upper jaw fix, parallel. In the
lower jaw, fix, fomewhat projecting. Canine teeth,
one on each fide, in both jaws, remote from the
reft. Feet with undivided hoofs.
Dr Shaw enumerates fix fpecies, viz. 1. * Equus
Caballus, The Horfe.-—Tail uniformly covered with
long hair.—2. E. Hemionus, Jickta. Of an uniform co¬
lour, without a diftintt humeral croft, with naked tail
haired at the tip.—3. * E. AJinus, Aft. Blackidr croft
over the droulders, and tail tipped with long hair.—-
4. F.. Zebra, Zebra, Variegated with numerous dark
brown ftripes.-—5. E. ^Zjtagga, (,)uagga. Rather ruf-
ty,
15
Equus
Chap. VI. M A M M A L I A. 523
ty, whitifli belcw, ftriped abeve with brown. Spotted nous animal, does not go m promifcuous flocks like Hiftory of
towards the hind parts.—6. E. Bi/u/cust Cloven-footed cattle or Iheep ; but each male choofes for himfelf a e Species.
H. With cloven hoofs. certain number of females, with whom alone he aflbci- v
i. Equus Cal alius, Common H.—Though it is ates during the whole year, beating off every other
in a ftate of domeflication that ive are chiefly to confi- male which offers to approach them. The ftrongefl: of
der this moft noble animal, tve muft firft, however, courfe has the beft haram, and the weaker are obliged
mention a few circumftances refpe&ing him in his na- to go without any. But when he has once fixed him-
live ftate of liberty. felf, he defends hi:
Horfes are found wild in fevefal parts of the globe.
Large herds of them are occafionally feen in the fou-
thern parts of Siberia, and in the great Mongalian de-
ferts, and among the Kalkas to the north-w’eft of Chi¬
na. They are alfo found in the deferts on each fide
the river Don; but it is fuppofed that thefe are defcend-
ed from the Ruffian horfes employed in the fiege of
Afoph, in the year 1697, who being turned loofe for
want of forage, efcaped into the deferts, and their de-
fcendants have gradually acquired the appearance of na¬
tive wildnefs.
The horfe in its wild ftate is confiderably fmaller
than moft of our domeftic horfes, and poffeHes much
lefs fymmetry of form. He is extremely fwift, aflive
and vigilant, and like fome other tribes of animals,
thefe horfes have always a centinel, who by a loud
neigh gives notice to the herd of approaching dan¬
ger, when they all gallop off with aftonifhing rapi¬
dity.
In South America there are alfo found large herds
of wild horfes; but thefe are of Spanifh origin, derived
from thofe that wTere carried over by the firft conque¬
rors of America. They are nowr become fo numerous
his own property, never attempting to
encroach ,on that of another. The battles "that are
fought for the females at the beginning of the feafon
are furious, and often prove fatal to one of the parties ;
but w7hen the vi&ory is once decided, the weakeft
never afterwards for that feafon difpute for fuperi-
ority.
The horfe, when he has once obtained his females,
governs them with defpotic authority. Whenever he
calls upon them they muft obey, otherwife they are pu-
niftied feverely ; and the mares are fo fenfible of this,
that they difcovcr every fymptom of the molt perfedi
obedience to their lord and matter.
His government, however, is founded on love, and
his authority is exercifed, rather for the protection of
his fubjedls, than their injury, The great enemy they
have there to dread is the wolf; and if the horfe did
not take care to keep them clofe together, fo as to re¬
ceive the benefit of his protection, they would be foon
exterminated. It is the foals only that the wolf ever
attacks, and again-ft his attacks they are much upon
their guard. When they fee any appearance of dan¬
ger, the horfe gives the call, and they all inftantly
gallop up to him. The foals are then put all together.
as to live in herds, fome of which are faid to confift of and the mares laying their heads together above the
3 0,000. As foon as they perceive domeftic horfes in
the fields, they gallop to them, carefs, and by a kind
of grave and prolonged neighing, invite them to run
off. The domeftic horfes are foon feduced, unite them-
felves to the independent herd, and depart along with
foals, form a circle all round with their heels outward,
ready to ftrike their enemy if he approaches. The
horfe in the mean time remains without the circle to
be ready to attack wherever the danger {hall be great-
eft. One wolf dares never make the attack by him-
them. It happens not unfrequently that travellers are felf. When they come up, the horfe gallops round
flopped on the road by the effeCl of this defertion. To his family, trampling to death every one he can reach,
prevent this, they halt as foon as they perceive thefe
wanderers, watch their own horfes, and endeavour to
fiighten away the others. In this cafe the wild horfes
refort to ftratagem fome are detached before, and the
or tearing them with his teeth ; and fo ftrong is his
bite when thus enraged, that they frequently have been
known, with a fingle gnafh of their teeth, to break
the back of a wrolf,- and to kill him entirely. It fel-
reft advance in a clofe column, which nothing can in- dom happens that the wolves prevail in this conteft ;
terrupt. If they are fo alarmed as to be obliged to re^. and they fo much dread the power of this noble ani-
tire, they change their diredlion, but wdthout fuffering
tbemfelves to be difperfed. Sometimes they make fe-
veral turns round thofe they wi(h to feduce, in order to
frighten them, but they often retire after making one
turn. When the inhabitants wifh to convert fome of
thefe wild horfes into domeftic ones, which they find
not very difficult to be dorre, perfons mounted on horfe-
back attack a troop of them, and when they approach
them, they throw ropes with great care round their
uial, that they feldom make the attack unlefs when
they are much pinched wdth hunger.
This breed of horfes, though nimble and a£live, are
not of a very large fize. The hunting of thefe horfes,
which is only attempted by the natives for catching
them alive, efpecially the young ones, is attended with
difficulty and danger, and muft not be attempted with¬
out due precautions *.
^ In a domeftic or improved ftate, the horfe is found * %ee voL
legs, which prevent them from running away. When in almoft every country of the world, except within xvii. p. p8.
brought home they are tied with a halter to a ftake or the Ardlic circle ; but he is found in his higheft per-
tree, without food or drink, for two or three days, feflion in Arabia, where he feems as little degenerated
After this they are cut, and then broke in the fame in his race and powers as the lion or tyger of the Afri-
manner as the domeftic horfes. They foon become do- can forefts. To the Arabian hordes the horfes are as
cile, but if not carefully watched, will again join their dear as their children; and the conftant intercourfe ari-
wild friends. fing from living in the fame tent with their owmer and
1 The attention with which the wild horjes of Siberia his family, creates a familiarity that could not other-
proteft their young, is finely exemplified in a commit- wife be effedled, and a tradlability that arifes only
nication by a gentleman in that country to the editor from the kindeft ufage. They are the fleeteft animals
of the Bee. The wild horfe, he fays, though a grega- of the defert, and are fo w-ell trained as to flop in their
3 U 2 moft
M A M iV
^ mod rap-d courfe, by tlie fliglitcft check of the rider.
_T Unaccuitomed to the fpur, the lead touch .vith the
foot fets them again in motion, and fo obedient are
they to the rider’s will, as to be directed in their courfe
ineieiy by the motion of a fvvitch. 1'hey form the
principal riches of many of the Arab tribes, who ufe
them both in the chafe and in their plundering expedi¬
tions. In the day time they are generally kept faddled
at the door of the tent, prepared for any 'excurfion
? hen' matter may take. Phey never carry any heavy
burdens, or are employed on long journeys. Their
conftant food, except in fpring, when they get a little
gra's, is barley, which they are fullered to eat only
during the night. The Arab, his wife, and children,
always lie in the fame apartment with the mare and
foal, who, inftead of injuring them, fuffer the chil¬
dren to reft on their necks and bodies without incom¬
moding them in the leaft. Phe poor gentle animals
even feem afraid to move left they Ihould hurt them.
The Arabs never beat or corred their horfes, but always
treat them with the utmoft kindnefs. They talk to
and reafon with them.
I he whole ftock of a poor Arabian of the defert
confifted of a beautiful mare ; this the French conful
at Said offered to purchafe, with an intention to fend
her to Louis XIV. Phe Arab, preffed by want, heii-
tated for a long time, but at length confented, on con¬
dition of receiving a very confiderable fum of money,
which he named. P he conful wrote to France for
permiftion to clofe the bargain, and having obtained
it, fent immediately to the Arab the information. The
man, fo poor as to poffefs only a miferable rag, a co¬
vering for his body, arrived with his magnificent cour-
fer, and looking 6rft at the gold, and then ftedfaftly at
Ills mare, heaved a deep figh. “ To whom is it (he ex¬
claimed) that I am going to yield thee up > To Euro¬
peans ! who will tie thee clofe, who will beat thee,
w ho will render thee miferable. Return with me, my
beauty, my jewel ! and rejoice the hearts of my chil¬
dren !” As he pronounced the laft words, he fprang
upon her back, and was out of fight almoft in a mo¬
ment.
The horfes of France are thus charafterized by Euf-
fon. Thofe of Bretagne are pretty ftrongly made, and
have generally black hair, or brown bay j and they
have good legs and feet, with a hardy mouth, and a
head Ihort and llefliy, but in general they are rather
clumfy. The horfes of Tranche Compte are faid to
have the legs of tygers, and belly of a hind ; but thev
are fhort and thick, and of a. middle fize, being much
more proper for drawing than riding. The horfes of
Gafcony are not unlike thofe of Spain ; but they are
not lb handfome nor fo active, and therefore they are
more proper to draw carriages, Phe Limofin horfes
are very vicious, and are good for little till they are
fix years old. I heir colour is generally bay, or a bay
brown. I he horfes of Normandy are much like thole
of Bretagne j and thofe of Poitou have good bodies,
legs, feet and eyes, but they are far from "being hand¬
fome.
The horfes of Germany are much better and hand-
&mer than thofe of the Low Countries. They are of
great ufe for carriages, but much more for the army,
and for drawing the artillery. They have a great deal
of hair, efpecially about the legs. They are not large,
[ A L. I A.
but they are well fet, antf yet they have tender feet.
1 ne Hungarian horles are excellent for the coach, as
well as lor riding ; but they arc large, though well
proportioned ; and they are ol all colours, and in ge¬
neral very fwift.
I ne Danifh horfes are low, Ihort, and fquare } but
they have a fine head, and Ihort hair. P'he horfes of
the Low Countries are very fit for the coach, and they
aie beft known by the name of Flanders mares. The
Polish horfes are like the Danilh, only they have not
fo fine a forehead ; their colour is generally a bright
bay, and that of the outward peel of an onion, and
they are fiery and vicious. The horfes of Switzerland
are pretty much like thofe of Germany, which is not
furprifing, fince the Germans purchafe a great number
of them. The horfes of Piedmont are fiery, of a middle
fize, and of all forts of colours ; their legs are good
and handfome, their eyes fine, their ears fmall, and
their mouths good j but they do not carry their heads
well.
The horfes of Naples and Italy are generally ill
made and lean, and yet they are good and ufeful, for
they are light and proper for racing, though not for a
long courfe *, they never do well in a colder climate.
P he Spanifti horles are very well made and handfome,
as well as very abtive and nimble; they have good
eyes, handfome legs and heads, and are eafily mana¬
ged ; they are alio good for racing, if they are well
kept; however they are not fo good in northern cli¬
mates as in their own country. The Turkish horfes
are of different lhapes, but they are generally fwift,
though their mouths are bad. Moft of them are white!
though there are other colours, and they are large,
hardy, ftrong, and fit for the road.
The horfes of Barbary, commonly called barbs, have
ftrong hoofs, and are more proper for racing than any
others whatever ; fome have faid they never grow old,
becaufe they preferve their vigour to the laft. P'hey
are excellent ftallions, and fome of them are ufed as
fucb in Britain 5 however, the Arabian horfes are not
quite fo good as the Barbary, though fome think they
are both of the fame kind j only thofe that are ufed to
the deferts of Arabia are always in affion. Pdre horfes
of the Gold coaft of Guinea are very few in number
and in other parts of that coaft there are none at all ;
for many of the negroes, when they have been firft
brought over to our American plantations, have ex-
preffed great admiration at the fight of the horfe, and
even been afraid to come near one.
The horfes of the Cape were originally brought from
Perfia, and they are fmall, of a chefnut colour, as the
natives of that country are all wild, and could never
be tamed. The horfes of China are good, and more
particularly thofe in the province of Yun Nan, for
they are vigorous, though rather low. The horfes of
the Eluth P’artars are good and full of fire, and their
fize is much the fame as that of the Polifti horfes; they
are afraid of nothing, not even of lions and tygers, but
this perhaps may be owing to ufe. In the country of
the Mogul they are very numerous, and of all colours $
they are generally of the middle fize, though fome are
as large and handfome as thofe of Europe.
The breed of horfes in Great Britain is as mixed as
that of its inhabitants. The frequent introduefion of
foreign horfes has giyen us a variety, that no fingle -
country
Chap.
Eelluae.
\~j . M A M
country can boaft of} molt otlier countries produce on-
ly one kind, while ours, by a judicious mixture of the
feveral fpecies, by the happy difference of our foils, and
by ou: fuperior fkill in management, may triumph over
the reft of Europe, in having brought each quality of
this noble animal to the higheft perfeSion.
In the annals of Newmarket, may be found inftances
of horfes that have literally outftripped the wind.
CJiilders is an amazing inftance of rapidity, his ^fpeed
having been more than once exerted equal to 82-^ feet
in a fecond, or nearly a mile in a minute. The fame
horfe has alfo run the round courfe at Newmarket
(which is about 400 yards lefs than four miles) in fix
minutes and 40 feconds, in which cafe his fleetnefs is
to that of the fwifteft Barb as four to three. This
horfe was allowed to be the fleeteft that was ever bred
in the world ; he ftarted repeatedly at Newmarket a-
gain ft the beft horfes of his time, and was never beaten.
He won in different prizes to the amount of nearly
2000I. and was afterwards referved as a ftallion. His
fire was an Arabian, fent by a gentleman as a prefect
to his brother in England. Next to Childers was the
famous Eclipfe, who' won prizes to a great amount.
High-flier was accounted the beft horfe of his time in
England. Though he never ftarted after he was five
years old, he w7on to the amount of nearly 9)0001. He
was never beaten, nor ever paid a forfeit, ^aiJ Ma
ton, the property of the late marquis of Rockingham,
won, in feven prizes, nearly 6000I. At York he ran
four miles in lefs than eight minutes.
One of the moft remarkable. inftances of the work
done by poft-horfes in a fliort time, is that mentioned
by Buffon, of the poft-mafter of Stretton, who in the
year 1745* rode on different horfes along the London
road no lefs than 215 miles in 11 hours and a half 5
a rate of above 18 miles an hour. In July 1788, a
hoife belonging to a gentleman of Bilieter fquare, Lon¬
don, w’as, for a wager, trotted 3® miles in an hour and
23 minutes, wdiich is above 21 miles in an hour.
No country can be compared wuth ours with refpe£l
to the ftrength and fize of draught horfes, and for the
adftivity and ftrength of thofe that rorm our cavalry. In
London there have been inftances of a fingle horie
drawing, for a fiiort fpace, the weight of three tons;
and fome of the pack-horfes of the north ufually carry
burdens weighing upwards of 4001b. But the moil;
remarkable proof of the ftrength of the Britiin horLs
is in our mill horfes, fome of which have been known
to carry, at one load, 13 meafures of corn, that m the
whole would amount to more than Qoclb. in weignt.
Our cavalry in the late campaigns, fhowed over tho.e
of our allies, as w’ell as the French, a greac fu peri on¬
ly both of ftrength and aftivity : the enemy was broken
through by the impetuous charge of our fquadrons,
while the German horfes, from their great weight, and
ina£live make, v^ere unable to fecond our efforts, though
thofe troops were actuated by the nobleft ardour. The
prefect cavalry of this ifland only fupports its ancient
glory j it vras eminent in the earlieft times : ourfcythed
chariots, and the activity, and good difcipline of our
horfes, even ftruck terror into Ctefar's legions. It is
now impofiible to trace out this fpecies, for thofe wnica
exift among the indigenae of Great Britain, fuch as the
little horfes of Wales and Cornwall, the hobbies of Ife-
Ind, and the fhelties of Scotland, though admirably vs til
M A L I A. 5-5
adapted to the ufes of thofe countries, could never have aftory or
been equal to the wTork of wTar. Iho.e we employ for , ... ^ .
that purpofe, or for the draught, are an offspring of the
German or Flemi/b breed, meliorated by our foil, and a
judicious culture. _
The Englilh were ever attentive to an exact culture
of thefe animals, and in very early times fet a high
value on their breed. The efteem that our horfes weie
held in by foreigners fo long ago as the reign of Nrhel-
flan, may be collefted from a law of that monarch pro*
hibiting their exportation, except they were defigned as
prefents. Thefe muft have been the native kind, or the
prohibition would have been needlefs, for our commerce
was at that time too limited to receive improvement
from any but the German kind, to which countiy their
own breed could be of no value.
But when our intercourfe with the other parts of Eu¬
rope was enlarged, we foon laid hold of the advantcigej
this gave of improving our breed. Roger de Belleftne,
earl of Shrewfbury, is the firft that is upon record. He
introduced the Spaniih ftallions into his eftate in Powis-
land, from which that part of Wales was foi many
ages celebrated for a fwift and generous race of horfes.
Giraldus Cambrenfls, who lived in the reign of Henry
II. takes notice of it, and Michael Drayton,. cotempo¬
rary with Shakefpeare, fings their excellence in the 6tlx
part of his Polyalbion. I his kind was probably oeftined
to mount our gallant nobility, our courteous knights
for feats of chivalry, in the generous contefts of the
tilt-yard. From thefe fprung, to fpeak the language of
the times, the flower of couriers, whofe elegant foiin
added charms to the rider, and whofe adlivity and ma-
naged dexterity gained him the palm in that ueld .of
gallantry and romantic honour. 1 nat this was tue chref
object of cultivating the mixed breed, is very probable,
for racing in its prefent form was not introduces into
England" till the reign of James I. the earlieft notice of
the diverfion being in that reign. Croyden in the fcutb,
and Garterly in Yorkftvire, were then famous horfe
courfes. That it was not in vogue in the preceding
reign, is reafonable to imagine, for among the nume¬
rous entertainments exhibited at Kenelworth by Eliza¬
beth’s favourite on her vifit there, and where no amufe-
ment then pracfiied was-omitted, we do not fina hone--
racing among them.
Not that we deny this diverfion to be known in thefe -
kingdoms in earlier times $ we only aflert a different
mode of it, gentlemen being then their own jockies,..
and riding their own horfes. Lord Herbert of Cher-
bury enumerates it among the fperts that gallant philb-
fopher thought unworthy of a man of honour.- “ Fhe-
exercife (fays he) I do not approve of, is lunning cf
horfes, there being much cheating in that tcinu } nei¬
ther do I fee why a brave man fliould celignt in a crea¬
ture whofe chief ufe is to help'him to run away.
As no kingdom can boaft of parallel circumftances,,
fo none can vie with us in the number ot thefe noole
quadrupeds. It would be extremely difficult to guefs-
at the exa6t number of them, or to form a periodical
account of their increafe •, the number feems very fluc¬
tuating. Mr William Fitz-Stephen relates, that in the
reign of King Stephen, London alone poured out
20,000 horfemen in the- wrars of thofe times 5 yet vve ■
find that in the beginning of Queen Elizabeth’s reign,
the whole kingdom could not fupply 2000 hor.es to >
form;*
6 M A M M
ftory or Form our cavalry j and even in tlie year 158B, when
pecie.'.^he nation was in the raoft imminent danger from the
Spamih invafion, all the cavalry which the nation could
then furnilh amounted only to 3000. To account for
this difference w'e mufl: imagine, that the number of
norles which took the field in Stephen’s reign was no
more than an undifciplined rabble ; the few that ap¬
peared under the banners of Elizabeth, a corps well
formed, and fuch as might be oppofed to fuch a formi¬
dable enemy as w’as then expe&ed. But fuch is their
prefent mcreafe, tnat in a late war, the number em¬
ployed was 13,375 ; and fuch is our improvement in
the breed of horfes, that moll of thofe which are ufed
in our waggons and carriages of different kinds, might
be applied to the fame purpofe. Of thofe our capital
alone employs near 22,000.
_ Of all quadrupeds, fays Buffon, the horfe, together
with grandeur of ftature, poffeffes the greatell elegance
and proportion of parts. If we compare him with the
animals immediately above and below him, we {hall
find that the afs is ill-made ; that the head of the lion
is too large •, the limbs of the ox too fiiort and (lender ;
that the camel is deformed, and the elephant a Ihape-
lefs mafs. The regularity and proportion of the parts
oi his head, give him alight and fprightly afpefl, which
is well fupported by the beauty of his che(!. He ele¬
vates his head as if anxious to exalt himfelf above the
condition of quadrupeds, and in this noble attitude he
beholds man face to face.
We (hall here give Buffon’s defcription of what he
confiders as a perfefl horfe ; but that this, and fimilar
defcriptions may be better underftood, we (hall premife
an explanation of the technical terms commonly em¬
ployed in defcribing a horfe. The figures prefixed to
the terms refer to fig. 72. Plate CCCXIII. The fore
part. 1. The forehead. 2. The temples. 3. Cavity
above the eye. 4. The jaw. 5. The lips. 6. The
noftrils. 7. The tip of the nofe. 8. The chin. 9.
IIhe beard. 10. The neck. 11. The mane. 12. The
fore-top. 13. The throat. 14, The withers. 15.
The (houlders. 16. The chert. 17. The elbow. 18.
The arm- 19. The plate vein. 20. The chefnut.
21. The knee. 22. The (hank. 23. The main ten¬
dons. 24. The fetlock joint. 25. The fetlock. 26.
The paftern. 27. The coronet. 28. The hoof. 29.
The quarters. 30. The toe. 31. The heel. The
body. 32. The reins. 33. The fillets. 34. The
ribs. 35. The belly. 36. The flanks. The hind
part. 37. The rump. 38. The tail. 39. The but¬
tocks. 40. The haunches. 41. The ftifle. 42. The
thighs. 43. The hock. 44. The kerb. 4:. The point
■ of the hock.
When the horfe is without blemifh, fays Buffon, the
legs and thighs are clean, the knees ftraight, the fhin
and drank thin, and the bark finew ilrong and w’ell
braced. I he finervs and the bones fhotdd be fo diftindd,
as to make the legs appear thin and lathy, not full and
round. I he paftern joints die uld never be large and
round; normuft there be any [welling near the coronet.
T he hock diould be lean and dry, not puffed up with
wind Vv ith regard to the hoof, the coronet ihould be
equally, thick, and tire horn fhining and grayifh. A
white horn is a fign of a bad hoof, for it will wear out
in ti diort time ; and likewife when the horn is thin, it
is liable to be fpoiied in droeing, and by travelling hard
A- L I A. . Part It;
on ftony grounds. This is bed; known when the dice Bellute.
is taken off, for then the verge all round the foie will ap- v J
pear thin, and the horfe will wince at the leait touch of
the pincers.
A drong foot has the fibres of the hoof very didinck
running in a direct line from the coronet to the toe,
like the gram of wood. In this cafe, care mud be
taken to keep the foot moift and pliable. The greateft
inconvenience attending a hard ftrong ioot, is its being
fubject to rifts and fiffures, which cleave the hoof
quite through fometimes from the coronet down to the
bottom.
A narrow heel is likewife a defect ; and when it is
not above two fingers in breadth, the foot is bad. A
high heel caufes a horfe to trip and (tumble often ; and
the low one, with long yielding pafterns, is very apt to
be worn quite away on a journey. Too large a foot in
proportion to the reft of the body, renders a horfe weak
and heavy.
1 he head of a horfe diould be fmall, and rather lean
than bediy. The ears ihould be fmall, erect, thin,
fprightly, and pointed. The forehead, or brow, diould
have a Itar or fnip thereon. The nofe diould rife a
little, and the nodrils diould be wide that he may
breathe mote freely. The muzzle diould be fmall, and
the mouth neither too deep nor too diailow. The jaws
diould be thin, and not approach too near together at
the throat, nor too high upwards towards the onfet,
that the horfe may have fufficient room to carry his head
in an eafy graceful pofture. The eyes diould be of a
middle dze, bright, lively, and full of fire. The tongue
diould be fmall, that it may not be too much preffed on
by the bit ; and it is a good fign when his mouth is full
of white froth, as it diews that he will not foon be over¬
heated.
The neck diould be arched towards the middle,
growing fmaller by degrees from the breaft and dioul-
ders to the head. The hair of the mane fhould be long,
fmall, and fine, and it will not be amifs if it be a little
frizzled. The ihoulders ihould be pretty long, the wi¬
thers thin, and diould gradually enlarge downwards,
but fo as to render the breaft neither too narrow nor
too thick. A thick-ftiouidered horfe foon tires, and
trips and ftumbles every minute, efpecially if he has at
the fame time a thick, large neck. When the breaft
is fo narrow that the fore thighs almoft touch, the horfe
is never good for much. A horfe of a middle dze
ftiould have the diftance of five or fix inches between
his fore thighs, and there fhould be lefs diftance be¬
tween his feet than his thighs near the (boulders when
he (lands upright.
The body or carcafe of a horfe (hould be of a mid¬
dling fize in proportion to his bulk, and the back (hould
fink a little below the withers •, but the other parts
diould be ftraight, and no higher behind than before.
He diould alfo be home-ribbed, but the (hort ribs diould
not approach too near the haunches, and then he will
have room to fetch his breath. When a horfe’s back is
diort in proportion to his bulk, and yet othervvife well
limbed, he will hold out a journey, though he will tra¬
vel (low. When he is tall, with very long legs, he is but
of little value.
The wind diould never be overlooked in the choice of
a horfe, and it may eafily be known by his Hanks, whether
he is broken-winded, when he Hands quiet in the lia¬
ble i
Chap. VI.
BelltiEe. ble ; becaufe then be always pincbes them in with a very
1 v (low motion, and drops them fiiddenly. A thick-wind¬
ed horfe fetches his breath often, and fometimes rattles
and wheezes. This may be always difcovered when he
is put to brifk exercifes.
The temper of a horfe (hould alwTays be obferved j a
vicious horie generally lays his ears clpfe to his pole,
(hews the whites of his eyes, and looks fullen and dog¬
ged. An angry horfe may be known by his frowning
looks; and he generally feems to (land in a pofture of
defence. When he is very vicious, he pays no re¬
gard to the groom that feeds him, though feme horfes
that are ticklifh will lay back their ears, without being
of a bad difpofition. A fearful horfe is apt to dart,
and never leaves off till he is old and ufelefs. A fret¬
ful horfe is very unfit for a journey, and you may dif-
cover his temper as foon as he gets out of the liable.
A dull, heavy, fluggilh horfe may be eafily known,
whatever tricks are ufed to roufe his fpirits. With re¬
gard to the colour of a horfe, the bright bay, and in¬
deed all bays in general, are accounted good colours.
The chefnut horfe is generally to be preferred to the
forrel, unlefs the former happens to be party-coloured
with w'hite legs. Brown horfes have generally black
manes and tails, and their joints are of a rully black.
Thofe of this colour that are dapple are much hand-
fomer than the reft. Horfes of a (hining black, and
well marked wdthout too much w-hite, are in high
efteem for their beauty. A ftar, or blaze, or white
muzzle, or one or more feet tipped with white, are
generally thought to be rather better than thofe that
are quite black.
Of grays, the dappled are accounted beft, though
the filver gray make a more beautiful appearance, and
often prove good. The ironvgray with white manes and
tails, are thought not to be fo hardy. Grays of every
kind will turn white fooner or later 5 but the nutmeg
gray, when the dappled parts incline to bay or chefnut,
are faid to be good hardy horfes. Roan horfes have a
diverfity of colours mixed together ; but the white is
more predominant than the reft. They are all general¬
ly hardy, and fit for the road j and fome are exceeding
good. Thofe of a ftrawberry colour moft referable the
fdrrel, and they are often marked with white on the
legs and face. When the bay is blended with it, he
feems to be tinflurtd with claret, and fome of thefe
prove to be very good. Dun, fallow^ and cream-co¬
loured horfes have a lift down their backs, and their
manes and tails are black. Dun horfes are feldom cho-
fen by gentlemen, and yet they may be very ufeful to
the country farmer. The fallow and cream-colour¬
ed are more efteemed, both for beauty and ufe. Thofe
horfes that are finely fpotted with gray colours like leo¬
pards are a great rarity, and for that reafon they are
only in the hands of great men.
As in this country the form of the race-horfe is more
particularly attended to, we (hall give the following
rules for the beft proportions of race-horfes, as laid down
by Mr Feron.
“ It has been obferved by feveral authors, with good
authority, that the head of a horfe, divided into 22
equal parts, is the common meafure for every part of
the body j but if the head fhould appear too long or too
(liort, that, meafure muft be abandoned, to take the
height of the body from the top of the withers to the
527
ground. The third part of this meaiure will give you Biftoryof
a juft length for every other part of the body, and will ^ Species,
drew you likewife how much the head was defective. v ~
“ A horfe well made and beautiful in his fore hand,
ftiould meafure 3 heads and 16 parts from the top of the
head to the ground, the head (landing in its natural po-
fition—the neck (hould meafure one head and 13 parts
from the withers to the top of the head,—the fame mea¬
fure gives the length of the neck from the top of the
head to its termination in the cheft—the height of the
body (hould meafure three heads from the withers to
the ground—we obferve the fame meafure from the
rump to the ground,— the length of the body (hould
meafure - three heads and four parts, from the point
of the (boulder to the pofterior part of the buttock.
“ The line which falls from the articulation of the
(boulder wdth the arm, (hould meafure tw'o heads and
feven parts. This line muft direflly touch the hoof in
front of the toe. If the foot (hould (land before this
line, the leg will be in an oblique dire&ion forward,
which ftru61ure wall confine the horfe in all his adlions,
becaufe the fore legs are obliged to come upon the
ground nearly the fame way as thofe of a horfe going
down hill j that is to fay, the heels wdll touch the
ground firft, inftead of the toes ; but if the legs (land
obliquely backwards from above, which is the oppofite
defeft, the cafe is a great deal worfe, becaufe the ani¬
mal is continually (tumbling or even falling, on ac¬
count of his feet being drawn too much under the belly,
W'hich (ituation obliges him to fupport too great a weight
of the body. When this defedt originates from the
knees only, it bends the legs more or lefs, in which cafe
the horfe is called bow-legged. In either cafe fuch an
animal muft be rejected, and confidered as unfit for a
racer.
“ The line which falls from the top of the fore leg to
the point of the heel, {hould meafure one head and 20
parts. This line is extended to (how the perfeft per¬
pendicular pofition of the whole limb. The diftance
from the top of the withers to the ftifle (hould meafure
one head and 20 parts j the fame meafure gives the di¬
ftance from the rump to the elbow, or vice verfa.
The width of the neck (hould meafure one head,
taken from the top of the withers to the point of
the (boulder.
“ The narrowed part of the neck, and the breadth of
the head taken a little below the eyes, meafures 12
parts of a head each. The thicknefs of the body, from
the middle of the back to the middle of the belly,
(hould be one head and tw-o parts. The fame line con¬
tinued to the ground, (hews the centre of gravity of the
horfe’s body. The diftance from the root of the tail to
the ftifle, (hould meafure one head and four parts. The
fame meafure gives the length from the ftifle to the
hock. T he fame meafure gives the diftance from thr
hock to the ground. The breadth of the fore-arm,
taken from the anterior parts of the elbowr, (hould mea¬
fure 11 parts of a head. The fame nfeafure gives the
breadth of one of the hind-legs, taken juft under the
fold of the buttocks. The breadth of the hock, taken
from its anterior part to the top of the os calcis, (hould
meafure feven parts of a head. The fame meafure gives
the breadth of the head above the noftrils, meafured
fideway.
“ The breadth of the head, taken from one eve to. the
M A M MALI A.
528
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Hiltory of edict, fliould meafure fevc n parts of ahead. The fame
t!.e Species, meafure fl10u]d give the diftance between the fore legs.
v The thicknefs of the knees fhould meafure five parts of
ahead. The fame meafure gives the breadth of the
fore legs, juft above the knees. The breadth of the
hind fetlock joints ftiould meafisre four parts of a head.
The breadth of the fore pafterns fticuld meafure 2|
parts of a head. The breadth of the coronet Ihould
meafure 4^ parts of a head. The breadth of the hin¬
der legs or (hank bones, fliould meafure three parts of a
head. The breadth of the fore legs Ihould meafure 2^
parts of a head. The perpendicular line which tails
from the articulation of the ftifle, fliould touch the
ground at the diftance of half a head from the toe. Too
far or too near this dire&ion, proves the hock defec¬
tive. If the hind feet advance too much under the bel¬
ly, the hocks mpft be proportionably bent, and the
weight of the body overcharging them, will of courfe
increafe the deformity. The feet being too much under
the belly, will render it impoflible for them to cover
much ground ; therefore their fteps will be very much
confined. The extenfion of the hocks terminating al-
moft in an upright diredtion, Will rather ferve to raife
the body than to pufli it forward. If, on the contrary,
the hind feet Hand too far behind this line, the hocks
will be too ftrait, and their flexion too confined. The
extenfion of the hinder parts taking place, only in a per¬
pendicular direction backward, will produce a defedl ca-
^ Feron’s pable of retarding their fpeed
Farriery, The fleth of the horfe is daik and coarfe 5 but it has
•£' 3,S' appeared from the accounts we have of long fieges, that
it may be employed for food, and we are allured that it
is by no means unpalatable. In fad!, in fome countries
it is employed as food from choice. In the medical dic¬
tionary of the Encyclopedia Methodique, art. Cheval,
.tom. iv. p. 696. is a curious account of the mode of pre¬
paring an extraordinary part of this animal, that forms
an ingredient in ragouts, with which fome of the Mogul
Tartars regale themfelves in their moft fplendid enter¬
tainments.
The chief ufe to which the remains of the horfe can be
applied, is for collars, traces, and other parts of the
harnefs j and thus, even after death, he preferves fome
analogy with his former employment. The hair of the
mane is fometimes ufed in making wigs $ that of the
tail in making the bottoms of chairs, floor cloths, and
cords, and to the angler in making lines.
For feveral other particulars refpedling the horfe, efpe-
cially on the ufe of that animal among the Jews, on
the management of horfes upon and after a journey,
and on the breeding of horfes, fee the article Horse.
On the ufe of horfes in hufbandry, with a comparative
view of the profits arifing from them and oxen, fee the
article Agriculture, Part III.; for a Ihort account
of the anatomical ftrudture of the horfe, fee FARRIERY,
Part II. ; for various methods of Ihoeing horfes, and fe¬
veral other operations, fee the fame article, Part III ;
for the bell method of conftrudling (fables, and the moft
proper food of horfes, fee Part IV. and for the deferip-
tion and treatment of the difeafes incident to horfes,
with the remedies employed, fee Parts VI. and V. of the
fame article j and for the art of riding, training, and
Ainm managing horfes, fee Horsemanship.
'/he Afs. 3- E- AJhms, the Afs.—It is unneceffary to deferibe
|’ig. 37. the appearance of the dcjmeftic afs; but as this animal
3
in his native ftate of wildnefs differs confiderably from
him who is the Have of man, we ftiail give a ftiort de-
feription of the wild afs.
Its ufual colour is faid to be white, or a pale filvery
gray, with a flight Ihade of ftraw colour on the fides of
the neck and body. Along the back runs a deep browjt
ftripe of thickilh wavy hair, to the beginning of the
tail ; this ftripe is croffed over the (boulders, as in the
tame animal, by another of fimilar colour ; but it is
faid that this is peculiar to the male. The neck is fur-
nilhed with a brown mane three or four inches long,
confiding of foft woolly hair; the tail is tufted at the
end by dulky hairs of about fix inches in length ; the
forehead is arched, and the ears eredl, pointed, and lined
internally with white curling hairs. It Hands higher
on its limbs than the domefticated animal, and its legs
are more (lender in proportion. The hair on the whole
body is very fine, bright, foft, and filky ; and on fome
parts is marked by a few obfeure undulations of a dark¬
er (hade than the reft. Thofe which are found in Afri¬
ca are faid to be of a pale a(h colour, rather than of the
call above deferibed.
The food of the wild afs confifts chiefly of faline, or
bitter and ladfefcent plants. It is alfo fond of fait or
brackifti water. The manners of thefe animals very
much refemble thofe of the wild horfe. They aflemble
in troops under the condud! of a leader, and are ex¬
tremely (hy and vigilant, and, like the former animals,
dart off with the utmoft rapidity on the fight of man¬
kind. They have been at all times celebrated for their
fwiftnefs. Their voice refembles that of the common
afs, but is fomewhat (hriller.
Wild affes are found in feveral parts of Afia, efpe-
cially in the dry and mountainous deferts of Tartary,
and in the fouthern parts of India and Perfia. Large
herds of them are alfo found in South America, where
they were originally introduced by the Spaniards, and
as the climate feems peculiarly favourable to them, they
have multiplied to fo great a number, as in fome places
to have become quite a nuifance. In the kingdom of
Quito they are hunted for the purpofe of domeftica-
tion, and the hunting is conduced in the following
manner.
A number of perfons go on horfeback, and are at¬
tended by Indians on foot. When arrived at the proper
places, they form a circle in order to drive them into
fome valley, where, at full fpeed they throw the noofe
and endeavour to halter them. The creatures, finding
themfelves inclofed, make very furious efforts to efcape;
and if only one forces his way through, they all fol¬
low with an irrefiftible impetuofity. However, when
noofed, the hunters throw them down and fecure them
with fetters, and thus leave them till the chafe is over.
Then, in order to bring them awray with greater facili¬
ty, they pair them with tame affes ; but this is not ea-
fily performed, for they are fo remarkably fierce, that
they often wound the perfons who undertake to manage
them.
They have all the fwiftnefs of horfes, and neither de¬
clivities nor precipices can retard their career. When
attacked, they defend themfelves with their ^heels and
mouth with fuch addrefs, that without flackening their
pace, they often maim their purfuers. But the moft re¬
markable property in thefe creatures is, that, after car¬
rying their firft: load, their celerity leaves them, their
dangerous
Chap. VI.
Belluas. dangerous Ferocity is loft, and tliey foen contract the
flupid look and the dullnefs peculiar to their fpecies.
It is is alfo obfervable that thel'e creatures will not per¬
mit a horfe to live among them. They always feed
together, and if a horfe happens to ftray into the place
where they graze, they all fall upon him, and without
even giving him the choice of dying, bite and kick him
till they leave him dead on the fpot.
Though the afs is at prefent naturalized in this coun¬
try, his introduftion into Britain feems to have been
very late, as he was entirely loft among us during the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, when, as Hollinfhed in¬
forms us, “ our lande did yeelde no aires.’” There is,
however, no reafon to fuppofe that the afs wras unknown
among us fome hundred years before, as wre find men¬
tion made of him fo early as the time of Athelred, and
again in the reign of Henry III. fo that the lofs of
them during the reign of Queen Elibabeth muft have
been owing to fome accident. They were probably in¬
troduced again under the fucceeding reign, when we
renewed our intercourfe with Spain, in which country
this animal is much ufed, and where it has been brought
to great perfection.
The qualities of this animal are fo w’ell known as to
need no defcription. His gentlenefs, patience, and
perfeverance, are without example. He is temperate
with regard to food, and eats contentedly the coarfeft
and moft neglefted herbage. If he give the preference
to any vegetable, it is to the plantane, for which he
will negleCl every other herb in the pafture. In his w’a-
ter he is Angularly nice, drinking only from the cleareft
brooks. He is fo much afraid of wetting his feet, that,
even when laden, he will turn afide to avoid the dirty
parts of the road.
He is ftronger, in proportion to his fize, than the
horfe, but more fluggiih, ftubborn, and untraClable.
He is healthier than the horfe, and of all other quadru¬
peds is leaft infefted with lice or other vermin •, proba¬
bly owing to the extreme hardnefs and drynefs of his
fkin. For the fame reafon, perhaps, he is lefs fenfible
of the goads of the whip, or the Hinging of flies.
He is three or four years in coming to perfeClion,
and lives to the age of 20, or fometimes 25 years. He
fleeps much lefs than the horfe, and never lies down for
that purpofe but when he is much fatigued. The fhe-
afs goes 11 months with young, and feldom produces
more than one at a time.
In pleading the caufe of this injured and negleCted
animal, we cannot do better than copy the eulogy of
the abbe la Pluche.
“ I confefs (fays he) that the afs is not mafter of
very ftiining qualities, but then he enjoys thofe that are
very folid. If we refort to other animals for diftinguifh-
cd fervices, this at leaft furnifties us with fuch as are
moft neceflary. His voice is not altogether melodious,
nor his air majeftic, nor his manners very lively but
then a fine voice has very little merit wfith people of
folidity. With him the want of a noble air has its
compenfation in a mild and modeft countenance •, and in-
flead of the boifterous and irregular qualities of the
horfe, which are frequently more incommodious than
agreeable, the behaviour of the afs is entirely Ample
and unaffeCted ; no fupercilious and felf-fufficient airs.
He marches with a very uniform pace, and though he
is not extraordinarily fwift, he purfues his journey for a
VOL. XII. Part II.
529
long time, and without intermillion. He finifhes his Hiftory of
work in filence, fen res you with a Heady perfeverance, H16 Spent-*.
and difcovers no oftentation in his proceedings, which is
certainly a confiderable accomplithment in a domeftic.
His meat requires no preparation, for he is perfectly
well contented with the firft thiftle that prefents itfelf
in his way. He does not pretend that any thing is due
to him, and never appears fqueamifh or diffatisfied : he
thankfully accepts whatever is offered to him ; he has
an elegant reliih for the beft things, and very civilly con¬
tents himfelf with the moft indifferent. If he happens
to be forgotten, or is faftened a little too far from his
fodder, he entreats his mafter, in the moft pathetic lan¬
guage he can utter, to be fo good as to fupply his ne-
ceflities. It is very juft that he Ihould live, and he em¬
ploys all his rhetoric with that view7. When he has fi-
nilhed his expoftulations, he patiently w’aits the arrival
of a little bran, or a few withered leaves 5 and the mo¬
ment he has difpatched his meal, he returns to his bufi-
nefs, and marches on without a murmur or reply. His
occupations have a tinge of the meannefs of thofe who
fet him to w7ork ; but the judgements that are formed,
both of. the afs and his mafter, are equally partial.
The employments of a judge, a man, of confequence,
and an officer of the revenue, have an important air,
and their habit impofes on the fpeflators. On the con¬
trary, the labour of the peafant has a mean and con¬
temptible appearance, becaufe his drefs is poor and his
condition defpifed. But we really make a falfe eftima-
tion of thefe particulars. It is the labour of the pea¬
fant which is moft valuable, and alone truly neceffary.
Of what importance is it to us when a manager of the
revenue glitters from head to foot wuth gold ? We have
no advantage from his labours. I confefs, judges and
advocates are, in fome meafure neceffary, but they are
made fo by our folly and mifbehaviour j for they would
no longer be wanted, could we conduct ourfelves in a
rational manner. But, on the other hand, w7e could
on no account, and in no feafon or condition of life, be
w ithout the peafant and the artizan. Thefe people may
be confidered as the fouls andTinews of the community,
and the fupport of our life. It is from them we are
conftantly deriving fome accommodations for our wants.
Our houfes, our habits, our furniture, and our fufte-
nance rife from their labours. Now7, what would be¬
come of your vine-dreflers, gardeners, mafons, and the
generality of country people, that is to fay, of two
thirds of all mankind, if they w7ere deftitute of men and
horfes to convey the commodities and materials which
they employ and manufacture ? The afs is perpetually
at their fervice ; he carries fruit, herbs, coal, wood,
bricks, tiles, plafter, lime, and ftraw. The moft abjeCl
offices are his ordinary let, and it is as Angular an ad¬
vantage to this multitude of workmen, as well as to
ourfelves, to find a gentle, ftrong, and indefatigable
animal, who, without expence or pride, furniffies our
cities and villages with all forts of commodities. A
ihort comparifon will complete the illuftration of his
fervices, and in fome meafure raife them from their ob-
feurity. The horfe very much refembles thofe nations
who are fond of glitter and hurry ; who are perpetual¬
ly finging and dancing, and extremely ftudious to fet
off their exterior, and mix gaiety in all their aClions.
They are admirable on fome diftinguilhed and decifive
occafions, but their fire frequently degenerates into ro-
3 X m antic
MAMMALIA.
53°
Hiftcry of
the Species.
MAMMALIA.
Fart II.
*55
Mule.
Fig- 74-
mantle enthufiafm j they fall into wild tranfports j they
exhaufl themfelves, and lofe the moll favourable con-
jun£tures for want of management and moderation.
The afs, on the contrary, refembles thofe people who
are naturally heavy and pacific, whole underftanding
and capacity are limited to husbandry or commerce,
and who proceed in the fame track without difeompo-
fure, and complete, with a pofitive air, whatever they
have once undertaken.”
The Ikin of this animal is very hard and elafiic, and
may be ufed for drums, (hoes, and many other purpofes.
It is, we believe, feldom employed, except for the
leaves of pocket memorandum books. The flefii of the
wild afs is faid to be good food, and eafy of digeftion.
The he-afs and the mare readily breed together, but
the commerce between the flallion and the (lie-afs is
faid to be difficult. The produce of either connexion
is the common mule, an animal fuperior both to the
horfe and afs for travelling over wild and mountainous
trails of country. -
The common mule is very healthy, and will live a-
bove 30 years. It is found very ferviceable in carrying
burthens, particularly in mountainous places, where
horfes are not fo fure-footed. The fize and ftrength of
our breed have lately been much improved by the im¬
portation of Spanilh male affes 5 and it were much to
be wdffied, that the ufeful qualities of this animal were
more attended to ; for, by proper care in its breaking,
its natural obitinacy would in a great meafure be cor-
refted and it might be formed with fuccefs, for the
faddle, the draught, or the burthen.
People of the firft quality in Spain are drawn by mules,
where 50 or 60 guineas is no uncommon price for one of
them ; nor is it furprifing, when we confider how far
thev excel the horfe in travelling in a mountainous coun¬
try, the mule being able to tread fccurely where the
former can hardly Hand. Their manner of going down
the Alps, Andes, &c. is very extraordinary. In thefe
paffages, on one fide, are fteep eminences, and on the
other frightful abyffes j and as they generally follow
the diredlion of the mountain, the road, inflead of lying
in a level, forms at every little diftance deep declivi¬
ties of feveral hundred yards downward. Thefe can
only be defeended by mules, and the animal itfelf
feems fenfible of the danger, and the caution to be ufed
in fuch defeents. When they come to the edge of one
of thefe precipices, they flop without being checked by
the rider, and if he inadvertently attempt to fpur them
on, they continue immoveable. They feem all this
time ruminating on the danger that lies before them,
and preparing themfelves for the encounter. They not
only attentively view the road, but tremble and fnort
at the danger. Having prepared for the defeent, they
place their fore feet in a pofture as if they were flopping
themlelves} they then alfo put their hind feet together,
but a little forw-ard, as if they were going to lie down.
In this attitude, having as it were, taken a furvey of the
road, they flidedowm with the fwiftnefs of a meteor. At this
time, all the rider has to do is to keep himfelf fall on
the faddle without checking the reins, for the lead mo¬
tion is fufficient tv deftroy the equilibrium of the mule,
in which cafe both he and his rider w-ould periffi. The
addrefs of thefe animals in this rapid defeent is truly
wonderful, for in their fwifteft motion, when they feem to
have loft all governjnent of themfelves, they follow ex-
a£lly the different windings of the road, as if they had Eelluax
previoufly fettled in their minds the route they wTere to
follow7, and had taken every precaution for their fafety.
On thefe occafions the natives place themfelves along
the Tides of the mountains, and holding by the roots of
trees, they animate the beafts with fliouts, and encourage
them to perfevere. Some mules after having been long
ufed in fuch journeys, acquire a fort of reputation for
thetr fafety and ikill, and their value rifes in proportion
to their celebrity *. *Bewfck's
Mules very rarely breed among each other, or with Quadru-
horfes or affes, but a few inftances of this kind havef'^7
occurred. x
4. E. Zebra, the Zebra.—This may be confidered as Zebra,
the moft beautiful animal of the horfe tribe, but it is that fig. 75.
fpecies with which we are leaft accquainted. It is wild in
its nature, and fo fwift in its motions, that it can feldom
be taken.
In fize the zebra commonly equals the afs, and it is
often confiderably larger. Its form is much more
elegant than that of the afs ; its head and ears being-
well ffiaped, and of a moderate fize. What, however,
chiefly diflinguiffies this animal, is the beauty and
fymmetry of its colours. The ground of the Ikin is
either a pure white, or cream colour, fometimes with
a flight fliade of buff, or a pale rufty tinge, and the
fldn is ornamented on every part with numerous ftripes
of a black or blackith browm colour, difpofed with the
greateft regularity, fo as to produce an appearance
as if the animal were decorated wuth dark ribbands.
Thefc ftripes run tranfverfely on the body and limbs,
and in a longitudinal diredtion down the face. The
tail is moderately long, round, rather flender, marked
with fmall blackiffi bars, and terminated by a pretty
thick tuft of a blackifli or browm colour.
The zebra is chiefly confined to the hotter parts of
Africa, from Ethiopia to the Cape of Good Hope,
wdiere there are large herds. In manners they refemble
the wild horfe and afs, and are cxceffively fwift and vi¬
gilant.
All attempts to tame this animal, fo as to render it
ferviceable, have been hitherto fruitlefs. Wild and in¬
dependent by nature, it feems ill adapted to fervitude
and reftraint. If, however, it were taken young,
and much care was beftow’ed on its education, it
might very probably be in a great meafure domeflicat-
ed. A beautiful male zebra, at Exeter change, Lon¬
don, which was afterwards burnt to death by the mif-
chievous aft of a monkey fetting fire to the flraw on
which he lay, appeared to have entirely loft his native
wildnefs, and w7as fo gentle as to fuffer a child of fix
years old to fit quietly on his back, without exhibiting
the leaft fign of difpleafure. He was familiar even with
ftrangers, and received thofe kind of careffes that
are ufually given to the horfe with evident fatisfac-
tion.
One that was, fome years ago, kept at Kew, feemed
of a favage and fierce nature } no one dared venture
to approach it, except the perfon w7ho was accuftomed
to feed it, and who alone could mount on its back.
Mr Edw7ards faw this animal eat a large paper of to¬
bacco, paper and all ; and was told it would eat fleft,
and .any kind of food whatever that w7as given it. This,
however, might proceed from habit or neceffity in
its long voyage to this country j for in a native ftate
thefe
Chap. VI. M A M M
Eelluae. thefe animals all feed, like horfes and affes, on vege-
tables.
In fome parts about the Cape, where there are many
zebras, there is a penalty of fifty rix-dollars infii£led on
any perfon who (hoots one of them; and wherever anyof
them happen to be caught alive, they are ordered to be
fent to the governor.
It lias been found that the zebra and the afs will
breed together.. For the purpofe of afcertaining this,
an experiment was made in the year 1773 a ze*
bra that belonged to Lord Clive. No account of this
experiment appeared till Mr Nicholfon publKhed the
fubftance of fome anfwers made by Mr Parker to a
fet of queftions propofed by Sir Jofeph Banks.
The zebra was firft covered by an Arabian horfe.
For this purpofe it was found neceffary to bind her,
and (he (hewed great difguft. As (he did not con¬
ceive, an Englifli afs was procured, to which (lie (bow¬
ed a degree of averfion, fcarcely if at all lefs than to
the horfe, and was fubjeiled to him by the fame means.
The refult of this trial not being more favourable than
the other, recourfe was had to the extraordinary expe¬
dient of painting another afs fo as to referable the ze¬
bra. Complete fuccefs attended this deception. When
the animals were put together, the zebra at firft: ap¬
peared (hy, but (lie received the embraces of the paint¬
ed afs, and conceived. The offspring was a fine large
male foal, which was juft turned of fix months old at
the time of inquiry, namely, December I773. It .re-
(embled both parents ; the father as to make, and the
mother as to colour ; but the colour was not fo ftrong,
and the ftripes on the (boulders were more confpicusus
than on any other part. In anfwer to a queflion di¬
rected to that objeCt, the relater dates it as his opinion,
that it would very probably propagate its fpecies, as it
’did not appear at all to be like a mule.
In the courfe of the year after this information was
received, his lordthip died fuddenly, and the collection
of animals was difpofed of. Sir Jofeph Banks was then
abfent from town; and upon his return he was prevent¬
ed by this circumftance, either from purchaiing the
animals, or acquiring any further information refpeCting
the foal *.
ALIA.
53i
Genus’46. Hippopotamus.
naus.
F'S- 77-
* Nicbol.
‘Journ. 410.
vol. ii.
151
Hippopota- Four front teeth in each jaw, the upper (landing dif-
tant in pairs, lowTer prominent, the two middle
longed ; canine teeth folitary, lower extremity large,
long, curved, and obliquely truncated ; feet armed
at the margin with four hoofs.
There is only one fpecies, viz. H. Amphibius^ the
Hippopotamus, Hippopotame, or River-Horfe.—The
head of this animal is of an enormous fize, and the
mouth extremely wide. The ears are fmall and point¬
ed, and very thickly lined within with (hort fine hairs.
The eyes and noftrjls are fmall in proportion to the
bulk of the animal; on the lips are fome (trong hairs
fcattered in patches here and there. The hair on
the body is very thin, of a whitifti colour, and
fcarcely difcernible at firft fight. There is no mane on
the neck, as fome writers affirm, but the hairs on that
part are rather thicker. The (kin is very thick and
ftrong, and of a dufky colour. The tail is about a
foot long, tapering, compreffed, and naked y the hoofs
are divided into four parts. The legs are (hort and Hiflory of
thick. In bulk it is fecond only to the elephant, and^he
by fome writers, is faid even to be fuperior to him. v J
The length of a male has been found to be 17 feet,
the circumference of the body 15, the height nearly
feven, the legs nearly three, the head three and a half,
and the girth nearly nine. The mouth, when open, is
above two feet wide, and furniftied with 44 teeth of
different figures. The cutting, and particularly the
canine teeth of the lower jaw’, are very long, and ex¬
ceedingly hard and ftrong. The fubftance of the ca¬
nine teeth is fo white, fine, and hard, that it is pre¬
ferred to ivory for making artificial teeth. The cut¬
ting teeth, efpecially thofe of the under jaw, are very
long, cylindrical, and chamfered. The canine teeth
are alfo long, crooked, prifmatic, and (harp, like the
tuiks of the wild boar. The grinders are fquare, or
oblong, like thofe of man, and fo large that one of
thefe teeth fometimes weighs three pounds. The tuiks
according to Dr Sparrman, are 27 inches long. With
fuch powerful arms, and fuch a prodigious ftrength of
body, the hippopotamus might render himfelf formi¬
dable to every animal. But he is naturally of a mild
difpofition, and is formidable only wdien provoked. His
bulk is fo great that 12 oxen have been found necef- .
fary to draw affiore one that had been (hot; and it is
faid that the hide is a load for a camel. Though he
delights in the water, and appears to live in it as eafily
as on land, he has not, like the beaver, or otter, mem¬
branes between his toes. The great fize of his belly
renders his fpecific gravity nearly equal to that of wa¬
ter, and enables him to fwim with eafe.
Thefe animals inhabit the rivers of Africa, from the
Niger to Berg river, many miles north of the Cape of
Good Hope. They formerly abounded in the rivers
nearer the Cape, but are now aimed extirpated ; and to
preferve the few which are left in Berg river, the
governor abfolutely prohibited the (hooting of them
without particular permiffion. They are not found in
any of the African rivers that run into the Mediterra¬
nean, except in the Nile, and even there only in Upper
Egypt, and in the fens and lakes of Ethiopia, through
which the Nile paffes. From the unwdeldinefs of his
body and the (hortnefs of his legs, the hippopotamus is
not able to move fall upon land, and is there extremely
timid. When purfued, he takes to the water, plunge
in, finks to the bottom, and is feen walking there at
eafe ; he cannot, however, continue there long, with¬
out rifing towards the furface; and in the day-time is
fo fearful of being difeovered, that when he takes in
frefti air the place is hardly perceptible, as he fcarcely
ventures to put his nofe out of the w7ater. In rivers not
frequented by mankind, he is, howTever, lefs cautious,
and there puts his whole head out of the water. If
wounded, he will rife and attack boats or canoes wdth
great fury; and is faid frequently to fink them by bit¬
ing large pieces out of the fides; for he is as bold in
the water as he is timid on the land. In (hallow rivers
the hippopotamus makes deep holes in the bottom for
the purpofe of concealing his .great bulk. When he
quits the .water, he ufually puts out half his body at
once, fmells and looks around, but fometimes he rufhes
out with great impetuofity, and tramples down every
thing in his way. During the night he leaves the ri¬
vers to graze upon the land, where he eats fugar canes,
3X2 rufhes,
5.52
ILftory or ruilies, miiiet, rice, &c. confuming great quantities,
 and doing much damage in the cultivated fields. As
he is To timid on land, it is, however, not difficult to
drive him off. The Egyptians (as Mr Haffelquift in¬
forms u?) hare a curious method of freeing themfelves
in fome meal are from this deftruftive animal. They
remark the places he frequents moil, and there lay a
large quantity ofpeafe: when the animal comes on fhore
hungry and voracious, he falls to eating what is nearefl
him, and, filling his belly with peafe, they occafion an
infupportable third ; he then returns immediately into
the river, and drinks large draughts of water, which by
1 welling the peafe, caufe his hidden death j for not long
after the Egyptans find him dead on the ffiore, blown
up as if killed with firong poifon. He alfo feeds on the
roots ol trees, which he loofens with his great tulksj
but lie never feeds on filh. Thefe animals lleep on the
reedy iilands in the middle of the dream, and here they
bring forth their young. There is but one male to a
herd of females: thefe bring forth one young at a time
on the land, but they fuckle them in the water.
They are generally taken in pit-falls, and the poor
people eat their ilefh. Indeed the flefti of the young
animals or calves, as they are called, is edeemed a dainty
by the natives. In fome parts they place in their corn
grounds boards full of fliarp irons, which thefe beads
ilrike into their feet, and thus become an eafy prey.
Sometimes they are taken in the water by driking them
with harpoons fadened to cords, and 10 or 12 canoes
are employed in the chafe. The hippopotamus was
known to the Romans. Scaurus treated the people
with the fight of five crocodiles and one hippopota¬
mus during his edilediip, and exhibited them in a tem¬
porary lake. Augudus produced one at his triumph
over Cleopatra.
'1 his animal is the behemoth of Job, who admirably
defcribes its manners, food, and haunts. Vul. chap. xl.
ver. 15.
_ For an anatomical account of the fkeleton of the
hippopotamus by Cuvier, fee Ann. de Muf. Nat. tom. iv.
P- 299.
Genus 47. Tapir. Tatir.
Front teeth in both jaws 10. Canine teeth in both
jaws fingle, incurvated. Grinders in both jaw’s five
on each fide, very broad. Feet with three hoofs and
a falfe hoof on the fore feet.
M A M M ALIA.
Part II.
158
1 apir.
There is only one fpecies, viz.
159 T. Americanus, American Tapir, which is thus de-
America- fcribed by M. JBajon.
Jig. 78 %ure t-16 tapir bears fome general refem-
y ’ blance to that of a hog ; but he is of the height of a
fmall mule, having an extremely thick body and fhort
legs. He is covered with hair of a longer kind than
the horfe or afs ; but not fo long nor thick as that of a
hog. His mane, which is draight, is but little longer
than the red of the hair, and reaches from the top of
the head to the dioulders; the head is large and long,
the eyes very fmall and black : the ears black, and
fbmewhat like thofe of a hog. He is provided with a
trunk on the upper lip of nearly a foot long, the move¬
ments of which are extremely fupple, and in which re-
fides the organ of fmell, as in the elephant, and which
he extends in order to grafp fruits, &c. The two nof-
trils part the end of the trunk. The tail is only two
inches long, and is nearly naked. The hair of the bo- Beliuse.
dy is of a ibmewhat deep brown ; the limbs diort and
thick •, the feet very large, and rather rounded ; the
fore feet have four toes, and the hind three : all the
toes are covered with a hard thick, hoof or horn,
h hough the head is very large, it contains but a very
fmall brain ; the jaws are much elongated, and furniffi-
ed, in general, with 40 teeth j but fometimes there are
more, and fometimes fewer. The cutting teeth are
ffiarp-edged, and are the teeth which vary as to num¬
ber. After the cutting teeth, we find a canine tooth
on each fide, both above and below, which have a good
deal of refemblance to thofe of a boar; we then find a
fmall fpace or interval without teeth, and then follow
the grinders, which are very large, with very broad
furfaces.
M. Bajon imagined, that, on diffe&ion, he difeover-
ed three ftomachs within this animal, and therefore he
confidered it to be a ruminating animal; but this was
afterwards found to be a miftake. It appeared, on dif¬
fering a tapir brought alive to Paris, that the ftomach
was very large, and was contraiffed in two places, but
was hill a fingle uniform ftomach.
The female tapir is larger than the male, and has a
weaker voice.
The tapir was once confidered as an amphibious ani¬
mal ; but this opinion feems to be erroneous.
For an anatomical account of the Ikeleton of the
tapir, by Cuvier, fee Annales de Muf. Nat. tom. iii.
p. 132.
Genus 48. Sus. Hog.
Front teeth in the-upper jaw four, converging. In the \6o
lower jaw fix, projecting. Canine teeth or tulks, in Sus.
the upper jaw two, long, exferted. Snout trunca¬
ted, prominent, moveable. Feet cloven.
In their manners the whole of this tribe nearly re¬
semble each other, being in general filthy and dilguft-
ing, and very fond of wallowing in the* mire. They
feed indifferently on animal and vegetable food, but
feem to prefer the latter when they can obtain it. They
are particularly fond of acorns, beech maft, and fimilar
fruits, and with their ffrong tendinous fnout they dig
up the earth in fearch of roots. They are exceedingly
prolific.
There are about five fpecies, viz.
_ I. * S. Scrofa, Common H. Body briftled in front 5
tail hairy.—2. S. Ethiopians, Ethiopian H. Wattles
beneath the eyes.—3. S. Africanus, Cape Verd H.
Only two front teeth.—4. S. BabyruJJa, Babyrouffa, or
Horned PI. The two upper tulks growing from the
upper part of the front—5. S. Tajaffu, Pacary. Tail-
lefs, with a glandular orifice on the back.
1. S. Scrofa, Common H—The common hog is
found either in a wild or domeftic ftate, in almoft all the l6l
temperate parts of Europe and Afia 5 but it is not met Scrofa,
with in the moft northern parts of thefe continents. It is Common
alfo found in the upper parts of Africa. Dr Shaw re- H.°&'
marks, that it is not indigenous to the Britilh illes •, but FlS 79‘
Mr Pennant afferts, that the wild boar was formerly a
native of this country, as appears from the laws of
Heel dda, who permitted his grand huntfman to chafe
that animal from the middle of November to the begin-
ning of December. William the Conqueror punilhed,
with, the lofs of their eyes, any that were convi&ed of
killing
Chap. VI.
M A M M
Belluae. killing the wild boar, the flag} or the roe-buck •, and
—-V Fitz-Stephens tells us, that the vaft foreft that in his
time grew on the north lide of London, was the retreat
of flags, fallow-deer, wild boars, and bulls.
The wild boar inhabits woods, living on various
kinds of vegetables, viz. roots, mafl, acorns, &tc. &c.
It alfo occafionally devours animal food. It is, in ge¬
neral, conflderably fmaller than the domeftic hog, and
is of a dark brindled gray colour, fometimes blackifh j
but, when only a year or two old, is of a pale red or
dull yellowifh brown caft j and, when quite young, is
marked by alternate dulky and pale ftripes difpofed lon¬
gitudinally on each fide the body. Between the
briftles, next the fkin, is a finer or Softer hair, of a
woolly or curling nature. Ihe fnout is fomewhat long¬
er in proportion than that of the domeftic animal } but
the principal difference is in the fuperior length and
fize of the tufks, which are often feveral inches long, and
capable of indidling the moft fevere and fatal w'ounds.
The hunting of the wild boar forms one of the
amufements of the great in fome parts, of Germany, I o-
land, &c. and is a chafe of fome difficulty and danger,
not on account of the fwiftnefs, but the ferocity of the
animal. > , .
Wild boars, fays Buffon, which have not paued their
third year, are called by the hunters beafls of company,
becaufe previous to this age they do not feparate, but
follow their common parent.. They never wander alone
till they have acquired fufficient ftrength to relul the
attacks of the wolf. Thefe animals, when they have
young, form a kind of flocks; and it is upon this alone
that their fafety depends. W hen attacked, the large!!
and ftrongeft front the enemy, and by preffing all round
againft the weaker, force them into the centre. Do-
rneftic hogs are alfo obferved to defend themfelves in a
fimilar manner. The wild boar is hunted with dogs,
or killed by furprife, during the night, when the moon
fliines. As he flies flowly, leaves, a ftrong odour be-
hind him, and defends himfelf againft the dogs, and of-
ten wounds them dangeroufly, fine hunting dogs are un-
neceffary, and would have their nofe fpoiled, and acquire
a habit of moving flowly by hunting him. ^ Mattiffs,
with very little training, are fufficient. Ihe. oldeft
boars, which are known by the track of their feet,
ffiould alone be hunted; a young boar of three years
old is difficult to be "attacked, becaufe he runs very far
without flopping j but the old boars do not run far, al¬
low the dogs to come near, and often flop to repel
them. During the day the boar commonly keeps in
his foil, which is in the moft fequeftered parts of the
woods, and comes out by night in.queft of food } and
in fummer, when the grain is ripe, it is eafy to furpme
him among the cultivated fields, which he frequents
every night. . . , r
As the wild boar advances in age, after the period ct
three or four years, he becomes lefs dangerous, on ac¬
count of the growth of his tufks, which, turn up, or
make fo large a curve, as often rather to impede than
affift his intentions of wounding with them.
According to the French newfpapers for the year
jySy, a wild boar, of moft extraordinary fize, was
killed in the neighbourhood of Cognac in Angumois,
which had often efcaped from the hunters, had received
many gun-ffiot wounds, and had coft the lives of feve-
raf dogs and men each time of attacking him. WThen
ALIA. 533
this animal was at length flam, feveral bullets were faid Hiftory of
to have been found between his fkin and flefh. M. Son- t e specie...
nini, who details this anecdote from the public papers,
obferves, that if the relation had not been given by
hunters of diftinguifhed order, and too well acquainted
with thefe animals to have made any miftake, we might
imagine that this formidable creature, which had long-
committed its ravages in the park of Cognac, belonged
to a totally different fpecies. It was of enormous lize,
with a very long head, a very iharp or pointed fnout \
and its mouth was armed wnth teeth of a very fingular
form. The hairs of the body were white, thole of the
head yellowiffi, the neck marked with a black band in
form of a cravat, and the ears large.and ftraight; and
what appears furprifing, confidering its fize, it was of
uncommon fwiftnefs.
In a domeftic ftate the fow brings forth twice a year,
and produces from 10 to 20 at a litter. She goes ra¬
ther more than four months with young. At the time
of bringing forth {lie muft be carefully watched, as fine
fometimes devours her young, and it is itill more neceffary
to keep oft the boar, who may deftroy the whole litter.
There are feveral varieties of the hog bred in this -
country j but thofe in greateft requeft are general¬
ly known by the name of Berkfbire pigs. Thefe are
ufually of a reddifh-brown colour, with black fpots •, -
they have large ears hanging over their eyes, are fhort-
legged, fmall-boned, and very eafily fattened. IVIr
Cullev mentions one of thefe that was killed at Congie-
ton in Chefhire, which meafured from the nofe to the
end of the tail nine feet eight inches, was four feet and
a half high, and weighed, when killed, Bo ftones i ilos.
avoirdupois.
The Chinefe, or black breed, are now very common
in England. They are fmaller, have ftiorter legs, and
their flefh is whiter and fweeter than the common kind.
Of this fort were thofe found in New Guinea,, which -
proved fo feafonable a relief to our circumnavigator?,
when that country was firft vifited by them. There arc
likewife great numbers of them in the Friendly and So¬
ciety iflands, the Marquefas, and many other of the
lately difcovered iflands in the South feas. 1 hefe are
fed with plantains, bread-fruit, and yams ; and are ex¬
ceedingly fat. 1 hey are frequently feen by the natives
in their canoes, fwimming from one ifland to another,
and killed by them with lances and arrows.
The hog fpecies, though very numerous and diffufed
over Europe, Afia, and Africa, did not exift in Ame¬
rica, till tranfported thither by the Spaniards. In ma¬
ny places they have multiplied exceedingly, and be¬
come wild. They referable the domeftic hog, but their ‘
bodies are fliorter, and their fnout and ft.in thicker.
This animal has been compared to a mifer, who is
ufelefs and rapacious in his life ; but on his death be¬
comes of public ufe, by the very eflfeds of his fordid
manners. The hog, during life, does not render the
leaf! fervice to mankind, except in removing that filth
which other animals reje£t. Flis more than common
brutality urges him to devour even his own offspring.
All other domeftic quadrupeds ftiew fome degree of re-
fpe£l to mankind, and even a fort of tendernefs for us
in our helplefs years j but this animal will devour in¬
fants, whenever it has opportunity.
The parts of this animal are finely adapted to its way
of Ufe. As its method of feeding is by turning up the •
earth-i
534
MAMMALIA.
Part II.
Hiftory of earth for roots of different kinds, fo nature has given it
|he Species. a more pr0ne form than other animals ; a llrong brawny
neck, eyes fmall, and placed high in the head, a long
fnout, nofe callous and tough, and a quick fenfe of
fmelling to trace out its food. Its inteftines have a
ftrong refemblance to thofe of the human fpecies j a
circumflance that fhould mortify our pride. The ex¬
ternal form of its body is very unwieldy, yet, by the
ftrength of its tendons, the wild boar is enabled to fly
from the hunters with amazing agility. The back toe
' on the feet of this animal prevents it from flipping
while it defcends declivities, and mufl be of lingular ufe
when purfued $ yet, notwithflanding its powers of mo¬
tion, it is by nature ftupid, inadlive, and drowfy j much
inclined to increafe in fat, which is difpofed in a differ¬
ent manner from other animals, and forms a regular
coat over the whole body. It is reftlefs at a change of
weather, and in certain high winds is fo agitated as to
run violently, fcreaming horribly at the fame time : it
is fond of wallowing in the dirt, either to cool its for¬
feited body, or to deftroy the lice, ticks, and other in¬
fers with which it is infefted. Its difeafes generally
arife from intemperance : mealies, impofthumes, and
fcrophulous complaints, are reckoned among them.
Linnaeus obferves that its flelh is a wholefome food
■for athletic conftitutions, or thofe that ufe much exercife,
but bad for fuch as lead a fedentary life. It is of moll
univerfal ufe, and furniihes numberlefs materials for epi-
curifm, among which brawn is a kind peculiar to
England. The flelh of the hog is an article of the firlt
importance to a naval and commercial nation, for it
takes fait better than any other kind, and confequently is
capable of being preferved longer. The lard is of great
ufe in medicine, being an ingredient in feveral forts of
plafters, either pure, or in the form of pomatum j and
the brillles are formed into brulhes of feveral kinds.
4. S. Babyrujfa, the Babyrouffa.—This animal near-
ly refembles the common hog in fize ; but his body is
iBabyruJfa. rather longer, his limbs more llender, and, inltead of
Fig. 80. briftles, he is covered with fine Ihort, rather wmolly
hair, of a deep brown or blackilh colour, with only a
few brinies on the upper and hinder parts of the back.
It is principally diffinguilhed from other fpecies by the
very extraordinary pofition and form of the upper tufks.
Thefe, inffead of being fituated internally on the edge
of the jaw, as in other animals, are placed without,
through the Ikin of the fnout, turning upwards towards
the forehead. As the animal advances in age, thofe
tufks become fo extremely long and curved, as to touch
the forehead, and then bend downwards, when they
murt lofe their power as offenfive weapons, for which
they were probably intended in the younger animal.
Thefe upper tulks are of a fine hard grain, and may be
ufed as ivory. The tulks of the lower jaw refemble thofe
of the other fpecies, and are very long, fharp, and
curved ; but not nearly fo large as thofe of the upper
Jaw. The eyes are fma1! 5 the ears eredl and pointed ;
the tail nretty long, llender, and terminated by a tuft
of long hairs.
This fpecies is gregarious, and found in large herds
in feveral parts of Java, Amboyna, and other Indian
ifiands. It feeds entirely on vegetables, and often eats
the leaves of trees. When lleeping or reding itfelf in a
Handing podure, it is laid to hook its tulks acrofs the
lower branches of the trees by way of fupport. When
2
purfued, thefe animals will often plunge into a river, or Bellwe.
even into the fea, and they can fwim with great eafe, '•* ■“
and to a vail diilance'. Their voice is faid to refemble
that of the common hog ; but it is fometimes a llrong,
loud, growling note. It is occafionally domellicated by
the natives of the Indian illands, and its flelh is conlidcr-
ed as wholefome food.
This order contains four genera and 13 fpecies.
In the clafs Mammalia, we have enumerated or de-
fcribed about 537 fpecies ; of which the following table
Ihews the number in each genus.
Simia contains
Lemur,
Galeopithecus,
Vespertilio,
Brady pus,
Myrmecophaga, about
Man is,
Dasypus about
Rhinoceros, perhaps
Elephas,
Platypus,
Trichecus, about
Phoca,
Canis, about
Felis, about
Viverra, about
Lutra,
Ursus, about
Didelphis, about
Dasyurus,
Perameles,
Wombat,
Macropus,
Talpa,
Sorex,
Erinaceus,
Hystrix,
Cavia,
Castor,
Mus, about
Hydromys,
Arctomys,
Sciurus,
Myoxus,
Dipus,
Lepus,
Hyrax,
Camelus,
Moschus,
Cervus,
Camelopardalis,
Antilofe,
Capra,
Ovis,
Bos,
Equus,
Hippopotamus,
Tapir,
Sus,
62 fpecies
*3
x
24
3
6
3
6
3
1
1
7
23
25
48
8
9
18
6
2
1
2
7
16
5
6
7
2
44
3
8
26
7
6
12
3
7
7
1 2
1
32
8
8
6
6
1
1
5
Total 537
Of thefe about 36 are found in Britain.
The
Chap. VI.
Explana- The compiler of this article is confcious that it la-
^Plates^6 ^ours un£*er many deficiencies ; that many animals,
sJ -- v ' < which ought to have been defcribed, are merely enu¬
merated \ and that- the accounts of feveral, which are
ufually confidered as important objefts of natural
hiftory, are much lefs complete than might have been
expe£ied. For many of thefe defe&s he does not
hold himfelf accountable. From the very limited fpace
within which he was obliged to confine the article, it
was neceflary, either that he (hould treat of every fpe-
cies in a very concife manner, fo as to make the treatife
535
merely a tabular Iketch, or that he fhould content himfelf Explana-
with a fyftematic arrangement of all the mammalia at ^p”^**1*
prefent known, and enlarge only on a few of the more ' f
important fpecies. He has chofen the latter alternative,
which, by making the article more interefting to the
generality of readers, feems bed adapted to the nature
of this work j while the fyftematic arrangement, with
the fpecific charafters, will afiift the natural!ft who
knows where to refer for a particular account of the in¬
dividuals.
MAMMALIA.
EXPLANATION of the PLATES.
Plate CCCI.
Fig. I. Simla Satyr us, Oran Otan.
Fig. 2. Simla Inuus, Magot or Barbary Ape.
Fig. 3. Simla Sylvanus, Pygmy.
Fig. 4. Simla Sphinx, Great Baboon.
Fig. 5. Simla Beelzebul, Alouatte or Preacher Mon¬
key.
Fig. 6. Simla Argentata, Mico or Fair Monkey.
Plate CCCII.
Fig. 7. Lemur Tardlgradus, Slow Lemur.
Fig. 8. Ga/eopithecus Volans, Flying Calugo.
Fig. 9. Vefpertilio Auritus, Long-eared Bat.
Fig. 10. VefpertUio Vampyrus, Vampyre Bat.
Fig. 11. Bradypus TridaBylus, Three-toed Sloth.
Fig. 12. Myrmecophaga Jubala, Great Ant-Eater.
Plate CCCIII.
Fig. 13 Manis PentadaByla, Pangolin, or Short¬
tailed Manis.
Fig. 14. Manis TetradaByla, Long-tailed Manis.
Fig. 15. Dafypus SexcinBus, Six-banded Armadillo.
Fig. 16. Rhinoceros Unicornis, Single-horned Rhino¬
ceros.
Plate CCCIV.
Fig. 17. E/ephas Maximus, Elephant.
Fig. 18. Sukotyro.
Fig. 19. Platypus Anatinus, Duck-billed Platypus.
Fig. 20. Trichecus Rofmarus, Arctic Walrus.
Plate CCCV.
Fig. 21. Phoca Vitulina, Common Seal, or Sea-
calf.
Fig. 22. Canis Domejlicus, Common Dog.
Var. Shepherd’s Dog.
Fig. 23. Maftiff.
Fig. 24. Foxhound.
Fig. 25. Terrier.
Fig. 26. Greyhound.
Fig. 27. Irilh Greyhound..
Plate CCCVI.
Fig. 28. Canis I.upus, Wolf.
Fig. 29. Canis Hycena, Hyaena.
Fig. 30. Cams Aureus, Jackal.
Fig. 31. Canis 'Zcrda, Fennec.
Fig. 32. Fe/is Leo, Lion.
Fig, 33. Felis Tigris, Tiger.
Plate CCCVII.
Fig. 34. Felis Catus, Wild Cat.
Fig. 35. Viverra Ichneumon, Ichneumon.
Fig. 36. Viverra Civetta, Civet Cat.
Fig. 37. Viverra Foina, Martin.
Fig. 38. Viverra Furo, Ferret.
Fig. 39. Lutra Vulgaris, Common Otter.
Plate CCCVIII.
Fig. 40. Urfus ArBos, Brown Bear.
Fig. 41. Urfus Maritimus, White or Polar Bear.
Fig. 42. Urfus Meles, Badger.
Fig. 43. Didelphis Virginiana, Virginian Opoffum.
Fig. 44. Didelphis Dorjigera, Mcrian Opoffum.
Fig. 45. Dafyurus Viverrinus, Viverrine Dafyurus.
Plate CCCIX.
Fig. 46. The Wombat.
Fig. 47. Macropus Major, Kanguroo.
Fig. 48. Talpa Radiata, Radiated Mole.
Fig. 49. Sorex Araneus, Common Shrew.
Fig. 50. Erinaceus Europceus, Common Hedgehog.
Fig. 51. Hystrix Criftata, Porcupine.
Fig. 52. Caflor Fiber, Common Beaver.
Plate CCCX.
Fig. 53. Cavia Cobaya, Reftlefs Cavy, or Guinea,
Pig.
Fig. 54. Mus Cricetus, Hamfter Rat.
Fig. 53. Hydromys Coypus, Coypou Rat.
Fig. 56. ArBomys Marmota, Alpine Marmot.
Fig. 57. Sciurus Vulgaris, Common Squirrel.
Fig. 58. Myoxus Mufcardinus, Common Dormoufe.
Fig. 59. Dipus Jaculus, Common Jerboa.
Plate CCCXI.
Fig. 60. Lepus Timidus, Hare fitting.
Fig. 61. Fly rax Syriac us, Syrian Hyrax.
.Fig. 62. Camelus Dromedarius, Arabian Camel or'
Dromedary.
Fig. 63. Mofchus Mofchiferus, Tibetian Mulk.
Fig. 64. Cervus Alces, Elk.
Fig. 65. Camelopardalis Girajfa, Camelopardalis or
Girafte.
Plate
S36
Fig. 66.
Fig. 67.
Fig. 68.
Fig. 69.
Fig. 70.
Fig. 71.
Fig. 72.
MAMMALIA.
Plate CCCXII. fjs- 73- Wild Afs.
Fig. 74. Mule.
Inde^,
Antilope Picia, Nyl-gliau.
Capra Ibex, Ibex.
Ovis Argali, Argali or Wild Sheep
Ovis Aries, var. Wallachian Ram.
Bos Taurus, var. European Bifon.
Bos Grunniens, Yak of Tartary.
Plate CCCXIII.
Equtts Cab alius, Horl’e.
Plate CCCXIV.
Fig. 75. Equus Zebra, Zebra.
Fig. 76. Equus ^uagga, Quagga.
Fig. 77. Hippopotamus Amphibius, Hippopotamus, or
River Horfe.
Fig. 78. Tapir Americanus, Tapir.
Fig. 79. Sus Scrofa, Wild Boar.
Fig. 80. Sus BabijruJJ'a, BabyroufTa.
Erratum.-—N° 139. fpecies 3. in fome copies, for C. Elephas read C. Elaphus,
INDEX.
AZDROVUNDVS'S writings on qua¬
drupeds, N® 6
Antelope tribe,
Antilope tribe,
picla,
Ant-eater tribe,
Ape tribe,
taillels,
Barbary,
Pygmy,
Apes.,
Arctic walrus,
ArElomys tribe,
marmota,
Armadillo tribe,
Ariflotle's writings on quadrupeds,
Afs,
B.
Baboon, great or mottled,
pig-tailed,
Baboons,
BabyrouJJa,
Badger,
Barbary ape,
Bafs',s account of the wombat,
Bat tribe,
long-eared,
vampyre,
Bear tribe,
common,
white,
Beaver tribe,
common,
Behemoth,
Bellucr, p. 450.
Bewick'1 s work on quadrupeds,
Bingley's Animal Biography,
Bloodhound,
Bos tribe,
taurus,
grunniens,
Bradypus tribe,
trida&ylus,
uriinus,
Bruta,
Buffon's natural hiftory of quadrupeds, 8
account of the beaver, 117
Bull dog,
C.
H3
p. 453. N° 143
144
N° 44
24
28
29
30
25
56
p. 453. and N° 123
124
46
5
I54
31
32
26
362
96
29
103
38
39
40
92
93
94
116
117
157
23
9
11
67
P. 453. N° 149
150
151
p. 452, N8 41
42
ib.
450. 463. N° 19
Calugo tribe,
.flying,
Camel tribe,
Arabian,
Camelopardalis,
Giraffa,
Came/us tribe,
dromedarius,
Canis tribe,
familiaris,
lupus,
hyaena,
aureus,
vulpes,
zerda,
Capra tribe,
ibex,
Cajlor tribe,
fiber,
Cat tribe,
wild,
domeftic,
Cavy tribe,
reftlefs,
Cavia tribe,
cobaya,
Cervus tribe,
alces,
tarandus,
Chimpanzee,
Civet cat,
Corfe. See Scot.
Coypu rat,
Cuvier's claffification of quadrupeds,
64
N° 36
37
136
p. 453. N0I42
ib.
?• 453- 135
336
p. 452. N° 59
60
72
73
74
IS
76
p. 453, N° 145
146
N° 116
II7
77
81
ib.
114
IX5
314
p. 453.N0i39
140
343
28
84
P- 453»
P- 453)
N°
3 22
l6
D.
Daman,
Dafypus tribe,
Dafyurus,
Deer tribe,
moofe,
rein,
Didelphis tribe,
virginiana,
dorfigera,
obefula,
Dipus tribe,
fagitta,
Dog tribe,
domeflic,
varieties of,
flrepherd’s,
Siberian,
bull,
maftiff’,
fox-hound,
blood-hound,
grey-hound,
terrier,
fpeaking,
Dormoufe tribe,
common,
Dromedary,
p. 453, N® 129
13°
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
- 67
68
70
71
127
128
136
Elephant,
E.
fome remarks on by Mr Corfe
51
Scot,
Elephas tribe,
Elk,
Equus tribe,
caballus,
afinus,
zebra,
Erinaceus tribe,
europasus,
p. 468—471
p. 452, N° 50
340
p. 453 N° 152
J53
154
T55
P- 453) N° no
111
F.
i34
p. 452, N® 46
p. 452, N° too
I39
340
341
p. 452, N9 97
98
99
102
Fells tribe,
leo,
tigris,
pardus,
leopardus,
catus,
Fennec,
Ferce,
Ferret.
Fitchet,
Foumart,
Fox,
Foxhound,
G.
Galeopithecus tribe,
volans,
p. 452, N° 77
78
79
80
ib.
81
n 76
p. 450, and N° 20
88
87
ib.
IS
66
p. 452, N® 36
37
Gefner's
/
MAMMALIA
♦
-—■"
-
i
Plate CCC1V.
mammama
'l./J. Z/ sA-in. f/a/. ■ £»*//$&?' /«**•
V
MA MMA L r.V
24.
T
* YXJnfi/. >.</>' .;■
MAMMALIA
Plate CCCVl
)
'•
\
MAMMALIA
Plate CCCVJL.
. //. <///?<. /i /vci/ .
Plate C C C IX
M AM M.AJi T A
MAMMALIA
Plate CCCXI
MAM M A Ij L A
Plate CCCX1I
f //cr£?<_/cHyitcv*y£cf£.
\t A M M A 1,1 A .
Tiate C C C AiV.
Index.
Gefner's work on quadrupeds, N° 6
Giraffe, 142
Glires, p. 45°> and N° 21
tribe, 145
Grey-hound, 68
Irifli, . 69
Guinea pig, IX 5
H.
Hamjier, 120
iTtfre tribe, 136
common, 137
Hedgehog tribe, ' 110
common, ill
Hippopotamus, p. 453> 157
Hog tribe, N° 160
common, 161
babyrouffa, 162
Home's account of the camel’s ftomachs,
p. 511, Note (g)
Hojno, character of, p. 45 2
Hope's anecdote of the terrier, 70
of the lion, 78
Horfe tribe, 152
common, 153
tea, 56
river, 157
Hycena, ftriped, 73
IIy dr on;y s X.sibe, p. 453, N* 121
coypou, 122
Hyrax tribe, p. 453, N9 134
Hyjlrix tribe, p. 453, N° 11 2
criftata, 113
I.
'’jackal, 74
Ibex, 146
Ichneumon, Egyptian, 83
jerboa tribe, I 29
common, 130
jocko, 28
johnjlon's work on quadrupeds, 6
Kangaroo tribe,
great,
K.
L.
104
JOS
Lemur tribe, p. 452, N° 34
tardigradus, or flow-moving, 35
%lng» 37
Leopard, 80
Lepus tribe, p. 453, N° 131
timidus, 132
cuniculus, 133
Linnccus's claflification of mammalia, 12
objedlions to, 13
anfwered, 14
Lion, 78
Li%ard, fcaly, 43
tribe, . p. pjz, N° 90
vulgaris, px
M.
Macauco tribe, 34
Macropus tribe, p. 45 2} N® 104
major, J0S
Magot, 29
Vol. XII. Part II.
M A M M A L I A.
Mammalia, definition of, N° 1
utility of the ftudy of, 2
prefent knowledge of, im¬
perfect, 3
writers on, 4
claflification of, p. 449
by Linnaeus, 12
by Pennant, 15
by Cuvier, 16
generic characters of, p. 452
Mammoth, 52
Man at is, 55
Manis tribe, p. 452, N° 45
Marmot tribe, 123
alpine, 124
Martin, 85
Majliff, . 65
Megatherium, 43
Mo/dwarp, 107
Mo/e tribe, 106
common, 107
Monkey, preacher, 33
Monkeys, 2 7
Moofe deer, 140
Mofchus tribe, p. 453, N° 137
mofchiferus, N° 138
Moufe tribe, 118
fhrew, 109
Mule, 155
Mus tribe, p. 453, N0 118
decumanus, 119
cricetus, 120
Mujk tribe, 137
tibetian, 138
Myoxus tribe, p. 453, N° 127
mufcardinus, * 128
Myrmecophaga tribe, p. 452, N° 44
remarks on by La Ce-
pede, p. 464
Nyl-ghau,
N.
O.
Opoffum tribe,
Virginian,
Merian,
Oran otan,
Ornithorynchus paradoxus,
Otter tribe,
common,
fea,
Ovis tribe,
aries,
Ox tribe,
common.
*44
97
98
99
28
54
90
9*
ib.
p. 433, N° 147
N° 148
*49
153
Pangolins, 43
Panther, 80
Peale's account of the mammoth. 32
Pecora, p. 450, and N° 22
Pennant's works on quadrupeds, 7
claflification of, 13
Perameles tribe, 101
obefula, j 0 2
Phoca tribe,
vitulina,
Platypus tribe,
duck-billed,
Pliny's Natural Hiftory,
Pole cat,
Pongo,
Porcupine tribe,
common,
Preacher monkey,
Primates,
Pygmy*
p- 452,
R.
Rabbit,
Rat tribe,
Norwray,
hamlter,
coypou,
Rein deer,
Rhinoceros tribe,
unicornis,
bicornis,
5.17
N° 57
5s
F. 452, N° 54
54
5
87
28
112
* *3
N° 33
N° 18
3°
I33
.118
1 *9
120
122
141
N° 47
48
49
p. 449,
P- 452,
S.
Sable, 86
Saphan, 130
Sciu?us tribe, p. 453> 123
vulgaris, 126
Scot's (J. Corfe, Efq.) remarks on the
elephant, p. 468, 469, 471
Sea calf, 58
Seal tribe, 37
common, 38
Shaw's general zoology, 10
Sheep tribe, 147
common, J 48
Shepherd's dog, 6 2
Shrew tribe, 108
common, 109
Simla tribe, p. 432, N° 24
fatyrus, 28
inuus, 29
fylvanus, 30
fphinx, 31
nemeftrina, 3 2
beelzebul, 33
Sloth tribe, 41
three-toed, 42
urfine, p. 463
Sorex tribe, p. 433. N° 108
araneus, 109
Squirrel tribe, 125
common, 126
Sukotyro, P. 452, N° 33
Sus tribe, p. 433
T.
Talpa tribe, p. 452, N° 106
Europaea, 107
Tapir tribe, p. 433, N° 158
Americanus, 159
Terrier, 70
Tiger, _ 79
Tnchecus tribe, p. 432, N® 55
rofmarus, 36
3 Y U.
5.3-8
D.
Vampyre bat,
Vefpertilio tribe,
auritus,
vampyrus,
Viverra tribe,
ichneumon,
civetta,
foina,
zibellina,
putorius,
N° 40
p. 452, N° 38
39
40
p. 452, N° 82
83
84
85
86
87
M A M MALI A.
Viverra furo,
vulgaris,
Urchin,
Urfus tribe,
arftos,
maritiraus,
lufcus,
meles,
w.
Walrus tribe,
arilic,
N° 88
89
111
p. 452, N° 92
93
94
95
96
55
56
Wcc&el, tribe,
common,
Wolf,
Wolverine,
Wombat,
Y.
Yak of Tart ary,
Z.
Z ebra,
Zerda,
Index.
83
82
79
95
103
15i
155
76
M A M
Mammea MAMMEA, MAMMEU-Tree; a genus of plants be-
M ^ to l^e polyandria clafs j and in the natural me-
ai™ '. thod ranking with thole of which the order is doubtful.
See Botany Index.
MAMMON, the god of riches, according to fome
authors; though others deny that the word Hands for
luch a deity, and underftand by it only riches them-
felves. Our Saviour fays, We cannot ferve God and
Mammon ; that is, be religious and worldly-minded at
the fame time. Our poet Milton, by poetic licenfe,
makes Mammon to be one of the fallen angels, and
gives us his charadler in the following lines:
Mammon, the leafl erefted fpirit that fell
From heav’n 5 for ev’n in heav’n his looks and
thoughts
Were always downward bent ; admiring more
The riches of heav’n’s pavement, trodden gold,
Than ought divine or holy elfe enjoy’d
In beatific vifion : by him firft
Man alfo, and by his fuggeftion taught,
Ranfack’d the centre, and with impious hands
Rifled the bowels of their mother earth,
For treafures better hid. Soon had his crew
Open’d into the hill a fpacious wound,
And digg’d out ribs of gold. Let none admire
That riches grow in hell •, that foil may befl
Deferve the precious bane.
MAMMOT H, or Mammuth, the name of a huge
animal, now unknown, to which are faid to have belong¬
ed thole tufks, bones, and fkeletons, of vail magnitude,
which have been frequently found in different parts of
Siberia, as well in the mountains as the valleys j Fke-
wife in Ruffia, Germany, and North America. Many
Ipecimens of them may be feen in the Imperial cabinet
at Peterfburgh : in the Britilh, Dr Hunter’s, and the
late Sir Afhton Lever’s mufeums, and in that of the
Royal Society. A defirription of the mammoth is given
by Muller in the Recueil des Voyages au Nord: “ This
animal, he lays, is four or five yards high, and about
30 feet long. His colour is grayilh. His head is very
long, and his front very broad. On each fide, precife-
ly under the eyes, there are two horns, which he can
move and crofs at pleafure. In walking he has the
power of extending and contrafting his body to a great
degree.” Ilbrandes Ides gives a fimilar account but
he is candid enough to acknowledge, that he never
MAM
knew any perfon who had feen the mammoth alive. Mamre.
Mr Pennant, however, thinks it “ more than probable
that it Hill exills in fome of thofe remote parts of the
vaft new continent, impenetrated yet by Europeans.
Providence (he adds) maintains and continues every
created fpecies ; and we have as much affurance, that
no race of animals w ill any more ceafe while the earth
remaineth, than feed-time and harvejl, cold and heat,
fummer arid winter, day and nighty The Ohio In¬
dians have a tradition handed down from their fathers
refpetffing thefe animals, “ That in ancient times a herd
of them came to the Big-bone Licks, and began an
univerfal deftrudlion of the bears, deer, elks, buffaloes,
and other animals which had been created for the ufe of
the Indians : that the Great Man above, looking down
and feeing this, was fo enraged that he feized his light¬
ning, defcended to the earth, feated himfelf upon a
neighbouring mountain on a rock, on wffuch his feat
and the print of his feet are Hill to be feen, and hurled
his bolts among them till the w7hole wrere flaughtered,
except the big bull, who, prefenting his forehead to
the (hafts, (hook them off as they fell j but at length
miffing one, it wounded him in the fide •, whereon,
fpringing round, he bounded over the Ohio, the \Va-
balh, the Illinois, and finally over the great lakes,
where he is living at this day.” See Mammalia
Index.
MAMRE, an Amorite, brother of Aner and E(h-
col, and friend of Abraham (Gen. xiv. 13.). It w7as
with thele three perfons, together with his ow7n and
their domedics, that Abraham purfued and overcame
the kings after their conqueff of Sodom and Gomorrah.
This Mamre, who dwelt near Hebron, communicated
his name to great part of the country round about.
Hence we read (chap. xiii. 18. xxiii. 17, &c ), that
Abraham dwelt in Mamre and in the plain of Mamre.
But it is obferved, that what we tranflate the plain
(liould be rendered the oak, of Mamre, becaufe the word
elon figmfies an oak or tree of a long duration. S zo-
men tells us, that this tree was (fill extant, and famous
for pilgrimages and annual feafts, even in Conftantine’s
time ; that it was about fix miles diftant from Hebron j
that fome of the cottages which Abraham built were
(fill (landing near it } and that there was a well like-
wife of his digging, whereunto both Jews, Chriftians,
and Heathens, did at certain feafons refort, either out
of devotion or for trade, becaufe there was held a great
mart.
M A N [ 559 ] M A N
Man. malt. To thefc fuperftitions Conftantine the Great pat
w v~-~' a flop.
Ini ortance MAN. Of all the objects which the univerfe pre-
oftheftudy ^nts to our obfervation, there is none that lb powertul-
man. ly calls for our attention, there is none with which it fo
much concerns us to be intimately acquainted, as the
human fpecies. If we admit, what mankind, in that
pride of heart, which is fo natural to thofe who ftyle
themfelves the lords of the creation, have a fumed, that
man is the only being polleffed of reafon ; there is no
created thing that can in the lead Hand in competition
with him. But, without examining into the validity of
this exclufive claim, without inquiring whether fome of
“bur inferior fellow mortals may not be admitted to fotne
fmall fhare of this faculty j it muft be allowed that,
whether we conlider him as a folitary being, poffeffed of
beauty and intelligence fuperior to the other claffes of
animated nature, or in the more amiable charafter of
a facial being, capable of the fentiments of alTe&ion,
friendfhip, gratitude, and benevolence, man is a moft
diftinguilhed perfonage 5 and, to his fellow men, cer¬
tainly the mod interefling objeft to which they can di-
re£t their attention ; that in Ihort,
“ The proper ftudy of mankind is man.”
A full examination of every thing relating to the hu¬
man fpecies would include almoft all that is interefting,
uleful, or curious in nature. Indeed this whole work,
is little more than a colle&ion of fafts and reafonings,
that either mediately or immediately relate to Man. It
may not be improper here to refer to a few of the prin¬
cipal articles alluded to, before we enter on the proper
buiinefs of this article, which is to date a few7 general
circumftances relating to the natural hi/lory of man,
3 confidering him as the firf animal in the creation.
Outline of Firjl, Man may be confidered ; as confti-
the Hudy ortut;5ng a tri'De 0f an;mais differing from all others, in his
ftrudlure, fun&ions, difeafes, and in poffeiTing the fa¬
culty of reafon.
The fruBure of man has been detailed under Ana¬
tomy ; his funBions will be treated of under Physio-
i.OGY ; the difeafes and accidents to which he is expo-
fed, with their treatment and remedies, wdll form the
fubjefts of Medicine, Midwifery, Surgery, and
Materia Medica *, and the nature and exercife of his
reafoning powers are difeuffed under Logic, Meta¬
physics, Language, Grammar, Oratory, Arith¬
metic, Algebra, Geometry, &c.
Secondly, Man may be confidered fpecifcally, as
differing from others of the fame tribe in height, fea¬
tures, colour, difp'jfilion, and manners; refulting from
climate and other local circumftances. In a general
point of view, the varieties of the human fpecies fall to
be noticed here ; but, for a particular account of the
inhabitants of different regions of the globe, wre refer
the reader to the geographical articles Africa, Asia,
America, Abyssinia, Ceylon, Hindostan, New
Holland, &c.
Thirdly, Man may be confidered as a dependent and
an accountable being, in relation to his Creator, his neigh¬
bour, or himfelf The religious and moral duties of
man are explained under Theology, CHRISTIANITY,
Moral Philosophy, and Law ; and to thefe mav be
added, as connedfed with man in this third view, Po-
LWICAL Economy, Agriculture, Gardening, Ar¬
chitecture, Chemistry, Dynamics, Mechanics, Man.
Hydrodynamics, and a number of other branches of” v
fcience, that teach man how to employ to the beft ad¬
vantage thofe powers and faculties with which Heaven
has endowed him, for his individual and common be¬
nefit.
Lafly, We may confider man with refpedl to the re¬
lations that fubfift betw'een him and the inferior claffes
of the creation, as they minifter to his neceffities, fup-
ply his wants, abridge his comforts, or oppofe his pro-
grefs. This confideration naturally leads us to the ar¬
ticle Natural History, and its fubdivifions Mam¬
malia, Cetology, Erpetology, Ophiology, Or¬
nithology, Ichthyology, PIelminthology, Con-
chology, Botany, Mineralogy, Geology, and
Meteorology.
Of thofe writers who diredlly treat of man, the phi- Writers on
lofopher •seciiS. Ctxe. moralifl him in the abftradt ; Te natura*
the deferibes him as he exifts in communi-'."^^ <Jl
ties •, the hiftorian traces the origin of fociety, the pro- *
grefs of man in arts, civilization, and refinement, and
the changes that have taken place among the human
fpecies, from the natural operation of phyfical caufes,
or from the folly, villainy, and ambition of princes and
heroes $ the biographer treats of man as an individual,
and fhews the effefts of exalted virtue, eminent abilities,
or ftriking vices, both on their poffeffor and on the
community at large. It is the bufinefs of the naturalifl
to deferibe the external form of man, as it differs from
that of other animals j to confider the ufual varieties of
it in different nations, and the more ftriking peculiari¬
ties that are occafionally found in individuals •, to de¬
feribe the habits and manners of the human fpecies ; the
progrels of life from infancy to death 5 the duration of
life and its caufes j and the effefts produced on the bo¬
dy by death.
Of the writers who have treated on fome part of the
natural hiftory of man, we might give a moft copious
lift, even without including the almoft: innumerable ca¬
talogue of medical w7orks. For the generality of read¬
ers, it may be fufficient to refer to Buffon’s Natural
Hiftory, or the Abridgement of it by Goldfmith ; to
Virey’s Hfoire Naturclle du Genre Humam; Cuvier’s
'Tableau Elementaire de C Hifloire Nature He des Animaux ;
Herder’s Outlines of the Philofophy of the Hiftory of
Man ; and the w7orks of Daubenton, Vicq d’Azyr,
Camper, Blumenbach, &c. &c.
We had propofed giving here a ftiort popular view7 of
the JlruBure and economy of man ; but as even this
would lead us into details for which w7e cannot afford
room, we muft refer our readers to Kerr’s Tranftation
of the Syitem of Linnaeus, and Dr Hunter’s Introduc¬
tory Ledfures to his courfe of Anatomy.
It is of more confequence to our prefect purpofe to
mention the particular circumftances that diftinguifli
man from thofe animals to which he feems neareit al¬
lied. Thefe diftinftive marks are w7ell deferibed by
Blumenbach, in his work De Generis Humani Vanetate
Native, and by M Daubenton, in his introduftion to
the Dictionary of Natural Hiftory in the Encyclopedic
Methodique ; with the latter we fhall prefect our read-
ers; _ 4
The only animals that bear any ftriking refemblance AJnciPal
toman, in point of ftrucHire, are the apes, efpecialiy. ‘rencts
the oran otan, and the gibbon; but according to M.
3 M 2 Daubenton, apes.
MAN [ 540 ] MAN
Man. Daubenton, there are two principal circumftances that
,,iri —v ' particularly diftinguillr man from thefe animals $ the
firft is the ftrength of the mufcles of the legs, by which
the body is fupported in a vertical pofition above them ;
the fecond confills in the articulation of the head with
the neck by the middle of its bafe. *■
We ftand upright, bend our body, and walk, with¬
out thinking on the power by which we are fupported
in thefe feveral pofitions. This power refides chiefly in
the mufcles which conftitute the principal part of the
calf of the leg. Their exertion is felt, and their mo¬
tion is vifible externally, when we ftand upright and
bend our body backwards and forwards. This power
is no lefs great when we walk even on a horizontal
plane. In afcending a height, the w-eight of the body
is more fenfibly felt than in defcending. All thefe mo¬
tions are natural to man. Other animals, on the con¬
trary, when placed on their hind legs, are either inca¬
pable of performing them at all, or do it partially, with
great difficulty, and for a very flrort time. The gib¬
bon, and the oran otan, can ftand upright with much
lefs difficulty than other brutes •, but the reftraint they
are under in this attitude, plainly ftrews that it is not
natural to them. The reafon is, that the mufcles in
the back part of the leg in the gibbon, &c. are not,
as in man, fufficiently large to form a calf, and confe-
quently not fufficiently ftrong to fupport the thighs and
body in a vertical line, and to preferve them in, that
pofture. See Mammalia, n° 28.
M. Daubenton has difcovered, that the attitudes
proper to man and to other animals, are pointed out by
the different ways in wffiich the head is articulated with
the neck. The two points by which the offeous part
of the head is conne£ted with the firft joint of the
neck, and on which every movement of the head is
made with the greateft facility, are placed at the edge
of the great hole of the occipital bone, which in man is
lituated near the centre of the bafe of the fkull, (afford¬
ing a paffage for the medullary fubftance into the verte¬
bral canal,) as upon a pivot or point of fupport. The face
is on a vertical line, almoft parallel to that of the body
and neck. The jaws, which are very ftrort when compa¬
red with thofe of moft other animals, extend very little
farther forwards than the forehead. No animal has,
like man, its hind legs as long as the body, neck, and
head, taken together, meafuring from the top of the
5 head to the os pubis.
Differences jn ^ frarae 0f the human body the principal parts are
mcrTand nearly the fame with thofe of other animals ; but in the
quadrupeds connexion and form of the bones there is as great a dif-
m general. fercnce as in the attitudes proper to each. Were a
man to affume the natural pofture of quadrupeds, and
try to walk by the help of his hands and feet, he would
find himfelf in a very unnatural fituation 5 he could not
move his feet and hands but with the greateft difficulty
and pain *, and let him make what exertions he pleafed,
he would find it impoflible to attain a fteady and continu¬
ed pace. The principal obftacles he would meet with
would arife rrom the ftru&ure of the pelvis, the hands,
the feet, and th head.
The plane of the great occipital hole, which in man
is almoft horizontal, puts the head in a kind of equili¬
brium upon the neck when we ftand ereft in our na¬
tural attitude •, but when we are in the attitude of qua¬
drupeds, it prevents us from raffing our bead fc as to
look forwards, becaufe the movement of the head is Man.
ftopt by the protuberance of the occiput, which then ap- v
proaches too near the vertebrae of the neck.
In moft animals, the great hole of the occipital bone
is fituated at the back part of the head ; the jaws are
very long *, the occiput has no protuberance beyond the
aperture, the plane of which is in a vertical direftion,
or inclined a little forwards or backwards ; fo that the
head is pendant, and joined to the neck by its pofterior
part. This pofition of the head enables quadrupeds,
though their bodies are in a horizontal direefion, to
prefent their muzzle forwards, and to raife it fo as to
reach above them, or to touch the earth with the extre¬
mity of their jaws when they bring their neck and head
down to their feet. In the attitude of quadrupeds, man
could touch the earth only with the fore part or the top
of the head. g
To thefe differences of ftruchire, we may add, that Man could
when man is Handing, his heel reils upon the earth asnever a
well as the other parts of his foot; when he walks it js Tiadr«pcd.
the firft part that touches the ground ; man can ftand
on one foot} thefe are peculiarities in ftru&ure and in
the manner of moving which are not to be found in
other animals. We may therefore conclude that man
cannot be ranked in the clafs of quadrupeds. We may
add, that in man the brain is much larger, and the
jaws much fhorter, than in any other animal. The
brain, by its great extent, forms the protuberance of
the occipital bone, the fore head, and all that part of
the head which is above the ears. In the inferior ani¬
mals, the brain is fo fmall, that moft of them have no
occiput, and the front is either wanting or little raifed.
In animals which have large foreheads, fuch as the
horfe, the ox, the elephant, &c. they are placed as low
as the ears, and even lower. Thefe animals likewile
want the occiput, and the top of the head is of very
fmall extent. The jaws, which form the greateft por¬
tion of the muzzle, are large in proportion to the fmall-
nefs of the brain. The length of the muzzle varies in
different animals ; in folipede animals it is very long;
it is Ihort in the oran otan, and in man it does not
exift at all: no beard grows on the muzzle 5 this part
is wanting in every animal *. * Daubai-
Man then alone, of all the animals with which •wtton‘
are acquainted, can conftantly and uniformly fupport
himfelf in the eredt pofture } and whatever the ingeni¬
ous and learned writer of Ancient Metaphyfics has ad¬
vanced in favour of fo ftrange a hypothefis, we cannot
believe that even in his earlieft and rudeft ftate of civi¬
lization man could ever have been a quadruped. We
are aware that Kotzebue, in the entertaining work in
which he relates his exile to Siberia, fpeaks of an idiot
he favv on his return, that went on all fours, with as
much eafe as if it were his natural attitude, but we do
not confider this fingle inftance as affording a proof
that fuch would be the attitude of man in a ftate of na¬
ture.
“ There are (fays Cuvier) feveral circumftances in the
anatomical ftrudlure of man, which fufficicntly prove that
nature never intended him to walk on all fours. In this
fituation his eyes would be diredled towards the earth *,
but not being poffeffed of the cervical ligament that is
found in quadrupeds, he would not be able to fupport
his head. His inferior extremities w’ould be too much
elevated irq proportion to his arms, and his feet, too
fiiort
Man.
* Tableau
elemen¬
tal) e.
Noblenefs
of the form
MAN [5
fliort to enable him conveniently to pend them like
other animals who tread only on their toes. His cheft
is fo large that it would impede the free motion of his
mms. He could not even climb with fo much facility
as apes, bee aide he has not, like them, the great toe fe-
parated from the reft ; nor could he climb like the cats,
on account of the weaknefs of his nails” *.
1 he body of a well-ftiaped man ought to be fquare,
the mufcles ought to be ftrongly marked, the contour of
the members boldly delineated, and the features of the
face well defined. In women, all the parts are more
rounded and fofter, the features are more delicate, and
the complexion brighter. To man belong ftrength and
majelty : gracehilnefs and beauty are the portions of the
other lex. The ftructure effential to each will be found
in the defeription of the human Ikeleton, under the ar¬
ticle Anatomy.
Every thing in both fexes points them out as the fo-
o the toim vereigns of the earth ; even the external appearance of
andattitude j 1 1 • r • • 1 rr
of man. man h’s iupenonty to other creatures. His
body is eredf ; his attitude is that of command ; his
auguft countenance, which is turned towards heaven,
bears the impreftions of his dignity. The image of his
foul is painted in his face 5 the excellence of his nature
pierces through the material organs, and gives a fire
and animation to the features of his countenance. His
majeftic deportment, his firm and emboldened gait, an¬
nounce the noblenefs of his rank. He touches the
earth only with his extremity, he views it only at a
diftance, and feems to defpife it. It has been juftly
obferved, that the countenance of man is the mirror of
his mind. In the looks of no animal are the ex-
preffions of paflions painted with fuch energy and
rapidity, and with fuch gentle gradations and lhades,
as in thofe of man. We know, that in certain emotions
of the mind, the blood rites to the face, and produces
bluthing; and that in others the countenance turns
pale. 1 hefe two fymptoms, the appearance of which
depends on the ftrubdure and the traniparency of the re¬
ticulum, efpecially rednefs, conftitute a peculiar beauty.
Li our climates, the natural colour of the face of a man
in good health is white, with a lively red fuffufed upon
the cheeks. Palenefs of the countenance is always a
fufpicious fymptom. That colour which is ftiaded with
black is a fign of melancholy j and conftant and univer*
fal rednefs is a proof that the blood is carried wdth too
much impetuofity to the brain. A livid colour is a
morbid and dangerous fymptom j and that which has
a tint of yellow is a fign of jaundice or- repletion of
bile. I he colour of the fkin is frequently altered by
want of lleep or of nourilhment, or by loofenefs and
diarrhoea *.
Notwithft'anding the general fimilitude of counte¬
nance in nations and families, there is a wonderful di-
verfity of features., No one, however, is at a lofs to
recollebl the perfon to whom he intends to fpeak, pro¬
vided he. has once fully feen him. One man has live¬
in.efs and gaiety painted in his countenance, and an¬
nounces beforehand, by the cheerfulnefs of his appear¬
ance, tne character which fhe is to fupport in fociety.
I he tears, which bedew the cheeks of another man
would excite companion in the moft unfeeling heart,
idms the face of man is the rendezvous of the fymptems
both of ms moral,and phyfical affeffions j tranquillity,
^ Baffin.
Diverfity ot
the human
f<fcStiu-es.
41 ] M A N
anger, threatening, joy, fmiles, laughter, malice, love, Maa.
envy, jealoufy, pride, contempt, diklain or indignation, “ * *
irony, arrogance, tears, terror, aftonifhment, horror,
fear, (name or humiliation, forrow and affliction, com-
paflion, meditation, particular convulfions, lleep, death,
&c. &c. The difference of thefe characters appears
to us of fufficient importance to form a principal article
in the natural hiftory of man. ^ 9 ^
When the mind is at eafe, all the features of the Oicnc^a'o^
face are in a ftate of profound tranquillity. Their pro-the fea-
portion, harmony, and union, point out the ferenity tures.
of the thoughts. But when the foul is agitated, the
human face becomes a living canvas, whereon the paf-
fions are reprefented with equal delicacy and energy ;
wfflere every emotion of the foul is expreffed by fome
feature, and every a&ion by fome mark j the lively
imprefflon of which anticipates the will, and reveals by
pathetic figns our fecret agitation, and thofe intentions I0
which we are anxious to conceal. It is in the eyes The eyes,
that the foul is painted in the ftrongeft colours, and
wfith the niceft fhades. The different colours of the
eyes are, dark hazel, light hazel, green, blue, gray,
£nd whitifh gray. The moft common of thefe colours
are hazel and blue, both of which are often found in
the fame eye. Eyes which are commonly called black,
are only dark hazel 5 they appear black in confequence
of being contrafted with the white of the eye. Where-
ever there is a tint of blue, however tlight, it becomes
the prevailing colour, and outftiines the hazel, with
wfflich it is intermixed, to fuch a degree, that the mix¬
ture cannot be perceived without a very narrow exa¬
mination. The moft beautiful eyes are thofe which ap¬
pear black or blue. In the former there is more ex-
preffion and vivacity *, in the latter more fweetnefs, and
perhaps delicacy. IX
Next to the eyes, the parts of the face by which theTheeye-
phyfiognomy is moft ftrongly marked, are the eyebrowsi
Being of a different nature from the other parts, their
effeft is increafed by contraft. They are like lhade
in a piflure, which gives relief to the other colours and
forms.
12
I he forehead is one of the largeft parts of the face,The foreh¬
and one that contributes moft to its beauty. Every body head,
knows of how great importance the hair is in the phyfiog-
nomy, and that baldnels is a very great defedl. When old
age begins to make its approaches, the hair which firft
falls off is that which covers the crown of the head and
the parts above the temples. We feldom fee the hair
of the lower part of the temples, or of the back of the
head, completely fall off. Baldnefs is peculiar to men j
women do not naturally lofe their hair, though it be¬
comes white as well as that of men at-the approach of
old age. •
I he no!e is the moft prominent feature of the face -jThe nofe.
but as it has very little motion, and that only in the
moft violent paffions, it contributes lefs to the expref-
fion than to the bqauty of the countenance. The nofe
is feldom perpendicular to the middle-of the face, but
for the moft part is turned toward the one fide or the
other. Ihe caufe of this irregularity, which according
to painters, is perfedlly confiftent with beauty, and
ol which even the want would be a deformity, appears
to be frequent preflure on one fide of the cartilage of
the child’s nofe agahift the breaft of the mother when
, 14
Mcuth and
Ups.
IS
M A N
^an. ^ it receives fuck. At the early period of lif
tdages and bones have acquired very little folidity, and
are eafily bent.
Next to the eyes, the mouth and lips have the great¬
er motion and expreflion. The motions of thefe parts
are under the influence of the paffions. The mouth,
let ofi by the vermilion of the lips, and the enamel of
the teeth, marks, by the various forms it aiTumes, their
different charadlers ; and this feature receives anima¬
tion from the organ of the voice, which communicates
to it more life and exprelTion than is pofleiTed by any
other feature. The cheeks are uniform features, and
have no motion, and little expreflion, except what arifes
from that involuntary rednefs or palenefs with which
they are covered in different paffions, fuch as fhame,
anger, pride, and joy, producing rednefs j and fear, ter¬
ror, and forrow, producing'palenefs.
changes on In different paffons, the whole head affumes differ-
tficheatnres ent politicos, and is affected with different motions. It
ftons!*0 !>a * !ian§s f°rwai'd during lliame, humility, and forrow it
inclines to one fide in languor and compaflion ; it is
elevated in pride, ere£t and fixed in obftinacy and felf-
conceit. In afioniiliment, it is thrown backwards j
and it mcn’es from fide to fide in contempt, ridicule,
anger, and indignation. In grief, joy, love, ihame, and
compaflion, the eyes fwell and the tears flow. The
effufion of tears is always accompanied with an exten-
fion of the mufcles of the face, which opens the mouth.
In forrow, the corners of the mouth are depreffed, the
under-lip riles, the eyelids fall down, the pupil of the
eye is round and half concealed by the eyelid. The
other mufcles of the face are relaxed, fo that the di-
ftance between the eyes and the mouth is greater than
ordinary ; and confequently. the countenance appears to
be lengthened. In fear, terror, confternation, and hor¬
ror, the forehead is wrinkled, the eyebrows are raifed,
the eyelids are opened as wide as poffible, the upper-
lid uncovers a part of the white above the pupil, which
is depreifed and partly concealed by the under lid. At
the lame time the mouth opens wide, the lips recede
from each other, and difcover the teeth both above and
below. In contempt and derifion, the upper-lip is
raifed to one fide and expofes the teeth, while the other
fide of the lip moves a little, and wears the appearance
of a imile. The noltril on the elevated fide of the lip
Ihrivels up, and the corner of the mouth falls down.
The eye on the fame fide is almofl Unit, while the other
is open as ufual; but the pupils of both are depreffed,
as when one looks down from a height. In jealoufy,
envy, and malice, the eyebrows fall down and are
depreffed. The upper lip is elevated on both fides,
while the corners of the mouth are a little depreiTed,
and the under-lip rifes to join the middle of the upper.
In laughter, the corners of the mouth are drawn back,
and a little elevated ; the upper parts of the cheeks
riie; the eyes are more or lefs doled j the upper lip
riles, snd the under one falls down ; the month opens,
and in cafes of immoderate laughter, the fkin of the
nofe wrinkles. That gentler and more gracious kind
of laughter which is called fmintig, is feated wholly
in the parts of the mouth. The under lip rifes; the
angles of the mouth are drawn back, the cheeks are
'ptiffed up, the eyelids approach one another, and a
imall twinkling is obferved in the eyes. It is very ex¬
traordinary, that laughter may be excited either bv a-
Man.
r 542 1 MAN
tne car^ moral caufe without the immediate acHon of external
objects, or by a particular irritation of the nerves with¬
out any feeling of joy. Thus an involuntary laugh is
excited by a flight tickling of the lips, of the palm of
the hand, or the foie of the foot, of the armpits, and iu
ftiort, below’ the middle of the ribs. We laugh when two
diiiimilar ideas, the union of which was unexpected,
are reprefented to the mind at the fame time, and when
one or both of theie ideas, or their union, includes
fome abfurdity which excites an emotion of difdain ming¬
led with joy. In general, ftriking contrails never tail
to produce laughter.
A change is produced in the features of the counte¬
nance by weeping as w’ell as by laughing. In weeping,
the under lip is feparated from the teeth $ the forehead
is wrinkled ; the eyebrows are depreffed j the dimple
which gives agracefulnefs to laughter, foriakes the cheek;
the eyes are unufually comprefled, and bathed in tears.
In laughter, tears not unfrequently appear, but they
flow more feldom and lefs copioufiy.
The arms, hands, and every part of the body, con¬
tribute to the expreflion of the paffions. In joy, for
inilance, all the members of the body are agitated with
quick and varied motions. In languor and forrow, the
arms hang down, and the whole body remains fixed
and immoveable. In admiration and furprife, a fimilar
fulpenfion of motion is likewife obferved. In love and
hope, the head and eyes are raifed t * heaven, as if to
folicit the wilhed-for good ; the body bears forward as
if to approach it; the arms are ftretched out, and feem
to feize before hand the defired object. On the con¬
trary, in fear, hatred and horror, the arms feem to
pufii backward, and repel the object of averfion. We
turn away our head and eyes, as if to avoid the fight
of it; we ftart back as if to fliun it *.
For the beauty of the human form, fee Beauty and
Drawing. i(S
At his birth, man is the moft feeble of all animals ; Origin of
he cannot fublift but by the care of his parents, for famhy at-
which he has occafion for a much longer time than te<^on»
other animals. Hence the natural continuance of con¬
jugal affeftion, and the intimate ties that bind together
the parents with each other and with their children.
As the father partakes with his companion in the care
of educating their children, man ought more than any
other animal, to live in a ftate of monogamy, the pro¬
priety of which is demonftrated by the nearly equal
number of male and female children that on an average
come into the world.
Man is formed for fociety, which is rendered effen- And of fo-
tially neceffary to him from his natural weaknefs, and c*al !nter-
without which he would not be able to refill the wildcour^'
beafts of the foreft, nor procure for himfelf the necef-
faries of life : for he has no arms offenfive or defenfive,
fuch as horns, claws, icales; nor any thing that refem-
bles that faculty which we call inllinfl, which many
fpecies of animals derive from nature herfelf, and by
which they conftruft themfelves habitations, or change
their climate, according to the diverlity of the feafons. jg
All gregarious animals have a certain language by Of language
which they can in fome meafure communicate theiran4 arts•
thoughts to each other ; but man enjoys in this refpeef
two remarkable prerogatives, i. The faculty of articu-
latii-.g founds, which no quadruped enjoys in common
with him, and which muff give to his language an in¬
finite
^ Buffon,
MAN [ 543 ] MAN
finite variety and precifion. 2. An unlimited power of
generalizing his ideas, and of fixing and retaining ab-
Ifradl notions by means of words. On this depend me¬
mory and judgenaent, which latter is the foundation of
reafon, or of that faculty of refiefting and combining
ideas, which is confidered as peculiar to man.
It is by means of language that man communicates
to the relt of his Ipecies the obfervations and difcoveries
made by each individual, and this communication is
the great fource of the infinite perfectibility of the hu¬
man race. 1 he arts are the offspring of fcience, pro¬
duced by the combination of thefe oblervations and
difcoveries, and by that addrefs which refults from the
peculiar conformation of our hands and fingers.
By means of tne arts man has learned to procure for
himfelf fubfiftence, and to provide againll the incle¬
mencies of the weather in every climate of the earth.
I bus, he has eftabliihed himfelf every where j while the
reft of the animal creation have each a determinate
fpace, beyond which they cannot pafs without the pro¬
tection of man, who has tranfported with him the do-
meftic kinds, and has been followed in fpite of himfelf
by the parafitical tribes.
Progrefs of The nations who eitablifhed themfelves in the icv re¬
civilization. g;ons of the north, not finding there enough of vege¬
table nouriihment, nor pafture iufficiently abundant
for cattle, derived all their fubfiftence from the chafe
or fiihing. Obliged to devote all their time to the pro¬
curing of this fubfiftence, and multiplying but ilowly,
from the deftruclion of the game which furrounded
tnem, it is not iurprifing that among them man has
made leaft progrefs in arts and civilization. Their arts
were confined to the conftruClion of huts, to the prepar¬
ing of Ikins for their covering, and to the manufacture
of fpears and arrows. The inhabitants of the northern
and eaftern parts of Siberia, and the favages of North
America, are almoft the only people who are in this
low ftate of civilization.
Other nations learned to fecure for themfelves in the
poffeftion of numerous herds, certain fubfiftence, and to
find lufficient leifure to increafe their knowledge ; but
their w’andering life, in fearch of new paftures and more
agreeable climates, kept them ftill within very narrow
limits with relpeCl to civilization. They, however,
acquired more induftry in the conftruCtion of their ha¬
bitations, and learned the value of property ; the natu¬
ral confequences o1 which were riches, and an inequali¬
ty of condition. The Laplanders in the north of Eu¬
rope, the Tartars who inhabit the vaft extent of coun¬
try in the interior of Afia, the Bedouin Arabs who
occu y the fands of Arabia and the north of Africa,
tne Caftres and Hi ttentots in the fouth of Africa, are
the principal wandering tribes with which we are ac¬
quainted.
Man did not multiply to any great extent, nor rife
to any great perfection in the arts and fciences, till
landed property allowed him to pay attention to agri¬
culture, by means of which the labour of one part of
the community could procure fubfiftence for the reft,
and leave them fufficient leifure to employ themselves
in arts lefs neceffary than ornamental. Laftly, The
invention of money, by facilitating the transfer of com¬
modities, brought to the higheft pitch induftry, lu.xuiy,
and inequality of fortune, and by a necetlary confe-
quence, the vices of effeminacy, and the rage of ambi-1 Man.
tion. * 
Man living in every climate, fearing no other ani¬
mal, but having even deftroyed or confined to the de-
ferts all thofe who could moleft him, became incom¬
parably more numerous than any other tribe of large
animals. Hence, having few other animals to combat,
he foon began to make war on his own fpecies, and he
may be confidered as almoft the only animal that is
perpetually at war with thofe of the fame tribe. Sa¬
vages difpute the forefts in which they follow the chafe j
Nomads, the pafiures where they feed their cattle j
more civilized people combat for the monopoly of com¬
merce or the prerogatives of pride and ambition.
Hence the neceffity of government, to regulate national
difputes, and to reduce to certain rules the quarrels of*
individuals *. 2o
It is chiefly the features of the countenance, and the Marks that
colour of the fkin, that ferve to diftinguiih the varieties
of the human fpecies. Independently of particular and.t!e }mman
individual differences, the human race may be diitin-fpeties.
guifhed into five principal varieties, the diltindtive cha-
radlers of which are deeply ftamped, and appear to re¬
fill: even the powerful influence of climate. In fadf we
fee, under the fame parallel of latitude, and in the lame
country, exifting together for a number of ages, the
dark Hungarian or gypfy, and the faireft people of Eu¬
rope ; the copper coloured Peruvian, the brown Malay,
and the almoft white Abyffmian, in the fame zone that
is inhabited by the blacked; people in the univerfe.
The inhabitants of Van Diemen’s land are black, wfliile
the Europeans of the fame degree of north latitude are
white; and the inhabitants of the Malabar coaft,
though placed beneath a fky much hotter than the in¬
habitants of Siberia, are not browner than thefe latter.
The Dutch who colonized the Cape of Good Hope,
have not, during two centuries, acquired the fame co¬
lour with the Hottentots who people that country ; and
the Parfi remain white in the midft of the olive-colour¬
ed Hindoos.
The colouring matter feated in the mucous mem¬
brane below the fkin, is not the only dittinclive cha-
radler that marks the varieties of the human fpecies, as
in each of them there is a peculiar form, diftinguifhed
by general and canftant marks, depending on the con¬
formation of the bones. The muzzle of the Negro ;
the very prominent cheek-bones of the Calmuck j the
flattened fkull and nofe of the Carribbee Indian-, the ob¬
lique eyes of the Japanele and Chinefe, do not appear
owing to art, like the lengthened ears or the tattaooed
fein of the natives of the South fea iilands. The fair
or red colour of the hair in Europeans ; the blue or
gray eyes of the north, are almoft never feen, except in
a few morbid cafes, in any other varieties. The hair
of all the reft is very black, evtn from infancy ; fleek
and thick in all the Mongul nations, the Malays, and
the Americans, both of the fouth and north, but wool¬
ly in Nt groes and Hottentots ; the beard which is late
and fhin in all the Monguls, exifts naturally throu?h-
ou! the American tribes, though, as among molt other
favage people, all the Carribs eradicate it from t! eir
youth, which has induced a fuppofition that all thefe
favage people are naturally beardle; f. jrt'rey.
Mankind with refpect to their varieties, have been
%very
X
M A N
Man. very differently divided by naturaliils.
Man.
EyGmelin.
five varieties, viz. i. Americans, of copper-coloured
Varieties of comp^ex‘on’ c^°^eric conftitution, and remarkably ere£l.
man as ft a-2. Europeans; of fair complexion, fanguine tempera-
tedbyLin- ment, and brawny form. 3. AJiatics; of footy com-
naeus. plexion, melancholic tmperament, and rigid fibre.
4. Africans ; of black complexion, phlegmatic tempera¬
ment, and relaxed fibre j and 5. Monjlers ; compre¬
hending, 1. Alpini; the inhabitants of the northern
mountains : they are fmall in ftature, aflive, and timid
in their difpofition. 2. Patagonici; the Patagonians
of South America, of.vaft fize, and indolent in their
manners. ,x). Monorclndes ; the Hottentots, having one
tefticle extirpated. 4. Imberbes; moil of the Ameri¬
can nations, who eradicate their beards and the hair
from every part of the body except the fcalp. 5. Ma-
crocepha/i. 6. Plagioccphali\ the Canadian Indians, who
have the fore part of their heads flattened, when young,
by compreflion.
The following arrangement of the varieties in the
human fpecies, is offered by Gmelin as more con¬
venient than that of Linnaeus. 1. White, [Horn.
A/bus.) Formed by the rules of fymmetrical elegance
and beauty 5 or at lead what we confider as luch.—
This divilion includes almofl: all the inhabitants of Eu¬
rope } thofe of Afia on this fide of the Oby, the Caf-
pian, Mount Imaus, and the Ganges ; likewife the
natives of the north of Africa, of Greenland, and the
Efquimaux.
2. Brown : (Horn. Baciiusi) Of a yellowifli brown
colour •, has fcanty hairs, flat features, and fmall eyes.
—This variety takes in the whole inhabitants of Afia
not included in the preceding divifion.
3. Black : (Horn. Niger.) Of black complexion ;
has frizzly hair, a flat wofe, and thick lips.—The whole
inhabitants of Africa, excepting thofe of its more
northern parts.
4. Copper-coloured: (Horn. Cupreus.') I he com¬
plexion of the flcin refembles the colour of copper not
burniftied.—The whole inhabitants of America, except
die Greenlanders and Efquimaux.
5. Tawny : (Ho/n. Fujcusi) Chiefly of a dark
blackifli-brown colour •, having a broad nofe, and harfli
coarfe ftraight hair.——The inhabitants of the fouthern
iflands, and of moft of the Indian iflands.
Buffon enumerates fix varieties, i.The polar or Lap-
land race ; 2. The Tartar or Mongul •, 3. The fouth¬
ern Afiatic *, 4. The European ; 5. The Ethiopian •,
and 6. The American. For an account of thefe va¬
rieties fee Buffon’s Natural Hiftory by Smellie, and
Herder’s Outlines of the Philofophy of the Hiftory of
Man.
Virey the difciple of Buffon, diftributes man into five
varieties, 1. The Celtic race, containing moft of the
Europeans. 2. The Mongul and Lapland. 3. Malay.
4. The Negro and Hottentot; and 5. The Carrib.
For his deicription of thefe varieties, with portraits il-
luftrating them, fee his Hifloire Naturelle du Genre
Hit main, tom. i. p. 129.
Of all the divifions which we have feen, we confider
that given by Cuvier, in his Tableau Elementaire de
/’Hiftoire Naturelle des Animaux, as the leaft exception¬
able ; and as it is very concife, W'e fliall here give a
tranflation of it, Cuvier’s enumeration is as fellow’s.
The white race, with oval vifage, long hair, pointed
-3
By Buffon.
24
By Virey.
25 .
By Cuvier.
[ 544 1 M A N
Linnaeus makes nofe ; to which belong the poliftied natives of Europe,
which appears to us the moft comely of all the varieties,
is alfo far fuperior to the reft in ftrength of genius, in ^p:te ratc<
courage, and adlivity. The Tartars, properly fo call¬
ed, from whom the Turks arc defeended ; the Circalu-
ans, and other people about Mount Caucafus, who are
the faireft of the human race ; the Perfians, the native
inhabitants of Hindoftan, the Arabians, the Moors who
inhabit the north of Africa, and the Abyffinians, who
appear, as well as the Jews, to be derived from the A-
rabians, belong to the fame race v/ith the Europeans.
Thefe nations are larger and fairer in the north, their
hair is there fair, their eyes blue ; whereas in the fouth
they are dark, and often very brown, and their hair and
eyes are black. There are intermixtures of thefe co¬
lours in the more temperate regions. _ 27
2. All the north of the two continents is peopled with Lapland
men that are very dark, with flat vifage, black hair ?ce’
and eyes; with a body thick and extremely fhort. To
this belong the Laplanders in Europe, the Samoiedes,
Oftiacs, Tfchutfki in Afia; the Greenlanders and Ef¬
quimaux in America. The inhabitants of Finland re-
femble thefe almoft in every circumftance, except that
their height equals that of the European. The Hun¬
garians and feveral wandering tribes of Afia, bave a
fimilar form, and fimilar language and manners with the
F*ns* m 281
3. The Mongul race, to wdiich belong moft oftlie*’°ng”‘
people wTe call Tartars, as the Mongols, the Mant-
cheoux, the Calmucs, &c. and wTho have extended
their conquefts from China to Hindoftan, and are even
advanced as far as the frontiers of Europe, is charac¬
terized by a flat forehead, a fmall nofe, prominent
cheek-bones, black hair, very thin beard, fmall oblique
eyes, thick lips, and a colour more or Ids yellow.
The Chinefe and Japanefe, and the Indians beyond
the Ganges, to whom w7e give the name of Malays,
appear to hold a near refemblance to the Mongols.
The iflands of the South fea, and the great continent of
New Holland, are inhabited by original Malays.
Thefe who live neareft the equator have the fkin almoft
as black as the Negroes. Such are, among others, the
Papons. 29
4. The Negroes inhabit all the coafts on the fouth of^egrorace‘
Africa from the river Senegal to the Red fea. Beiides
the blacknefs of their fkin, they are diftinguifhed by
their flat nofe and forehead, their long muzzle, promi¬
nent cheek bones, and frizzled hair. They are black¬
er than the inhabitants of Guinea, and have the nofe
exceflively long. rLhofe of Congo are the moft come¬
ly. Towards' the tropic of Capricorn they become a
little paler, and take the name of Caffres. Almoft all
the inhabitants of the eaftern coaft of Africa are .of this
fubvariety. The Hottentots form another fubdivifion,
which is found in the moft fouthern point, and they have
cheek-bones fo prominent, that their vifage appears tri¬
angular. Their colour is a browm olive.
It is fuppofed that the interior parts of Afiica,
which are very hilly, are inhabited by a race of white
men like Abyflinia. 3°
5. America was peopled with men of a copper co-Copperrace,
lour, with long and coarfe hair, who, according to molt
travellers, generally want the beard, and even the.hair
on the body. Others affures us that they eradicate
thefe. It is alfo faid, that the fanciful form
of their
heads
M AN [ 545 ] M A N
Man. heads arife from the compreffion they undergo in in-
s—“-v ' fancy. This race comprehends the favage nations of
America, and the remaining inhabitants of Mexico and
Peru. It is towards the fouthern point of this conti¬
nent that we find the tailed: race of men in the uni-
verfe'j but their height, which the earlier travellers re-
prefented as gigantic, fcarcely exceeds fix feet. Thefe
are the people io celebrated under the name of Patago-
nrans. >
All thefe different varieties of men can intermix and
produce children, who hold a mean between the forms
and colours of their parents. Thefe intermixtures can
again mix with the original races, and the produce
approaches to thefe races according to the degree of
mixture. All thefe progenies are prolific as w’ell as
their fathers and mothers.
It appears that there are fometimes born in the dif¬
ferent races of our variety, fubjedts of a milky white-
nefs, which is the effedl of difeafe, and this colour is
accompanied with feeblenefs of body and wreaknefs of
fight. Some travellers have believed that thefe men
form entire nations, which they have called Dariens in
America, Dondos or Albinos, in Africa, and Chack-
leras in India. See Albinos.
The different colours which difiinguifh the varieties
of the human fpecies, refide not in the cuticle, but in
the mucus and reticular membrane which is immediately
* Cuvier, below it *.
Varieties of Blumenbach remarks, that feme late writers feem
man not doubtful whether the numerous diftindl races of men
diftindl ought to be confidefed as mere varieties, which have
fpecies. arifen from degeneration, or as fo many fpecies alto¬
gether different. The caufe of this feems chiefly to be,
that they took too narrow a view in their refearches,
feledled, perhaps, tw7o races the moft different from
each other poffible, and, overlooking the intermediate
races that formed the connedting links between them,
compared thefe two together 5 or, they fixed their at¬
tention too much on man, without examining other
fpecies of animals, and comparing their varieties and
degeneration with thofe of the human fpecies. The
firll fault is, when one, for example, places together a
Senegal negro and an European Adonis, and at the
fame time forgets that there is not one of the bodily
differences of thefe two beings, whether hair, colour,
features, &c. which does not gradually run into the
fame thing of the other, by fuch a variety of fliades,
that no phyfiologift or naturalift is able to eftablifh a
certain boundary between thefe gradations, and confe-
quently between the extremes themfelves.
The fecond fault is, when people reafen as if man
were the only organized being in nature, and confider
the varieties in his fpecies to be ftrange and problema¬
tical, without reflediing that all thefe varieties are not
more ftriking or more uncommon than thofe with
which fo many thoufands of other fpecies of organized
beings degenerate, as it were, before our eyes.
W e cannot here enter into the merits of the queffion,
w hether, confidering the varieties of the human fpecies
u’hich we have deferibed, all thefe could have originat¬
ed from one pair, as related in the Mofaic hiflory. To
thofe who aftedt to difbelieve the Mofaic account, it
may be fefficient to reply, that to the almighty power
of the Divine Being it was not more difficult to change
and modify the, defeendants of one man and one wot
¥ol. XII. Part II.
man, in order to adapt them to the different regions of Man.
the earth which they were deffined to occupy, than to '’■“""'v '
create at the firft five or fix pairs placed in different fi-
tuatioiis, toTe the progenitors of the nations that wre
now7 fee inhabiting the globe. 32
On the nature and caufes of the different colour of D\is illuf-
the fkin, that charadlerizes the varieties of the humantlate<*
fpecies, fee the article Complexion. On this fubjedl f0n°^ man
we fhall here add a curious companion between the hu- with fwine.
man race and fwdne, by Profelfor Blumenbach, intend¬
ed to refute the fecond error into which he confiders
writers have fallen, in treating of the varieties of
man.
More reafons, fays he, than one have induced me to
make choice of fwine for this comparifon ; but, in par¬
ticular, becaufe they have a great fimilarity, in many
refpedls, to man; not however, in the form of their en¬
trails, as people formerly believed, and therefore ffu-
died the anatomy of the human body purpofely in
fwine ; fo that even, in the 17th century, a celebrated
difpute, which arofe between the phyficians of Heidel¬
berg and thofe of Durlach, refpedling the pofition of
the heart in man, w7as determined, in ccnfequence of
orders from government, by infpedling a few7, to the
great triumph of the party which really w7as in the
wrong. Nor is it becaufe in the time of Galen, accord¬
ing to repeated aflertions, human fiefh was faid to have
a taffe perfedlly fimilar to that of fwine ; nor becaufe
the fat, and the tanned hides of both, are very like to
each other; but becaufe both, in general, in regard to
the economy of their bodily ftrudlure, taken on the
w7hole, fhew unexpectedly, on the firff view, as well
as on clofer examination, a very ftriking fimilitude.
Both, for example, are domeftic animals ; both om-
tnvora; both are difperfed throughout all the four quar¬
ters of the world ; and both confequently are expofed,
in numerous ways, to the principal caufes of degenera¬
tion arifing from climate, mode of life, nouriftmient, &o.:
both, for the fame reafon, are fubjeCt to many difeafes
rarely found among other 'animals than men and fwine,
fuch as the ftone in the bladder ; or to difeafes exclufive-
ly peculiar to thefe two, fuch as the worms found in
meafled fwine.
Another reafen, continues he, why I have made
choice of fwine for the prefent comparifon is, becaufe
the degeneration and defeent from the original race are
far more certain in thefe animals, and can be better
traced, than in the varieties of other domeftic animals.
For no naturalift, I believe, has carried his feepticifm
fo far as to doubt the defeent of the domeftic fwine from
the wild boar ; which is much the more evident, as it is
well known that wild pigs, w7hen caught, may be eafily
rendered as tame and familiar as domeftic fwine : and
the contrary alfo is the cafe ; for if the latter by any ac¬
cident get into the woods, they as readily become wild
again ; fo that there are inftances of fuch animals being
ftiot for wild, fwine, and it has not been till they were
opened, and found caftrated, that people were led to a
difeovery of their origin, and how, and at what time,
they ran away. It is well afeertained, that, before the
difeovery of America by the Spaniards, fwine were un¬
known in that quarter of the world, and that they
were afterwards carried thither from Europe. All the
varieties, therefore, through which this animal has lince
degenerated^ belong, with the original European race,
3 Z to
MAN [ i+S ] MAN
to one and the fame fpecies ; and finee no bodily differ¬
ence is found in the human race, either in regard to ffa-
ture, colour, the form of the fkull, as will prefent-
ly appear, which is not obferved in the fame proportion
in the fvvine race, this comparifon, it is to be hoped,
will filence thofe fceptics who have thought proper, on
account of thefe varieties of the human fpecies, to ad¬
mit more than one fpecies.
With regard to llature, the Patagonians, as is well
known, have afforded the greateft employment to an-
. thropologifts. The romantic tales, however, of the
old travellers, and even the more moddh relations of
Englifn navigators, have been doubted by other tra¬
vellers, who on the fame coaft fought in vain for fuch
children of Anak. But even admitting every thing
laid of the fize of thefe Patagonians, there is not among
them nearly fuch an excefs of ftature as that obferved in
many parts of America among the fwine originally car¬
ried thither from Europe ; and of thefe we fliall men¬
tion particularly thofe of Cuba, which are more than
double the fize of the original Europeans.
The natives of Guinea, Madagafcar, New Holland,
New Guinea, &c. are blackmany American tribes
are reddifh brown, and the Europeans are white. An
equal difference is obferved among fwine in different
-countries. In Piedmont, for example, they are black.
When I paffed, fays our author, through that country,
during the great fair for fwine at Salenge, I did not fee
a Angle one of any other colour. In Bavaria, they are
reddiih browm •, in Normandy they are all white. Hu¬
man hair is, indeed, fomewhat different from fwines
briftles, yet, in the prefent point of view, they may
be compared with each other. Fair hair is foft, and of
a filky texture •, black hair is coarfer, and among feve-
ral tribes, fuch as the Abyffimans, Negroes, and the
inhabitants of New Holland, it is woolly, and molt lb
among the Hottentots. In like manner, among the
white fwine in Normandy, as I was affured by an in¬
comparable obferver, Sulzer of Bonneburg, the hair on
the whole body is longer and fofter than among other
fwine; and even the briftles on the back are very little
different, but lie fiat, and are only longer than the hair
on the other parts of the body. They cannot, there¬
fore, be employed by the brulh-makers. The difference
between the hair of the wild boar and the domeftic
fwine, particularly in regard to the fofter part between
»he firong briftles, is, as is well known, ftill greater.
The whole difference between the cranium of a ne¬
gro and that of an European, is not in the leaft degree
greater than that equally ftriking difference which exifts
between the cranium of the wild boar and that of the
domeftic fwine. Thofe who have not obferved this in
the animals themfelves, need only to caft their eye on
the figure which Daubenton has given of both.
I {hall pafs over, fays Blumenbach, lefo national va¬
rieties which may be found among fwine as well as
among men, and only mention, that I have been aflu-
red by Mr Sulzer, that the peculiarity of having the
bone of the leg remarkably long, as is the cafe among
the Hindoos, has been remarked with regard to the
fwine in Normandy. They Hand very long on their
hind legs •, their back, therefore, is higheft at the rump,
forming a kind of inclined plane, and the head proceeds
in the fame direftion, fo that the fnout is not far from
ground. I {hall here add, that the fvybe in feme
countries have degenerated into races which in Angu¬
larity far exceed everything that has been found ilrange
in bodily variety among the human race. Swine with
folid hoofs were known to the ancients, and large herds
of them are found in Hungary, Sweden, &c. In like
manner the European fwine, firll carried by the Spa¬
niards, in 1509, to the illand of Cuba, at that time ce¬
lebrated for its pearl fifiiery, degenerated into a mon-
ftrous race, with hoofs which were half a fpan in length.
From thefe fa£ts our ingenious author concludes, that
it is abfurd to allow the vaft variety of fwine to have
defeended from ore original pair, and to contend that
the varieties of men are io many diftindt fpecies. 33
No part of the natural hiftory of man can be more Progrefs of
interefting than that which deferibes the progrefiive human
improvement and decay of human life, from the cradle
to the grave. This fubjedl has been treated of in a moft
animated manner by Buffbn, and we {hall here give an
abridgement of this part of his work. 34
Nothing (fays M. Buffon) exhibits fuch a ftriking Infancy,
picture of our weaknefs, as the condition of an infant
immediately after birth. Incapable of employing its
organs, it requires aftiftance of every kind. In the fir ft
moments of our exiftence, we prefent an image of pain
and mifery, and are more weak and helplefs than the
young of any other animal. At birth, the infant paffes
from one element to another j when it leaves the gentle
warmth of the tranquil fluid by which it was complete¬
ly furrounded in the womb of the mother, it becomes
expofed to the impreftions of the air, and inftantly
feels the effefts of that active element. The air afting
upon the olfactory nerves, and upon the organs of re-
fpiration, produces a {hock fomething like that of Ineez-
ing, by which the breaft is expanded, and the air ad¬
mitted into the lungs. In the mean time, the agita¬
tion of the diaphragm preffes upon the botvels, and the
excrements are thus for the firft time difeharged from
the inteftines, and the urine from the bladder. The
air dilates the veficles of the lungs, and after being ra¬
refied to a certain degree, is expelled by the fpring of
the dilated fibres reading upon this rarefied fluid.
The infant now refpires, and articulates founds or
cries.
Moft animals are blind for feme days after birth.
Infants open their eyes to the light the moment they
come into the world j but they are dull, fixed, and
commonly blue. The new-born child cannot diftin-
guifti obje&s, becaufe he is incapable of fixing his eyes
upon them. The organ of vifion is yet imperfed j the
cornea is wrinkled j and perhaps the retina is too foft
for receiving the images of external objeds, and for
communicating the fenfation of diftind vifion. At the
end of 40 days* the infant begins to hear and to fmile.
About the fame time it begins to look at bright ob¬
jeds, and frequently to turn its eyes towards the win¬
dow’, a candle, or any light. Now likewife it begins
to weep j for its former cries and groans W’ere not ac¬
companied with tears. Smiles and tears are the effed
of two internal fenfations, both of which depend on the
adion of the mind. Thus they are peculiar to the hu¬
man race, and ferve to exprefs mental pain or plea-
fure, while the cries, motions, and other marks of bo¬
dily pain and pleafure, are common to man and moft
of the other animals. Confidering the fubjed as meta.-
ptyficians, we {hall find that pain and pleafure form the
univerfal
M A N
which fets all
.[
our paffions in mo-
Man. univerfal power
tion.
The fize of an infant born at the full time is com¬
monly 21 inches 5 and that fczti/s, which nine months
before was an imperceptible bubble, now weighs ten
or twelve pounds, and fometimes more. The head is
large in proportion to the body ; and this difproportion,
w hich is Hill greater in the firit ftage of the foetus, con¬
tinues during the period of infancy. The Ikin of a
new-born child is of a reddilh colour, becaufe it is fo
fine and tranfparent as to allow a flight tint of the co¬
lour of the blood to ftiine through. The form of the
body and members is by no means perfeft in a child
foon after birth ; all the parts appear to be fwollen. At
the end oi three days, a kind of jaundice generally
comes on, and at the fame time milk is to be found in
the breafts of the infant, which may be fqueezed out
by the fingers. The fwelling decreafes as the child
glow’s up.
I he liquor contained in the amnios leaves a vifcid
whitilh matter upon the body of the child. In this
country we have the precaution to walh the new-born
infant only with warm wrater; but it is the cuilom with
w^hole nations inhabiting the colder!: climates, to plunge
their infants into cold water as foon as they are born,
without their receiving the fmallefl: injury. It is even
faid that the Laplanders leave their children in the
fnow till the cold has almoft flopped their refpiration,
and then plunge them into a warm bath. Among thefe
people, the children are alfo w'aflied thrice a day dur¬
ing the firfl year of their life. The inhabitants of nor¬
thern countries are perfuaded that the cold bath tends
to make men ftronger and more robuft, and on that
account accuflom their children to the ufe of it from
their infancy. The truth is, that w’e are totally igno¬
rant of the power of habit, or how far it can make
our bodies capable of fuffering, of acquiring, or of lo-
fing.
The child is not allowed to fuck as fcon as it is
born ; but time is given for difcharging the liquor and
ilime from the ftomach, and the meconium or excrement,
which is of a black colour, from the inteftines. As
thefe fubftances might four the milk, a little diluted
wine mixed with fugar is firft given to the infant, and
the bread is not prefented to it before 10 or 12 hours
have elapfed.
The young of quadrupeds can of themfelves find the
way to the teat of the mother: it is not fo with man.
The mother, in order to fuckle her child, muft raife it
to her breafts j and, at this feeble period of life, the
infant can exprefs its wTants only by cries.
New-born children have need of frequent nourifti-
ment. During the day, the breaft ought to be given
them every two hours, and during the night as often
as they awake. At firft: they fleep almoft: continuallyj
and they feem never to awake but when prefl'ed by
hunger and pain. Sleep is ufeful and refrefhing to
them ; and it is fometimes confidered as neceftary to em¬
ploy narcotic dofes, proportioned to the age and confti-
tution of the child, for the purpofe of procuring them
jepofe. 1 he common w’ay of appeafing the cries of
children is by rocking them in the cradle y but this
agitation muft be very gentle, otherwife a great riik is
run of confufing the infant’s brain, and of producing a
total derangement. It is neceffary to their being^in
Man.
547 ] MAN
good health, tha$ their fleep be long and natural. It
is poffible, however, that they may fleep too much,
mid thereby endanger their conflitution. In that cafe
it would be proper to take them out of the cradle, and
awaken them by a gentle motion, or by prefenting
fome bright objeft to their eyes. At this age we re¬
ceive the firft impreflions from the fenfes, which, with¬
out doubt, are more important during the reft: of life
than is generally imagined. Great care ought to be
taken to place the cradle in fuch a manner that the
child ftiall be diredlly oppofite to the light, for the
eyes are always direded towards that part of the room
where the light is ftrongeft ; and if the cradle be pla¬
ced fideways, one of them, by turning towards the
light, will acquire.greater ftrength than the other, and
the child will fquint. lor the firft two months, no
other food fhould be given to the child but the milk
of the nurfe j and when it is of a weak and delicate
conftitution, this nouriflrment alone (hould be continued
curing the third or fourth month. A. child, however
robuft and healthy, may be expofed to great danger
and inconvenience, if any other aliment is adminiftered
before the end of the firft month. In Holland, Italy,
luikej, and the whole Levant, the food of children
is limited to the milk of the nurfe for a whole year.
The lavages of Canada give their children fuck for
four, five, fix, and fometimes even feven years. In
this country, as nurfes generally have not a fufKcient
quantity of milk to latisfy the appetite of their chil¬
dren, they commonly fupply the want of it by panada,
or other light preparations. ^ ^
The teeth ufually begin to appear about the age cfBentitiorj
feven months. The cutting of thefe, although a natu¬
ral operation, does not follow the common law’s of na¬
ture, which avfts continually on the human body with¬
out occafioning the fmalleft pain, or even producing
any fenfation. Here a violent and painful effort is
made, accompanied with cries and tears. Children at
firft lofe their fprightlinefs and gaiety ; they become
lad, reftlefs, and fretful. The gums are red, and fwell-
cd; but they afterwards become white, when the
preffure of the teeth is fo great as to Hop the circula¬
tion of the blood. Children apply their fingers ta
their mouth, that they may remove the irritation which
they feel there. Some relief is given, by putting into
their hands a bit of ivory or coral, or of fome other
hard and fmooth body, with which they rub the gums
at the affebted part. This preffure, being oppofed to
that of the teeth, calms the pain for a moment, con¬
tributes, to make the membrane of the gum thinner
and facilitates its rupture. Nature here aCts in oppofi-
tion to herfelf j and an incifion of the gum muft fome¬
times take place, to allow a paffage to the tooth. For
the period of dentition, number of teeth, &c. fee Ana¬
tomy, N° 27. ‘ ‘ ^
When children are allowed to cry too long, and tooD'Teffes «f
often, ruptures are fometimes occafioned by the efforts'nf‘lncy
they. make. Thefe may eafily be cured by the fpeedy
application of bandages j but if this remedy has been
too long , delayed, the difeafe may continue through
Ins. Children are very much fubjeft to worms. Some
of the bad effects occafioned by thefe animals might, ac¬
cording to Buffon, be prevented by giving them a
little wine now and then, for fermented liquors have a
tendency to prevent their generation.
3Z2
Though
4
M A N
t 548 ]
M A N
• Man.
$7.
Mortality
of infants.
38
Speech.
39
Adoief-
eence and
puberty.
Though the body is very delicate in the flate of in-
- fancy, it is then lei’s fenfible of cold chan at any other
period of life. The internal heat appears to be great¬
er. The pulfe in children is much quicker than in
adults, from which we are certainly entitled to infer,
that the internal heat is greater in the fame propor¬
tion.
Till three years of age, the life of a child is very
precarious. In the fecond or third following years it
becomes more certain, and at fix or feven years of age
a child has a better chance ofliving than at any oth°r
period of life. From the bills of mortality publiihed
at London, it appears, that of a certain number of
children born at the fame time, one-half of them die
the three firfi: years; according to which, one-half of
the human race would be cut off before they are three
years of age. But the mortality among children is
not everywhere fo great as in London. AI. Dupre du
Saint-Maur, from a great number of obfervations made
in France, has (hewn that half of the children born at
the fame time are not extindt till feven or eight years
have elapfed.
Among the caufes which have occafioned fo great a
mortality among children, and even among adults, the
fmallpox may be ranked as the chief. But luckily the
means of alleviating the effedts of this terrible fcourge
are now univerfaily known by inoculation, and itill
more by the introduction of the cowpox.
Children begin learning to fpeak about the age of
12 or 15 months. In all languages, and among every
people, the firft fyllables they utter are bo, ba, mo, mo,
pa, pa, taba, ahada ; nor ought this to excite any fur-
prife, when we confider that thefe fyllables are the
founds moft natural to man, becaufe they confift of
that vowel, and thofe confonants, the pronunciation of
which require the fmalleft exertion in the organs of
fpeech. Some children at two years of age articulate
diftindhly, and repeat whatever is faid to them ; but
moft children do not fpeak till the age of two years and
3 half, or three years, and often later.
The life of man and of other animals is meafured
only from the moment of birth ; they enjoy exiftence,
however, previous to that period, and begin to live in
the ftate of a foetus. This ftate is defcribed and ex¬
plained under the article Anatomy, N° 113. The
period of infancy, which extends from the moment of
birth to about 12 years of age, has already been con-
fidered.
The period of infancy is followed by that of adol-
efcence. This begins, together with puberty, at the
age of : 2 or 14, and commonly ends in girls at 15, and
in boys at 18, but fometimes not till 21, 23, and 25
years of age. According to its etymology (being de¬
rived from the Latin adolefcenfia'), it is completed
when the body has attained its full height. Thus, pu¬
berty becomes adolefcence, and precedes youth. This
is the fpring of life ; this is the feafon of pleafures, of
loves, and of graces; but this fmiling feafon is of fhort
duration. Hitherto nature feems to have had nothing
in view but the prefervation and increafe of her work ;
fire has made no provifion for the infant except what is
neceflary for life and growth. It has enjoyed a kind
of vegetable exiffence which was Unit up within itfeif, Man.
and which it was incapable of communicating. In this —
firft llage oi life, reaion is ftill afleep ; but the prin¬
ciples of life foon multiply, and man has not only what
is neceffary to his own exiffence, but what enables him
to give exiffence to others. This redundancy of life
can no longer be confined, but endeavours to expand
and diffufe itfeif *. * Buffon.
Ihus far we have followed Buffon in his animated
fketch of the progrefs of human life ; but here we muff
leave him for a while, as we confider the picture he
has given of the approach of puberty and its corre-
Iponding circumffances to be lefs calculated to ferve the
purpofes of fcientific information, than to gratify idle
and vicious curiofity, and roufe thofe pafliuns which
feldom require much excitement. The iubjeifts of the
procreation of the human fpecies, of pregnancy and
parturition, are ftridtly medical, and are treated of in
fufficient detail under their proper heads in this work.
Perhaps we (hall be accufed, by fome of the philofo-
phiffs of the prefent age, of being too faffidious in
omitting fo important and interetting a part of the na¬
tural hiffory of man ; but we hid rather incur the im¬
putation of negligence, than introduce into an article
that is intended for general readers any thing that may
offend the niceff delicacy.
Soon after the age of puberty the body of man at¬
tains its full ffature. Some young people ceafe to
grow after 1 5 or 16; while others continue to increafe
in height till 20, or even 23. During this interval
they are ufually very {lender, but by degrees the limbs
fwell, and aflume their proper lhape ; and before the
age of 30, the body has generally attained its greateft
perfection with regard to ftrength, confiltence, and
fymmetry. Adolefcence is confidered as terminating
at the age of 20 or 25, and at this period (according
to the ufual divilion of man’s life into ages), youth be¬
gins. This continues till the age of 30 or 35.
The ftature of man varies confiderably in different suture of
climates, and under different circumfhnces. Authors man.
are by no means agreed as to what fhould be confidered
the medium height of the human body. Buffon ffates
it at from five feet or five feet and an inch, to five feet
four inches, making the medium height about rive feet
two inches. Haller on the contrary, reckons the true
medium height of men in the temperate climates of
Europe to be about five feet five, or fix inches. In
general, women are feveral inches Ihorter than men. It
has been remarked by Haller, that in mountainous
countries, fuch as Switzerland, the inhabitants of the
plains are commonly much taller than thofe of the
higher fituations. It is difficult to afcertain with preci-
fion the affual limits of the human ffature; but we may
remark that in furveying the inhabited parts of the
earth, we find more remarkable differences in the ffa¬
ture of different individuals of the fame nation, than in
the general height of different nations. In the fame
climate, among the fame people, and often even in the
fame family, we find fome individuals that are far above
the medium fiandard, and others as far below it. The
former we call giants, and the latter dwarfs. See Giant
and Dwarf (a).
The
(a) In addition to the relations of gigantic men given under Giant, we lhall here prefent our readers with
Blair’s
M A N
Man.
41
Manhood,
®eciinirs
The' body'having acquired its full height during the
^ period of adolefcencc, and its full dimenfions in youth,
remains for feme years in the fame ftate before it be¬
gins to decay. This is the period of manhood, v.hich
extends from the age of 30 or 35 to that of 40 or 45
years. During this ft age, the powers of the body con¬
tinue in full vigour, and the principal change which
takes place in the human figure arifes from the forma¬
tion of fat in different parts. Exceftive fatnefs disfigures
the body, and becomes a very cumberfome and incon¬
venient load.
Phyfiologifts give the name of old age to that period
of life which commences immediately after the age of
manhood and ends at death; and they diftinguilh green
•old age from the age of decrepitude. Eut in our opi¬
nion fuch an extenfive fignification of the word ought
net to be admitted. We are not old men at the age
of 40 or 45, and though the body then gives figns of
decay, it has not yet arrived at the period of old age.
M. Daubenton obferves, that it would be more proper
to call it the declining age, becaufe nature then becomes
retrograde, the fatnefs and good plight of the body
diminifti, and certain parts of it do not perform their
funeftions with equal vigour.
The age of decline is from 40 or 45, to 60 or 65 years
of age. At this time of life, tbe.diminution of the fat
is the caufe of thole wrinkles which begin to appear in
the face and lome other parts of the body. The ikin,
not being fupported by the fame quantity of fat, and
being incapable, for want of elafticity, of contrafling,
finks down and forms folds. In the decline of life, a
remarkable change takes place alfo in vifion. In the vigour
of our days, the cryflalline lens, being thicker and more
diaphanous than the humours of the eye, enables us to
read letters of a very fmall character at the diftance of
eight or ten inches. But when the age of decline comes
on, the quantity of the humours of the eye diminiihes,
C 549 1
MAN
they lofe their clearnefs, and the tranfparent cornea be¬
comes lefs convex* To remedy this inconvenience, we
place what we wifh to read at a greater diltauce from
the eye-, but vifion is thereby very little improved, be¬
caufe the image of the objefl becomes fmaller and
more obfeure. Another mark of the decline of life is
a W'eaknefs of the ftomach, and ind’geftion, in moft
people who do not take fufticient exercife in proportion
to the quantity and quality of their food.
At 60, 63, or 65 years of age, the figns of decline Old
become more and more vifible, and indicate old age.
This period-commonly extends to the age of 70, fome-
times to 75, but feldom to 8d. When the body is ex¬
tenuated and bent by old age, man then becomes
crazy. Crazinefs therefore, is nothing but an infirm
old age. The eyes and ftomach then become weaker
and weaker ; leannefs increafes the number of the
wrinkles, the beard and the hair become white j the
ftrength and the memory begin to fail.
After 70, or at moft 80 years of age, the life of
man is nothing but labour and forrow j fuch was the
language of David near 3000 years ago. Some men
of ftrong conftitutions, and in good health, enjoy old
age for a long time without decrepitude ; but fuch iu-
ftances are not very common. The infirmities of de¬
crepitude continually increafe, and at length death'
concludes the whole. This fatal term is uncertain.
The only conclufions which we can form concerning’
the duration of life, muft be derived from obfervatioust
made on a great number of men who were born
at the fame time, and who died at different ages.
The figns of decrepitude form a ftriking piflure of
weaknefs, and announce the approaching diflolution of
the body. The memory fails, the fibres become hard, the
nerves blunted ; deafnefs and blindnefs take place j the
fenfes of fmeil, of touch, and of tafte, are deftroyed ;
the appetite fails j the neceftity of eating, and more
frequently
Man.
A3
Blair’s account of O’Brien, the Irifti giant, who exhibited himfelf at London and Edinburgh a few years ago
and died very lately. He pretended to be nearly nine feet high. We infert this account the more readily as k
exactly agrees with what we ourfelves obferved when O’Brien was in Edinburgh.
“ I vifited this Irishman (fays Mr Blair,) on the 5th of May 1804, at N° 1 1. Haymarket. He was of a verr
extiaordmary ilature, but not well formed. As he would not fuffer a minute examination to be made of his per-
lon, it is impoftible to give any other than a ftiort defeription of him. He declined the propofal of walking a-
crcis tne room, and I believe was afraid of difeovering his extreme imbecillitv. He had the general afpefl of a
weak and unreflecting perfon, with an uncommonly low forehead; for as near as I could afeertain, the fpace
above his eye brows, in a perpendicular line to the top of his head, did not exceed two inches. He told me his
age was 38 years, and that moft of his anceftors, by his mother’s fide, were very large perfons. The difpropor-
tionate fize or his hands ftruck me with furprife, and in this he feemed to make his principal boaft. He refufed
to al.ow a caft to be made of his hand, and faid it had been done many years ago j but as I have feen that call
at Mr Bacon’s, I convinced the fize is much too fmall to reprefent his prefent ftate of growth. AH his joints
were large, and perhaps rickety ; his legs appeared fwollen, miftiapen, and I thought, dropfical ; however he did
not like ray touching therm The feet were clumfy, and concealed as. much as poflible by high {hoes. His limbs
were not very flout efpscially.his arms, and I judged that he had fcarcely got the ufe of them ; for, in order to
lot up his hand, he teemed obliged to fwing the whole arm, as if he had no power of raifing if by the adion of
tne ue:to:d ruufcle. fie certainly had a greater redundancy of bone than of mufcle, and gave me the impreflion,
or a huge, overgrown, fiekly boy j bis voice being rather feeble as well as his bodily energies, and his aae an--
peanng under that which he affirmed, indeed I find he gave a different account of himfelf to different vffitors.
t he ftate ot Ins pul e agreed with the general appearance of his perfon, viz. feeble, languid, and flow in its mo¬
tions. With regard to his aciual height, I felt anxious to deleft the fallacy he held out of his being nine feet!
Lpon extenmng my arm to the utmoft, I reached his eye-brow with my little finger ; alknving his height to
have been two mcnes and one-fourth above this, it could not be more in the whole than feven feet ten inches ; fo
tuat 1 am periuadedthe common opinion, founded on the giant’s owu.tale, is greatly exaggerated.” Philo fop hie aU
Magazine, vol. xvim p. 356. 90 ^ 1
M A N _ [ 5
Maw. frequently tlrat of drinking, are alone felt j after the
fV‘ ~^_r' ^ teeth fall out, maftication is imperfe&ly performed,
and digedion is very bad ; the lips fall inwards •, the
edges of the jaws can no longer approach each other }
the mufcles of the lower jaw become fo weak, that they
are unable to raife and fapport it. The body finks
down ; the fpine is bent outward, and the vertebrae
grow together at the anterior part ; the body becomes
extremely lean j the ftrength fails; the tlecrepid wretch
is unable to fupport himteif j he is obliged to remain
on a feat, or ftretched in his bed j the blackler becomes
paralytic *, the inteftines lofe their fpring •, the circula¬
tion of the bleed becomes flower ; the ftrokes of the
pulfe no longer amount to the number of So in a mi¬
nute as in the vigour of life, but are reduced to 24
and fometimes fewer ; refpiration is flower ; the body
lofes its heat ; the circulation of the blood ceaies j
44 death follows •, and the dream of life is at an end.
Death. Nothing can be more humiliating to the pride and
vanity of man than a comparifon of the Hate to which
his body is reduced by death, with that which it exhi¬
bits in the prime and vigour of youth. Let us contem¬
plate a female in the prime of youth and beauty. That
elegant voluptuous form, that graceful flexibility of
motion, that gentle warmth, thole cheeks crimioned
with the rofes of delight, thofe brilliant eyes darting
/ays of love, or fparkling with the fire of genius ; that
countenance enlivened by lallies of wit, or animated
by the glow of paflion, appear united, to form a moft
fafeinating being. A moment is fufficient to defxroy
the illufion. Senfe and motion ceafe without any ap¬
parent caufe •, the body lofes its heat •, the mufcles be¬
come flat, and the angular prominences of the bones
appear j the luflre of the eye is gone j the cheeks and
lips are livid. Thefe, however, are but preludes of
changes dill more horrible. The tledx becomes fuc-
ceflively blue, green, and black. It attracts humidity,
and while one portion evaporates in infeflious emana-
o ] MAN
tions, another diflfolves into a putrid fames, which is Man.
alfo diffipated. In a xvord, after a few thort days there f
remains only a fmall number of earthy and laline
principles. The other elements are difperfed in
air, and in water, to enter again into new combina¬
tions *. * Cuvier’s
Man has no right to complain of the ftiortnefs of .
life. Throughout the whole of living beings, there
are few who unite in a greater degree all the internal
caufes which tend to prolong its different periods. The
term of gedation is very confiderable ; the rudiments of
the teeth are very late in unfolding *, his growth is
flow, and is not completed before about 20 years have
elapfed.—The age of puberty, alfo, is much later in
man than in any other animal. In fliort, the parts of
his body being compofed of a fofter and more flexible
fubdance, are not fo fcon hardened as thole of inferior
animals. Man, therefore, feems to receive at his
birth the feeds of a long life } if he reaches not the dil-
tant period which nature feemed to promile him, it mull;
be owing to accidental caults foreign to tnmfell. In¬
dead of faying that he has finilhed his life, we ought
rather to fay that he has not completed it. ^
The natural and total duration of life is in fome Duration
meafure proportioned to the period of growth. A tree ^huraa*
or an animal which foqn acquires its lull fize, decays
much fooner than another which continues to grow for
a longer time. It is true that the life of animals is eight
times longer than the period of their growth, we might
conclude that the boundaries of human life may be ex¬
tended to a century and a half.
On the fubjeft of longevity, and the general cir-
cumdances on which it depends, we have already
treated under the article Longevity, and have there
given a lid of a great number of perfons who have
been celebrated for the length of their lives. To this
lid we lhall add a few more names in the note be¬
low’ ( b) ; but on the general fubjett of longevity, we
' ihall
(b) William Lecomte, a diepherd, died fuddenly in I77^> coun*y Caux in Normandy, at^ the age
»f no. Cramers, phyfician to the emperor, fawr at remefwar tiro brothers, the one aged 11 o, and the othei
112, both of whom were fathers at that age. St Paul the hermit was 113 at his death. I he Sieur Ifw’an-
Homaths, knight of the order of St Louis, died at Saar-Albe in Lorrain in 1775, aged aimed in. He was a
great hunter. He undertook a long journey a diort time before his death, and performed it on horfeback. Ro-
iine Iwiwaroufka died at Mind; in Lithuania at the age of 113. Fockjel Jonas died in the year I775> aged II3*
Marik Jonas died at Vilejac in Hungary, aged 119. John Niethen of Bakler in Zealano lived to the age of
120. Eleonora Spicer died in 1773, in Virginia, aged 121. John Argus was born in the village 01 Lafl.ua in
Turkey, and died in 1779, at the age of I 23 , having fix fons and three daughters, by whom he had poderity to
the fifth generation. They amounted to the number of 160 fouls, and all lived in the fame village. His fathei
died at the age of 120. In December 1777J there lived in Devonfhire a farmer namea John Biookey, wno was
1 34 years of age, and had been fifteen times married. The Philofophical T ranfaftions mention an Enghd.maa
called Eccledon, who lived to the age of 143. Another Englilhman, named Effingham, died in 1757 aL aSe
of 144. Niels .Tokens of Hamerfet in Denmark died in 1764, aged 146. Chrifiian Jacob Drakemberg died in
1770 at Archufen, in the 146th year of his age. This old man of the north was born at Stavangar in Noiway in
1.624, and at the age of 130 married a widow’ of 60. In Norway feme men have lived to the age of I CO. John
Rovin, who was born at Szatlova-Carantz-Batcher, in the bannat of 1 emefw'ar, lived to the age of l J 2, and his
wife to that of 164, having been married to him for 147 years. When Rovin died, their youngefl ion v;as
99 years of age. Peter Zorten a peafant, and a countryman of John Rovin, died in I724 at *-lje aSe
His youngeft fon was then 97 years of age. The hiftory and whole length pictures of John Rovin, Fj.enry <,en'
kins, and Peter Zorten, are to be feen in the library of S. A. R. Prince Charles at Brufiels4 anti engiavings o’
Rovin and Zorten, with a diort account of them, are given in Sir John Sinclair’s “ Code of Health and Longe¬
vity.” Profeffor Hanovius at Dantzic, mentions in his nomenclature an old man who died at the age ot 1 4^;
and another, then alive, had attained the extraordinary age of 186. For other inftances, lee oil J. Sine air ^
work above mentioned, 3
MAN [ 551 ] M A N
Rfan. fhall add nothing to vrhat has been faid under that
head, except the portrait of a man deflined for lon-
45 gevhy, drawn by the celebrated Hufeland.
“Portrait of He has a proper and well proportioned ftature, with-
a man out being too tall. He is rather of the middle fize,
formed for an(j fomevvhat thick fet. His complexion is not too
florid } at any rate, too much ruddinefs in youth is fel-
dom a fign of longevity. His hair approaches rather
to the fair than the black ; his fkin is ftrong, but not
rough. His head is not too big j he has large veins
at the extremities, and his fhoulders are rather round
than flat. His neck is not too long j his belly does
not projeft, and his hands are large, but not too deep¬
ly cleft. His foot is rather thick than long, and his
legs are firm and round. He has alfo a broad arched
cheft, a llrong voice, and the faculty of retaining his
breath for a long time without difficulty. In general,
there is a complete harmony in all his parts. His
fenfes are good, but not too delicate $ his pulfe is clear
and regular. His ftomach is excellent, his appetite
good, and digeftion eafy. He eats flowly, and has net
too much third, which is always a fign of a rapid con-
fumption. He is ferene, adtive, fufceptible of joy,
love, and hope, but infenfible to the impreflions of ha¬
tred, anger, and avarice. His paffions never become
too violent. If he gives way to anger, he experiences
an unufual flow of warmth, a kind of gentle fever,
without any overflowing of the gall. He is fond of
employment, particularly calm meditation, and agree¬
able fpeculations ; is an optimifi:; a friend to natural
affections, and domeftic felicity ; has no third after
* Hjtfelanrthonours or riches, but is fatisfied with his lot *.
on prolong- ]V[, Daubenton has given a table of the probabilities
Life, 0f t|le duration of life, of which the following is an
abridgement. Of 23,994 children born at the fame
time, there will probably die,
Recapitu¬
lation.
In one year
Remaining •§• or I5»996*
In eight years
Remaining L or 11,997.
In 38 years
Remaining y or 7998.
In 50 years
Remaining ^ or 5998.
In 61 years
Remaining £ or 3999.
In 70 years
Remaining -j-1^ or 2399.
In 80 years
Remaining or 599.
In 93 years
Remaining or 79.
In 100 years
Remaining -r^-oo- or 2.
7998
I5,pp6
J7,PP4
lP>P9S
2r>5P5
2 2,395
23>P!4
23,992
It thus appears, that a very fmall number of men
indeed pafs through all the periods of life, and arrive
at the goal marked out by nature. Innumerable caufes
accelerate our diffolution. The life of man confids in
the adlivity and exercife of his organs, which grow up
and acquire drength during infancy, adclefcence, and
youth. No fooner has the body attained its utmoft
perfection, than it begins to decline. Its decay is at
fird imperceptible, but in progrefs of time the mem¬
branes become cartilaginous, and the cartilages acquire
the confidence of bone 5 the bones become more folid, and
all the fibres are hardened. Almod all the fat wades
aw'ay ; the fkin becomes withered and fcaly ; wrinkles
are gradually formed ; the hair growls wffiite j the teeth
fall out j the face lofes its flrape •, the body is bent,
and the Colour and confidence of the crydalline hu¬
mour become more perceptible. The fird traces of
this decay begin to be perceived at the age of 43, and
fometimes fooner j this is the age of decline. They in-
creafe by flow degrees till 6o, wffiich is the period of
old age. They increafe more rapidly till the age of
70 or 75. At this period crazinef's begins, and conti¬
nues always to increafe. Next fucceeds decrepitude,
when the memory is gone, the ufe of the fenfes lod,
the drength totally annihilated, the organs w^orn out,
and the fundlions of the body almod dedroyed. Little
now remains to be lod, and before the age of 90 or
100, death terminates at once decrepitude and life.
The body then dies by little and little $ its motion
gradually diminifhes ; life is extinguifhed by fucceffive
gradations, and death is only the lad term in the fuc-
ceffion. When the motion of the heart, which conti¬
nues longed, ceafes, man has then breathed his lafl j he
has paffed from the date of life to the date of death j
and as at his birth a breath opened to him the career
of life, fo with a breath he finiffies his courfe.
This natural caufe of death is common to all ani¬
mals, and even to vegetables. We may obferve that
the centre of an oak fird peri flies and falls into dud,
becaufe thefe parts having become harder and more
compacl, can receive no further nouriffiment. The-
caufes of our diflblution, therefore, are as neceffary as
death is inevitable ; and it is no more in our power to
retard this fatal term than to alter the edablithed law's
of the univerfe. In whatever manner death happens,
the time thereof is unknown. It is confidered, how¬
ever, as at all times terrible, and the very thoughts of
it fill the mind with fear and trouble. It is notwdth-
danding our duty frequently to direfl our thoughts to
that event, which mud inevitably happen, and by a
life of virtue and innocence to prepare againd thofe
confequences which w'e fo much dread.
As in wTomen the bones, the cartilages, the mufcles,
and every other part of the body, are fofter and lefs
folid than thofe of men, they mud require, more time
in hardening to that degree which occafions death.
Women of courfe ought to live longer than men. This
reafoning is confirmed by experience y for by confult-
ing the bills of mortality, it appears, .that after women.,
have pafied a certain age, they live much longer than
men wrho have arrived at the lame age. In like man¬
ner, it is found by experience, that in women the ao-e
of youth is diorter and happier than in men, but that
the period of old age is longer, and attended with more
trouble.
It is not cur bufinefs here to confider thofe eircum-
dances which are calculated to preferve health and
prolong life. Many of thefe are mentioned in the
medical artic.es; and thofe who wiffi to make this fub-
ject tneir particular dudy, have now ample materials
provided for them, in Sir John Sinclair’s “ Code of
Health and Longevity.”
IJle of Man, an ifland in the Iriffi Tea, lying a-
bout feven leagues north from Anglefey, about the
fame.dldance wed from Lancafaire, nearly the like-
diftauccv
Man.
HAN [ 552 ] MAN
(Mance fouth-eaft from Galloway, and nine leagues
call from Ireland. Its form is long and narrow, ftretch-
ing from the north-eaft of Ayre point to the Calf of
Man, which lies fouth-weft at lealt 30 Englilh miles.
Its breadth in fome places is more than nine miles, in
mofl; places eight, and in fome not above five j and it con¬
tains about 160 fquare miles.
The firll author who mentions this ifland is Csefar •,
for there can be as little doubt, that, by the Mona
of which he fpeaks in his Commentaries, placing it in
the midft between Britain and Ireland, we are to un-
derftand Man $ as that the Mona of Tacitus, which
he acquaints us had a fordable ftrait between it and the
continent, can be applied only to Anglefey. Pliny
has fet down both iflands ; Mona, by which he intends
Anglefey, and Monabia, which is Man. In Ptolemy
we find Moriaceda, or Monaida, that is, the farther or
more remote Mon. Orofius fiyles it Menavia ; tells
us, that it was not extremely fertile ; and that this, as
well as Ireland, was then poiTeffed by the Scots. Be-
da, who diftinguilhes clearly two Menavian iflands,
names this the northern Menavia, beftowing the epithet
of fouthern upon Anglefey. In fome copies of Nen¬
nius, this ifle is denominated Eubonia ; in others, Me¬
navia ; but both are explained to mean Man. A lured
of Beverley alfo fpeaks of it as one of the Menavian
iflands. The Britons, in their own language, called
it Manaw, more properly Main mi, i. e. “ a little
ifland,” which feems to be Latinized in the word Me-
navia. All which clearly proves, that this fmall ifle
was early inhabited, and as wTell known to the reft of
the wTorld as either Britain or Ireland.
In the clofe of the firft century, the Druids, who
were the priefts, prophets, and philofophers of the
old Britons, wrere finally expelled by Julius Agricola
from the fouthern Mona 5 and we are .told, that they
then took {belter in the northern. This ifland they
found w7ell planted with firs; fo that they had, in
fome meafure, what they delighted in moft, the (belter
of trees •, but, however, not the (belter of thofe trees
in which they moft delighted, viz. the oaks : and there¬
fore thefe they introduced. No hiftories tell us this $
but we learn it from more certain authority, great
woods of fir having been difcovered interred in the
bowels of the earth, and here and there fmall groves
of oaks : but as thefe trees are never met with inter¬
mixed, fo it is plain they never grew together j and as
the former are by far the moft numerous, we may pre¬
fume them the natural produce of the country, and
that the latter were planted and preferved by the
Druids. They gave the people, with whom they
lived, and over whom they ruled, a gentle govern¬
ment, wife laws, but withal a very (uperftitious re¬
ligion. It is alfo very likely that they hindered
them, as much as they could, from having any corre-
fpondence with their neighbours; which is the reafon
Ihat though the ifland is mentioned by fo many
writers, not one of them, before Orofius, fays a <word
about the inhabitants. A little before this time, that
is, in the beginning of the fifth century, the Scots had
tranfported themfelves thither, it is faid, from Ireland.
The tradition of the natives of Man (for they have a
traditionary hiftory) begins at this period. They
■ftyle this firft difcoverer Mannan Mac Lear; and
they fay that he was a magician, who kept this coun¬
try covered with mifts, fo that the inhabitants of other
places could never find it. But the ancient chronicles
of Ireland inform us, that the true name of this ad¬
venturer was Orbfenius, the fon of Aliadius, a prince
in their ifland ; and that he was furnamed Mannanan,
from his having firft entered the ifland of Man, and
Mac Lir, i. e. “ the offspring of the fea,” from his
great (kill in navigation. He promoted commerce $
and is faid to have given a good reception to St Pa-,
trick, by whom the natives were converted to Chriiti-
anity.
The princes wdio ruled after him feem to have been
of the fame line with the kings of Scotland, with
which country they had a great intercourfe, aflift-
ing its monarchs in their wars, and having the edu¬
cation of their princes confided to them in time of
peace.
In the beginning of the feventh century, Edwin
king of Northumberland invaded the'Menavian iflands,
ravaged Man, and kept it for fome time, w'ben, Beda
affures us, there were in it about 300 families ; which
was lefs than a third part of the people in Anglefey,
though Man wants but a third of the fize of that
ifland.
The fecond line of their princes they derive from
Orri, who, they fay, was the fon of the king of Nor¬
way ; and that there wrere 12 princes of this houfe
who governed Man. The old conftitution, fettled by
the Druids, while they fwayed the fceptre, was per-
fedjly reftored ; the country was well cultivated and
w'ell peopled ; their fubjefts were equally verfed in the
exercife of arms and in the knowledge of the arts of
peace : in a word, they had a confiderable naval force,
an extenfive commerce, and were a great nation, though
inhabiting only a little ifle. Guttred the fon of Orri
built the caftle of Ruflyn, A. D. 960, which is a
ftrong place, a large palace, and has fubfifted now
above 800 years. Macao was the ninth of thefe
kings, and maintained an unfuccefsful ftruggle againft
Edgar, who reduced all the little fovereigns of the dif¬
ferent parts of Britain to own him for their lord ; and
who, upon the fubmiffion of Macao, made him his
high-admiral, by which title {archipirata, in the Latin
of thofe times) he fubfcribes that monarch’s charter
to the abbey of GlaftonWy.
After the death of Edward the Confeffor, when
Harold, who poffeffed the crown of England, had de-'
feated the Norwegians at the battle of Stamford,
there was amongft the fugitives one Goddard Crow-
nan, the fon of Harold the Black, of Iceland, who
took (helter in the ifle of Man. This ifle was then
governed by another Goddard, who was a defcendant
from Macao, and he gave him a very kind and friendly
reception. Goddard Crownan, during the (hort flay
he made in the ifland, perceived that his hamefaks
was univerfally hated by his fubjetfts •, which infpired
him with hopes that he might expel the king, and
become mafter of the ifland. This he at laft accom-
plifhed, after having defeated and killed Fingal the
fon of Goddard, who had fucceeded his father. Up¬
on this he afligned the north part of the ifland to
the natives, and gave the fouth to his own people •,
becoming, in virtue of his conqueft, the founder of
their third race of princes. However he might ac¬
quire his kingdom, he governed it with fpirit and
prudence,
MAN [ 553 ] M A N
Man. prudence, made war with fuccefs in Ireland ; gained
" * feveral viflories over the Scots in the liles j and, ma¬
king a tour through his new-obtained dominions, de-
ceaied in the illand of lilay. He left behind him
three fons. A civil war breaking out between the
two eldeft, and both of them deceafing in a few years,
Magnus king of Norway coming with a powerful
fleet, pofleffed himfelf of Man and the Ides, and held
them as long as he lived •, but, being flain in Ireland,
the people invited home Olave, the youngeft fon of
Goddard Crownan, who had fled to the court of
England, and been very honourably treated by Henry
the Second. There were in the whole nine princes
of this race, who were all of them feudatories to the
kings of England ; and often reforted to their court,
were very kindly received, and had penfions bellowed
upon them. Henry III. in particular, charged Olave,
king of Man, w ith the defence of the coalfs of Eng¬
land and Ireland ; and granted him annually for that
fervice 40 marks, 100 meafures of wheat, and five
pieces of wine. Upon the demife of Magnus, the
laft king of this ifle, without heirs male, Alexander III,
king of Scots, who had conquered the other ifles,
feized likewife upon this 5 which, as parcel of that
kingdom, came into the hands of Edward I. who di-
redled William Huntercumbe, guardian or warden of
that ifle for him, to reftore it to John Baliol, who
had done homage to him for the kingdom of Scot¬
land.
But it feems there w7as Hill remaining a lady named
^ujlnca, who claimed this fovereignty, as coufin and
neareft of kin to the deceafed Magnus. This claimant
being able to obtain nothing from John Baliol, ap¬
plied herfelf next to King Edward, as the fuperior
lord. He, upon this application, by his writ which
is yet extant, commanded both parties, in order to
determine their right, to appear in the king’s bench.
The progrefs of this fuit does not appear 5 but w7e
know farther, that this lady, by a deed of gift, con¬
veyed her claim to Sir Simon de Montacute ; and,
after many difputes, invafions by the Scots, and other
accidents, the title was examined in parliament, in the
feventh of EdwTard III. and folemnly adjudged to
William de Montacute •, to whom, by letters-patent,
dated the fame year, that monarch releafed all claim
w7hatfoever.
In the fucceeding reign, William Montacute, earl
of Salifhury, fold it to Sir William Scroop, afterwards
earl of Wiltfhire ; and, upon his lofing his head, it
was granted by Henry IV. to Henry Percy, earl of
Northumberland •, w7ho, being attainted, had, by the
grace of that king, all his lands reflored, except the
ifle of Man, which the fame monarch granted to Sir
John Stanley, to be held by him of the king, his
heirs and lucceffors, by homage, and a caft of falcons
to be prefented at every coronation. Thus it was
poffefled by this noble family, who were created earls
of Derby, till the reign of Queen Elizabeth ; when,
upon the demife of Earl Ferdinand, who left three
daughters, it w7as, as Imrd Coke tells us, adjudged to
thefe ladies, and from them purchafed by William earl
of Derby, the brother of Ferdinand, from whom it
rvas claimed by defcent, and adjudged to the duke of
Athol.
Phis ifland, from its fituation direflly in the mouth
Vol. XII. Part II.
of the channel, is very beneficial to Britain, by lefTen-
ing the force of the tides, wdiich would otherwife
break with far greater violence than they do at prefent.
It is frequently expofed to very high w’inds j and
at other times to mifts, which, however, are not at all
unwholefome. The foil towards the north is dry and
fandy, of confequence unfertile, but not unimprovable 5
the mountains, -which may include near two-thirds
of the ifland, are bleak and barren $ yet afford excel¬
lent peat, and contain feveral kinds of metals. They
maintain alio a kind of fmall fvvine, called purrs,
which are efteemed excellent pork. In the valleys
there Is as good pafture, hay, and corn, as in any of
the northern counties ; and the fouthern part of the
ifland is as fine foil as can be wilhed. They have
marl and limeftone fufficient to render even their
poorefl: lands fertile ; excellent flate, ragftone, black
marble, and fome other kinds for building. They
have vegetables of all forts, and in the utmotl perfec¬
tion j potatoes in immenfe quantities; and, where
proper pains have been taken, they have tolerable
fruit. They have alfo hemp, flax, large crops of oats
and barley, and fome wheat. Hogs, (keep, goats,
black cattle, and horfes, they har e in plenty ; and,
though fmall in fize, yet if the country was thoroughly
and fkilfully cultivated, they might improve the breed
of all animals, as experience has fliown. They have
rabbits and hares very fat and fine ; tame and wild
fowl in great plenty $ and in their high mountains
they have one airy of eagles and two of excellent
hawks. Their rivulets furnilh them with falmon,
trout, eels, and other kinds of frelh-water fifli; on
their coafts are caught cod, turbot, ling, holibut, all
forts of fliell-filh (oyfters only are fcarce, but large
and good), and herrings, of which they made ancient¬
ly a great profit, though this filhery is of late much
declined.
The inhabitants of Man, though far from being
unmixed, were perhaps, till within the courfe of the
18th century, more fo than any other under the do¬
minion of the crown of Great Britain ; to which they
are very proud of being fubjedfls, though, like the in¬
habitants of Jerfey and Guernfey, they have a conftitu-
tion of their own, and a peculiarity of manners natu¬
rally refulting from a long enjoyment of it.—The
Manks tongue is the only one fpoken by the common
people. It is the old Britilh, mingled *w7ith Norfe,
or the Norwegian language, and the modern language.
The clergy preach and read the common prayer in it.
In ancient times they were diftinguifhed by their ftature,
courage, and great fkill- in maritime affairs. They
are at this day a brilk, lively, hardy, indultrious, and
well meaning people. Their frugality defends them
from want: and though there are few that abound,
there are as few in diftrefs 5 and thofe that are, meet
with a cheerful unconftrained relief. On the other-
hand, they are choleric, loquacious, and as the law
till lately was cheap, and unencumbered writh folicitors
and attorneys, not a little litigious. The revenue, in
the earl of Derby’s time, amounted to about 25:00].
a-year ; from which, dedtifling his civil lift, which
was about 700!. the clear income amounted to 1 8ool.#
At the fame time, the number of his fubjedfs'was
computed at 20,000.—The fovereign of Man, though
he has long ago waved the title of king was Hill in-
4 A \ veiled
M A N
^<~n' , With regal rights and prerogatives : but the
diUincl jurifdiclion of this little fubordinate royalty,
being found inconvenient -for the purpofes of public
juftice and for the revenue (it affording a commo¬
dious afylum for debtors, outlaws, and fmugglers), au¬
thority was given to the treafury, by flat. 12 Geo. I.
c. 28. to purchase the interelf of the then proprietors
for the ufe of the crown : which purchafe was at
length completed in the year 1765, and confirmed by
llat. 5 Geo. III. c. 26. and 39. ; whereby the whole
bland and all its dependencies (except the landed
property of the Athol family), their manorial rights
and emoluments, and the patronage of the bilhopric
and other ecclelialbcal benefices} are unalienably veiled
in the crown, and fubjedled to the regulation of the Bri-
tifh excile and cuftoms.
1 he moll general divifion of this ifland is into north
and fouth j and it contains 17 parilhes, of which five
.ire market tow’ns, the reft villages. Its divifion with
regard to its. civil government, is into fix flieedings,
every one having its proper coroner, who is in the na¬
ture of a Ihenff, is intrufted with the peace of his di-
ftridl, fecures criminals, brings them to iuftice, &c.
1 he lord chief juftice Coke fays, “ their laws were
fuch as fcarce to be found anywhere elfe.” In July
1786, a copper coinage for the ufe of the ifland was
ilfued from the lower of London.— Lhere is a ridge
of mountains runs almoft the length of the ifle, from
whence they have abundance of good water from the
rivulets and fprings ; and Snafield, the higheft, rifes
about 580 yards. Ihe air is lharp and cold in winter,
the frofts ftiort, and the fnow7, efpecially near the fea,
lies not long on the ground. Here are quarries of good
ftone, rocks of limefione and red freeftone, and good
flate, with fome mines of lead, copper, and iron. The
trade of this ifland was ‘very great before the year
17265 but the late Lord Derby farming out his cu-
lloms to foreigners, the infolence of thefe farmers drew
on them the refentment of the government of England,
who, by an a£l of parliament, deprived the inhabitants
of an open trade with this kingdom. This naturally
introduced, a clandeftine commerce, which they car-
lied on with England and Ireland with prodigious
iuccefs, and an immenfe quantity of foreign goods was
run into both kingdoms, till the government in 1765
thought proper to put an entire flop to it, by pur-
thafing the ifland of the duke of Athol, as already
mentioned, and permitting a free trade with England.
On the little ifle of Peek, on the wxft fide of Man, is a
town of the fame name, with a fortified caftle. Be¬
fore the fouth promontory of Man, is a little ifland call¬
ed the Crj/f of Man: it is about three miles in circuit,
and feparated from Man by a channel about two fur¬
longs broad. At one time of the year it abounds with
puffins, and alfo with a fpecies of ducks and drakes, by
the Englifh called barnacles, and by the Scots {clabes
and Jo/an geefe.
.1 e\\ men of extraordinary talents have appeared in
this ifland 5 perhaps, becaufe few7 occafions have offered
for calling them forth. The Rev. J. Stowell is an ex¬
ception, mafter ofthe free grammar-fehool at Peele, who
pefiefied the ftiongeft powers of mind, was benevolent
to the poor, free from pedantry, and forcibly illuftrated
a-11 his precepts by his example.
The women in the ifle of Man are not remarkable
1 554 1
M A N
for elegance of form or delicacy of features. The prac- Man
tice of her domeftic duties, and the regulation of her 1!
domeflic afrairs, conftitute the employment of the Manks ^"ana^e".
wife 5 and it not io refined as the dames of more polilh-
ed nations, Are is perhaps as happy.
Landed property is very much divided in the ifland,
there being fcarcely fix men who have eftates above
500k a year.
The internal feenery of the ifle of Man is far from
being beautiful, of wdnch the chief caufe is the w7ant
of wood 5 and the rivers are fo fmall as to add little
to the richnefs of the views. The Manks are fond
of dancing, and dance well. IVo balls in the year
are given at Caftletown 5 one on the king’s birth day,
the other on the queen’s, and there are frequent pri¬
vate dances. At Ramfay, during the winter of 1801,
a fociety of ladies and gentlemen was formed, which
met three evenings in the week for the purpofe of read¬
ing Shakefpeare, and fuch a number of copies Were
procured, that each chara&er of the drama wTas fupport-
ed, by a feparate individual.
The inhabitance of this ifle (the number of which is
eftimated at 40,000) are of the church of England5
and the biftiop is ftyle Bifhop of Scdor and Man. He
has no vote in the Britifti houfe of peers. This -bifhop-
rick was firft erefted by Pope Gregory IV. and for its
diccefe had this ifle and all the Hebrides or Weftern
iflands of Scotland 5 but which wTere called Sodoroc by
by the Danes, who went to them by the north, from
the Swedifti Sodor, Sail or Oar iflands, from which the
title of the bifhop of Scdor is fuppofed to originate.
The bifliop’s feat wras at Ruftiin, or Caftletown, in the
ifle of Man, and in Latin is entitled Sodorenfs. But
when this ifland became dependent upon the kingdom
of England, the Wtftern iflands withdrew themfelves
from the obedience of their biftiop, and had a bifliop
of their own, whom they entitled alfo Sodorenfs, but
commonly Bipjop of the Ifes. The patronage of
the biftioprick w;as given, together with the ifland, to
the Stanleys by King Edward IV. and came by an
heir-female to the family of Athol, and, on a vacancy
thereof, they nominated their defigned bifliop to the
king, who difmiffed him to the archbifhop of York for
conlecration.—By an aft of parliament, the 33d of
King Henry VIII. this bifhepric is declared in the pro¬
vince of York.
MAN-ofwar Bird. See Pelicanus, Ornithology
Index.
MANAGE. See Manege.
MANASSEH, in Scripture hiftory, the eldeft fon of
Jofeph, and grandfon of the patriarch Jacob (Gen. xli.
50, 51.) was born in the year of the w7crld 2290, before
Jefus Chrift 1714.
The tribe defeended from him came out of Egypt,
in number 32,200 men fit for battle, upwards of 20
years old, under the conduft of Gamaliel fon of Pe-
dahzur (Numb. ii. 20, 21.) This tribe was divided
at their entrance into the land of Promife. One half
had its portion beyond the river Jordan, and the other
half on this fide the river. The half tribe of Manaffeh
which fettled beyond the river poffeffed the country
of Balkan, from the river Jabbok to Mount Libanus,
(Numb, xxih 33. 34. Stc.); and the other half tribe of
Manaffeh on this fide Jordan, obtained for its inheri¬
tance the country between the tribe of Ephraim to the
fouth
MAN [55
Manafieh fouth and tlie tribe of Iffachar to the north, having the
II river Jordan to the eaft and the Mediterranean fea to
Manchef- ^ weft? (Joili. xvi. xvii.)
■ . MANASSEH, the 15th king of Judah, being the fon
and fucceiTor of Hezekiah. His ads are recorded in
2 Kings xx. xxi. and 2 Chr. xxxiii.
MANATI. See Trichecus, Mammalia Index.
MANCA, was a fquare pieca of gold coin, com-
tnonly valued at 30 pence j and manaija was as much
as a mark of filver, having its name from manu cufa,
being coined with the hand : (Leg. Canut.) But tne
manca and mancufa were not always of that value j for
fometimes the former was valued at fix {hillings, and
the latter, as ufed by the Englifh Saxons, was equal
in value to our half crown. Mianca fex Jolidis eejlwietu),
(Leg. H. I. c. 69.) Thorn in his chronicle, tells us,
that mancufa ejl psndus duovuin folidorum et Jcx dena-
riorum; and with him agrees Du Cange, who fays,
that 20 manca make 50 (hillings. Manca and mancufa
are promifcuoufly ufed in the old books for the fame
money.
MANCHA, a territory of Spain in the province of
New Caftile, lying between the river Guadiana and
Andalufia. It is a mountainous country 5 and it was
here that the famous Don Quixote was fuppofed to per¬
form his exploits.
MANCHESTER, a town of Lancafhire in Eng¬
land, fituated in W. Long. 2. 42. N. Lat. 53. 27.
Mr Whitaker conje&ures, that the ftation was firft
occupied by the Britons about 500 years B. C. but
that it did not receive any thing like the form of a town
till 450 years after, or 50 years B. C. when the Britons
of Chefhire made an irruption into the territories of
their fouthern neighbours, and of confequence alarm¬
ed the Seftuntii, or inhabitants of Lancafhire, fo much,
that they began to build fortreffes, in order to defend
their country. Its Britiih name was Mancenion, that
is, “ a place of tentsit was changed, however, in¬
to Mancunium by the Romans, who conquered it un¬
der Agricola in the memorable year of the Chriftian
cera 79. It appears alfo to have been called Mandue-
fuedum, Manduejfedum, Manucium, and Mancefre; from
which lafl it fecms moft evident that the prefent name
has been derived. It is diftant from London 182 miles,
and from Edinburgh, 214; (landing near the conflux
of the Irk and the Irwell, about three miles from the
Merfey.
Manchefler was accounted a large and populous
town even 50 years ago} but fince that time it is
fuppoied to have increafed in more than a triple pro¬
portion, both in refpeft to buildings and inhabitants.
The houfes amount to a number not far fhort of 1 2,000 5
and perhaps it may not be an overrate to reckon feven
perfons to each, when it is confidered, that, of the houfes
occupied by working people of various defcriptions, many
have two, three, and fometimes more, families in each.
For though many hundred houfes have been built in
the courfe of a few late years, yet are they conftantly
engaged as foon as poffAle j the avidity for building in-
creafing with every new acceffion of inhabitants, and
rents rifing to a degree fcarcely known in other places.
The progrefs of this diY.cpxvict may be partly efiimated
by the price of building, land, and materials: a guinea
per fquare yard, chief rent, having been refufed for
fbme central plots j and bricks felling at 24s. per xooo,
1
MAN
which about four years finee were not more than half Manclick
the price. Such, however, has been the happy concur- ter‘
rence of ingenuity and induftry, and fuch the aftonifh- •'''
ing improvements daily making in its numerous manu-
faftures, together with the encouragement thefe afford
to fkilful artifls in various branches, that ftreets muft ex¬
tend in proportion: yet population appears to have in- -
creafed more rapidly than buildings; hence competitions
naturally aiife, and hence a temporary advance of rents.
The manufactures of this town and neighbourhood,
from humble domeftic beginnings about two centuries
ago, have now, after progreffive improvements, ac¬
quired fuch celebrity, both in the fcale of ornament
and utility, as to fpread in ten thoufand forms and co¬
lours, not only in thefe kingdoms, but over all Eu¬
rope, and even into the diltant continents ; being at
once mod: precious mines of well-earned private wealth,
and important contributors to the neceffary public trea-
fure of the date. Its pod-office alone may afford an
evidence of its extenfive commerce. The population
of the town may be further calculated from the great
number of cotton faClories within the boundaries of
the towm, wherein it is thought that 20,000 men, wo¬
men, and children, are employed in the mere branches
of preparing warp and weft. If to thefe be added
the many hands applied to weaving &c. &c. &c. be-
fide all the more general mechanics, as well as houfe-
holders, domeilic fervants, &c. Mancheder may be
ranked as the mod populous market-town in Great
Britain. The marriages in Mancheder and Salford,
from January 1791 to January 1792, were 1302,
the chridenings 2960, and the burials 2286. Hence,
fhould it be computed that one in every 30 perfons
died, the number of inhabitants would amount to
68,580, which is thought to be much under the fum
of an actual enumeration. The dreets are about 600,
many of them fpacious and airy, great part of the old
buildings being removed, and the new dreets allowed
a convenient breadth. The town is lighted every night
by 2000 lamps, and guarded by nearly 200 watchmen.
The college was founded in 14 2 2 by Thomas Wejl
Lord Delaware ; and confided of a warden, eight fel¬
lows, four clerks, and fix choriders. About the fame
time the prefent collegiate church was built (timber
only having been ufed for the former church). This
church is a fine dru61ure of what is termed the Gothic
fydem, and is much enriched with fculpture. The
collegiate body confids of a warden, four fellows, two
chaplains, two clerks (one of whom, by a very late
regulation, is to be at lead bachelor of arts and in
pried’s orders), four choriders, and four finging men.
Befide the collegiate church, there are alfo the fol¬
lowing. St Anne’s, a handfome church, begun in 1 709
and finifhed in 1723 : it is in the gift of the bifhop of
Cheder. St Mary’s, built by the clergy of the collegi¬
ate church, and confecrated upwards of 30 years ago, is
a neat and indeed an elegant edifice ; as is St John’s,
which was built about 20 years fince by the late Ed¬
ward Byrom, Efq. The next prefentation thereof is,
by a£I of parliament, veded in his heirs, afterwards de¬
volving to the warden and fellows of the collegiate
church. St Paul’s church was ereffed upwards of 1 2
years ago; and is a handfome fpacious building, chief¬
ly brick; to which has been added, within the lad two
years, a lofty and fubdantial done tower. St James’s
4 A 2 church
M AN [ 556 ] MAN
Mandhef- church has been finiflied within the laft ten years: it
t;:r- is a large well-lighted building of brick and ftone,
with a fmall ftone fteeple. St Michael’s is alfo of brick
and ftone, with a fquare towrer. It was built by the
late Rev. Humphrey Owen (one of the chaplains of
the collegiate church, and reftor of St Mary’s), in
whofe heirs the prefentation is veiled for a term of 60
years, and thenceforward in the warden and fellows of
the college. To thefe may be added, St Thomas’s,
Ardwdck Green, and Trinity church, Salford: for
though the Irwell intervenes between Manchefter and
Salford, and each is governed by its refpe£live con-'
ftables j yet, being conne&ed by three bridges, by
mutual friend (hip, and by the common purfuit of uni-
verfally ufeful manufactures and commerce, the two
places are generally confidered under the name of Man-
chejler, as the borough of Southwark is not improperly
deemed a part of the metropolis. In Salford there is
likewnfe a Methodift chapel nearly finilhed. A new
church is alfo about to be built and dedicated to St Ste¬
phen.—In Manchefter a new church is lately finilhed,
and called St George's ; but divine fervice has not yet
been performed therein. St Peter’s church, at the end of
Mofley-ftreet, was begun about three years fince:
when finilhed, it will be a ftrong and elegant ftone
ftruflure with a high fpire ; at prefent the body only
is completed, and lighted, in a manner not very com¬
mon, by fix femicircular windows. The foundation of
another church, to be called St Clement's, has alfo been
laid, within the prefent year 1792, in Stephenfon’s
fquare lately planned $ and alfo one called the New Ye-
rufalem Church, nearly finilhed. Befides the 14 churches
above enumerated, there are, a Catholic chapel, a
large Methodift chapel, a chapel for the people called
Quakers, and 5 chapels for diffenters of other denomi-
a tions.
Cheetham’s Hofpital, commonly called the Col¬
lege, becaufe it was originally the place of refidence of
the warden and fellow's, is deferving of particular
notice. Humphrey Cheetham of Clayton near Man¬
chefter, Efq; having been remarkably fuccefsful in
trade in the middle of the laft century, bought the
college, and liberally endowed it for the maintenance
and education of 40 poor boys, admiflible between the
age of 6 and 10 years. By an improvement of the
funds of the charity, the numbers of boys was in-
creafed to 60 j and continued fuch till the Eafter
meeting of the feoffees in 1780, when another aug¬
mentation took place, and the number has fince been
conftantly 80. The townfhips, pointed out by the
founder for objefts of his charity, are the following,
together with the refpective numbers admitted from
each: Manchefter, original number 14, now 28;
Salford 6, now 12; Droylfden 3, now 6$ Crump-
fall 2, now 4 Bolton-le-moors 10, now 20 5 Turton
5, now 10. So that 89 perfons are now annually pro¬
vided for by this liberal benefa&or ; including- for the
hofpital a governor, one man and five women fervants,
a fchool-mafter j and, on the library eftablilhment, a
librarian. (See an authentic letter in the Gent. Mag.
for June 1792, p. 521.) The boys of this hofpital
are comfortably provided for till the age of 14, when
they are further clothed, and W’ith a premium placed
apprentices to ufeful trades) and, in order to incite
early habits of induftry, to make them good fervants?
I
and at length good mafters,. it has been fuggefted to Manchef-
furnith fome kind of eafy employment for a fmall part ^ tei\
of their time not engaged at fchool. The Libra- v
ry, which occupies an extenfive gallery of the fame
building, owes its foundation and increafing impor¬
tance to the fame benevolent fource. The annual
value of the fund originally bequeathed for the pur-
chafe of books and for a librarian’s falary was 116I. )
but by recent improvements of the eftate, the income
is more than thrice that fum. The books at this time
amount to 10,000 volumes, of which a catalogue hand-
fomely printed in 2 volumes 8vo has been publilhed
by the prefent librarian, the Rev. John Radcliffe, A.M.
At ftated hours on all days, except Sundays and
other holidays, the ftudious may have free accefs to
read, in the library, any book it contains j and in order
to render it comfortable during the cold feafon of the
year, feveral ftoves are kept heated at- the reading
hours. This college and a large inclofed area are
fituated upon a high perpendicular rock, bounded by
the Irk clofe to its confluence with the Irwell j and is
thought by Mr Whitaker to be included, as well as
the collegiate church, within the boundaries of the an¬
cient Roman praetorium •, the whole of which fite to¬
wards the Irwell, as on the fide of the Irk, is confide-
rably elevated above the water and the oppofite land
of Salford. The free-fchool, higher up on the fame
fide of the Irk, almoft joining to the college, is fupported
by the rents of three mills-, one of which is for grind¬
ing malt, another for corn, and the third is employed
as a fnuff mill. Thefe rents are now increafed to
700I. per annum, from which falaries are paid to three
mailers and two afliftants. The fcholars educated here
have certain exhibitions allowed at the univerfity; and
fuch of them as are entered at Brazen-nofe college
Oxford have a chance of obtaining fome valuable ex¬
hibitions arifing from lands in Manchefter bequeathed
by Mr Hulme. The deferved reputation of this fchool
is a pow-erful recommendation of its fcholars entering
at the univerfities. The Academy is a large and com¬
modious building, raifed by the fubferiptions of feveral
refpe&able diffenters, and placed under the care of
able tutors. Here youth above 14 years of age are
admitted and inftru£led in the various branches of li¬
beral knowledge, preparatory to trade or the profef-
fions. The Literary and Philofophical Society of Man¬
chefter was inftituted in the beginning of the year
1781, and is .well known1 by its Memoirs, of which
three volumes 8vo have been pnbliflied 5 thefe have
been tranflated into the German language. A fourth
volume is now in the prefs, and in all probability will
be publilhed in the fpring of 1793. A fociety was
eftablilhed here in November 1789, under the name of
the Lancajhire Humane Society, for the encouragement
of all w’ho may attempt the recovery of perfons appa¬
rently drowned. The Infirmary, Difpenfary, Lunatic
Afylum, and public Baths, are all fituated on one large
airy plot of land, in the moft elevated and agreeable
part of the town) a pleafant grafs-plot and gravel-
walk extending the whole length of the buildings ) a
canal intervening between them and the public ftreet,
next to which it is guarded by iron palifades. The
Lying-in hofpital is fituated in Salford, at the end of the
old bridge. A new Work-houfe is nearly completed ;
and for luch a purpofe a happier fpot could not be found
in
M AN [ 557 ] MAN
Manchef- in any town than that whereon it is eredled, being on
tef- an equal eminence with the college on the oppofite
fide of the Irk, and promifing the greatefi pofiibie
comforts to fuch as may be neceflitated to become its
inhabitants. The Exchange was a itrong good build¬
ing ; but fince the late acl, of parliament obtained for
farther improvements of the town, it has been fold
and taken down, and its fite formed into a convenient
area, to the great advantage of the furrounding houfes.
The Theatre is a neat building, wherein the boxes are
placed in a femicircle oppofite to the ftage. The Gen¬
tlemen’s Concert-room is an elegant building, capacious
enough to accommodate i 200 perions. The concerts
are lupported by annual fubfcriptions : but ftrangers
and military gentlemen have free admifiion to the pri¬
vate concerts 5 as alfo to the public concerts, with a
fubfcriber’s ticket. The new' Aflembly-rooms are large
and commodious. Av Circus is almofi: finithed. Here
are twm Market-places, the old and the new'; w'hich
are w'ell fupplied wnth every thing in feafon, though at
high rates, d here are leveral charity-fchools belonging
to different churches and chapels, w'here children are
furnifhed wnth clothes and taught to read. The Sunday-
fchools are numerous, and afford inffrubtion to upwards
of yoco children.
Over the Invell are three bridges, uniting the town
with Salford: the old bridge is very high at the
Manchefter end, wdience it Hopes into SalforcL The
middle bridge, four feet wide, railed upon timber
and flagged, is only for the accommodation of foot-
paffengers, who from the Mancheffer fide muff de-
fcend to it by nearly forty fteps. The lower bridge
is a handfome ftone building of two arches; this
bridge affords a level road for two or three car¬
riages abreaft. It w'as undertaken and finilhed by the
private fubfcription of a few gentlemen ; and a fmall
toil is taken for all pafling, which toll is now annually
let by auftion, and pays the proprietors remarkably
well.—From Manchefter there are likewdfe the fame
number of bridges over the Irk ; only one, however,
is adapted for the paffage of carriages. The Invell,
having at a great expence been rendered navigable for
veffels of 20 or 30 tons burden, there is a conftant com¬
munication between Liverpool, Manchefter, and the in¬
termediate places on the Invell and Merfey, to the
great advantage of the proprietors and the country at
large. This navigation, and more efpecially the duke
of Bridgewater’s canal, opening a paffage from Man¬
chefter to the Merfey at 30 miles diftance, have, to¬
gether, greatly contributed to the prefent highly flou-
riftving ftate of the towm. Advantages ftill greater,
becaufe more widely diffufive, may refult from the
intended union of the Humber and the Merfey by
means of canals. Indeed, every mile of canal would
benefit many miles of land ; and fuch w’ould be the re¬
ciprocity of intereft, that it would undoubtedly extend
and be felt far beyond the vifible meafurement of the
navigation.”
The News Room and Library in Manchefter is an
elegant building, and an ornament to the town ; and
as it comprehends in it a news room, circulating libra¬
ry, and reading room, muft be productive of general
utility. I he propofal of this inftitution met with
much oppofition at firft; but it was finally carried by
the unwearied exertions of a Mr Robinfon, a man whofe MancTiefter
chara&er W’as univerfally loved and admired. ,1?nJ r,tio<
We muft not omit to notice the new penitentiary y 1
houfe, called the New Bailey, for feparate confine¬
ment of various criminals. Over the entrance is a
large fefiion room, with adjoining rooms for the ma-
giftrates, council, jurors, &c. Beyond this, in the
centre of a very large area inclofed by very High walls,
Hands the Prifon, an extenfive building, forming a crois
three ftories high ; and the four wards of each ftory
may in an inftant be feen by any perfon in its centre.
This prifon is kept furprifingly neat and healthy ; and
fuch as can work at any trade, and are not confined for
crimes of the greateft magnitude, are employed in a va¬
riety of branches; fo that one may be feen beating and
cleanfing cotton, another carding it, another roving,
and a fourth fpinning. In the next place may be ob-
ferved a man or a woman bufy at the loom ; and in an¬
other, one or more engaged in cutting and raifing the
velvet pile. Hence induftry is not fuffered to Humber
in the folitary cell, nor to quit it under the acquired
impreflions of that torpor which formerly accompanied
the emancipated prifoner from his dungeon ; rendering
him, perhaps, totally unfit for the duties of honeft fo-
ciety, though well qualified, in all probability, to hord
with gamblers, and be then, if not before, initiated in¬
to their pernicious myfteries.—At Kerfal-moor, three
miles diftant, horie-races are annually permitted. The
banks of the rivers and various brooks about the town
afford excellent fituations for the numerous dye-houfes •
employed for a multitude of fabrics. Among other
things, the manufafture and finiftiing of hats is carried
on to an extent of great importance.—The general
market is here on Saturdays. Tuefday’s market is
chiefly for tranfadling bufinels between the traders and
manufacturers of the town and circumjacent country.
The fairs are on Whit-Monday, Oclober ift, and No¬
vember 17th.
Manchefter is a manor with courts leet and baron.
It fends no members to parliament, but gives title to
a duke. The annual fall of rain is here about 42
inches; though from January 1791 to January 1792
it was 44 inches. 'I’he fun’s greateft heat in 1791 was
76°, July 17.
MANCHINEEL. See Hippomane, Botany
Index.
MANC1 PATIO, was a term made ufe of in the
Roman law, and may be thus explained ; every father
had fuch a regal authority over his fon, that before the
fon could be relealed from his fubjeftion and made
free, be muft be three times over fold and bought, his
natural father being the vender. The vendee was cal¬
led paterfiducianus. After this fictitious bargain, the
pater fiduciarius fold him again to the natural father,
who could then, but not till then, manumit or make
him free. The imaginary fale was called mancipatia ;
and the aeff of giving liberty or fetting him free after
this was called emancipatio.
ManciPatio alfo lignifies the felling or alienating of
certain lands by the balance, or money paid by weight,
and five witneffes. This mode of alienation took place
only amongft Roman citizens, and that only in refpecfl
to certain eftates fituated in Italy, w’hich were called
m and pi a.
MANCIPLE
MAN [
;>-lanciple MANCIPLE (jnanccps), a clerk of the kitchen, or
.ManJIrins caterer• An officer in the inner temple was anciently
—v—fo called, who is now the fteward there •, of whom
Chaucer, the ancient Engliffi poet, fome time a ftudent
of that houfe, thus writes :
A manciple there was within the temple,
Of which all caterers might take enfample.
This officer Hill remains in colleges in the univer-
' iities.
MANCUNIUM, in Ancient Geo^rnpJ'i/, a town of
the Brigantines in Britain. Now Manchejler in Lan-
caffiire. See Manchester.
MANCUS (formed of manu cufus'), in antiquity,
an Anglo-Saxon gold coin, equal in value to 2^ folidi,
or 30 pence-, and in weight to 55 Troy grains. The
firit account of this coin that occurs in the hiftory of
our country, is about the clofe of the 8th century,
in an embaffy of Cenwulf king of Mercia to Leo III.
requefting the reftoration of the jurifdidHon of the fee
of Canterbury : this embaffy was enforced by a prefent
of 120 mancufes. Ethelwolf alfo fent yearly to Rome
300 mancufes : and thefe coins are laid to have con¬
tinued in fome form or other till towards the conclu-
fion of the Saxon government. The heriots of the
nobility are chiefly effimated by this ftandard in Ca¬
nute’s laws. It came originally from Italy, where it
was called ducat: and is fuppofed to have been the fame
with the drachma or miliarenfis current in the Byzan¬
tine empire.
MANDAMUS, in Law, a writ that iffues out of
the court of king’s-bench, fent to a corporation, com¬
manding them to admit or reftore a perfon to his
office. This writ alfo lies where juftices of the peace
refufe to admit a perfon to take the oaths in order to
qualify himfelf for enjoying any poft or office ; or
where a bifliop or archdeacon refufes to grant a probate
of a will, to admit an executor to prove it, or to fwear
a church-warden, &c.
MANDANES, an Indian prince and philofopher,
who for the renown of his wifdom was invited by the
ambaffadors of Alexander the Great to the banquet of
the fon of Jupiter. A reward was promifed him if he
obeyed, but he was threatened with puniffiment in cafe
of a refufal. Unmoved by promifes and threatenings,
the philofopher difmiffed them with obferving, that
though Alexander ruled over a great part of the uni-
verfe, he was not the fon of Jupiter ; and that he gave
himfelf no trouble about the prefents of a man who
poffeffed not wherewithal to content himfelf. “ I de-
jpife his threats (added he) : if I live, India isfufficient
for my fubliftence; and to me death has no terrors, for
it will only be an exchange of old age and infirmity for
the happinefs of a better life.”
MANDARINS, a name given to the magiftrates
and governors of provinces in China, who are chofen
out of the moft learned men, and whofe government is
always at a great diftance from the place of their birth.
Mandarin is alfo a name given by the Chinefe to the
learned language of the country; for befides the lan¬
guage peculiar to every province, there is one common
to all the learned .in the empire, which is in China
what Latin is in Europe ; this is called the mandarin
tongue, or the language of the court.
558 1 MAN
MANDATE, in Law, a judicial commandment to Mandate
do fomething. See the article Mandamus. ||
Mandate, in the canon law, a refeript of the pope ^an^inQ*|
commanding an ordinary collator to put the perfon ~
therein named in poffeffion of the iirft vacant benefice
in his collation.
MANDATUM, was a fee or retainer given by the
Romans to the procurator ex and advocati. The manda~
turn was a neceffary condition, without which they had
not the liberty of pleading. Thus the legal eloquence
of Rome, like that of our own country, could not be
unlocked without a golden key.
_ MANDERSCHEIT, a town of G ermany in the
circle of the Lower Rhine, and in the ele&orate of
Triers, capital of a county of the fame name, between,
the diocefe of Triers and the duchy of Juliers. E.
Long. 6. 32. N. Lat. 50. 20.
MANDEVILLE, Sir John, a phyfician, cele¬
brated on account of his travels, was born at St Al¬
ban’s, about the beginning of the 14th century. He
had a liberal education, and applied himfeF to the llu-
dy of phyfic ; but being at length feized with an invin¬
cible defire of ffieing dillant parts of the globe, he left
England in 1332, and did not return till 34 years af¬
ter. His friends, who had long fuppofed him dead,
did not know him when he aopeared. He had travel¬
led through almof! all the eaft, and made himfelf maf-
ter of a great variety of languages. He particularly
vifited Scythia, Armenia the Greater and Lefs, Egypt,
Arabia, Syria, Media, Mefopotamia, Perfia, Chaldea,
Greece, Dalmatia, &c. His rambling difpofition did
not fuffer him to reft -, for he left his own country a fe-
cond time, and died at Liege in the Netherlands in
1732. He wrote An Itinerary, or an Account of his
Travels, in Engliih, French, and Latin.
MANDEVILLE, Bernard de, an eminent writer in
the 18th century, was born in Holland, where he
ftudied phyfic, and took the degree of dodtor in that
faculty. He afterwards came over into England, and
in 1714 publilhed a poem, entitled “ The Grumbling
Hive, or Knaves turned Honeft }” upon which he af¬
terwards wrote remarks, and publiihed the whole at
London, 1723, in 8vo, under the title of “ The
Fable of the Bees, or private Vices made public Be¬
nefits w'ith an Effay on Charity and Charity-fchools,
and a Search into the Nature of Society.” This book
•was prefented by the jury of Middlefex in July the
fame year, and feverely animadverted upon in “ A
Letter to the Right Honourable Lord C.” printed in
the London Journal of Saturday July 27. 1723. Our
author publiftied a Vindication. His book ivas attack¬
ed by feveral writers. He publiftied other pieces, and
died in 1724.
MANDING, a large ftate in the interior of Africa,
fituated in N. Lat. 12. 40. and W. Long. 6. 40. The
government, according to Mr Park, feems to be a kind
of republic, or rather an oligarchy. Many fpecies of
edible roots are found here ; but the fugar cane, coffee,
and the cocoa tree, appear to be unknown to the inha¬
bitants. The Mandingoes are reputed a very gentle
race of people, cheerful in their difpofitions, inquifitive,
credulous, fimple, and fond of flattery. The men, in
general, are about the middle fize, •well ffiaped, ftrong,
and capable of enduring great labour j the women are
good-
3
Mantling.
MAN [ 559 ] MAN
good-natured, fprightly, and agreeable. Both fexes
drefs in cotton cloth of their own manufacture, and
both feem irreGftibly inclined to commit depredations on
the propeity of unprotected ftrangers ; yet, itrange as
it may appear, they will contribute to the perfonal
fafety of the very people whom they are bent upon
plundering.
Parental and filial affeCtion is very ftrong between
the mother and her child, but not fo between the father
and his children, which muft originate from that di¬
vided love which never fails to be an attendant on po¬
lygamy. The care of the mother extends to the culti¬
vation of the mind ; and one of the firft leffbns in which
they inftruCt their offspring, is the praBicc of truth.
To fuckle their children three years is an ordinary Oc¬
currence, during which time the hufband devotes ad
his attention to his other wives. When a young man in¬
tends to marry a young girl, he find addreffes the pa¬
rents, as her confent is not deemed neceffary. If the
parents are agreeable, die muff either accept of the
hand of her lover, or continue unmarried all her life
long. The Mandingoes praCtife circumcifion both on
males and females, which is a very painful operation,
but not performed by them from any religious motive,
for they have a fuperftitious notion that it contributes
to render the married ftate prolific. Mr Park affures
us, that the belief of one God, and a future ftate of
rewards and punifhments, is univerfal among them, but
that the management of all fublunary concerns is com¬
mitted to certain fubordinate or tutelary agents, whofe
wrath they deprecate by every mean in their powrer.
Thefe people feldom arrive at old age, being gray-
headed and covered with wrinkles about 40, and few
reach the age of 60, although their difeales are few,
being confined almoft to fevers, fluxes, elephantiafis,
and a leprofy of the worft kind, together with the
Guinea worm. Their feelings, on the death of a rela¬
tion, are manifefted by loud and difmal bowlings ^ and
the body is interred, when rolled up in white cotton
with a mat above it, on the day of its deceafe. The
men cultivate the ground, and the women manufaflure
cotton cloth, viz. the fpinning and dyeing of it, for it
is wove by the men in looms of about four inches broad.
Here alfo there are manufablories of leather and iron.
They tan and drefs leather with great expedition, and
are faid to be acquainted with the fmelting of gold,
which they convert into a great variety of ornaments,
executed with much tafte and ingenuity.
Their notions of geography are rather puerile, as
they conceive the earth to be an extended plane, the
termination of which no eye has as yet difcovered, it
being, according to them, overhung with clouds and
darknefs. They fuppofe the fea to be a large river of
fait water, on the farther Chore of wdiich is fituated a
country called Tobaubodoo, or the land of the wdffte
people ; at a diitance from which they defcribe another
country, which they believe to be inhabited by canni¬
bals of a gigantic fize, called Koomi.
As to their ideas of property, they confider the lands
in native woods to belong to government. When any
individual of free condition has the means of cultivating
more land than he adlually poffeffes, he applies to the
chief man of the diftricf, who allows him an extenfion
of territory, on condition of forfeiture, if the lands are
not brought into cultivation by a given period. The Mandra-
condition being fulfilled, the foil becomes veiled in £01a
the poffeffor, and in 'all probability defcends to his MaJtho.
heirs.
MANDRAGORA. See Atropa, Botany Index.
MANDRAKE. See Atropa and Musa, Botany
Index.
MANDREL, a kind of wooden pulley, making a
member of the turner’s lathe. Of thefe there are fe-
veral kinds; as Flat Mandrels, which have three or
more little pegs or points near the verge, and are ufed
for turning flat boards on. Fin Mandrels, wdiich have
a long wooden {hank to fit into a round hole made in
the work to be turned. Hollow Mandrels, which are
hollow of themfelves, and ufed for turning hollow
work. Screw Mandrels, for turning fcrews, &c.
MANE, the hair hanging down from a horfe’s
neck 5 which Ihould be long, thin, and fine : and if
frizzled, fo much the better.
MANEGE, or Manage, the exercife of riding the
great horfe •, or the ground fet apart for that purpofe j
which is fometimes covered, for continuing the exer¬
cife in bad weather *, and fometimes open, in order to
give more liberty and freedom both to the horieman
and horfe. See Horsemanship.
The word is borrowed from the French manage, and
that from the Italian mancggio ; or, as fome wall have
it, a manu agendo, “ a cling with the hand.”
MANES, a poetical term, fignifying the {hades or
fouls of the deceafed. The heathens ufed a variety
of ceremonies and facrifices to appeafe the manes of
tho{e who were deprived of burial. See Lemures and
Lemuria.
Dii Manes, were the fame with inferi, or the infer¬
nal gods, who tormented men •, and to thefe the hea¬
thens offered facrifices to affuage their indignation.
The heathen theology is a little obfcure with regard
to thefe gods manes. Some hold, that they wrcre the
fouls of the dead 5 others, that they w’ere the genii of
men ; which laft opinion fuits heft with the etymology
of the word.
The heathens, it is prettyt evident, ufed the word
manes in feveral fenfes 5 fo that it fometimes fignified
the ghofts of the departed, and fometimes the infernal
or fubtefraneous deities, and in general all divinities
that prefided over tornbs.
The invocation of the manes of the dead feems to
have been very frequent among the Theffalians ; but
it was exprefsly prohibited by the Romans. See
Lares.
Manes the founder of the Manichean fyftem. See
Manichees.
MANETHO, an ancient Egyptian biftorian, who
pretended to take all his accounts from the facred in-
fcriptions on the pillars of Hermes Trifmegiftus. He
was high prieft of Heliopolis in the time of Ptolemy
Philadelphus, at whofe requeft he wrote his hiftory in
Greek ; beginning from their gods, and continu¬
ing it down to near the time of Darius Codoman-
nus who was conquered by Alexander the Great. Plis
hiftory of Egypt is a celebrated work, that is often
quoted by Jofephus and other ancient authors. Ju¬
lius Africanus gave an abridgement of it in his Chro¬
nology. Manetho’s work is however loft 5 and there
only,
M A N [ 560 ] M A N
Knn're-, only remain fome fragments extracied from Julius
uonia Africanus, which are to be found in Eufebius’s Chro-
'——hi ANFREBONIA, a port town of Naples, on
the gulf of Venice, which arofe on the ruins of the an¬
cient Sipontum ; (fee the article Sipontum). It re¬
ceived its name from its founder Manfred; who tranf-
pianted hither the few inhabitants that remained at Si¬
pontum, and attradlcd other fettlers to it by various
privileges and exemptions. In order to found it under
the moil favourable aufpices, he called together all the
’famous profelfors of aftrology (a fcience in which both
he and his father placed great confidence), and caufed
them to calculate the happieff hour and minute for lay¬
ing the firft done. He himfelf drew the plans, traced
the walls and lireets, fuperintended the works, and by
his prefence and largeffes animated the workmen to fi~
nifli them in a very fhort fpace of time. *The port was
fecured from dorms by a pier ; the ramparts were built
of the mod folid materials j and in the great tower was
placed a bell of fo confiderable a volume as to be heard
over all the plain of Capitanata, in order to alarm the
country in cafe of an invafion. Charles of Anjou af¬
terwards removed the bell to Barn, and offered it at
the dirine of St Nicholas, as a thankfgiving for the re¬
covery of one of his children. In fpite of all the pre¬
cautions taken by Manfred to fecure a brilliant dediny
to his newr city, neither his pains, nor the horofcopes of
his wizards, have been able to render it opulent or
powerful. At prefent, Mr Swinburne informs us, it
fearce muders 6000 inhabitants, though mod of the
corn exported from the province is dripped off here, and
a direct trade carried on with Venice and Greece, for
which reafon there is a lazaretto edablifhed ; but from
fome late indances we may gather, that if the kingdom
of Naples has for many years pad remained free from
the plague, it is more owing to good luck, and the
very trifling communication with Turkey, than to the
vigilance or incorruptibility of the officers of this port.
In 1620, tire Turks landed and pillaged Manfredo-
nia. All forts of vegetables abound here, for flavour
and fucculency infinitely fuperior to tfiofe raifed by
continual waterings in the cineritious foil of Naples.
Lettuce in particular is delicious, and fdh plentiful and
cheap.
MANGANESE, or Magnesia Nigra, a metal¬
lic fubdance, the oxide of which has been long known
by the name of glafs-makers foap, from its property of
rendering glafs colourlefs. See Chemistry and Mi¬
neralogy Index.
MANGE, in dogs. Sde Farriery Index.
Mange. See Farriery, N° 333.
MANGEART, Dom Thomas, a Benedifline of
the congregation of St Vanne and St Hidulphe, whofe
knowledge was an ornament to his order. It gained
him alfo the titles of antiquarian, librarian, and coun-
fellor, to Charles duke of Lorrain. He was prepar¬
ing a very confiderable work when he died, A. D.
1763, before he had put his lad hand to his book,
which ivas publiflied by Abbe Jacquin. This produc¬
tion appeared in 1763, in folio, with this title : In-
troduBion a la fcience des Medailles, pour fervir a la con-
v.oi(fiance des Dicux, de la Religion, des Sciences, des
udrts, et de tout fe qui appartient a 1'Hid0ire ancicnne,
awcdes preuves drees des Medailles. The elementary
treat!fes on the numifmatic fcience were not fufficiently Mangel-
extenfive, and the particular differtations were by far wurzel
too tedious and prolix. This learned BenedidHne has ,, .
collected into a fingle volume all the principles contain-
ed in the former, and all the ideas of any' confequence
which are to be found fcattered through the latter.
His work may ferve as a fupplement to Montfaucon’s
Antiquity explained. From Mange art we likewife have
a volume of fermons 5 and a treatife on Purgatory ,
Nancy, 1739, 2volsi2mo.
M ANGEL vvurzel. See Beta, Botany Index;
and Agriculture Index.
MANGER, is a raifed trough under the rack in the
dall, made for receiving the grain or corn that a horfe
eats.
Manger, a fin all apartment, extending athwart the
lower deck of a diip of war, immediately within the
haufe-holes, and fenced on the after part by a partition,
which feparates it from the other part of the deck be¬
hind it. This partition ferves as a fence to interrupt
the paflage of the water, which occafionally gufhes in
at the haufe-holes, or falls from the wet cable whild
it is heaved in by the capdern. The water, thus pre¬
vented from running aft, is immediately returned int®
the fea by feveral frnall channels, called feuppers, cut
through the thip’s fide within the manger. The man¬
ger is therefore particularly ufeful in giving a con¬
trary direftion to the water that enters at the haufe-
holes, which would otherwife run aft in great dreams
upon the lower deck, and render it extremely wet
and uncomfortable, particularly in tempeduous wea¬
ther, to the men who mefs and fieep in different parts
thereof.
MANGET, John-James, an eminent phyfician,
born at Geneva in 1652. The eleftor of Brandenburg
made him his fird phyfician in 1699 *, in which pod he
continued till his death, which happened at Geneva in
1742. He wrote many works*, the mod known of
which are, 1. A colleftion of feveral Pharmacopoeias,
in folio. 2. Bibliotheca Phannaceutico-medica. 3. Bib¬
liotheca Anatomica. 4. Bibliotheca Chemica. c. Bib¬
liotheca Chirurgica. 6. A Bibliotheca of all the authors
wTbo have written on medicine, in 4 vols folio. All
thefe works are in Latin. Daniel le Clerc, the au¬
thor of a Hidory of Phyfic, aflided him in writing
them.
MANGIFERA, the mango-tree *, a genus of
plants belonging to the pentandria clafs ; and in the
natural method ranking with thofe of which the order
is doubtful. See Botany Index.
MANGLE, a machine for fmoothing linen. See
Mechanics Index.
MANGOSTAN, or Mangosteen. See Garci-
nia, Botany Index.
MANGROVE. See Rhizophora, Botany Index.
MANHEIM, a town of Germany, in the Lower
Palatinate, with a very drong citadel, and a palace,
where the eletdor Palatine often refides. It is feated
at the confluence of the rivers Neckar and Rhine, in
E. Long. 8. 33. N. Lat. 49. 25. It furrendered to
the French in September 1795 ; but it was retaken by
the Audrians in November following.
MANHOOD, that dage of life which fucceeds pu¬
berty or adolefcence. See Man.
MANIA, or Madness. See Medicine Index.
MANICHEES,
MAN [ 561 ] M A N
JUrichees. -MANICHEES, or MaKICIIEANS (Manichcei'), a
—— feel of ancient heretics, who aiTerteJ two principles \
fo called, from their author Manes or Matiickceus, a
Perfian by nation, and educated among the Magi, be¬
ing himfelf cne of that number before he embraced
Chrhiianity.
This herefy had its hrft rife about the year 277, and
fpread itfelf principally in Arabia, Egypt, and Africa.
St Epiphanius, who treats of it at large, obferves that
the true nar*’ of this herefiarch wTas Cubricus j and
that he changed it for Manes, which in the Perfian or
Babylonifh language fignifies ve[fcL A rich widow,
whqfe fervant he had been, dying without ilfue, left him
flore of wealth ; after which he affumed the title of the
apoJUe or envoy of Jifus Chrijl.
Manes wTas not contented with the quality of apofile
of Jefus Chrift, but he alfo afiumed that of the Para¬
clete, whom Chrift had promifed to fend : which Au-
guftine explains, by faying that Manes endeavoured to
perfuade men, that the Holy Ghoft did perfonally
dwell in him with full authority. Pie left feveral dif-
ciples, and among others, Addas, Thomas, and Her¬
nias. Thefe he fent in his lifetime into feveral provin¬
ces to preach his dodlrine. Manes, having undertaken
to cure the king of Perfia’s fon, and not fucceeding,
was put in prifon upon the young prince’s death, whence
he made his efcape *, but he was apprehended loon af¬
ter, and flayed alive.
ricwever, the oriental writers, cited by D’PIerbelot
and Hyde, tells us, that Manes, after having been pro-
tedled in a Angular manner by Hormizdas, who fuc-
ceeded S^por in the Perfian throne, but who was not
able to defend him, at length, againfl the united ha¬
tred of the Chriftians, the Magi, the Jews, and the
Pagans, was fliut up in a ftrong caftle, to ferve him as
refuge againft thofe whq perfecuted him on account
his dodrine. They add, that after the death of
Hormizdas, Varanes I. his fucceflbr, firft proteded
Manes, but afterv/ards gave him up to the fury of the
Magi, whofe refentment againfl him wTas due to his
having adopted the Sadducean principles, as fome fay ;
while others attribute it to his having mingled the te¬
nets of the Magi with the dodlines of Chriftianity.
However, it is certain that the Manicheans celebrated
the day of their mafter’s death. It has been a fubjed
of much controverfy whether Manes was an impoftor.
The learned Dr Lardner has examined the arguments
on both fides ; and though he does not choofe to deny
that he was an impoftor, he docs not tTcern evident
proofs of it. Pie acknowledges, that he was an arro¬
gant philofopher and a great fchemift ; but whether he
was an impoftor, he cannot certainly fay. He was
much too fond of philofopliical notions, which he en¬
deavoured to bring into religion, for which he is to be
blamed : neverthelefs, he oblerves, that every bold dog-
matizer is not an impoftor.
Pbe dodrine of Manes was a motley mixture of the
tenets of Cbriftianity with the ancient philofophy of
the Perfians, in which he had been inftruded during
bis youth. Pie combined thefe two fyftems, and ap¬
plied and accommodated to Jefus Chrift the charaders
and adions winch the Perfians attributed to the wod
Mithras.
Pie eflablilhed twTo principles, viz. a good and an
evil one : the firft a moil pure and fybtle matter,
Vcl.XII. Part II.
which he called light, did nothing but good; and theMmichr'es.
fecond, a grofs and corrupt fubftance, wdfleh he called ^ f
darknefs, nothing but evil. This phiiofbphy is very
ancient; and Plutarch treats of it at large in his Ifis
and Ofiris.
Manes borrowed many things from the ancient
Gnoftics ; on wdiich account many authors confider the
Manicheans as a branch of the Gnoftics.
In truth, the Manichean dodrine was a fyftem of
philofophy rather than of religion. They made ufe
of amulets, in imitation of the Bafilidians ; and are
faid to have made profeftion of aftronomy and aftro-
They denied that Jefus Chrift, who was only
God, affumed a true human body, and maintained it
was only imaginary ; and therefore they denied his
incarnation, death, See. They pretended that the law
of Mofes did not come from God, or the good princi¬
ple, but from the evil one ; and that for this reafon it
was abrogated. They rejeded almoft all the facred
books in which Chriftians look for the fubiime truths
of their holy religion. They affirmed, that the Old
Teftament was not the work of God, but of the prince
of darknefs, who was fubiiituted by the Jews in the
place of the true God. They abftained entirely from
eating the flefti of any animal 5 fallowing herein the
dodrine of the ancient Pythagoreans j they alfo con¬
demned marrrage. The reft of their errors may be
feen in St Epsphanius and St Auguftine •, which laft,
having been of their fed, may be prefumed to have
been thoroughly acquainted with them.
Though the Manichees profeffed to receive the books
of the New Teftament, yet in effed they only took fo
much of them as fifited with their own opinions. Thev
firft formed to themfelves a certain idea or fcheme of
Chriftianity ; and to this adjufted the writings of the
apoftles, pretending that whatever was inconfiftent
with this had been foifted into the New Teftament by
later writers, who were half Jews. On the other
hand, they made fables and apocryphal books pafs for
apoftolical writings; and even are furpeded to have
forged feveral others, the better to maintain their er¬
rors. St Epiphanius gives a catalogue of feveral pieces
publiftied by Manes, and adds extrads out of fome of
them. Ihele are the Myfteries, Chapters, Gofpel, and
Treafury.
1 he rule of life and manners which Manes preferib-
ed to his followers w*as moft extravagantly rigorous
and fevere. However, he divided his difciples into
two clafl'es •, one of which comprehended the per fed
Chriftians, under the name of the eleB ; and the other
the imperfed and feeble, under the title of auditors or
hearers. The eled w-ere obliged to a rigorous and en¬
tire abftmence from flefli, eggs, milk, filh, wine, all
intoxicating drink, wredlock, and all amorous gratifica¬
tions ; and to live in a ftate of the fevereft penury, nou-
riftiing their emaciated bodies with bread, herbs, pulfe,
and melons, and depriving themfelves of all the ^com-
forts that arife from the moderate indulgence of natural
paiiions, and alio from a variety of innocent and agree¬
able purfuits. The auditors were allowed to poflefs
houfes, lands, and wealth, to feed on flefh, to enter in¬
to the bonds of conjugal tendernefs; but this liberty
was granted them with many limitations, and under the
ftrideft conditions of moderation and temperance. I he
general alterably of the Manicheans was headed by a
4 B prelident,
M A N
chces pvefident, who reprefented .Telus Chntl, I here were
*.Ilr jojr.ed to him 12 rulers or mailers, who were dehgneJ
'~'u . to reprefent the 1 2 apoill.es, and thefe were followed by
7 2 biihops, the images of the ‘jl difciples of our Lord.
Thefe biihops had prefbyters or deacons under them,
and all the members of thefe religious orders were cho-
i'en cut of the clafs of the eleid. Their worlhip was
fimple and plain ; and confifted of prayers, reading the
feriptures, and hearing public difeourfes, at which both
the auditors and eletl were allowed to be prefent. 1 hey
alfo obferved the Chriilian appointment of baptilm and
the eucharift. They kept the Lord’s day, obferving
it as a fail j and they likewife kept Eafter and Pente-
colt.
Towards the 4th century, the Manicheans concealed
themfelves under various names, which they fucceuive-
Jy adopted, and changed in proportion as they tvere
difeovered by them. Thus they afilimed the names of
Encratites, Apotaflics, Saccophori, Hydroparaftates,
Solitaries, and feveral others, under which they lay
concealed for a certain time, but could not however
lone efcape the vigilance of their enemies. About the
clofe of tie 6th century, this fe£l gained a very conli-
derable influence, particularly among the Perflans.
Toward the middle of the 12th century, the fefl of
Manichees took a new face, on occaflon of one Con-
flantine, an Armenian, and an adherer to it; who took
upon him to fupprefs the reading of all other books be-
iides the Evangelifts and the Epiftles of St Paul, which
lie explained in fuch a manner as to make them contain
a new fyllem of Manicheifm. He entirely difearded
all the writings of his predecefibrs •, rejefling the chi¬
meras of the Valentinians, and their 30 aeons j the fa¬
ble of Manes, with regard to the origin of rain, and
other dreams*, but {fill retained the impurities of Ban-
lidcs. In this manner he reformed Manicheifm, in!o-
much that his followers made no fcruple of anathema¬
tizing Scythian, Buddas, called alio Addas and Tere¬
binth, the contwmporaries and difciples, as fome fay,
and, according to others, the predeceflbrs and mailers
of Manes, and even Manes himfelf *, Conltantine being
now their great apolfle. After he had feduced an
infinite number of people, he was at lalt Honed by or¬
der of the emperor.
This feci prevailed in Bofnia and the adjacent pro¬
vinces about the clofe of the 1 5th century ; propagated
their doflrines with confidence, and held their religious
uffemblies with impunity.
MANICGRDON, or Manichorb, a mufical in-
flrument in form of a ipinet *, the firings of which, like
thofe of the claricbord, are covered with little pieces of
cloth, to deaden as well as to {often their found,, whence
it is alfo called the dumbfpinet.
MANIFESTO j a public declaration made by a
prince in writing, fhowing his intentions to begin a
war or other enterprife, with the motives that induce
him to it, and the reafons on which he founds his rights
and pretenfions.
MANIHOT, or Manioc. See Jatrotha, Bota¬
ny Index.
MANILLA, Luconia, or Lu%on, the name of the
largeft of the Philippine illands in the Eaft Indies, fub-
je£l to Spain. It had the name of Lu%on from a cuf-
tom that prevailed among the natives of beating or
bruifing their rice in wooden mortars, before they tU
M A N
ther boiled or baked it *, /u-zon in their language, fig-
nifying a a mortar.”
As to fituatiott, it is remarkably happy, lying be¬
tween the eallern and weftern continents, and having
China on the north, at the d:fiance of about 60
leagues *, the iflands of Japan on the north-eaft, at the
diftance of about 250 leagues from the neareil of them j
the ocean on the eaft ; the other ifiands on the fouth j
and on the tveft Malacca, Patana, Siam, Cambodia,
Cochin-China, and other provinces of India, the near-
eft at the diftance of 320 leagues.
The middle of this ifland is in latitude 150 north 5
the call point in 13° 38', and the moll northern point
in 19°. The fhape of it is faid to refemble that of an
arm bent ; the whole length being about 160 Spanifti
leagues, the greateft breadth between 30 and 40, and
the circumference about 350. As to the longitude the
charts difter, fome making the middle of the iftand to
lie 1130 eaft from London, and others 1060. The
climate is hot and moift. One thing is held very extra¬
ordinary, that in ftormy weather there is much light¬
ning and rain, and that thunder is feldom heard till this
is over. During the months of June, July, Auguft,
and part of September, the weft and fouth winds blow,
which they call vendava/es, bringing fuch rains and
florins, that the fields are all overflowed, and they are
forced to have little boats to go from one place to an¬
other. From October till the middle of December,
the north wind prevails ; and from that time till May,
the eaft and fouth-eaft 5 which winds are there called
breezes. Thus there are two feafons in thofe feas, by
the Portuguefe called monzeens; whence our word
rnonfoons, that is, the breezes half the year, with a fe-
rene dry air; and the vendavales the other half, wet
and ftormy. It is further to be obferved, that in this
climate no vermine breed upon Europeans, though they
wear dirty {hirts, whereas it is otherwife with the In¬
dians. The days here being always of an equal length,
and the w*eather never cold, neither their clothes, nor
the hour of dining, Lipping, doing.bufinefs, ftudying,
or praying, are ever changed ; nor is cloth worn, but
only againft the rain.
The air here being, as has been obferved, very hot
and moift, is not wholefome, but is worfe for young
men that come from Europe than for the old. As
for the natives, without ufing many precautions, they
live very commonly to fourfeore or 100. Fhe ioil is
fo rich, that rice grows even on the tops of the moun¬
tains without being watered ; and this makes it fo plen¬
tiful, that the Indians value gold fo little as not to pick
it up, though it lies almoll everywhere under their
feet.
Among the difadvantages of the iiland, befides fre¬
quent and terrible earthquakes, here are feveral burn¬
ing mountains. The face of the iftand, however, is far
from being disfigured by them, or by the confequences
of their explofions.
The mountaineers, called Tingiani, have no particu¬
lar place of abode, but always live under the Ihelter of
trees, which ferve them inftead of houfes, and furnilh
them with food *, and when the fruit is eaten up, they
remove where there is a frtfla fort.
Here are 40 different forts of palm-trees, the moft
excellent cocoas, wild cinnamon, wild nutmegs, and
fonw fay wild cloves alfo } ebony} fandal wood } the
beft;
[ 562 1
Manilla.
I
MAN f 563 ] MAN
beft cafTia, and in fuch plenty, that they'feed their
hogs with its fruit 5 all kinds of cattle, and prodigious
quantities of gold, amber, and ambergris. .
There are feveral forts of people in this illand befides
the Spaniards, as the Tagalians or Tagaleze, the Pin-
tadoes or painted negroes, the Ilayas or Tinglianos,
and the Negrellos. The Tagalians, who are thought
to be Malayans by defcent, are a modeft, traftable,
afid well-difpofed people. The Pintadoes, or painted
negroes, are tall, ftraight, ftrong, aftive, and of an
excellent difpofition. The Tinglianos, whom lome fup-
pofe to be defcended from the Japanefe, are very brave,
yet very courteous and humane. rJ hey live entirely on
the gifts of nature ; and never deep under any other
(hade than that of the trees or a cave. The Negrelloes,
who are held to be the aborigines of the ifland, are bar¬
barous and brutal to the lafl degree. W nen they kill
a Spaniard, they make a cup of his Ikull, and drink,
cut of it.
This ifland is divided into feveral provinces, con¬
taining divers towns, the chief of which are Manilla,
Caceres, New Segovia, Bondo, PaiTacao, Ibalon, Bu-
lawT, Serfocon or Bagatao, Lampcn, bernandina, Bo-
linao, Playahonda, Cavite, Mindora, Caleleya, and Ba¬
layan.
Manilla, the capital of an ifland of the fame name
in the Eaft Irdies, on the fouth-eaft fide of the ifland,
where a large river falls into the fea, and forms a noble
bay 30 leagues in compafs, to which the Spaniards
have given the name of Bahia, becaufe the river runs
out of the great lake Bahi, which lies at the diftance
of fix leagues behind it. In compafs it is two miles,
in length one-third of a mile ; the lhape irregular, be¬
ing narrow at both ends, and wide in the middle. On
the fouth it is wafhed by the fea, and on the north and
eaft by the river \ being alfo flrongly fortified with
walls, baftions, forts, and batteries.—Manilla contains
about 30,000 fouls, who are a very motley race, diftin-
guilhed by feveral ftrange names, and produced by the
cenjunflion of Spaniards, Chinefe, Malabars, Blacks,
and others inhabiting the city and iflands depending
on it. Without the walls are large fuburbs, particu¬
larly that inhabited by the Chiuefe merchants, called
Sangleijs. In proportion to the fize of the place, the
number of churches and religious houfes is very great.
Only fmall vefiels can come up to Manilla; but three
leagues fouth of it is the town and port of Cavite, de¬
fended by the caftle of St Philip, and capable of re¬
ceiving the large!! fhips. Here {lands the arfenal
where the galleons are built, for which there are from
300 to 6co or 800 men conftantly employed, who are
relieved every month, and while upon duty are main¬
tained at the kind’s expence. By an earthquake which
happened here in 1645, a part of the city of
Manilla was deftroyed, and no lefs than 3000 people
perifired in the ruins.
Spain having entered into engagements with France,
in confequence of the family-compafl of the houfe of
Bourbon, it was found expedient by Britain to declare
war alfo againft Spain. Whereupon a force was feht
out from our Eafl India fettlements, particularly Ma¬
dras, for the conqueft of the Philippine iflands, under
General Draper and Admiral Cornifh : who, after a
fi-ege of 12 days, took Manilla on the 6th of October
i762 by{torm; but to fave fo fine a city from de-
ftrudtion, agreed to accept a ranfom, amounting to a
million fterling, a part of which, it is faid, w^as never
paid. The Spanifli viceroy refides in this city, and
lives like a foveteign prince. The government is faid
to be one of the belt in the gift of the king of Spain.
When the city was taken, as above, the archbithop,
who is a kind of pope in this part of the world, was
alfo viceroy. Five large (hips, loaded with the riches
of the Eatt, as diamonds from Golconda, cinnamon
from Ceylon, pepper from Sumatra and Java, cloves
and nutmegs from the Moluccas and Banda iflands,
camphire from Borneo, benjamin and ivory from
Cambodia, filks, tea, and china-ware from China, &c.
fail yearly from hence to Acapulco in Mexico, and re¬
turn freighted with filver, making 400 per cent, profit.
The city of Manilla is governed by two alcaides: the
reft of the cities and great towns have each an alcaide j
and in every village there i a a corregidore. Appeals
from their fentences are made to the royal court at
Manilla, in which there are four judges, and a fife at
or attorney-general ; each of thefe judges has a (alary
of 3400 pieces of eight per annum. The viceroy is
prefident; and in that quality has an income of 4000
pieces of eight, but he has no vote ; yet if the judges
are equally divided, the prefident names a doftor ot
the civil law, who, in virtue of his appointment, has
a decifive vote. The attorney-general, in right of
his office, is protector of the Chinefe, in confideration
of which he receives 600 pieces of eight every year.
As for the Indians that are in fubjeftion, they pay tri¬
bute in the following proportions: Young men from
18, and from thence, if they continue fingle, to the
age of 60, pay five rials of plate by way of capita¬
tion \ as fingle women likewife do from 24 to 50 :
married men pay ten rials. It is computed that there
are within the compafs of this government 250,020
Indians fubjedt to his Catholic majefty, of whom two-
fifths hold immediately from the king, and the reft
from lords or proprietors, who pay two rials each for
maintenance of the forces, and the like fum for the
parifti-prieft. The royal revenue is computed at about
half a million of pieces of eight, exclufive of cafualties.
In regard to the military eftabliftiment, the ganilon of
Manilla confifts of about 800 or 1000 men, and there
are about 3000 more in the Philippines. The viceroy
is by his office captain-general, with a falary of about
4000 pieces of eight.
MANILIUS, Marcus, a Latin poet, whole poem
had the ill luck to lie buried in fome German libraries,
and was not heard of in the world, until Poggius, about
two centuries ago, publiihed him from fome old ma-
nuferipts he found there. There is no account to be
found of him but what can be drawn from his poem,
which is called /IJlrcnoviicon ; and contains a fyftem of
the ancient aftronomy and aftrology, together with the
philofophy of the Stoics. It confifts of five books ;
though there was a fixth, which has not been recover¬
ed. Fiom the ftyle, and no mention of the author
being found in ancient writers, it is probable he died
young. It is collected, however, that he was a Roman
of illuftrious extradftion, and lived under the reign of
Auguftus, whom he invokes, though not by name,
yet by circumftances and character that fuit no other
5 B 2 emperor.
Manilla,
Manilius.
MAN [ 564 ] MAN
emperor. The belt editions of Pvlanilius are, that of
Jofeph Scaiiger, in 1600, and that of Bentley at Lon¬
don in 1 738.
MANILLE, in commerce, a large brafs ring in the
form of a bracelet, either plain or engraven, flat or
round.
Manilles are the principal commodities which the
Europeans carry to the coaft of Africa, and exchange
with the natives for flaves. Thefe people wear them
as ornaments on the Imall of the leg, and on the thick
part of the arm above the elbown The great men wear
manilles of gold and fllver; but thefe are made in the
country by the natives them (elves.
MANIOC, or Manihot. See Jatropha, Bo¬
tany Index.
MAN I PUL US, Manipule, among the Romans,
was a little body of infantry, which in the time of Ro¬
mulus confliled of joo men j and in the time of the
confuls, and fir A Caefars, of 200.
The word properly fignifies “ a handfuland, ac¬
cording to forue authors, w^as firfi given to the hand¬
ful of hay which they bore at the end of a pole, to
difiinguifh themfelves by, before the cuAom was in¬
troduced of bearing an eagle for their enfign} and
hence alfo the phrafe, a handful of men. But Vege-
tius, Modeftus, and Varro, give other etymologies of
the word : the lafl derives it from manus, a little body
of men following the fame ftandard. According to
the former, this corps was called manipulus, becaufe
they fought hand in hand or all together : Contubernium
autem manipulus vocabatur ab eo, quod conjunBl mani-
bus pariter dimicabant.
Each manipule had two centurions, or captains,
called manipularii, to command it •, one whereof was
lieutenant to the other. Each cohort was divided
into three manipules, and each manipule into two cen¬
turies.
Aldus Gellius quotes an old author, one Cincius,
who lived in the time of Hannibal (whole prifoner he
was), and who, waiting on the art of war, obferves,
that then each legion confided of 60 centuries, of 30
manipules, and of. ten cohorts. And again, Varro
snd Vegetius mention it as the lead divifion in the
army, only confiding of the tenth part of a century ;
and Spartian adds, that it contained no more than ten
men. This fhows that the manipulus was not always
the fame thing.
Manipulus is alfo an ecclefiadical ornament, worn
by the prieds, deacons, and fubdeacons in the Romilh
church. It confids of a little fillet in form of a dole,
three cr four inches broad, and made of the fame duff
with the chafuble j fignifying and reprefenting an
handkerchief which the prieds in the primitive church
wore on the arm to wipe off the tears they were con¬
tinually fnedding for the fins of the people. There dill
remains a mark of this ufage in a prayer rehearfed by
tbofe who wear it; Merear, Domine, povtare manipulum
fetus et do/oris.—The Greeks and Maroaites wear two
manipules, one on each arm.
M anipulus, among phyficians, is ufed to fignify a
handful of herbs or leaves, or fo much as a man can
grafp in his hand at once 5 which quantity is frequent¬
ly denoted by the abbreviature, M, or m.
MANIS, the Scaly Lizard, a genus of quadrupeds
belonging to the order of bruta. See Mammalia Manley,
Index. Manila.
MANLEY, Mrs, the celebrated writer of the' v
yltalantis, wTas the daughter of Sir Roger Manley, the
reputed author of the fird volume of the Turkifii S.>y.
She lod her parents very early ; and after having been
deluded into a falfe marriage by her guardian, who was '
her coufin, and afterwards deferted her, die was pa¬
tronized by the duchefs of Cleveland, miftrefs of
Charles II. But the duchefs, being a woman of a
very fickle temper, grew tired of Mrs Manley in fix
months time j and difeharged her upon a pretence,
whether groundlefs or not is uncertain, that die in¬
trigued with her fon. After this the wrote her firtt
tragedy, called Royal Mifchief, which was acted with
great applaufe in 16965 and her apartment being fre¬
quented by men of wit and gaiety, die foon engaged
in amours, and was taken into keeping. Her pen now
grew as licentious as her condudt : for, in her retired
hoi irs, the wuote four volumes, called Memoirs of the
New Atalantis j in which the was not only very free
in her wanton tales of love adventures, but fatirized
the charafters of many didinguiihed perfonages, efpe-
cially thofe who had a principal concern in the Revo¬
lution. A profecution was commenced aga’md her for
this work 5 but whether thofe in power were adiamed
to bring a woman to trial for a few amorous trifles;
or whether the laws could not reach her diiguifed fa-
tire, the was difeharged 5 and a total change of the
minidry enfuing, Mrs Manley lived in high reputation
and gaiety, amufing herfelf with the converfation of
wits, and writing plays, poems, and letters. She died
in 1724.
MANLIUS Capitolinus, the renowned Roman
conful and general, who faved the capltol when it was
attacked by the Gauls in the night : he was alarmed
by the cries of geefe, which were ever after held fa-
cred. But being afterwards accufed of afpirlng at the
fovereignty, he was thrown from the Taipei an rock.
See Gaul and Rome.
Manlius Torquatus, a celebrated conful and Ro¬
man captain 5 had great wit, but a difficulty in expref-
fing himfelf, which induced Manlius Impeiioius, Ids
father, to keep him almod by force in the country.
Pompey, tribune of the people, enraged at this in¬
dance of feverity, formed a defign of accufing Man¬
lius the father before the judges 5 but Torquatus be¬
ing informed of it, Went to that tribune, and, with a
poniard in his hand, made him five a r, that lie would
not proceed in that accufation againd him to whom he
owed his life. At length Torquatus was made mili¬
tary tribune, and killed a foldier of the Gauls in Angle
combat, from whom he took a gold chain that he
wore about his neck. From this aidion lie obtained
the name of Torquatus. He was conful in the war
againd the Latins ; when he ordered his own fon to
be beheaded for fighting contrary to his orders, though
he had gained the vidlory. He conquered the enemies
of the republic, and was feveral times made conful ;
but at lad refufed the confulfhip, faying, That it was
no more poffible for him to bear with the vices of the
people, than it was for the people to bear, with his fe-
verity.
MANNA, in the Materia Medico} the juice of cer-.
MAN [5*5
tain trees of the afla kind, either naturally concreted on
the plants, or exficcated and purified by art. See Ma¬
teria Medic a Index.
Manna, is alfo a Scripture terra, fignifying a mira¬
culous kind of food which fell from heaven for the fup-
port of the Ifraelites in their paffage through the tvil-
dernefs, being in form of coriander feeds, its colour
like that of bdellium, and its tafte like honey. ^
1'he Scripture gives to manna the name or the bread
of heaven, and the food of angels, Pfalra Ixxviii. 25.
whether it would iniinuate to us, that the angels lent
and prepared this food, or that angels themielves, if
they had need of any food, could not have any that
was more agreeable than manna was. i he author of
the Book of Wifdom lays, xvi. 20, 21. that manna
fo accommodated itfelf to every one’s taile, that e^ery
one found it pleafing to him 5 and that it included eveiy
thing that was agreeable to tbe palate and fit for good
nourilhment ■, wbicb exprelhons jorae bave taken m
tbe literal fenfe, though others underhand them figu¬
ratively.
The critics are divided about the original of the
word manna. Some think that man is put indead of
the Hebrew word mah, which fignifies “ What is
this ?” and that the Hebrews, then firft feeing that
new food which God had lent them, cried to one ano¬
ther, K'iTjU man.-hu, inllead or mah-hu, “ What is this ?”
Others maintain, that the Hebrews very well knew
before what manna was •, and that, feeing it in great
abundance about their camp, they faid one to another,
Man-hu, This is manna.” Mr Saumaife and fome
other moderns are of this laft opinion. They imagine,
that the manna which God fent the Ifraelites was no¬
thing elfe but that fat and thick dew which full falls
in Arabia, which prefently condenfed, and ferved for
food to tbe people 5 that this is the fame thing as the
wild honey, mentioned Matth. iii. 4. wherewith John
the Baptiil was fed ; and that the miracle of Mofes
did not confift in the produ&ion of any new fubftance,
but in the exafl and uniform manner in which the
manna was difpenfed by Providence for the mainte¬
nance of fuch a great multitude.
On the contrary, the Hebrews and Orientals believe,
that the fall of the manna was wholly miraculous. The
Arabians call it dnzfugar-plums of the Almighty ; and the
Jews are fo jealous of this miracle, that they pronounce
a curie agamft all fuch as prefume to deny the interpofi-
tion of a miraculous power.
Our tranfladon, and fome others, make Mofes fall
into a plain contradiflion in relating this (lory of the
manna, which they render thus : “ And w-hen the
children of Ifrael faw it, they faid one to another, It
is maima •, for they wifi: not what it was.” Exo¬
dus xvi. 15. Whereas the Septuagint, and feveral au¬
thors both ancient and modem, have tranilated the
text according to the original, “ The Ifraelites fee¬
ing this, faid one to another, What is this ? for they
knew not what it was.” For we mull obferve, that
the word by which they allied, what is this ? was in
their language man, which fignifies likewife meat rea-
•tlv provided ; and therefore it was always afterwards
called manor manna.
Whether this manna had thefe extraordinary qua¬
lities in it or not, which fome imagine, it mull be al¬
lowed to be truly miraculous, upon the following aci
5 ] M A N
counts. 1. That it fell but fix days in the week.
2. That it fell in fuch a prodigious quantity, as lu-
fiained almoft three millions of louls. 3 That there
fell a double quantity every Friday, to ferve them for
the next day, which was their Sabbath. 4. That
what was gathered on the firfi five days lutnk and
bred worms i ' kept above one day : but that which
was gathered on Friday kept fvveet for two days.
And, lafily, That it continued falling while the If¬
raelites abode in the wildernefs, but ceafed as Coon as
they came out of it and had got corn to eat in the
land of Canaan.
MannA-Tree, is a fpecies of the afir, and a native of
Calabria in Italy. See Fraxinus, Botany Index, and'
Materia Medica Index.
MANNER, in painting, a habitude that a man ac¬
quires in the three principal parts of painting, the ma¬
nagement of colours, lights, and fhadows ; which is ei¬
ther good or bad according as the painter has pra&ifed
more or lefs after the truth, with judgement and ftudy.
But the heft painter is he who has no manner at all.
The good or bad choice be makes is called-yoi//!?.
MANNERS, the plural noun, has various fignifi-
cations ; as the general way of life, tbe morals, or the
habits, of any perfon or people •, alfo ceremonious be¬
haviour, or tiudied civility. See tbe next article.
Good Manners, according to Swift, is tbe art of
making thofe people eafy with whom we converfe.
Whoever makes the feweft perfons uneafy, is the
belt bred in tbe company.
As the beft law is founded upon reafon, fo are the
beft manners. And as fome lawyers have introduced
unreafonable things into common law; fo likewife
many teachers have introduced abfurd things into com¬
mon good manners.
One principal point of this art is to fait our beha¬
viour to the three feveral degrees of men ; our fupe-
riors, our equals, and thofe below us.
For inftance, to prefs either of the two former to
eat or drink is a breach of manners •, but a tradefman
or a farmer muft be thus treated, or elfe it will be dif-•
ficult to perfuade them that they are welcome.
Pride, ill nature, and want of fenfe, are the three
great fources of ill manners ; without fome one of thefe
defedls, no man will behave himfelf ill for want of ex¬
perience *,*or of what, in the language of fools, is called-
knowing the world.
“ 1 defy (proceeds our author], any one to affign
an incident wherein reafon will not direft us what we
are to fay or to do in company, if we are not milled by
pride or ill nature. Therefore, I infill that good fenfe
is the principal foundation of good manners •, but bc«
caufe the former is a gift which very few among man¬
kind are poffeffed of, therefore all the civilized nations
of the world have agreed upon fixing fome rules for
common behaviour, beft fuited to their general cu-
ftoms, or fancies, as a kind of artificial good fenfe to
fupply the defedls of reafon. Without which, the gen¬
tlemanly part of dunces would be perpetually at cuffs, .
as they feldom fail when they happen to be drunk, or
engaged in fquabbles about women or play. And,
God be thanked, there hardly happeneth a duel in a
year, which may not be imputed to one of thofe three
motives. Upon which account, I iliould be exceed¬
ingly for ry to find the leg!flature paake any new laws
MAN [ ;66 ] M A N
^Manners, againft the practice of duelling *, becaufe tlie methods
v'* are eafy, and many, for a wife man to avoid a quarrel
with honour, or engage in it with innocence. And I
can dilcover no political evil, in fullering bullies, {harp¬
ers, and rakes, to rid the world of each other by a me¬
thod of ..their own, where the law hath not been able
to find an expedient.
“ As the common forms of good manners were in¬
tended for regulating the conduct of thofe who have
weak underftandings : fo they have been corrupted by
the perfons for whofe ufe they were contrived. For
thefe people have fallen into a needlcfs and endlefs way
of multiplying ceremonies, which have been extremely
troublefome to thofe who praclife them, and inlup-
portable to every body elfe ; infomuch that wife men
'are often more uneafy at the over civility of thefe re¬
finers, than they could poffibly be in tdie converfations
of peafants or mechanics.
The impertinences of this ceremonial behaviour
are nowhere better feen than at thofe tables, where la¬
dies prefide who value themfelves upon account of
their good breeding ; where a man mud reckon upon
paffing an hour without doing any one thing he hath a
mind to, unlefs he will be fo hardy as to break through
all the fettled decorum of the family. She determines
what he loveth beft, and how much he (hall eat j and
if the mailer of the houfe happeneth to be of the lame
difpofition, he proceedeth in the fame tyrannical man¬
ner to preferibe in the drinking part : at the fame time
you are under the neceffity of anfwering a thoufand
apologies for your entertainment. And although a
good deal of this humour is pretty well worn off among
many people of the beft falhion, yet too much of it
ftill remaineth, efpecially in the country •, where an ho-
neft gentleman allured me, that having been kept four
days againft his will at a friend’s houfe, with all the
cireumftances of hiding his boots, locking up the liable,
and other contrivances of the like nature, he could not
remember, from the moment he came into the houfe
to the moment he left it, any one thing wherein his
inclination was not direftly contradhfted j as if the
whole family had entered into a combination to tor¬
ment him.
“ But, bdides all this, it would be endlefs to re¬
count the many foolilh and ridiculous accidents I have
bbferved among thefe unfortunate profelytes to cere¬
mony. I have feen a duchefs fairly knocked down by
the precipitancy of an officious coxcomb running to
fave her the trouble of opening a door. I remember,
upon a birth-day at court, a great lady was rendered
utterly difconfolate, by a difh of fauce let fall by a page
direclly upon her head-drefs and brocade, while llie
gave a fudden turn to her elbow upon fome point of
ceremony with the perfon who fat next her. Monficur
Buys, the Dutch envoy, whofe politics and manners
were much of a lize, brought a fon with him about 13
years old to a great table at court. The boy and his
father, whatever they put on their plates, they firft of¬
fered round in order, to every perlon in the company *,
fo that we could not get a minute’s quiet during the
whole dinner. At latf their two plates happened to
encounter, and with fo much violence, that, being
china, they broke in twenty pieces, and flamed half
the company with wet fweetmeats and cream.
** There i$ a pedantry in manners as in all arts and
3
Iciences, and fometimes in trades. Pedantry is pro¬
perly the overrating any kind of knowledge we pre¬
tend to. And it that kind of knowledge be a trifle in
itfelf, the pedantry is the greater. For which reafon
I look upon fiddlers, dancing-mailers, heralds, mailers
of the ceremony, &c. to be greater pedants than Lip-
fius, or the elder Scaliger. With thefe kind of pedants,
the court, while I knew it, was always plentifully
Hocked : I mean from the gentleman-ulher (at lead)
inclufive, downward to the gentleman-porter j who are,
generally fpeaking, the moll infignificant race of peo¬
ple that this ifland can afford, and with the fmalleft;
tindlure of good manners, which is the only trade they
proiefs. For being wholly illiterate, converung chiefly
with each other, they reduce the whole fyftem of
breeding within the forms and circles of their feveral
offices : and as they are below the notice of minifters,
they live and die in court under all revolutions, with
great oblequioufnefs to thofe who are in any degree of
credit or favour, and with rudenefs and infolence to
every body elfe. From whence I have long concluded,
that good manners are not a plant of the court growth :
for if they v.-ere, thofe people who have underftand¬
ings diredlly of a level for fuch acquirements, and who
have ferved fuch long apprenticefuips to nothing elfe,
would certainly have picked them up. For as to the
great officers who attend the prince’s perfon or coun¬
cils, or prefide in his family, they are a tranfient body,
who have no better a title to good manners than their
neighbours, nor will probably have recourfe to gentle-
men-ufliers for inftrudlion. So that I know little to
be learned at court on this head, except in the material
circumftance of drefs j wherein the authority of the
maids of honour mull indeed be allowed to be almofk
equal to that of a favourite adlrefs.
“ I remember a paffage my Lord Bolingbroke told
me : That going to receive Prince Eugene of Savoy at
his landing, in order to conduct him immediately to
the queen, the prince faid he was much concerned that
he could not fee her majefty that night *, for Monfieur
Hoftman (w’ho was then by) had affured his highnefs,
that he could not be admitted into her prefence with
a tied-up periwig ; that his equipage ■was not arrived j
and that he had endeavoured in vain to borrow a long
one among all his valets and pages. My lord turned
the matter to a jell, and brought the prince to her ma¬
jefty : for which he was highly cenfured by the whole
tribe of gentlemen ulhers 5 among whom Monfieur
Hoffman, an old dull refident of the emperor’s, had
picked up this material point of ceremony ; and which,
I believe, was the beft; leffon he had learned in 25 years
refidence.
“ I make a difference between good mariners and
good breeding; although, in order to vary my expref-
fion, I am fometimes forced to confound them. By
the firil, I only underftand the art of remembering,
and applying, certain lettled forms of general behavi¬
our. But good breeding is of a much larger extent :
for befides an uncommon degree of literature fufficient
to qualify a gentleman for reading a play, or a poli¬
tical pamphlet, it taketh in a great compafs of know¬
ledge \ no lefs than that of dancing, fighting, gaming,
making the circle of Italy, riding the great horfe, and
fpeaking French ; not to mention fome other fecond-
ary or fubaltern accomplilhments, which axe more ea-
fily
Manner?,
M A N
[ 56'/ ]
M A N
Manner?, fily acquired. So that the difterence between good
Mannory. breeding and good manners lieth in this, That the for-
' mer cannot be attained to by the beft underftandings
without ftudy and labour ; whereas a tolerable degree
of reafon will inlfruft us in every part of good man¬
ners without other aPddance.
“ I can think of nothing more ufeful upon this fub-
jedl, than to point out feme particulars wherein the
Very effentials of good manners are concerned, the ne-
gledl or perverting of which doth very much dillurb the
good commerce of the world, by introducing a traffic
of a mutual uneafinefs in moft companies.
“ Firft, A neceffary part of good manners is a punc¬
tual obfervance of time at our own dwellings or thofe
of others, or at third places; whether upon matters
of civility, bufinefs, or diverfion ; which rule, though it
be a plain didfate of common reafon, yet the greateft
* Harley minitler * I ever knew, was the greatefl trefpafler againft
carl of Ox- it; by which all his bufinefs doubled upon him, and
foni, lord placed him in a continual arrear. Upon v.’hich I often
high trea- upe(j to rajjy ^im as deficient in point of good man-
Ouecn° ners. I have known more than one ambaifador, and
Anne. fecretary of fiate, with a very moderate portion of in-
telleftuals, execute their offices with great fuccefs and
applaufe, by the mere force of exaftnefs and regula¬
rity. If you duly obferve time for the fervice of ano¬
ther, it doubles the obligation ; if upon your own ac¬
count, it would be manifell folly, as well as ingrati¬
tude, to negledl it; if both are concerned, to make
your equal or inferior attend on you to his own difad-
vantage, is pride and injuilice.
“ Ignorance of forms cannot properly be flyled i//
manners: becaufe forms are fubjeft to frequent changes;
and confequently, being not founded upon reafon, are
beneath a wife man’s regard. Befides, they vary in
every country; and after a ffiort period of time vary
frequently in the fame : fo that a man who travelleth
mult needs be at firft a llranger to them in every court
through which he pafleth ; and, perhaps, at his return,
as much a ftranger in his own ; and, after all, they are
eafier to be remembered or forgotten than faces or
names.
“ Indeed, among the many impertinencies that fu-
perficial young men bring with them from abroad, this
bigotry of forms is one of the principal, and more
predominant than the reft : who look upon them not
only as if they were matters capable of admitting of
choice, but even as points of importance ; and there¬
fore are zealous upon all occaficns to introduce and pro¬
pagate the new forms and faffiions they have brought
back with them : fo that, ufuaily fpeaking, the worft
bred perfon in the company is a young traveller juft
arrived from abroad.”
MANNORY, Lewis, advocate of the parliament
of Paris, where he was born in 1696, and died in
1777. From him wre have 18 vols. i 2mo of Fleadings
and Memoirs. A great number of lingular cafes occur
in this colledlion : and the author has the talent of
rendering them mere linking by the agreeable manner
in which they are Hated. He was Travenol’s counfel
in his procefs againft Voltaire, and was very fatirical
againft that poet. The latter took revenge by deferib-
ing him as a mercenary babbler, who fold his pen and
his abufe to the higheft bidder. Whatever may be the
cafe, Mar.nory would certainly have been more efteem-
ter.
ed, both as an advocate and as a writer, if he had paid Manceavr
more attention to his ftyle, and had been lefs prolix ; if Manome-
he had thought more deeply, and been more fparing of ,
his pleafanty in cafes where nothing was required but
knowledge and found reafoning. He publilhed alfo a
tranllation into French of Father Paree’s funeral Ora¬
tion on Louis XIV. and very judicious Obfervations
on the Semiramis of Voltaire.
MANOEUVRE, in a military fenfe, confifts folely
in diftributing equal motion to every part of a body of
troops, to enable the whole to form, or change their
pofition, in the moft expeditious and beft method, to
anfwer the purpofes required of a battalion, brigade,
or line of cavalry, artillery, or infantry. It has al¬
ways teen lamented, that men have been brought on
fervice without being informed of the ufes of the
different manoeuvres they have been pradlifing ; and,
having no ideas of any thing but the uniformity of
the parade, inftantly fall into diforder and confufion
when they lofe the ftep, or fee a deviation from the
ftraight lines they have been accuftomed to at exercife..
It is a pity to fee fo much attention given to Ihow, and
fo little to inftrudl the troops in what may be of ufe
to them in real fervice. No manoeuvre ftiould be exe¬
cuted in prefence of the enemy, unlefs prctedled by fome
divifion of the troops.
MANOMETER, or Manoscope, an inftrument
to ftlow, or meafure the alterations in the rarity or
denfity of the air. The manometer differs from the
barometer in this, That the latter only ferves to mea«
lure the weight of the atmofphere, or of the column
of air over it ; but the former, the der.fity of the air
in which it is found ; which denfity depends not only
on the weight of the atmofphere, but alfo on the
adlion of heat and cold, &c. Authors, however, ge¬
nerally confound the two together; and Mr Boyle
himfelf gives us a very good manometer of his contriv¬
ance, under the name of a JiaUeal barometer, confiding
of a bubble of thin glafs, about the fize of an orange,
W’hich, being counterpoifed when the air was in a-
mean ftate of denfity, by means of a nice pair of feales,
funk when the atmofphere became lighter, and rofe as-
it grew heavier.
Other kinds of manometers were made ufe of by Co¬
lonel Roy, in his attempts -to correcl the errors of the
barometer. “ They were (fays he) of various lengths,
from four to upwards of eight feet : they confifted of
ftraight tubes, wffiofe bores wero commonly from -,3th
to -,3-tb of an inch in diameter. The capacity of the
tube was carefully meafured, by making a column of
quickfilver, about three or four inches in length, move
along it from one end to the other. Thefe fpaces were
feverally marked, with a fine edged file, on the tubes ;
and transferred from them to long flips of pafteboard,
for the fubfequent conftruftion of the feales refpeclive-
ly belonging to each. The bulb, attached to one end
of the manometer at the glafs-houfe, w7as of the form-
of a pear, whole point being oceafionally opened,,
dry or moift air could be readily admitted, and the
bulb fealed again, without any fenfible alteration in
its capacity.
“ The air was confined by means of a column of
quickfilver, long or Ihort, and with the bulb down--
ward or upwards, according to the nature of the pro--
pefed experiment. Here it Euuft be obferved, that,,.
fsorciM
M A N
Maaome- from the adhefion of the quickfilver to the tube, the
tcr’ inftrument will not aft truly, except it be in a vertical
v pofition •, and even then it is neceffary to give it a
fmall degree of motion, to briirg the quickfilver into
its true place ; where it will remain in equilibria, be¬
tween the exterior preffure of the atmofphere on one
fide, and the interior elaftic force of the confined air
on the other.
“ Pounded ice and water were ufed to fix a freez¬
ing point on the tube j and by means oi fait and ice,
the air was farther condenfed, generally four, and
fometimes five or fix degrees below zero. The ther¬
mometer and manometer were then placed in a tin
veffel among water, which was brought into violent
ebullition ; where, having remained a fuificient time,
and motion being given to the manometer, a boiling
point was marked thereon. After this the fire was re¬
moved, and the gradual defcents of the piece of quick¬
filver, correfponding to every 20 degrees of tempera¬
ture in the thermometer, were fuccellively marked
on a deal rod applied to the manometer. It is to
be obferved, that both inftruments, -while in the wa¬
ter, were in circumfiances perfeftly fimilar ; that is
to fay, the ball and bulb were at the bottom of the
vellel.
“ In order to be certain that no air had efcaped
by the fide of the quickfilver during the operation, the
manometer was frequently placed a fecond time in melt¬
ing ice. If the barometer had not altered between the
beginning and end of the experiment, the quickfilver
always became ftationary at or near the firrt mark. If
any fudden change had taken place in the weight of
the atmofphere during that interval, the fame w as not¬
ed, and allowance made for it in afterwards proportion¬
ing the fpaces.
“ Long tubes, with bores truly cylindrical, or of
any uniform figure, are fcarcely ever met with. Such
how'ever as were ufed in thefe experiments, generally
tapered in a pretty regular manner from one end to
the other. When the bulb was downwards, and the
tube narrowed that w^ay, the column of quickfilver
confining the air lengthened in the lower half of the
fcale, and augmented the preffure above the mean.
In the upper half, the column being (hortened, the
preffure was diminifhed below the mean. In this
cafe, the obferved fpaces both wrays from the centre
w'ere diminiihed in the inverie ratio of the heights of
the barometer at each fpace, compared with its mean
height. If the bore widened towards the bulb when
downwards, the obferved fpaces, each wray from the
centre, were augmented in the fame inverfe ratio •, but
in the experiments on air lefs denfe than the atmo¬
fphere, the bulb being upwards, the fame equation was
applied with contrary figns: and if any extraordinary
irregularity took place in the tube, the correfponding
fpaces were proportioned both ways from that point,
whether high or lowq that anfwered to the mean.
“ The obferved and equated manometrical fpaces
being thus laid down on the pafteboard containing
the meafures of the tube j the 212° of the thermo¬
meter, in exa£f proportion to the feftions of the bore,
were conftrufted aiongfide of them : hence the co¬
incidences with each other Were eafily feen ; and the
-number of thermometrical degrees anfwering to each
M A N
manometrical fpace readily transferred into a table Mancme-
prspared for the purpofe.*” ^r>
Manometer, for the air pump. This is a fmall ..f' ' ,
glafs tube about two or three inches high, hermetically* pin,
fealcd at one end, and open at the other, being divided Tranf LkyII,
regularly into inches and lines. It is ufed for alcertain-
ing the rarefaftion of the air produced by working an
air pump. The tube previoufly filled wiih mercury, is
placed in the receiver of an air pump. As the piffon
is worked, the mercury gradually finks in the tube, and
the expanlion is eflimated by its height •, for the fmalle’r
the height at which the mercury in the tube Hands
above the mercury in the bafon, the greater is the ex-
panlion.
MANOR, Manerium (a manendo^ becaufe the
ufual refidence of the owner), feems to have been a
diflrift of ground held by lords or great perfonages \
w'ho kept in their own hands fo much land as was
neceffary for the ufe of their families, which were Blackjl.
called terra; dominicales, or demefne 'lands; being qc-Commenti
copied by the lord, as dominus tnanern, and his ier-
vants. The other, or tenemental lands, they diftri-
buted among their tenants*, which, from the different
modes of tenure, w'ere called and ditlinguiihed by two
different names.—Firit, book-land, or charter land,
which was held by deed under certain rents and free
fervices, and in effedt differed nothing from free focage
lands: and from hence have arifen moft of the free¬
hold tenants who hold of particular manors, and owe
fuit and fervice to the fame. The other Ipecies was
called folk-land, which was held by no affurance in
writing, but diffributed among the common folk or
people at the pleafure of the lord, and refumed at his
diferetion ; being indeed land held in villenage. See
Vi TEENAGE.
The refidue of the manor, being uncultivated, was
termed the lord's wafe, and ferved for public roads,
and for common of patlure to the lord and Ins te¬
nants. Manors were formerly called baronies, as they
ftill are lordjbips; and each lord or baron was em¬
powered to hold a domeftic court, called the court ba¬
ron, for redreffing mifdemefnors and nulances within
the manor, and for fettling difputes of property among
the tenants. This court is an infeparable ingredient
of every manor ; and if the number of fuitors ffiould
fo fail, as not to leave fufficient to make a jury or ho¬
mage, that is, two tenants at the leaf!, the manor itfelf
is loft.
In the early times of our legal conftitution, the king’s
greater barons, who had a large extent of territory
held under the crown, granted out frequently fmaller
manors to inferior perfons to be held of themfelves $
which do therefore now continue to be held under a
fuperior lord, who is called in fuch cafes the lord pa¬
ramount over all thefe manors j and his feignory is
frequently termed an honour, not a manor ; efpecially
if it hath belonged to an ancient feodal baron, or hath
been at any time in the hands of the crown. In imi¬
tation whereof, thefe inferior lords began to carve out
and grant to others ftill more minute eftates to be
held as of themfelves, and were fo proceeding down¬
wards in infinitum, till the fuperior lords obferved,
that, by this method of fubinfeudation, they loft all
their feodal profits of wardfhips, marriages, and el-
cheats,
[ 568 ]
2
MAN ~ [ 569 ] MAN.
Mans cheats, which fell into the hands of thefe mefne or
I! middle lords, who were the immediate fuperiors of
Mansfcld. tjie tfrre tenant, or him wlio occupied the land j and
alfo that the mefne lords themfelves were fo impover-
iihed thereby, that they were difabled from perform¬
ing their fervices to their own fuperiors. This occa-
lioned, firlt, that provilion in the 33d chapter of magna
charta, 9 Hen. III. (which is not to be found in the
firtt chapter granted by that prince, nor in the great
charter of King John), that no man fliould either
give or fell his land without referving fufficient to
anfwer the demands of his lord ; and, afterwards,
the ftatute of Weftm. 3. or quia emptores, 18 Edw. I.
c. 1. which direfts, that, upon all fales, or feoffments
of land, the feoffee (hall hold the fame, not of his im¬
mediate feoffor, but of the chief lord of the fee, of
whom fuch feoffor himfelf held it. Kut thefe provilions
not extending to the king’s own tenants in capita, the
like law concerning them is declared by the ftatutes
of pfcerogativa regis, 17 Edward II. c. 6. and of
34 Edw. III. c. 15. by which laft all fubinfeudations,
previous to the reign of King Edward I. were con-
limied ; but all fubfequent to that period were left
open to the king’s prerogative. And from hence it
is clear, that all manors exifting at this day, muff
have exifted as early as King Edward the Firft : for
it is effential to a manor, that there be tenants who
hold of the lord j and, by the operation of thefe fta¬
tutes, no tenant in capite ftnce the acceflxon of that
prince, and no tenant of a common lord fince the fta¬
tute of quia emptores, could create any new tenant
to hold of himfelf. See Villenage.
MANS, an ancient, rich, and populous town of
France, capital of the county of Maine, with a bifhop’s
fee. Its wrax and fluffs are famous. It is feated on a
high hill near the river Sarr, in E. Long. o. 10. N.
Lat. 47. 58.
MANSE, Mansus, Manfa, or Manfum; in an¬
cient law-books, denotes a houfe, or habitation, either
with or without land. See House and Mansion.
1 he word is formed a manendo, “ abiding j” as being
the place of dwelling or refidence.
Capital Man SR, dManfurn Capitene'}, denotes the ma-
nor-houfe, or lord’s court. See Manor.
AIansus Prejbyten, is a parfonage or vicarage
houfe for the incumbent to refide in. This was ori¬
ginally, and ftiil remains, an effential part of the en¬
dowment of a parifh church, together with the glebe
and tythes. It is fometimes called Prejbyterium. See
Presbytery.
MANSFELD, a city of Germany, and capital of
a county of the fame name, in the circle of Upper
Saxony. E. Long. 12. 55. N. Lat. 51. 35.
MANSI'ELD, Peter Ernest, count of, was de¬
fended from one of the moft illuftrious families in
Germany, and which has produced the greateft num¬
ber of diftinguifhed chara&ers. In 1552, he was ta¬
ken prifoner at Ivry, where he commanded ; and he
was afterwards of great fervice to the Catholics at the
battle of Montcontour. In confequence of his great
talents, he was employed in affairs of the utmoft de¬
licacy and importance. Leing made governor of
Luxemburg, he maintained tranquillity in that pro¬
vince, w’hile tne reft of the Low Countries was a prey
to the horrors of civil war. In 4;eftimony of their
VOL. XII. Part II.
gratitude, the States caufed the following infcription
to be placed on the gate of the hotel de ville : In Bcl-
gio omnia dum vajlat civile helium, Mansfeldvs hello et
pace Jidus, hanc provinciam in fide continet fervatque illat-
fam, cum fummo popuh confenfu et hilari jucunditate. Fie
wras afterwards appointed to the command of the Low
Countries 5 and died at Luxemburg, March 21. 1604
at the age of 87, with the title of Prince of the Ro/q
Empire. His mauf6leum, in bronze, which is to be
feen in the chapel bearing his name, and adjoining to
the church of the Recolledts at Luxemburg, is an ad¬
mirable work. Four highly finiftied weepers, with
which this monument wras ornamented, were carried
off by Louis XIV. wdien he took this city in 1684.
To a love of war, Mansfeld united a tafte for the
fciences ; and he was a lover and encourager of the
arts : he poffeffed a great and elevated mind 5 but, like
many heroes ancient and modern, he wjas greedy of
gain and lavilh of blood. Abbe Schannat has written
the hiftory of the count of Mansfeld in Latiw 5 print¬
ed at Luxemburg, 1707. Charles prince of Mans¬
feld, his lawfful fon, fignalized himfelf in the wars of
Flanders and Hungary ; and died wdthout iffue in
I595’ after having beaten the Turks who attempted
to relieve the city of Gran (Strigonia), which he wras
befieging.
Mansfeld, Ernef de, the illegitimate fon of
Peter Erncft by a lady of Malines, was educated at
Bruffels, in the principles of the Roman Catholic re¬
ligion, by his godfather Erneft archduke of Auftria.
He was employed in the fervice of the king of Spain
in the Low Countries, and in that, of the emperor in
Hungary, together with his brother Charles count of
Mansfeld. He was legitimated on account of his
bravery by the emperor Rodolphus II. j but his fa¬
ther’s pefts and poffeffions in the Spanifh Netherlands
having been refufed him, contrary to promifes which
he had received, he, in 1610, joined the party of the
Proteftant princes. Being now become one of the
moft dangerous enemies of the houfe of Auftria, who
called him the Mttila of Chrifianity, he fet himfelf, in
1618, at the head of the rebels in Bohemia, and got
poffeflion of Pilfen in 1619. Though his troops
were defeated in feveral battles, he was able to pene¬
trate into the palatinate. He there took feveral places,
ravaged Arface, made himfelf mafter of Haguenau,
and defeated the Bavarians. At length he was to¬
tally defeated by Walftein, at the battle of Daffou,
which happened in the month of April 1626. He
gave over his remaining troops to the duke of Wei¬
mar, and intended to pais into the Venetian ftates •
but fell fick in a village between Zaro and Spalatro^
and there expired, A. D. 1626, aged 46. The pro-
curator Nani thus deferibes him : “ He was bold in¬
trepid in danger, and the moft:. fkilful negotiator of
the age in wdrich he lived. He poffeffed a natural elo¬
quence, and well knew how to infinuate -himfelf into
the hearts of thofe whom he wifhed to gain. He wTas
greedy of others wealth, and prodigal of his own. 
He vvas full of vaft projects and great hopes, and yet
pofleffed neither lands nor money at his death.” He
did not wifti to die in his bed ; but dreffed himfelf in
his fineft robes, put on his fword, fat up, leaning up¬
on two domeftics, and in this pofition, highly be¬
coming a warrior, breathed his laft. But of all the
4 C adlions
 M AN 1S-,
Mari^ffeld gators of this great captain and Angular man, the
Man(Iaugh-^0^0.w*nS vv’t^out doubt the mo ft extaaordinary :
ter. ° Having got the moft certain information that CazeJ,
—v,——^in whom of all his officers he placed the greateft con¬
fidence, had communicated his plans to the Auftrian
chief, he (bowed neither paffion nor refentment at his
treachery, but gave him 300 rix-dollars, and fent him
to Count Buquoy, with a letter expreffed in thefe words :
“Cazel being attached to you and not to me, I fend him
to you, that you may have the benefit of his fervices.”
The opinions of men were divided about this aftion,
and it was as much cenfured as applauded. Be this
as it may, Erneft is defervedly efteemed one of the
greateft generals of his age. There never w-as a leader
more patient, more indefatigable, more inured to toil
and hardfhip, to watchings, to colds and to hunger.
He raifed armies, and ravaged the enemy’s territories
with an incredible celerity. The Hollanders faid of
him, that he was bonus in auxilio, carus in pretio; that
is, that he rendered great fervices to thofe who em¬
ployed him, but that he made them pay well for it.
MANSFIELD, a town of Nottinghamfhire, in
England, feated in the foreft of Sherwood, 140 miles
from London. It was anciently a royal demefne. It
lias a market on Thurfdays, and tvro fairs. By an an¬
cient cuftom of this manor, the heirs were declared of
age as foon as born. It is a well-built town, and
has a great trade in malt. Its market is well flock¬
ed with corn, cattle, &.c. Elere is a charity fchool
for 36 boys.
MANS 10, a term often mentioned in itineraries,
denoting inns on the public roads to lodge in, at
the diltance of eighteen miles from each other ;
(Laftantius). Alfo, in the lower ages, it came to
denote “ an encampment for one night,” (Lampri-
dius).
Mansio, or Man(ius, was fometimes alfo ufed in
the fame fenfe with hide ; that is, for as much land as
one plough could till in a year. See Hide.
MANSION, Mansio, a dwelling houfe, or habi¬
tation, efpecially in the country. See Manse.
Mansion is more particularly ufed for the lord’s
chief dwelling houfe within his fee •, otherwife called
the capital mejfuage or manfe, or chief manor-place. See
Manor.
MANSLAUGHTER, the unlawful killing of
another, without malice either exprefs or implied :
Which may be either voluntary, upon a hidden
heat j or involuntarily, but in the commiffion of fome
unlawful a£l. Thefe were called, in the Gothic
conftitutions, homicidia vulgaria; qua aut cafu, aut
etiam fponte committuntur, fed in fubitaneo quodam ira-
cundia calore et impetu. And hence it follows, that
in manflaughter there can be no acceffories before
the fa£l \ becaufe it muft be done without premedita¬
tion.
1. As to the firft, or voluntary branch : If upon a
hidden quarrel two perfons fight, and one of them kills
the other, this is manflaughter : and fo it is, if they
upon fiich an occafion go out and fight in a field •, for
this is one continued aft of paffion j and the law pays
that regard to human frailty, as not to put a hafty
and deliberate aft upon the fame footing wdth regard
to guilt. So alfo if a man be greatly provoked, as by
pulling his nofe, or other great indignity, and imme-
O ] MAN
diately kills the aggreffor j though this is not excuf-Manfiaugh-
able fe defendendo, fince there is no abfolute neceffity '■er.
for doing it to preferve himfelf j yet neither is it mur- v
der, for there is no previous malice 5 but it is man-
flaughter. But in this, and in every other cafe of ho-
mrc de upon provocation; if there be a fufficient
cooling-time lor paffion to fubfide and reafon to inter-
pofe, and the perfon fo provoked afterwards kills the
other, this is deliberate revenge, and not heat of blood;
and accordingly amounts to murder. So if a man
takes another in the aft of adultery with his wife, and
kills him direftly upon the fpot ; though this was al¬
lowed by the law of Solon, as likewife by the Roman
civil law (if the adulterer was found in the hulband’s
own houfe), and alfo among the ancient Goths $ yet
in England it is not abfolutely ranked in the clafs of
juftifiable homicide, as in cafe of a forcible rape, but
it is manflaughter. It is, however, the loweft degree
of it; and therefore in fiich a cafe the court direfted
the burning in the hand to be gently inflifted, becaule
there could not be a greater provocation. Manllaugh-
ter, therefore, on a hidden provocation, differs from ex-
cufable homicide fe defendendo in this : That in the one
cafe there is apparent neceffity, for felf-prefervation,
to kill the aggreffor 5 in the other no neceffity at all,
being only a hidden aft of revenge.
2. The fecond branch, or involuntary manflaughter,
differs alfo from homicide excufable by mifadventure,
in this: That mifadventure always happens in confe-
quence of a lawful aft, but this fpecies of manflaugh¬
ter in confequence of an unlawful one. As if two
perfons play at fword and buckler, unlefs by the king’s
command, and one of them kills the other $ this is
manflaughter, becaufe the original aft was unlawful j
but it is not murder, for the one had no intent to do
the other any perfonal mifehief. So where a perfon
does an aft, lawful in itfelf, but in an unlawful man¬
ner, and without due caution and circumfpefticn 5 as
when a workman flings down a Hone or piece of tim¬
ber into the ftreet, and kills a man 5 this may be ei¬
ther mifadventure, manflaughter, or murder accord¬
ing to the circumftances under which the original aft
was done. If it were in a country village, where few
paffengers are, and he calls out to all people to have
a care, it is mifadventure only: but if it were in Lon¬
don, or other populous towns, where people are con¬
tinually palling, it is manflaughter, though he gives
loud warning j and murder, if he knows of their paf«
ling and gives no warning at all, for then it is malice
againft all mankind. And, in general, when an in¬
voluntary killing happens in confequence of an unlaw¬
ful aft, it will be either murder or manflaughter ac¬
cording to the nature of the aft which occafioned it.
If it be in profecution of a felonious intent, or in its
confequences naturally tending to bloodlhed, it will
be murder j but if no more was intended than a mere
civil trefpafs, it will only amount to manflaughter.
3. As to the punilhment of this degree of homi¬
cide : The crime of manllaughter amounts to felony,
but within the benefit of clergy •, and the offender
(ball be burnt in the hand, and forfeit all his goods
and chattels.
But there is one fpecies of manflaughter, which is
punilhed as murder, the benefit of clergy being taken
away from it by ftatute $ namely, the offence of mor¬
tally.
i
MAN [ 571 ] MAN
Mania tally tabbing another, though done upon hidden pro-
11. vocation. See STABBING.
Manticho- MANTA, in Ichthyology; a flat fi(h mentioned
' _ i by Ulloa and others, as exceedingly hurtful to the
pearl-fithers, and which feems to be the fame with that
which Pliny has defcribed under the name of rwhes or
nebula : Ipji ferunt (Urinatores) et nubem quondam craf-
fefeere fuper capita, planorum pifeiumJimilem, pvetnentem
eos, arccntemque a reciprocando, et ob /iilospreeacutos hncis
annexes habere Jefe ; quia niji perfojjie it a, non refedant
caliginis et pavoris, i/t arbitror, opere. Nubem enim five
nebulam (^cujus nomine.id malum appellant') inter anima-
lia hand ullam reperit quifquam. (Plin. Hill. lib. ix.
cap. 46.) The account given of this cloud by thofe
divers is much the fame with that which the divers in
the American feas give of the manta; and the name of
the cloud is perfectly applicable to it, as it really feems
to be a cloud to thofe who are in the w'ater below it :
the fwimmers likewife carry long knives, or fharp
flicks, for the purpofe of difperfing this animal. It
is not improbable, that this fifh has made its way
into thofe feas from thofe of the old world, in the fame
manner as fome others appear to have done. The
ftrength of this fiflr is fo great, that it wall not only
flrangle a man whom it embraces or winds itfelf about,
but it has even been feen to take the cable of an an¬
chor and move it from the place where it had been
call. It has been called manta, becaufe, when it lies
ftretched upon the fea, as it frequently does, it feems
like a fleece of wool floating upon the water.
MANTE, a confiderable town of France, capital
of the Mantois, feated on the river Seine, in E. Long.
I. 45. N. Lat. 48. 58.
MANTEGAR, or Man-Tiger, as it is fometimes
written, is the tufted ape, a fpecies of fimia. See Mam¬
malia Index.
MANTEGNA, Andrew, wTas born in a village
near Padua in 14 51, and at firft employed in keeping
flieep. It was obferved, that inftead of watching over
his flock, he amufed himfelf with drawung ; and he was
placed with a painter who, being delighted with his
eafe and tafte in work, and with his gentle and agree¬
able conduft in fociety, adopted him for his fon, and
made him his heir. At the age of 17, Mantegna was
employed to paint the altar of St Sophia in Padua,
and the four evangeliils. James Bellini, who admired
his talents, gave him his daughter in marriage. Man¬
tegna painted, for the duke of Mantua, the Triumph
of Ccefar, which is the chief d’oeuvre of this painter,
and has been engraved in claro-obfcuro, in nine plates.
From refpeft to his extraordinary merit, the duke
made him knight of his order. The invention of en¬
graving prints with the graver is commonly aferibed to
Mantegna, who died at Mantua in 1517.
MAN ! ELETS, in the art of war, a kind of
moveable parapets, made of planks about three inches
thick, nailed one over another, to the height of almoft
fix feet, generally cafed with tin, and fet upon little
wheels, fo that in a fiege they may be driven before
the pioneers, and ferve as blinds to fhelter them from
the enemy’s fmall {hot.
MANTiCHORA, a name given by the Roman
authors to a fierce and terrible creature, which they
deferibe from the Greeks, who call it fometimes alfo
mantichora, martichora, and martiora. We have form¬
ed the name man-tiger on the found of the Roman Mantinea
name, though exprefling a very different fenfe j and
our authors of the hiitories of animals, figure to us un- ‘ ‘,
der this name a terrible creature, partly from the ac¬
counts of Pliny exaggerated, and partly from their
own imagination, with three rows of teeth, and with
fuch a fliape as no animal ever poffeffed. See Mante-
GAR.
MANTINEA, in Ancient Geography, a town fltu-
ated in the fouth of Arcadia, on the confines of Laco¬
nia (Ptolemy 5) called afterwards Antigonea, in honour
of King Antigonus. It is memorable for a battle
fought in its neighbourhood between the Thebans and
Spartans, in which fell the celebrated commander Epa-
minondas. See Thebes.
MANTIS, a genus of infefls belonging to the or¬
der of hemiptera. See Entomology Index.
MANTLE, or MxNTLE-Tree, in Architecture, the
lower part of the chimney, or that piece of timber
which is laid acrofs the jambs, and fuftains the com¬
partments of the chimney-piece.
Mantle, or Mantling, in Heraldry, that appearance
of folding of cloth, flouriflung, or drapery, which in
any achievement is drawn about a coat of arms. See
Heraldry, fed. v.
MANTO, in poetic hiftory, the daughter of Tire-
fias, and like her father llrongly infpired with prophe¬
cy. She was in fo great efteem, that ■when the Ar-
gives pillaged Thebes, they thought they could not
acquit their vow to Apollo, of confecrating to him the
moil precious thing in their plunder, without offering
him this young woman. She was therefore fent to the
temple of Delphi. But this did not engage her in
any vowT of continency ; or, if it did, the obferved it
very ill : for fhe bore a fon called Amphilochus to Alc-
meon, who had been generaliflimo of the army which
took Thebes •, and a daughter to the fame, named 7Y-
fiphone. Thefe children were the fruits of an amour
carried on during the madnefs which had feized Alo-
meon, after he had put his mother to death. Virgil
tranfports her into Italy, nor for the fake of fecuring
her virginity, but to produce a fon of her who built
Mantua.
MANTUA, anciently a towm of the Tranfpadana
in Italy, fituated on the Mincio, a river running from
the Lacus Benacus. It is laid to have been founded
about 300 years before Rome by Bianor or Genus,,
the fon of Manto ; and was the ancient capital of
Etruria. When Cremona, which had followed the in-
tereft of Brutus, was given to the foldiers of O&avius,
Mantua alfo, which w;as in the neighbourhood, (hared
the common calamity, and many of the inhabitants
w^ere tyrannically deprived of their poffeflions. Virpil,
who was among them, and a native of the town, ap¬
plied for redrefs to Augufius, and obtained it by means
of his poetical talenis.
It is ftill called Mantua, and is the capital of the
duchy of that name. It is now' a large place, having
eight gates and about 16,000 inhabitants. The ftreets
are broad and ftraight, and the houfes well built. It
is very ftrong by fituation as well as by art ; lying in
the middle of a lake, or rather morafs, formed by the
river Mincio. There is no accefs to the city but by
two caufeways which crofs this morafs, and which are
ffrongly fortified : fo that the city is locked upon to
4 C 2 " be
M A N [ 57
'Mantua be one of lue mo ft coniiderable fortreffes of Europe ;
, Si an the allies in 1745, though their army was in the
i 1’*ai'-iu du^hy, durft not undertake the fiege. It was greatly
noted for its filk manufactures, which are now much
decayed. The ^air in the lummer time is very un-
whoiefome. I he celebrated poet Virgil was born at
• a village near this city. It was befieged by the French
for above fix months, in 1796, and furrendered to
them on February 2d, 1797. On the recommence-
■ ment of the war, it was attacked by the Auftrian and
Ruffian army, to which it furrendered on the 30th of
July, 1799, after a fhort fiege; and finally, not only
this city, but the whole country, was fubdued by the
• arms of Bonaparte, one of whole brothers is now ityled
king of Italy. E. Long. 10. 47. N. Lat. 45. 10.
Mantua, the duchy of, a country of Italy, lying
along the river Po, which divides it into two parts. It
is bounded on the north by the Veronefe ; on the fouth
by the duchies ef Reggio, Modena, and Mirandola ;
on the eaft by the Ferrarefe ; and on the weft by the
Cremonefe. It is about 50 miles in length, and 25 in
breadth; is fruitful in corn, paftures, flax, fruits, and
excellent wine. Charles IV. the laft duke of Mantua,
being a vaffal of the empire, took part with the French
in the difpute relating to the fucceflion of Spain ; for
which reafon he w;as put under the ban of the em¬
pire, and died at Venice in 1 708. He having no heirs,
the emperor kept the Mantuan in his own hands, and
the duke of Savoy had Montferrat, which were con¬
firmed to them by fubfequent treaties. After the
death of the emperor in 1740, his eldeft daughter,
now emprefs queen, kept poifeffion of the Mantuan ;
and the governor of the Milanefe had the adminiflra-
tion of affairs. The Mantuan comprehends the du¬
chies of Mantua, Guaftalla, and Sabioneta ; the prin¬
cipalities of Caftiglione, Solforino, and Bofolo ; like-
wife the county of Novellara. The principal rivers are
the Po, the Oglio, and the Mincio ; and the principal
town is Mantua. . ■
MANUAL, a word fignifying any thing performed
by the hand. r
Manual (manualis'), in Law, fignifies what is em¬
ployed or uied by the hand, and whereof a prefent
profit may be made ; as fuch a thing in the manual
occupation of one, is where it is adlually ufed or em¬
ployed by him.
Manual is the name of a fervice book ufed in the
church of Rome, containing the rites, directions to the
. priefis, and prayers uied in the adminiftration of bap-
tifm and other facraments ; the form of blelfing holy
water, and the whole fervice uied in proceflions.
Manual Exercife, in tli£ army, confifts in the ob-
fervance of certain words of command appointed for
this purpofe. When a regiment is drawn up, or parad¬
ed for exerciie, the men are placed three deep, either
by companies, or divided into platoons, with the gre¬
nadiers on the right. When foldiers are drawn up for
exercife, the ranks and files fhould be exadtly even; and
each foldier fliould be inftrudted to carry his arms well,
to keep bis firelock fteady and even upon his fhoulder,
with the right hand hanging down, and the whole body
without conftraint. The diftances between the files
muft be equal, and the ranks eight feet diftant from
each other. Every motion Ihould be performed with
life, and the greateft exaflnefs observed in all firings,
2 ] M a N
wheelings, and marching ; and therefore a regi- Manual,
ment fliould never be under arms longer than two -at*—
hours.
The following is an abftracl of the words of com¬
mand at the manual exercife, with their explanations.
I. Poize your firelock : i. e. Seize the firelock with your
right hand, and turn the lock outwards, keeping the
firelock perpendicular ; then bring up the firelock with
a quick motion from the fhoulder, and feize it with
the left hand, juft above the lock, fo that the fingers
may lie upon the flock, with the elbows down, and
the thumb upon the flock ; the firelock muft not be
held too far from the body, and the left hand muft be
of an equal height with the eyes. 2. Cock your Jire-
lock: i. e. Turn the barrel oppofite to your face, and
place your thumb upon the cock, raifing your elbow
fquare at this motion; then cock your firelock, by
drawing your elbow down, placing your right thumb
on the breech pin, and the fingers under the guard.
3. Prefent: i. e. Step back about fix inches to the
rear with the right foot, bringing the left toe to the
front ; at the fame time the butt-end of the firelock
muft be brought to an equal height with the ihoulder,
placing the left hand on the fwell, and the fore finger
of the right hand before the trigger, finking the
muzzle a little. 4. Fire: i. e. Pull the trigger briik-
ly, and immediately after, bringing up the right foot
to the iniide of the left, come to the priming pofi-
tion, with the lock oppofite to the right hreaft, the
muzzle to the height of the hat, keeping it firm and
fteady ; and at the fame time feize the cock with the
fore finger and thumb of the right hand, the back of
the hand being turned up. 5. Half-cock your firelock :
i. e. Half-bend the cock brlfkly with a draw-back of
the right elbow, bringing it clofe to the butt of the
firelock. 6. Handle your cartridge : i. e. Bring your
right hand with a fhort round to your pouch, flap¬
ping it hard ; feize the cartridge, and bring it with a
quick motion to your mouth ; bite the top well oft",
and bring the hand as low as the chin, with the elbow
down. 7. Prime: i. e. Shake the powder into the
pan, placing the three laft lingers behind the rammer,
with the elbow up. 8. Shut your pan : i. e. Shut
your pan brifkly, drawing your right arm at this
motion towards your body, holding the cartridge faft
in your hand as before ; then turn the piece nimbly
round to the loading pofition, with the lock to the
front, and the muzzle to the height of the chin, bring¬
ing the right hand behind the muzzle, with both feet
kept faft in this motion. 9. Charge with cartridge:
i. e. Turn up your hand, and put the cartridge into the
muzzle, ftiaking the powder into the barrel ; place
your hand, clofed, with a quick and firong motion,
upon the rammer. 10. Draw your rammer: i e. Draw
the rammer with a quick motion half out, feizing it at
the muzzle back-handed ; draw it quite out, turn it,
and enter it into the muzzle. 11. Ram down your
charge; i. e. Ram the cartridge well down in the bar¬
rel, inftantly recovering and feizing the rammer back-
handed at the centre, turning it, and entering it as
far as the lower pipe, placing at the lame time the
edge of the hand on the butt end of the rammer, with
fingers extended. 12. Return your rammer : i. e. Re¬
turn the rammer, bringing up the piece with the left
hand to the fhoulder, feizing it with the right hand
under
M AN [5;
Manual, under the cock, keeping the left hand fail at the fwell,
—-v J turning the body fquare to the front. 13. Shoulder
your firelock : i. e. (,)uit the left hand, and place it
iirong upon the butt -,^quit the right hand, and throw
it down the right fide. 14. Refi your firelock : i. e.
Seize the firelock with the right hand, turning the
lock outwards ^ raife the firelock from the Ihoulder,
and place your left hand with a quick motion above
the lock, holding the piece right up and dotvn in both
hands before you, and your lelt hand even with your
•eyes j ftep brilkiy back with your right foot, placing
it a hand’s breadth difiance from your left heel, and
at the fame time bring down your firelock as quick
as poffible to the reft, finking it as far down before
your left hand as your right hand will permit without
confiraint: your left hand being at the feather fpring,
and your right, with fingers extended, held under the
guard, taking care to draw in the muzzle well towards
your body, and to drefs in a line with the butt-end.
1 Order your firelock : i. e. Place your firelock nimb¬
ly with your left hand againft your right ihoulder ;
quit the firelock with the right hand, finking it at
the fame time with your left •, feize it at the muzzle,
which muft be of an equal height with your chin, and
hold it clofe againft your right fide *, lift up your right
foot, and place it by your left •, at the fame time throw
back your left hand by your left f±de, and with your
right bring down the butt-end flrong upon the ground,
placing it even with tire toe of your right loot •, the
thumb of your right hand lying along the barrel, and
the muzzle kept at a little diilance from your body.
16. Ground your firelock : i. e. Half face to the right
upon your heels, and at the fame time turn the fire¬
lock, fo that the lock may point to the rear, and the
flat of the butt-end lie againft the infide of your foot 5
at the fame time flipping the right foot behind the
butt of the firelock, the right toe pointing to the
right, and the left to the front: ftep direftly forward
with your left foot, about as far as tbe fwell of the
firelock, and lay it upon the ground, your left hand
hanging down by your left leg, and your right kept
fait, with the butt end againft it ; raife yourfelf up
again nimbly, bringing back your left foot to its for¬
mer pofition, keeping your body faced to the right ;
face again to the left upon your heels, and come to
your proper front, letting your hands hang down
without motion. 17. Take u[) your firelock : i. e. Face
to the right upon both heels \ ftnk your body down,
and come to the pofition deferibed in the fecond mo¬
tion of grounding; raife yourfelf and firelock, bringing
it clofe to your right fide ; come to your proper front,
feizing your firelock at the muzzle, as in explana¬
tion 15. 18. Reft your firelock : i. e. Bring your right
hand as far as the fwell; raife the firelock, high up in
a perpendicular line from the ground with your right
hand, and feize it with your left above the fpring, the
cock being at the height of the waift-belt; ftep back
with your right foot, placing it behind your left heel,
and come to the reft. 19. Shoulder your firelock : i. e.
Lift up your right foot, and place it by your lelt; bring
the firelock at the fame time to your left Ihoulder, and
feize the butt-end with the left hand, keeping it in the
fame pofition as above delcribed ; throw your right
hand brilkiy back. 20. Secure your firelock: i. e. Bring
the right hand brifkly up, and place it under the cock,
-3 ] MAN
keeping the firelock fteady in the fame pofition ; quit Manual.
the butt with the left hand, and ftize the firelock with v
it at the fwell, bringing the elbow clofe down upon
the lock ; the right hand being kept faft in this mo¬
tion, and the piece ftill upright; quit the right hand,
and bring it down your right fide, bringing tbe fire¬
lock nimbly down to the lecure ; the left hand in a
line with the waift belt. 21. Shoulder your firelock :
i. e. Bring the firelock up to a perpendicular line, feiz¬
ing it with the right hand under the cock ; quit the
left hand, and place it ftrong upon the butt, quit the
right hand, and bring it fmart'y down the right fide.
2 2. Fix your bayonet: i. e. Firit and iecond motions,
as in the two firft of the fecure ; quit the right hand,
and bring the firelock fmartly down to the left fide
with the left hand, as far as it will admit without con-
ftraint, feizing the bayonet at the fame time with the
right hand, and fixing it, placing that hand juft be¬
low the brafs, with the piece kept clofe to the hollow
of the fhoulder. 23. Shoulder your firelock ; i. e. Quit
the right hand, and bring up the firelock with the left;
feize it again under the cock with your right, as in the
fecond motion of the fecure ; quit the left hand, and
place it firong upon the butt; quit the right hand,
and bring it down the right fide. 24. Prefent your
arms: i. e. as explained in the three motions of the 14th
word of command. 25. To the right face : i. e. Bring
up the firelock with a quick motion high before you,
till your left hand comes even with your eyes, both
the fingers of that hand extended along the ftock, juft
above the feather-fpring, the right foot to be brought
clofe up to the left heel in this motion ; face to the
right, taking care in facing to hold the firelock right
up and down, and fteady in your hands ; ftep back
with your right foot, and come down to your prefent,
as in the foregoing explanation. 26. To the right
face : i. e. as in the foregoing explanation, facing to
the right. 27. To the right about face: i. e. as in the
25th explanation, only coming to the right about in-
ftead of to the right. 28. To the left face: i. e. Bring
the right foot brifldy to the hollow of your left, with
the firelock in the fame pofition as in the firft motion
of facing to the rifiit: face to the left ; come down to
the prefent, as betore. 29. To the left face: i. e. as
in the foregoing explanation. 30. To the left about
face: i. e. as before, coming to the left-about inltead
of to the left. 31. Shoulder your firelock: 1. e. ->s in
the two motions of the 19th explanation. 32 Charge
your bayonets : i. e. as in the firft explanation : oring
the fwell of the firelock down ftrong upon the palm
of the hand, grafping the piece at the fmall, behind the
lock, and as high as the wraift-belt; th firelock upon
a level with the barrel upwards. 33. Shoulder your
firelock : i. e. Bring up the firelock to the ihoulder,
place the left hand upon the butt, bringing the feet
fquare to the front; quit the right hand, and throw
it down the right fide. 34. Advance your arms : i. e,
firft and fecond motions, as in the firft explanation ;
bring the firelock dowm the right fide, with the right
hand as low as it wall admit without conftraint, flip¬
ping up the left hand at the fame time to the fwell,
the guard between the thumb and forefinger of the
right hand, tbe three laft fingers under the cock, with
the barrel to the rear ; quit the left hand. 35. Shoul¬
der your firelock ; 3. e. Bring up the left hand, and feize
Manual.
M AN [ 574- 1 MAN
it at tlie fwcll •, come fmartly up to tlie poize ; flicul-
der. 36. Prime and load: i. e. Come fmartly to the
recover, by fpringirlg the firelock ftraight up with the
left hand, turning the barrel inwards to the proper
height of the recover : at the fame time that the left
hand fpiings the firelock, the right hand is raifed brifkly
from the right iide, and feizes the firelock acrofs the
breaft : as it rifes below the cock, the left hand comes
with a quick motion from the butt, and feizes the
firelock itrong above the lock, the little finger of the
left hand at the fpring of the lock, the left hand at an
equal height with the face, the butt clofe to the bo¬
dy, but net preffed, the firelock, perpendicular oppo-
fite the left fide of the face : bring the firelock down
with a brilk motion to' the priming pofition, the left
hand holding the firelock, as in priming ; the thumb
of the right hand placed againfl the face of the Heel,
the fingers clinched, and the elbow a little turned out,
that the wrift may be clear of the cock : open the pan,
by throwing up the fteel with a ftrong motion of the
right arm, turning the elbow in, and keeping the fire¬
lock Heady in the left hand $ handle your cartridge,
prime, (hut your pan, call; about, load, draw rarn-
- mers, ram down the cartridge, return the rammers,
ihoulder. N. B. The motion of recover, and coming
down to the priming pofition and opening pans, are to
be done in the ufual time. The motions of handling
cartridge to {hutting the pans, are to be done as quick
as poflible : when the pans are (hut, a fmall paufe
is to be made, and then call about together j then
the loading motions are to be done as quick as
^poffible 5 but before the rammer is returned, another
fmall paufe is to be made, counting 1, 2, between each
motion, till the firelock is fhouldered.—Front rank
make ready : i. e. Spring the firelock brilkly to the
recover, keeping the left loot fait in this motion : as
loon as the firelock is at the recover, without any Hep,
fink the body brilkly without Hooping forward, with a
quick motion down upon the right knee ; the butt-
end of the firelock at the fame time falls upon the
ground, the front part of the butt being in a line with
the heel of the left foot. As foon as the butt comes
to the ground, the firelock is to be cocked, immediate¬
ly feizing the cock and Heel in the right hand ; the
firelock to be held firm in the left hand, about the
middle of that part of the firelock between the lock
and the fwell of the Hock ; the point of the left thumb
to be clofe to the (well, pointing upwards. As the
body is finking, the right knee is to be thrown as far
back as the left leg may be right up and down ; the
right foot to be thrown a little to the right ; the body
to be kept ftraight the head up, looking to the right
along the rank, the fame as if ihouldered ; the firelock
to be upright, and the butt about four inches to the
right of tfie infide of the left foot. Prcfent: i. e.
Bring the firelock brilkly down to the prefent, by ex¬
tending the left arm to the full length with a ftrong
motion 5 at the fame time fpring up the butt by the
cock with the right hand, and raife the butt fo high
upon the right fhouider, that you may not be obliged
to Hoop too much with the head •, the right cheek to '
be clofe to the butt, and the left eye ftiut, and look
along the barrel with the right eye from the breech-
pin to the muzzle ; kept the left elbow down in an
eafy pofition, and Hand as Heady as poflible 5 the thumb
of the right band to remain in the pofition as deferib-
ed in the third explanation of the manual. Fire : i. e.
Pull the trigger as dire&ed in the manual; and as
loon as the piece is fired, give yourfelf a ftrong
fpring upon your left leg, raifing your body brifk¬
ly, and ftraight up, keeping your left foot fall:, and
bringing the right heel to the infide of the left; at
the fame time the firelock is to be brought up to the
priming pofition, and half-cocked immediately : a
Ihort paufe is to be made •, then handle cartridge, and
go on with the loading motions deferibed in the ex¬
planation of prime and load.—Centre rank, make ready :
i. e. Spring the firelock briikly to the recover ; fo
loon as the left hand feizes the firelock above the lock,
the right elbow is to be nimbly raifed a little, placing
the thumb of that hand upon the cock; the fingers
open by the plate of the lock, and as quick as poflible
force the piece to the cock, by dropping the elbow,
and forcing dowrn the cock with the thumb, ftepping
at the fame time a moderate pace to the right, keeping
the left foot fall 5 as the firelock is cocked, the thumb
is to fall below the cock, the right hand feizing the
firelock clofe under the cock firmly, the fore finger
not to be before the trigger 5 the piece to be held in
this pofition perpendicular, oppofite the left fide of the
face, the butt clofe to the left breaft, but not preffed j
the body to be ftraight, and as full to the front as pof-
fible ; the head kept up, looking to the right of the
rank, that the body and the firelock may not ftoop for¬
ward, nor lean much out of the rank. Prefent: i. e.
Spring the firelock from the body to the arm’s length
with a quick motion, prefiing down the muzzle with
the left hand, and fpring up the butt with the right
hand, as in the foregoing explanation of the front rank.
Fire: As in explanation 4, in the manual, with this
difference, that the left foot is to be brought up to
the right, at the fame time that the firelock is brought
down to the priming pofition. The loading motions
as in the explanations of priming and loading ; and at
the laft motion of ftiouldering, to fpring to the left
again, and cover the file-leaders.—Rear rank, make ready:
i. e. Recover the firelock, and cock as before directed
for the centre rank 5 as the firelock is recovered and
cocked, ftep briikly ftraight to the right, with the right
foot, a full pace : bring the left heel about fix inches
before the right foot ; the body ftraight, and as fquare
to the front as poflible, as in the explanation of the
centre rank. Prefent: As in explanation prefent, before.
Fire: As in explanation of the centre rank; and as
the firelock is coming down to the priming pofition,
the left is to be brought back to the right j and at
the laft motion of Ihouldering, to fpring to the left
again, and cover the file-leader (a).
There
(a) The manual exercife now deferibed is not precifely the fame that it is at prefent (1 807). The difference
indeed is not great but depending partly cn the peculiar views of commanding officers, it is fo fubject to change
that it would be ufelefs to detail it in its prefent form.
3
Manaaf.
 —a
Manuduc-
tor
Manumil-
fion.
MAN [ 57
There are fome peculiar words of command at the
manual exercife of the grenadiers, when apart from the
battalion ; and alfo for the cavalry and artillery.
MANUDUCTOR, a name given to an ancient
officer in the church ; who, from the middle of the
choir, where he was placed, gave the fignal for the
chorifters to fmg, and marked the meafure, beat time,
and regulated the mulic. The Greeks called him me^
fachsros, becaufe leated in the middle of the choir :
but in the Latin church he vras called manuduflor;
from manus and duco, “ I lead 5” becaufe he led and
guided the choir by the motions and gellure of the
hand.
MANUFACTURE, a commodity produced from
raw or natural materials, either by the work of the
hand or by machinery.
MANUFACTURER, one who works up a natural
produft into an artificial commodity.
MANUMISSION, an a£t whereby a flave or vil¬
lain is fet at liberty, or let out of bondage. The
word comes from the Latin manus “ hand and
mitt ere, “ to fend j quia feme us mittebatur extra manum
feu potefatem domini fui. Some authors define manu-
miffion an a£! by which a lord enfranchifes his tenants,
who till that time had been his vaffials, and in a ftate
of flavery inconfiilent with the fan£lity of the Chriftian
faith.
Among the Romans, the manumiffion of flares wras
performed three feveral ways. r. When, with his
mailer’s confent, a flave had his name entered in the
cenfus or public regilter of the citizens. 2. When
the Have was led before the praetor, and that magi-
llrate laid his wand called vindicia on his head.
3. When the mailer gave the flave his freedom by his
teftament. Servius Tullius is faid to have fet on foot
the firlt manner •, and P. Valerius Publicola the fe-
cond. A particular account is given of the third in
the Inlfitutes of Jultinian. It v/as not neceffary that
the praetor Ihould be on his tribunal to perform the
ceremony of manumiffion : he did it anywhere indif¬
ferently, in his houfe, in the flreet, in going to bathe,
&c. He laid the rod on the Have’s head, pronouncing
thefe word;;, Dico eum liberum ejfe more fjjiritum, “ I
declare him a freeman, after the manner of the Ro¬
mans.” This done, he gave the rod to the lidlor,
who llruck the Have with it on the head, and after¬
wards with his hand on his face and back ; and the
notary or feribe entered the name of the new freed-
raan in the regilter, with the reafons of his manumif¬
fion. The flare had likewife his head lhaved, and a
cap given him by his mailer as a token of freedom.
Tertullian adds, that he had then alfo a third name
given him : if this were fo, three names were not a
token of nobility, but of freedom. The emperor
Conftantine ordered the manumiffions at Rome to be
performed in the churches.
Of manumiffion there have alfo been various forms
in England. In the time of the Conqueror, villains
were manumitted, by the mailer’s delivering them by
the right hand to the vifeount, in full court, Ihowing
them the door, giving them a lance and a (word, and
proclaiming them free. Others were manumitted by
charter. There was alfo an implicit manumiffion : as
when the lord made an obligation for payment of
5 ] M A o
money to the bondman at a certan day, or fued him Marur
wdiere he might enter without iuit, and the like. Maouna.
MANURE, any thing ufed for fattening and im-
proving land. See Agriculture Index.
MANUSCRIPT, a book or paper written with the
hand; by which it (lands oppofed to a printed book, or
paper. *A manufeript is ufually denoted by the two
letters MS. and in the plural by MSS. What makes
public libraries valuable, is the number of ancient ma-
nuferipts repofited in them j fee Alexandrian, Cam¬
bridge, Clermont, Cottonian, Harleian, Vati-
CAN
MANUTIUS, Aldus, the firlt of thofe cele¬
brated Venetian printers who wjere as illuftrious for
their learning as for uncommon Ikill in their profef-
fion. He was born at Baflano in Italy about the
middle of the 15th century j and hence is fometimes
called Bafjianus, though generally better known by
the name of Aldus. He was the firlt who printed
Greek neatly and correctly ; and acquired fo much
reputation by it, that whatever was finely printed was
proverbially laid to have “ come from the prefs of
Aldus.” We have a kind of Greek grammar of his j
with Notes upon Homer, Horace, &c. He died at
Venice, where he exercifed his profeffion, in 1516.
ManutiuS, Faulus, fon of the former, was brought
up to his father’s profeffion. He was more learned
than he ; and he acquired, by continual reading of
Tully, fuch a purity in writing Latin, as even Sca-
liger allows a Roman could not exceed. Pope Pms IV.
placed him at the head of the apoflolical prefs, and
gave him the charge of the Vatican library. His
Epiltles are infinitely laboured, and very correct ; but, -
as may be faid of moll of the Ciceronians, they con¬
tain fcarcely any thing but mere words. This conllant
reading of Tully, however, together with his pro¬
found know ledge of antiquity, qualified him extremely
well for an editor of Tully ; whofe svorks he accord-
ingly publilhed, with Commentaries on them, in 4
vols folio, at Venice in 1523. He died in 1574.
Manutius, Aldus, the Younger, the fon of Pau-
lus, and the grandfon of Aldus, was elteemed one of
the greatelt geniufes and molt learned men of his time.
Clement VIII. gave him the direction of the Vatican
printing houfe : but probably the profits of that place
were very fmall, fince Manutius was obliged, for his
fubfiftence, to accept of a profefifor of rhetoric’s chair,
and to fell the excellent library that was in his family, •
which his father, his uncle, and his great-uncle, had
collected with extraordinary care, and which it is faid
contained 80,000 volumes. Fie died at Rome in 1597,
without any other recompenfe than the praifes due to
his merit. He wrote, 1. Commentaries on Cicero.
2. A Treatife on Orthography. 3. Three books of
Epiltles \ and other works in Latin and Italian, which
are efteemed.
MAON, in Ancient Geography, a town of the tribe
of Judah, to the fouth call, towards the Dead Sea. It
gave name to the wildernefs of Macn, 1 Sam. xxii.
MAOUNA, one of the Navigator’s iflands in the
fouth Pacific ocean. Here M. de la Peroufe, comman¬
der of the French Ihfps the Bouffole and Altrolabe,
met with his firlt fatal accident in 1787; M. de
Langle, captain of the Aflrclabe, with 11 officers and
fisilors, - •
Map
II
Marana,
[ 57
W. Long. 169.
M A R
Tailors, were maflacred by the natives.
S. Lat. 14. 19.
_< ^ MAP, a plane figure, reprefenting the furface of
the earth, or a part thereof, according to the laws of
perfpe&ive. See Geograi hy Index.
MAPLE. See Acer, Botany Index.
MAFiE-Sugar. See Sugar, Chemistry Index.
MAPPA, m the public games of the Roman cir¬
cus, was a napkin hung out at the praetor’s or other
great magiftrate’s leat, as a fignal for the race or other
diverfions to begin. The mappa was received by the
mapparius, or perfon who held it, from the conful,
prastor, or other great officer. Notice was anciently
given by ffiund of trumpet; but Nero is faid to have
introduced the mappa, by throwing his napkin out of
the wundow to latisfy the people, who grew nciiy at the
delay of the fports while he was at dinner.
MAPPARIUS, in Roman antiquity, the officer
who gave the fignal to the gladiators to begin fight¬
ing ; which he did by throwing an handkerchief that
he had received from the emperor of other magi-
llrate.
MARACANDA, in Ancient Geography, capital of
the Sogdiana. Now thought to be Satnarcand, a city
of Ufbec Tartary in Afia, the country and royal refi-
dence of Tamerlane. See Samarcand.
MARACAYBO, a rich and confiderable town of
6 1
MAR
born at Genoa ; where he received an education fuit-
ahle to his birth, and made a great progrefs in the
lludy of polite literature .and the iciences. Having
been engaged in the confpixacy of Raphael della Terra,
to deliver up Genoa to the duke of Savoy, he was in
1670, when 28 years oi age, imprifoned in the tower
of that city, and remained there lour years. Being
at length fet at liberty, he was ordered to write the
hiftory of that confpiracy ; but, when finiffied, it was
feized and prevented from being publithed. When the
republic o Genoa was at variance with the court of
France, Marana, who had always an inclination for
that court, was afraid of being imprifoned a lecond
time ; and retired to Monaco, where he again wrote
the hiiiory of the conlpiracy in Italian •, and, in 1682,
went to Lyons to get i printed. From Lyons he
went to Paris, where his merit foon acquired him
powerful prote&ors. He fpent the red of his life in a
happy and tranquil mediocrity, devoted to ftudy and
the fociety of men of learning; and died in 1693.
His hiftory of the confpiracy contains many curious
and interefting anecdotes, which are nowhere elfe to
be found. He alfo wrote feveral other works ; the
moft known of which is the Turkifh Spy, in 6 vols
1 2mo, which was in 1742 augmented, to feven. Of
tins ingenious work we have an excellent Engliffi
trar.flatxon.
South America, and capital of the province of Vene¬
zuela, feated near a lake of the fame name. It carries
on a great trade in fkins and chocolate, which is the
beft in America ; and they have likewife very fine to¬
bacco. It was taken by the French bucaniers in 1666
and 1678. W. Long. 70. 45. N. Lat. 10. o.
Maracaybo, a lake in South America, 200 miles
long and 100 broad, which difeharges itfelf by a river
into the North Tea. It is well defended by ftrong
forts ; which, however, did not hinder Sir Henry Mor¬
gan, a bucanier, from entering it, and plundering fe¬
veral Spanilh towns on the coaft, after defeating a fqua-
dron fent out againft him.
MARAGNAN, a province of Brazil in South A-
merica, which comprehends a fertile populous illand,
11 2 miles in circumference. The French fettled here
in 16x2, and built a town ; but they were foon driven
from thence by the Portuguefe, who have poiTcifed it
ever fince. The town is little, but ftrong ; and has a
caftle, a harbour, and a bilhop’s fee. The climate is
very agreeable and wholefome, and the foil produces
plenty of all the neceftaries of life. W. Long. 54. 35.
S. Lat. 2. O.
MARALDI, James-Philip, a learned mathema¬
tician and aftronomer, of the Academy of Sciences at
Paris, was born in 1665. He was the fon of Francis
Maraldi and Angela Catharine Caffini, the fifler of the
famous aftronomer of that name. Flis uncle made him
go to France in 1687, where he acquired great reputa¬
tion on account of his learning and obfervations. He
made a catalogue of the fixed liars, which is more par¬
ticular and exa£t than Bayer’s ; and has given a great
number of curious and interefting obfervations in the
memoirs of the academy ; in particular, thofe on bees
and petrifadlions have been univerfally applauded. He
died in 1729.
MARANA, John-Paul, an ingenious writer of
the 17th century, was of a diftinguiftied family, and
’MARANO, a town of Italy, in the territory of
Venice and province of Friuli, with a ftrong citadel;
feated in a marfti at the bottom of the gulf of Venice,
which renders it difficult of accefs.
MARANS, a rich town of France, in the territory
of Aunis and diocefe of Rochelle, feated among fait
marlhes, near the river Sevre, three miles from the lea.
It carries on a very great trade in corn ; and is feated
in W. Long. o. 55. N. Lat. 46. 20.
MARANTA, Indian Arrow-root, a genus of
plants belonging to the monandria clafs ; and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the eighth order Scitaminex.
See Botany Index.
MARASMUS, among phyficians, denotes an a-
trophy or confumption in its laft and moft deplorable
ft age.
MARATHON, in Ancient Geography, one of the
demi or hamlets of Attica ; about 10 miles to thenorth-
eaft of Athens, towards Eoeotia, near the fea. It Hill
retains its ancient name (Hr Chandler informs us) ;
but is very inconfiderable, confiiting only of a few
houfes and gardens. Ths plain of Marathon, famous
for Miltiades’s vi£lory over the Perfians, by which
the liberties of Athens and other cities of Greece were
faved, is long and narrow, but confifting chiefly of
level ground, and therefore admitting the operations
of cavalry, which formed the main ftrength of the
barbarian army, and with which the Greeks were very
poorly provided. Here the Perfians, under the com¬
mand of Datis, pitched their camp, by the advice of
Kippias the Jbanilhed king of Athens, whofe felicita¬
tions and intrigues had promoted the expedition, and
whofe perfeft knowledge of the country, and inti¬
mate acquaintance with the affairs of Greece, ren¬
dered his opinion on all occalions refpe£lable. The
Perfian army is faid to have connfted of 100,000
infantry, and ro,oco horfe.—Athens was in the ut-
moft conftcrnation and difmay. She had, upon the
firft
Maraa*
Marathon.
m a n
M A R [5
thon. firft appearance of the Perfian fleet, fent to Implore
——' affiflance from the other nations of Greece : but fome
had fubmitted to Darius, and others trembled at the
very name of the Medes and Perfians. The Lacede¬
monians alone promifed troops } but various obltacles
did not allow them immediately to form a junction
with thole of Athens. This city therefore could only
rely on its own ftrength •, and happily at this moment
there appeared three men deftined to give new energy
to the ftate. Thefe were Miltiades, Ariftides, and
Themiftocles j whofe example and harangues kindled
the flame of the nobleft heroifm in the minds of the
Athenians. Levies were immediately made.. Each
of the ten tribes furnifhed 1000 foot foldiers with a
commander at their head. To complete this number
it was neceffary to enrol the flaves (a). No fooner were
the troops affembled than they marched out of the
city into the plain of Marathon, where the inhabitants
of Plataea in Boeotia fent them a reinforcement of 1000
infantry.
Scarcely were the two armies in fight of each other,
before Miltiades propofed to attack the enemy. Arif¬
tides and feveral of the commanders warmly iupported
this meafure : but the reft, terrified at the exceflive
difproportion of the armies, were defirous of waiting
for the fuccours from Lacedaemon. Opinions being
divided, they had recourfe to that of the polemarch,
or chief of the militia, who was confulted on fuch oc-
cafions, to put an end to the equality of fuffrages.
Miltiades addrefled himfelf to him, with the ardour of
a man deeply impreffed with the importance of pre-
fent circumftances : “ Athens (faid he to him) is on
the point of experiencing the greatelt of viciffitudes.
Ready to become the firft power of Greece, or the
theatre of the tyranny and fury of Hippias, from you
alone, Callimachus, (he now awaits her deftiny. If
we fuffer the ardour of the troops to cool, they will
fhamefully bow beneath the Perfian yoke *, but if we
lead them on to battle, the gods and vi&ory will fa¬
vour us. A word from your mouth muft now preci¬
pitate your country into flavery or preferve her liber¬
ty.Callimachns gave his fuffrage, and the battle
was refolved. To enfure fuccefs, Ariftides, and the
other generals after his example, yielded to Miltiades
the honour of the command w hich belonged to them
in rotation : but, to fecure them from every hazard,
he preferred waiting for the day which of right placed
him at the head of the army.
When that day arrived, Miltiades drew up his troops
at the foot of a mountain, on a fpot of ground Mat¬
tered over with trees to impede the Perfian cavalry.
The Plataeans were placed on the left wing ; Calli¬
machus commanded the right 5 Ariftides and Themi¬
ftocles w'ere in the centre of the battle, and Mil¬
tiades everywhere. An interval of nearly a mile fe-
parated the Grecian army from that of the Perfians.
At the firft fipnal the Greeks advanced over this fpace
running. The Perfians, aftonifhed at a mode of at¬
tack fo novel to both nations, for a moment remained
Vql. XII. Part II.
77 1
motionlefs; but to the impetuous fury of the enemy
they foon oppoled a more fedate and not lefs formida¬
ble fury. After an obftinate confiidft of fome hours,
vivftory began to declare herfelf in the two wings of
the Grecian army. The right difperfed the enemy
in the plain, w'hile the left drove them back on a mo-
rafs that had the appearance of a meadow, in which
they ftuck faft and .were loft. Both thefe bodies of
troops now flew to the filccour of Ariftides and Tue-
miftocles, ready to give way before the flow7er of the
Perfian troops pi?/. J by Datis in the centre of his
battle. From this moment the rout became general.
The Perfians, repulfed on all fidas, found their only
afylun; in the fleet which had approached the ihore.
The conquerors purfued them with fire and fword, and
took, burnt, or funk the greater part of their veffels :
the reft efcaped by dint of rowing.
The Perfian army loft about 6400 men : that of the
Athenians 192. Miltiades wras wTounded j Hippias was
left dead on the field, as were Stefileus and Callimachus,
two of the Athenian generals. Scarcely was the battle
over, when a foldier, wrorn out with fatigue forms the
projedl of carrying the firft news of fo fignal a fuccefs
to the magiftrates of Athens, and wfithout quitting his
arms, he runs, flies, arrives, announces the victory, and
falls dead at their feet.
This battle was fought on the 6th of Boedromion,
in the third year of the 72d Olympiad (or 29th Sep¬
tember anno 490 B. C.) The next day 20C0 Spar¬
tans arrived. In three days and nights they had march¬
ed 1200 ftadia. Though informed of the defeat of
the Perfians, they continued their march to Marathon,
nor did they envioufly fliun to behold thofe fields wrherc
a rival nation had fignalized itfelf by fo heroic an ac¬
tion : they there behe'd the tents of the Perfians ftill
Handing, the plain ftrewed over with dead, and covered
with coftly fpoils: they there found Ariftides. who wfith
his tribe was guarding the priToners and booty ; and
did not retire until they had bellowed juft applaufes or
the vidlors.
The Athenians neglefled nothing to eternize the
memory of thofe who fell in the battle. It had been
ufual to inter the citizens who perilhed in war at the
public expence, in the Ceramicus without the city j
but the death of thefe was deemed uncommonly meri¬
torious. They w'ere buried, and a barrow was made
for them, where their bravery had been manifefted.
Their names were engraven on half columns eredled
on the plain of Marathon. Thefe monuments, not
excepting thofe of the generals Callimachus and Ste-
fileus, were in a ftyle of the greateft fimplicity. In
the intervals between them were ere&ed trophies bear¬
ing the arms of the Perfians. An artift of eminence
had painted all the circumftances of the battle in one
of the moil frequented porticoes of the city: Miitiades
w7as there reprefented at the head of the generals, and
in the sdi of exhorting the troops to fight for their
country.
Paufanias examined the field of battle about 600
D
years
(a) Travels of Anachnrfis ; authority, Paufan.'.'-jy. But Dr Gillies feems to think that the armed Haves
tve^e no* nu. uded in the 10,000 j but amounted of thexnlelves to a greater number, and which formed the
centre ot the battle.
M A R [S'
years after tills event. His account of it is ns follows:
, “ The barrow of the Athenians is in the plain, and
on it are pillars containing the names of the dead un¬
der thofe of the tribes to which they belonged ; and
there is another for the Platneans and Haves; and
a diftinft monument of Miltiades the commander, who
iurvived this exploit. There may be perceived nightly
the neighing of horfes and the clalhing of arms. No
perfon has derived any good from waiting on purpofe
to behold the fpecfres; but their anger does not fall
cm any one who happens to fee them without defign.
The Marathonians worihip thofe who were (lain in the
brittle, flyling them heroes.—A trophy alfo of white
marble has been erected. The Athenians fay the
Mcdes were buried, religion requiring that the corpfe
of a man be covered with earth •, though I wms not able
to find any place of fepulture, for there is no barrow’ or
other fign vifible •, but they threw them promifcuoufly
into a pit.—Above the lake are the marble mangers of
the horfes of Artaphernes, with marks of a tent on the
rocks.”
Many centuries have elapfed lince the age of P.mfa-
R*as *, but the principal barrow, it is likely that of the
gallant Athenians, dill towers above the level of the
plain. It is of light fine earth, and has a bulh or two
growing on it. Dr Chandler informs us, that he en-
ioyed a pleafing and fatisfaftory view from the fummitj
and looked, but in vain, for the pillars on which the
names Were recorded, lamenting that fuch memorials
fhould ever be removed. At a fmall dillance northward
is a fquare bafement of wTiite marble, perhaps part of
the trophy. A Greek church has flood near it; and
feme Hones and rubbifh, diipofed fo as to form an open
place of worlhip, remain.
MAR ATT A. See Marhattas.
MARATTI, Carlo, a celebrated painter, was
born at Camorano, near Ancona, in 1625. He came
a poor boy to Rome, wdien only 11 years old; and
at 1 2 recommended himfelf fo effeftually to Andrea
Sacchi, by his drawings after Raphael in the Vatican,
that he took him into his fchool, where he continued
25 years till his mafter’s death. His graceful and
beautiful ideas occafioned his being generally employ¬
ed in painting madonas and female faints. No man
ever performed in a better dyle, or with a greater
elegance. From the fined datues and pictures, he
made himfelf mader of the mod pertecl forms, and the
mod charming airs of heads, which he fketened with
-equal eafe and grace. He has produced a noble va¬
riety of draperies, more artfully managed, more richly
ornamented, and with greater propriety, than even the
bed of the moderns. He w7as inimitable in adorning
the heads, in the difpofal of the hair, and the elegance
of his hands and feet, which are equal to thofe of Ra¬
phael ; and he particularly excelled in gracefulnefs. In
his younger days he etched a few prints, as well of his
own invention as after others, with equal fpint and
correftnefs. It would be endlefs to recount the cele¬
brated paintings done by this great man. Yet he exe¬
cuted nothing flightly, often changed his defigns, and
almod always for the better, whence his pictures were
long in hand. By the example of his mader, he made
i'everal admirable portraits of popes, cardinals, and
other people of didimdion, from whom he received the
feigheft tediraonies of edeem, as he likewife did from
S ] MAR
almod all the momrehs and princes of Furope. Inno-Marauding
cent XI. appointed him keeper of the paintings in his
chapel and the Vatican. Maratti eredted two noble AT.T' >
monuments for Raphael and A. Caracci, at his owm ex¬
pence, in the Pantheon. Flow well he maintained the
dignity of his profedion, appears by his anfwer to a
Roman prince, who complaining of the exceffive price
of his pictures, he told him there was a vad debt due
from the world to the famous artids his predecefibrs,
and that he, as their rightful fucceffor, was come to
claim thofe arrears. His abilities in painting were ac¬
companied with many virtues, and particularly with an
extendcharity. This great painter did at Rome in
1713, in the 88th year of his age.
MARAUDING, in a military fenfe, means a party
of loldiers, who, without any order, go into the neigh¬
bouring houfes and villages, when the army is either in
camp or garrifon, to plunder and dedroy, &c. Ma¬
rauders are a difgrace to the camp, to the military pro¬
fedion, and deferve no better quarter from their officers
than they give to poor peafants, &c.
MAR AVEDI, a little Spanifh copper coin, worth
fomewhat more than a French denier, or half a farthing
Englifh.
The Spaniards always count by maravedis, both in
commerce and in their finances, though the coin itfelf
is no longer current among them. Sixty-three marave¬
dis are equivalent to a rial of diver ; fo that the piader,
or piece of eight rials, contains 5°4i anc^ pid°l£ °f
four pieces of eight, 2016 maravedis .
This fmalinefs of the coin produces vad numbers in the
Spaniih accounts and calculations; infomuch that a dran-
ger correfpondent would think himfelf indebted feve-
ral millions for a commodity that cod but a few pounds.
In the laws of Spain, we meet with feveral kinds
of maravedis ; Alphonfine maravedis, white maravedis,
maravedis of good money, maravedis Combrenos, black
maravedis, and old maravedis. When we find marave¬
dis alone, and without any addition, it is to be under-
dood of thofe mentioned above. The red are different
in value, finenefs of metal, time, &c. Mariana afferts,
that this coin is older than the Moors ; that it came
from the Goths; that it was anciently equal to a third
part of the rial, and confequently of 1 2 times the value
of the prefent maravedi. Under Alpdionfus XI. the ma-
ravedi was 17 times, under Henry II. ten times, under
Flenry HI. five times, and under John II. two times and
a half, the value of the prefent maravedi.
MARBELLA, a town of Andalufia in Spain, fi-
tuated at the mouth of the Rio Verde, 30 miles north-
ead of Gibraltar, and 28 fouth-weft of Malaga. W.
Long. 5. 25. N. 30. 25.
MARBLE, a calcareous done, of which there are
many beautiful varieties. The word comes from the
French marbre, and from the Latin marmor, of the
Greek to “ (bine or glitter.” See MINERA¬
LOGY Index.
Artificial Marbles. The ducco, of which datueS,
buds, baffo-relievos, and other ornaments of architec¬
ture are made, ought to be marble pulverized, mixed
in a certain proportion with piader; the whole well
lifted, worked up with water, and ufed like common
piader. See Stucco.
There is alfo a kind of artificial marble made of the
flaky felenites, or a tranfparent done refembling plader;
which
MAH [ 579 ] MAR
Marble, which becomes very hard, receives a tolerable polifli, and
““■"'v ^ may deceive a good eye. This kind of felenite refeni-
bles Mufcovy talc.
There is another fort of artificial marble formed by
corrofive tin&ures, which, penetrating into white mar¬
ble to the depth of a line or more, imitate the various
colours of other dearer marbles.
There is alfo a preparation of biimftone in imitation
of marble.
To do this, you mull provide yourfelf with a flat
and fmooth piece of marble : on this make a border
or wall, to encompals either a fquare or oval table,
which may be done either with wax or clay. I hen
having feveral forts of colours, as white lead, vermi¬
lion, lake, orpiment, matlicot, fmalt, Pruflian blue,
&c. •, melt on a flow fire fome brimftone in feveral
glazed pipkins j put one particular fort of colour into
each, and ftir it w^ell together ; then having before
oiled the marble all over within the wall, with one co¬
lour quickly drop fpots upon it of larger and lefs fize *,
after this, take another colour and do as before, and
fo on till the ftone is covered with fpots. of all the co¬
lours you defign to ufe. When this is done, you are
next to confider what colour the mafs or ground of
your table is to be *, if of a gray colour, then take fine
lifted alhe1, and mix it up wTith melted brimftone •, or
if red, with Engiifh red ochre; if white, with white
lead ; if black, with lamp or ivory black. Your brim¬
ftone for the ground muft be pretty hot, that the co¬
lour dropt on the ftone may unite and incorporate with
it. When the ground is poured even all over, you
are next, if judged neceffary, to put a thin wainfeot
board upon it : this muft be done w-hile the brimftone
is hot, making alfo the board hot, w^hich ought to be
thoroughly dry, in order to caufe the brimftone to ftick
the better to it. When the wdiole is cold, take it up,
and polifh it with a cloth and oil, and it will look very
beautiful.
Elaftlc Marbie, an extraordinary fpecies of foffil
which has furprifed all the naturalifts who have feen
it. There are feveral tables of it preferved in the
houfe of Prince Borghefe at Rome, and ihown to the
curious. F. Jacquer, a celebrated mathematician, has
given a defeription in the Literary Gazette of Paris,
but the naturalifts cannot be contented with it. If
permiftxon was given to make the requifite experi¬
ments, this curious phenomenon might be better il'u-
ftrated. There are five or fix tables of that marble •,
their length is about two feet and a half, the breadth
about ten inches, and the thicknefs a little lefs than
three. They were dug up, as the Abbe Fortis was
told, in the feed of Mondragone 5 the grain is of Car-
rarefe marble, or perhaps of the fineft Greek. They
feem to have fuffered fome attack of fire *, though the
firft degree of pulverization obfervable in the angles,
can, perhaps, fcarcely be called that of imperfedf cal¬
cination. They are very dry, do not yield to exter¬
nal impreffion, refound to the hammer, like other con¬
generous marble, and are perhaps fufceptible of a po-
lifti. Being fet on end, they bend ofcillating back¬
ward and forward; wdien laid horizontally, and raifed
^ at one end, they form a curve, beginning towards the
middle ; if placed on a table, and a piece of wood or
any thing elfe is laid under them, they make a falient
curve, and touch the table with both ends. Not with-
{landing this flexibility, they are liable to be broken Marble.
if indifcreetly handled ; and therefore one table only, *
and that not the heft, is fliown to the curious. For¬
merly they were all together in the prince’s apartment
on the ground floor.
Colouring of Marble. This is a nice art; and in
order to fucceed in it, the pieces of marble on which
the experiments are tried, muft be well polilhed, and
free from the leaft fpot or vein. The harder the mar¬
ble is, the better will it bear the heat neceffary in the
operation •, therefore alabafter and the common foit
white marble are very improper for performing thefe
operations upon.
Pleat is always neceffary for opening the pores ot
marble, fo as to render it fit to receive the colours ;
but the marble muft never be made red-hot ; for then
the texture of it is injured, and the colours are burnt*,
and lofe their beauty. Too fmall a degree of heat is
as bad as one too great ; for, in this cafe, though the
marble receives the colour, it will not be fixed in it,
nor ftrike deep enough. Some colours will ftrike even
cold ; but they are never fo well funk in as when a
juft degree of heat is ufed. The proper degree is that
which, without making the marble red, will make the
liquor boil upon its furface. The menftruums ufed to
ftrike in the colours muft be varied according to the
nature of the colour to be ufed. A lixivium made
with horfes or dogs urine, with four parts of quick¬
lime and one of potaflres, is excellent for fome co¬
lours ; common ley of wood-afties is very good for
others ; for fome, fpirit of wine is heft ; and laltly, for
others, oily liquors, or common white wine.
The colours which have been found to fucceed heft
with the peculiar menftruums, are thefe : Stone-blue
diffolved in fix times the quantity of fpirit of wine, or
of the urinous lixivium, and that colour which the
painters call litmus, diffolved in common ley of wood-
aftics. An extract of faffron, and that colour made of
buckthorn berries, and called by painters faf) green,
both fucceed w’ell when diffolved in urine and quick¬
lime ; and tolerably well when diffolved in fpirit of
wine. Vermilion, and a very fine powder of cochi¬
neal, alfo fucceed very well in the fame liquors. Dra¬
gon’s blood fucceeds in fpirit of wane, as does alfo a.
tindlure of logwood in the fame fpirit. Alkanet-root
gives a fine colour : but the only menftruum to be ufed
for it is oil of turpentine ; for neither fpirit of wine,
nor any lixivium, will do with it. There is another
kind of fanguis draconis, commonly called dragon's blood
in tears, which, mixed with urine, gives a very elegant
colour.
Befides thefe mixtures of colours and menftruums*
there are other colours which muft be laid on dry and
unmixed. Thefe are, dragon’s blood of the pureft kind,
for a red ; gamboge for a yellow ; green wax, for a
green ; common brimftone, pitch, and turpentine, for
a brown colour. The marble for thefe experiments
muft be made confiderably hot, and then the colours
are to be rubbed on dry in the lump. Some of thefe
colours, when once given, remain immutable, others
are eafdy changed or deftroyed. Thus, the red colour
given by dragon’s blood, or by a decodiion of log¬
wood, will be wholly taken away by oil of tartar, and
the polifh of the marble not hurt by it.
A fine gold colour is given in the following man-
4 D 2 ner ;
M A R [ s«o ] M A R
Marble, ner : Take crude fal ammoniac, vitriol, and verdi-
Marbied. grls, of each equal quantities. White vitriol fuc-
ceeds belt : and all mult be thoroughly mixed in fine
powder.
The flaining of marble to all the degrees of red or
yellow, by folutions of dragon’s blood or gamboge,
may be done by reducing thefe gums to powder, and
grinding them with the fpirit of wine in a glafs mor¬
tar. But, for fmaller attempts, no method is fo good
as the mixing a little of either of thofe powders with
fpirit of wide in a filver fpoon, and holding it over
burning charcoal. By this means a fine tindlure will
be extracted: and, wuth a pencil dipt in this, the
fineli traces may be made on the marble while cold j
which, on the heating of it afterwards, either on fand,
©r in a baker’s oven, wall all fink very deep, and re¬
main perfectly diflimfl on the ftone. It is very eafy
to make the ground colour of the marble red or yel¬
low by this means, and leave white veins in it. This
is to be done by covering the places wdiere the white-
nefs is to remain with fome white paint, or even with
two or three doubles only of paper ; either of which
will prevent the colour from penetrating. All the de¬
grees of red are to be given to marble by this gum
alone •, a Ihg'.t tinfture of it, without the affifiance of
heat to the marble, gives only a pale flefh colour : but
the ilronger tinctures give it yet deeper ; to this the
afiiltance of heat adds greatly j and finally, the addi¬
tion of a little pitch to the tindture, gives it a tenden¬
cy to blacknefs, or any degree of deep red that may
be defired.
A blue colour may be given alfo to marble by dif-
folving turnfol in lixivium, in lime and urine, or in
the volatile fpirit of urine } but this ha* always a ten¬
dency to purple, whether made by the one or the
other of thefe w?ays. A better blue, and uled in an
eafier manner, is furnilhed by the Canary turnfol,
a fubftance wTell known among the dyers. This needs
only to be diffolved in water, and drawn on the place
with a pencil: it penetrates very deeply into the
marble *, and the colour may be increafed, by drawing
the pencil wetted afrelh feveral times over the fame
lines. This colour is fubjedt to fpread and diffufe it-
felf iregularly : but it may be kept in regular bounds,
by circumfcribing its lines with beds of wax, or any
fuch fubftance. It is alfo to be obferved, that this
colour Ihould always be laid on cold, and no heat
given even afterwards to the marble : and one great
advantage of this colour is, that it is therefore eafily
added to marbles already ftained with other colours,
is a very beautiful tinge, and lafts a long time.
y^runde/ Marbles, marbles with a chronicle of the
city of Athens, inferibed on them (as was fuppofed)
many years before our Saviour’s birth j prefented to
the univerfity of Oxford by Thomas earl of Arundel,
whence the name. See ^rundelian Marbles.
MARBLED, fomething veined or clouded, re-
fembling marble. See Marbling.
Marbled China-ware, a name given by many to a
fpecies of porcelain or china-ware, wThich feems to be
full of cemented flaws. It is called by the Chinefe,
who are very fond of it, tfou tchi. It is generally
plain white, fometimes blue, and has exactly the ap¬
pearance of a piece of china which had been firft bro¬
ken, and then had all the pieces cenjented in their pla¬
ces again, and covered with the original varnifh. The Marbles,
manner of preparing it is eafy, and might be imitated Marbling.
wdth us. Inftead of the common varnilh of the chi- v"" 1
na-ware, which is made of what they call oil of fone
and oil of fern mixed together, they cover this with a
fimple thing made only of a fort of coarfe agates, cal¬
cined to a white powder, and feparated from the grof-
fer parts by means of water, after long grinding in
mortars. When the powder has been thus prepared,
it is left moilt, or in form of a fort of cream, with
the laft water that is fuffered to remain in it, and this
is ufed as the varnifh. Our cryftal would ferve full as
well as thofe coarfe agates, and the method of prepa¬
ration is perfectly eafy. The occafton of the Angular
appearance of this fort of porcelain is, that the varnifh
never fpreads evenly, but runs into ridges and veins.
Thefe often run naturally into a fort of mofaie work
which can fcarce be taken for the effeft of chance.
If the marbled china he defired blue, they firft give
it a general coat of this colour, by dipping the veffel
into a blue varnilh ; and when this is thoroughly dry,,
they add another coat of this agate-oil.
Playing Marbles, are moftly imported from Hol¬
land \ where it is faid they are made by breaking the
ftone alabafter, or other fubftance, into pieces or chips,
of a fuitable fize j thefe are put into an iron mill
which turns by water : there are feveral partitions with
rafps within, cut float-wife, not with teeth, which
turn conftantly round with great fvviftnefs j the fric¬
tion againft the rafps makes them round, and as they
are formed, they fall out of different holes, into which
fize or chance throws them. They are brought from
Nuremberg to Rotterdam, down the Rhine, and from
thence difperfed over Europe.
MARBLING, the method of preparing and co¬
louring the marbled paper.
There are feveral kinds of marbled paper j but the
principal difference of them lies in the forms in which
the colours are laid on the ground : fome being dif-
pofed in whirls or circumvolutions j fome in jagged
lengths; and others only in fpots of a roundifh or
ova£ figure. The general manner of managing each
kind is, nevertheleis, the fame j being the dipping
the paper, in a folution of gum-tragacanth, or, as it
is commonly called, gum dragon ; over which the co¬
lours, previoufly prepared with ox-gall and fpirit of
wine, are firft fpread.
The peculiar apparatus neceffrry for this purpofe,
is a trough for containing the gum tragacanth and
the colours; a comb for difpofing th m in the figure
ufually chofen ; and a burnifhing ftone for polifhing
the paper. The trough may be of any kind of wood j
and muft be fomewhat larger than the fheets of paper
for marbling which it is to be employed j but the
fides of it need only rife about two inches above the
bottom ; for by making it thus lhallow, the lefs
quantity of the folution of the gum will ferve to fill it.
The comb may be alfo of w'ood, and five inches in
length •, but ftiould have brafs teeth, which may be
about twTo inches long, and placed at about a quarter
of an inch diftance from each other. The burnilhing
ftone may be of jafper or agate j but as thofe ftones
are very dear when of fufticient largenefs, marble or
glafs may be ufed, provided their furface he polilhed
to a greater degree of fmpothuefs.
Thefe
MAR E 5^
Marbling. Tliefe implements being prepared, the folution of
 ' gum-tragacanth muft be made, by putting a fufficient
proportion of the gum, which fhould be Wiii^e and
clear from all foulnefs, into clean water, and letting
it remain there a day or two, frequently breaking the
lumps and ftirring it till the whole Ihall appear dif-
folved and equally mixed with the water. The con¬
fidence of the lolutiqn ihould be nearly that oi llrong
gum-water ufed in miniature painting j and if it ap¬
pear thicker, water mutt be added •, or if thinner,
more of the gum. When the folution is thus brought
to a due ftate, it muft be paffed through a linen cloth 5
and being then put into the trough, it will be ready
to receive the colours.
The colours employed for red are carmine, lake,
rofe-pink, and vermilion} but the two laft are too
hard and glaring, unlefs they be mixed with rofe-
pink or lake, to bring them to a fofter cart j and
with refpeft to the carmine and lake, they are too
dear for common purpofes ; for yellow, Dutch pink
and yellow ochre may be employed :—for blue, Prul-
fian blue and verditer may be ufed :—for green, ver¬
digris, a mixture of Dutch pink and Pruflian blue
or verditer, in different proportions :—for orange, the
orange lake, or a mixture of vermilion, or red lead,
with Dutch pink : for purple, rofe-pink and Pruflian
blue.
Thefe feveral colours {hould be ground with fpirit
of wine till they be of a proper finenefs j and then, at
the time of ufing them, a little fifti-gall, or in de¬
fault of it the gall of a beaft, {hould be added, by
grinding them over again with it. The proper pro¬
portion of the gall muft be found by trying them :
for there muft be juft fo much as wall fuffer the fpots
of colour, when fprinkled on the folution of the gum-
tragacanth, to join together, without intermixing or
running into each other.
When every thing is thus prepared, the folution of
the gum-tragacanth muft be poured into the trough )
and the colours, being in a feparate pot, with a pen¬
cil appropriated to each, muft be Iprinkled on the lur-
face of the folution, by (baking the pencil, charged
with its proper colour over it; and this muft be done
with the feveral kinds of colour defired, till the lurface
be wholly covered.
When the marbling is propofed to be in fpots of a
fimple form, nothing more is neceffary } but where
the whirls or fnail-ftiell figures are wanted, they muft
be made by means of a quill $ w'hich muft be put
among the fpots to turn them about, till the effect be
produced. The jagged lengths muft: be made by
means of the comb above defcribed, w'hich muft be
paffed through the colours from one end or the trough
to the other j and will give them that appearance : but
if they be defired to be pointed both ways, the comb
muft be again paffed through the trough in a contrary
diredtion *, or if fome of the whirls or fnail-ftiell figures
be required to be added, they may be yet made by
the means before diredled.
The paper {hould be previoufly prepared for receiv¬
ing the colours, by dipping it over-night in water j
and laying the (heets on each other with a weight
over them. The whole being thus ready, the paper
muft: be held by two corners, and laid in the moft
gentle and even manner on the folution covered with
i ] M A R
the colours; and there foftly preffed with the hand. Marbling
that it may bear everywheie on the foluuon. After Marc'ejjus>
which it muft be railed and taken off with the lame
care, and then hung to dry acrofs a proper cord,
lubtended near at hand for that purpoie ; and in that
ftate it muft continue till it be pertedfly dry. It
then remains only to give the paper a proper poliui:
in order to which, it is firft rubbed with a little foap ;
and then muft be thoroughly fmoothed by the glals
poliftiers, luch as are ufed for linen, and called the ca-
lender glafles. After which it Ihould be again rubbed by
a burniftier of jafper or agate ; or, in default ot them,
of glafs groilnd to the higher! polith ; for on the per-
feft poliih of the paper depends in a great meahxre its
beauty and value.
Gold or filver powders may be ufed, where defired,
along with the colour; and require only the fame
treatment as them, except that they muft be firft tem¬
pered with gum-water.
Marbling of books or paper is performed thus:
Diffolve four ounces of gum-arabic in two quarts of
fair water ; then provide feveral colours mixed with
water in pots or ihells; and, with pencils peculiar to
each colour, fprinkle them by way of intermixture
upon the gum-water, which muft be put into a
trough or fome broad veffel ; then with a flick curl
them, or draw them out in ftreaks, to as much variety
as may be done. Having done this, hold your book
or books clofe together, and only dip the edges in, on
the top of the water and colours, very lightly ; which
done, take them off, and the plain impreflion of the
colours in mixture will be upon the leaves; doing as
well the ends as the front of the book in the like
manner.
Marbling a book on the covers is performed by
forming clouds with aqua-fortis or fpirit of vitiiol
mixed with ink, and afterwards glazing the covers.
See Book Binding.
MARC Antonio. See Raimondi.
MARCA5ITE, an ®ld term in mineralogy, given
indifferently to ores, pyrites, and to iermmetals. But
more lately confined to pyrites, and to fucb oyrites as
are regularly formed. Set PyRITES, MINERALOGY
Index.
MARCELLIANISM, the do&rines and opinions
of the Mircellians, a feet of ancient heretics, towards
the clofe of the fecond century, fo called from Mar¬
cellas of Ancyra, their leader, who was ac_u!ed of
reviving the errors of Sabeltius. S;me, however, are
of opinion, that Marcellus was orthodox, and that
they were his enemies the Arians, who fathered their
errors upon him. St Epiphanius obferves, that there
was a great deal of difpute with regard to the real te¬
nets of Marcellus ; but that, as to his followers, it is
evident they did not own the three hypoftafes : for
Marcellus conlidered the Son and Ho y Ghoft as two
emanations from the divine nature, which, after per¬
forming their refpeiftive offices, were to return again
into the fubftance of the Father ; and this opinion is
altogether incompatible with the belief of three di-
ftindf perfons in the Godhead.
MARCELLINUS, Ammianus. See Ammianus.
MARCELLUS, Marcus Claudius, a famous
Roman general, who, after the firft Pun e war, had the
management of an expedition againft the Gauls, Here
hs .
MAR [ 51
J’vTpreelius' he obtained the fpolia opima, by killing with his own
^ jj.^ hand Viridomatus. the king of the enemy. Such fuc-
 I ' ' cefs rendered him popular, and foon after he wras in-
trufled to oppofe Hannibal in Italy. He was the firll
Roman who obtained fome advantage over this cele¬
brated Carthaginian, and (bowed his countrymen that
Hannibal was not invincible. The troubles wdiich
were raifed in Sicily by the Carthaginians at the death
of Hieronymus, alarmed the Romans ; and Marcellus,
in his third confulfhip, was fent with a powerful force
figainft Syracufe. He attacked it by fea and land j
but his operations proved long ineffe&ual, and the in¬
vention and induftry of Archimedes were able to
bailie all the efforts, and to dedroy all the great and
iiupendous machines and military engines of the Ro¬
mans, during three fucceffive years. The perfeverance
of Marcellus at lad obtained the vi&ory. After this
conqued, Marcellus wras called upon by his country a
fecond time to oppofe Hannibal. In this campaign he
behaved with greater vigour than before } the greated
part of the towns of the Samnites, which had re¬
volted, were recovered by force of arms, and 3000
of the foldiers of Hannibal made prifoners. Some
time after, in an engagement with the Carthaginian
general, Marcellus had the difadvantage : but on the
morrow a more fuccefsful Ikirmifh vindicated his mi¬
litary charadler and the honour of the Roman fol¬
diers. Marcellus, however was not fudiciently vigi¬
lant againd the fnares of his adverfary. He impru¬
dently feparated himfelf from his camp, and wTas killed
in an ambufcade, in the 60th year of his age, in his 5th
confulfhip, A. U. C. 544. His body was honoured
by the conqueror with a magnificent funeral, and his
afhes were conveyed in a filver urn to his fon. Mar¬
cellus claims our commendation for his private as well
as public virtues j and the humanity of a general will
ever be remembered, who, at the furrender of Syra¬
cufe, wept on the thought that many were going to
be expofed to the avarice and rapacioufnefs of an in-
cenfed foldiery, which the policy of Rome and the
laws of w;ar rendered inevitable.
MARCGRAVE, or Margrave, a kind of dig¬
nity in Germany, anfwering to our marquis (fee
Marquis). The word is derived from the German
Marche, or Mar eke, which fignifies “ a frontier 5” and
Graffe, “ count, governor Marcgraves being origi¬
nally governors of cities lying on the frontiers of a
country or date.
MARCH, (Martius), the third month of the year,
according to the common way of computing. See
Month, and Year.
Among the Romans, March was the fird month j
and in fome ecclefiadical computations, that order is
dill preferved ; as particularly reckoning the number
of years from the incarnation of our Saviour j that is,
from the 25th of March.
It was Romulus who divided the year into months;
to the fird of which he gave the name of his fuppof-
ed father Mars. Ovid, however, obferves, that the
people of Italy had the month of March before Ro¬
mulus’s time } but that they placed it very differently,
fome making it the third, fome the fourth, fome the
fifth, and others the tenth month of the year.
In this month it was that the Romans facrificcd to
Anna Perenna ; that they began their comitia j that
3
12 ] MAR
they adjudged their public farms and leafes; that the
midreffes ferved the flaves and fervants at table, as the
mailers did in the Saturnalia j and that the vellals re¬
newed the facred (ire.
The month of March was always under the protec¬
tion of tMinerva, and always confided of 31 days.—•
ihe ancients held it an unhappy month for marriage,
as well as the month of May.
March, in the military art, is the moving of a
body of men from one place to another. Nothing is
laid down particularly concerning the marches of the
Jewifh armies; only thus much we may colleff, that
they made ufe of trumpets, to the different founds of
which they prepared themfelves by packing up their
baggage, putting themfelves in readinefs, and attend¬
ing at the dandards, to wait the fignal for marching.
We are told that the army of the Ifraelites marched ia
general no more than one league in a day and a half;
but this appears to hold good only of their progrefs
through didicult roads : For Follard fays they might,
in an open country, march four leagues in a day or
more. The Rabbins fuppofe that the Ifraelites march¬
ed in the fame order they were placed in their camp.
Ihe Greekc, let the podure of their affairs be what
it would, never marched againd their enemies till fa¬
vourable omens encouraged the enterprife. An eclipfe
of the moon, or any untoward accident, or the in¬
tervening of what they edeemed an unlucky day, en¬
tirely prevented their march. But of all the Greeks
the Lacedemonians were the mod nice and feru-
pulous. The heavenly bodies diredled all their mo¬
tions ; and it was an invariable maxim with them
never to march before the full moon. The Greeks
are particularly remarked by Homer for marching
in good order and profound filence ; whereas the Bar¬
barian forces were all noife, clamour, and confufion. It
is needlefs to fay any thing concerning the marches of
the Roman armies, more than that they were perform¬
ed with the greated order and defpatch, infomuch that
their unexpe&ed prefence frequently damped the fpirits
of their enemies. The Roman foldiers were inured to
the military pace, that is, to walk 20 miles in five
hours, though at the fame time they carried burdens of
60 pounds weight.
Of all the mechanical parts of war, in modern
times, none is more effential than that of marching.
It may be judly called the key which leads to all fu-
blime motions and manoeuvres of an army ; for they
depend entirely on this point. A man can be attack¬
ed in four different ways; in the front, on both flanks,
and in the rear : but he can defend himfelf, and an¬
noy the enemy, only when placed with his face to¬
wards him. Hence it follows, that the general ob-
jeft of marching is reduced to three points only; to
march forwards, and on both Tides, becaufe it is im-
poflible to do it for any time backwards, and by that
means face the enemy wherever he prefents himfelf. 
The different Heps to be made ufe of are three : flow,
fafl, and oblique. The firff is proper in advancing,
when at a confiderable diftance from the enemy, and
when the ground is unequal, that the line may not be
broke, and a regular fire kept up without intermiflion.
The fecond is chiefly neceffary Iwhen you want to an¬
ticipate the enemy in occupying fome poft, in paflincr
a defile, and, above all, in attacking an intrenchment,
to
March*
M A R [ 583 ] M A 11
March, to avoid being a long while expofed to the fire of the
Marchan] artillery and fmall arms, &c. The third Hep is of in-
v ' finite confequence, both in the infantry and cavalry j
columns may be opened and formed into lines, and
vice verfciy lines into columns, by this kind of Hep, in
a leffer fpace, and confequently in lefs time, than by
any other method whatfoever. In coming out of a de¬
file, you may infiantly form the line without prefent-
ing the flank to the enemy. The line may be formed,
though ever fo near to the enemy, with fafety; becaufe
you face him, and can with eafe and fafety protect and
cover the motion of the troops, while they are coming
out of the defiles, and forming. The fame thing
may be equally executed, when a column is to be
formed in order to advance or retreat} which is a
point of infinite confequence, and fliould be eflablifli-
ed as an axiom.
The order of march of the troops mufi be fo dif-
pofed, that each fliould arrive at their rendezvous, if
poflible, on the fame day. The quarter-mafler general,
or his deputy, with an able engineer, flrould fuffici-
ently reconnoitre the country, to obtain a peifedl:
knowledge of it and the enemy, before he forms his
routes.
Before a march, the army generally receives feveral
days bread. The quarter-mailers, camp colour men,
and pioneers, parade according to orders, and march
immediately after, commanded by the quarter-mafter-
general or his deputy. They are to clear the roads,
level the w7ays, make preparation for the march of
the army, &c. The general, for inftance, beats at two,
the ajjembly at three, and the army to march in 20 mi¬
nutes after. Upon beating the general, the village,
and general officer’s guards, quarter and rear guards,
join their refpedlive corps; and the army pack up
their baggage. Upon beating the ajfembly, the tents
are to be flruck, and fent with the baggage to the
place appointed, &c.
The companies draw up in their feveral flreets, and
the rolls are called. At the time appointed, the drum¬
mers are to beat a march, and fifers play at the head of
the line, upon which the companies march out from
their feveral flreets, form battalions, as they advance to
the head of line, and then halt.
The feveral battalions will be formed into columns
by the adjutant-general, and the order of march, &c.
be given to the general officers who lead the columns.
The cavalry generally march by regiments or fqua-
drons.' The heavy artillery always keeps the great
roads in the centre of the columns, efcorted by a ftrong
party of infantry and cavalry. The field pieces march
with the columns.
Each foldier generally marches with 36 rounds of
pow’der and ball, and two good flints; one of which is
to be fixed in the cock of his firelock. The routes
muH be formed fo that no columns crofs one another
on the march.
MARCH AND, Professor, w7as from his youth
brought up at Paris in the profeffion of a bookfeller, and
in the knowledge of books. He kept a regular corre-
fpondence with feveral learned men, among whom was
Bernard the continuator of the Nouvelles de la Repu-
hlique des Lettres, and furnifhed this writer with the li¬
terary anecdotes of. France. Marchand, having em¬
braced the Proteflant religion, went to join Bernard
in Holland, where he might be at liberty to profefs Marchaerd
his religious opinions. He continued the trade of v J'’vc
bookfeller for feme time •, but afterwards quitted it, A..
that he might dedicate himfelf wholly to the purfuitS
of literature. The biftory of France, together with
a knowledge of books and authors, was always his fa¬
vourite Hudy. In the latter he was fo eminently di-
ftinguifhed, that he was confulted from all parts of
Europe. He was alfo one of the principal authors of
the 'Journal Lit ter air e, one of the befl periodical works
which have appeared in Holland ; and he furnifhed ex¬
cellent extracts for the other journals. This valuable
and learned man died at an advanced age, the 14th of
June 1756 5 and left the little fortune which he had to
a fociety inflituted at the Hague, for the education
and inftrudfion of a certain number of poor people.
His library, which w7as excellently chofen for literary
hiflory, together with his manuferipts, was left by his
will to the univerfity of Leyden. From him we have,
1. The Hifiory of Printing, a new edition of which has
been promifed by one of bis friends. This work,
which is full of notes and critical difeuflions, appeared
in 1 740 at the Hague, in 410. There is fuch a pro¬
digious difplay of erudition, and remarks and quota¬
tions are heaped together in fuch confufion, that when
you get to the end of the chaos, you know not what
conclufion to form concerning the points which have
been difeuffed. Abbe Mercier, abbot of Saint Leger
de Soiflbns, gave in 1775, 4to, a fupplement to this
hiflory, which is equally curious and accurate. 2. An
Hiflorical Dictionary, or Memoirs Critical- and Lite¬
rary, printed at the Hague in 1758, in two fmall vo¬
lumes, folio. In this work we meet with hifiorical
Angularities, literary anecdotes, and a diicuffion ot
points of bibliography 5 but too great minutenefs pre¬
vails in it, the Hyle is deficient in point of purity, and
the author is too much carried away by the heat and
eagernefs of his chara6ler. More erudition could not
well be eollefted ; efpecially upon fubjeils which, at
leafl to the generality of readers, are fo unintereHing...
3. A new edition of Bayle’s Dictionary, and Letters of
the Cymbal urn rnundi, &c.
MARCHANTIA,. a genus of the natural order of
algae, belonging to the cryptogamia clafs of plants.
See Botany Index.
MARCHE, a province of France, bounded on the
north by Berry, on the call by Auvergne, on the weH.
by Angoumois, and on the fouth by Limofin. It is
about 55 miles in length, and 25 in breadth, and is
pretty fertile in corn and wine.
MARCHENA, a handfome, ancient, and confi-
derable town of Spain, in Andalufia, with the title of
a duchy, and a fuburb as large as the town, feated in
the middle of a plain, particularly fertile in olives,
though very dellitute of water. W. Long, 3. 20.
N. Lat.,37. 2c.
MARCHERS, or Lords-Marchers, were thofe
noblemen that lived on the marches of Wales or Scot¬
land \ who, in times pafi, according to Camden, had
their laws, and potejhtem vitcc, &c.. like petty kings,
which are abolifhed by the flat. 27 Hen. VIIL c. 26. and
I Edwi. Vl.c. 10. In old records the lords marchers of
Wales were fly led Marchianes de Marchia Wallice. See
i et 2 P. et M, c. 15.
MARCHES (marckiajy from the German march,,
L e..
Marcliet
rlMv cianv
MAR [ 584 ] MAR
1. e, Hives, or from the French marque, v'z. Jignum
(heinw the notorious diftinciion between two countries
or territories), are the limits between England and
Wa’es, or between England and Scotland, which Eft
are d’vi ted into weft and middle marches, 4 Hen. V.
c. 7 22 Ed. TV c 8 24 Hen. VIII c. 9 And there
was rmerly a court called the court of the marches of
Wales, where pleas of debt or damages, not above
the value of 50 pounds, were tried and determined j
and if the council of the marches held plea for debts
a’ ove that fum. &c. a prohibition might be awarded.
H'd. r4 Car, !. Cro. Car 38.
MARCHET, or M.-RCHETTA, a pecuniary fine,
ancientl paid by the tenant to his lord, for the mar¬
riage of one of the tenant’s daughters. This cuftom
obtained, with fome difference, throughout al! Eng¬
land and Wales, as affo in Scotland •, and it ftill con¬
tinues to obtain in fome places. According to the cu¬
ftom of the manor of Dinover in Caermarthenfhire,
every tenant at the marriage of his daughter pays ten
{hillings to the low! ; which, in the Britifti language, is
called ^wa' r-merched, i. e. maid's fee.
In Scotland, and the north parts of England, the
cuftom was, for the lord to lie the firft night with the
bride of his tenant; but this ufage w^as abrogated by
King Malcolm III. at the inftance of his queen ; and,
inftead thereof, a mark was paid by the bridegroom
to the lord : whence is was called marchetta mulieris.
See Borough Englifh.
MARC IAN,\ Silva, in Ancient Geography, a forefl
ntuated between the Rauraci and the Danube, before
it comes to be navigable; a part of the Hercynia.
Now’ Schwartzw’ald, or Black Foref, in the fouth-w7eft
of Suabia, near the rife of the Danube and Neckar.
MAR Cl ANUS, a native of Thrace, born of an
obfeure family. After he had for fome time ferved in
the army as a common lolditr, he wms made private fe-
cretary to one of the officers of Theodofius. His win¬
ning addrefs and uncommon talents raifed him to high¬
er Rations ; and on the death of Theodofius II. A. D.
450, he wms invefted with the imperial purple in the
eaft. The fubjefls of the Roman empire had reafon
to be fatisfied with their choice. Marcianus ftiowed
himfelf adlive and refolute 5 and when Attila, the
barbarous king of the Huns, alked of the emperor
the annual tribute, which the indolence and cowardice
of his predeceffors had regularly paid, the fucceffor of
Theodofius firmly faid, that he kept his gold for his
friends, but that iron was the metal which he had pre¬
pared for his enemies. In the midft of univerfal po¬
pularity, Marcianus died, after a reign of fix years, in
the 69th year of his age, as he wms making warlike
preparations againft the barbarians that had invaded
Africa. His death was long lamented j and indeed
his merit was great, fince his reign has been diftin-
guifhed by the appellation of the Golden Age. Mar¬
cianus married Pulcheria the fifter of his predeceffor.
It is laid, that in the years of his obfeurity he found
a man who had been murdered and that he had the
humanity to give him a private burial; for wffiich cir-
eumftance he wTas accufed of the homicide, and impri¬
soned. He was condemned to lofe his life ; and the fen-
tence would have been executed, had not the real mur¬
derer been difeovered, and convinced the w’orld of the
1
innocence of Marcianus. Another emperor of the Marcionltes
eaft, A. D. 479, &c. ,1
MARCiONITES, or Marctonists, Marcioni/la. Marc?-
a very ancient and po ular left of heretics, who, in ^ mmmj
the time of St Epiphanius, were Ipread over Italy,
Egypt, Paleitine, Syria, Arabia, Perfia, and other
countries : they were thus denominated from their au¬
thor Marcion. Marcion was of Pontus, the fon of
a bifhop, and at ftrfbmade profeffion of the monauical
life } but he was excommunicated by his own father,
who would never admit him again into the communion
of the church, not even on his repentance. On this
he abandoned his own country, and retired to Rome,
where he began to broach his deefrines.
He laid down twm principles, the one good, the
other evil : between thefe he imagined an interme¬
diate kind of deity of a mixed nature, who was the
creator of this inferior w’orld, and the god and legif-
lator of the Jew’ifh nation; the other nations, who
worfhipped a variety of gods, were fuppofed to be un¬
der the empire of the evil principle. Thefe two con-
flidfing powers exercife oppreffions upon rational and
immortal fouls; and therefore the iupreme God, to
deliver them from bondage, fent to the Jews a being
more like unto himfelf, even his fon Jefus Chrift,
clothed with a certain ihadowy refemblance of a body :
this celeftial meffenger wras attacked by the prince pf
darknefs, and by the god of the jews, but without
effeft. Thofe who follow the diredtions of this ce¬
leftial condudtor, mortify the body by fallings and au-
fterities, and renounce the precepts of the god of the
Jew's and of the prince of darknefs, ffiall after death
afeend to the manfions of felicity and perfedlion. The
rule of manners w'hich Marcion preferibed to his fol¬
lowers was exceftively auftere, containing an exprefs
prohibition of w'edlock, wine, flefli, and all the exter¬
nal comforts of life.
Marcion denied the real birth, incarnation, and paf-
fion of Jefus Chrift, and held them to be all apparent
only. He denied the refurredtion of the body \ and
allowed none to be baptized but thofe who preferved
their continence; but thefe, he granted, might be
baptized three times. In many things he followed the
fentiments of the heretic Cerdon, and rejedfed the law
and the prophets. He pretended the gofpel had been
corrupted by falfe prophets, and allowed none of the
evangelifts but St Luke, whom alfo he altered in many
places as well as the epiftles of St Paul, a great many
things in wdn’ch he threw out. In his own copy of
St Luke he threw7 out the two firft chapters entire.
MARCITES, Marcit^:, a fedf of heretics in the
fecond century, who alfo called themfelves the perfeBi,
and made profeffion of doing every thing w7ith a great
deal of liberty and without any fear. This dodfrine
they borrowed from Simon Magus, wdio how'ever w7as
not their chief; for they were called Marches from
one Marcus, who conferred the priefthood, and the
adminiftration of the facraments, on women.
MARCO Polo, Paolo, or Paulo. See Paulo.
MARCOM ANNI, an ancient people of Germany,
who feem to have taken their na- e from their fitua-
tion on the limits or marches, to the eaft of the High¬
er Rhine, and the north of the Danube. Cluverius
allots to them the duchy oi Wurtemburg. a part of
\
!
MAR [ 535 ] MAR
Marcofuans tlie palatinate between the Rhine and the Necker, the
M N Bnfgau, and a part of Suabia, lying between the
■ . L ' , fprings of the Danube and the river Bregentz : they
afterwards removed to the country of the Boii, whom
they expelled and forced to withdraw more to the eaft,
occupying what is now called Bohemia. ( Strabo, Vel¬
leius.)
MARCOSIANS, or Colobarsians, an ancient
fecft in the church, making a branch of the Valen-
TINIANS.
St Irenaeus fpeaks at large of the leader of this fedf,
Marcus, who it feems was reputed a great magician.
The Marcofians had a great number of apocryphal
books which they held for canonical, and of the fame
authority with ours. Out of thefe they picked feve-
ral idle fables touching the infancy of Jefus Chriit,
which they put off for true hiilories. Many of thefe
fables are ftill in ufe and credit among the Greek
monks.
MARCULUS, among the Romans, a knocker or
inftrument of iron to knock at doors with.
MARCUSAurelius Antoninus. See Antoninus.
MARDIKERS, or Topasses, a mixed breed of
Dutch, Portugueie, Indians, and other nations, incor¬
porated with the Dutch at Batavia, in the Eall Indies.
MARE, the female of the horfe kind. See Equus,
Mammalia Index, and Horse.
MAREQT1S, a lake in Egypt near Alexandria.
Its neighbourhood was famous for wine , though ac¬
cording to fome the Mareoticum vinum is the produce
of Epirus, or of a certain part of Libya, called alfo
Mareotis, near Egypt.
MARETS, Jean de, a Parifian, one of the fineft
geniufes of the 1 yth century, became at laft a vifionary
and a fanatic. He was a great favourite of Cardinal
Richelieu, and poiTelled an employment of genius un¬
der him ; for he wTas called upon to relax and divert
him, after the fatigue of bulinefs by facetious conver-
fation. He ufed, in order to triumph over the virtue
of women, when they objedfed to him the intereft of
their falvation, to lead them into atheiftical principles.
He was a member of the French academy from its firft
cre&ion. He wrrote feveral dramatic pieces, W’hich
were well received. He attempted an epic poem *, but
after fpending feveral years about it, dropped the de-
iign to write books of devotion. He likewife wnote ro¬
mances 5 but not fuch virtuous ones as ufed to be written
at that time. He wras a declared enemy of the Jan-
fenifts. His vilions are well defcribed by the Meflieurs
de Port Royal. He promifed the king of France, by
the explication of prophecies, the honour of overthrow¬
ing the Mahometan empire, and every fpecies of what
he was pleafed to denominate herefy, bringing the whole
world to the profeffion of the true faith. This he faid
Louis XIV. was to accomplilh at the head of 144,000
eledt. Extravagant and abfurd as thefe declarations
were, he was, notwithllanding, admired and patronifed
by fome of the bifhops; and though a layman, he was
permitted to vent his reveries in religious houfes, and
affume the diredtion of devotees of both fexes. He
maintained his credit with the great to the very laft,
and died in 1676, at the age of 81. In his laft years
he wrote fomething againft Boileau’s Satires.
Marets, Samuel de, one of the moft celebrated
divines of the reformed church, was born in Picardy,
Vol. XII. Part II.
in 1599. In 1620, he was fettled in the church of Marets*
Laon 5 but, in 1624, accepted a call to that of Sedan, Margaret,
to fucceed James Cappel in the oftice of paftor and pro- _v
feflbr of divinity. Having foon after obtained leave of
abfence from his Hock, he vifited Holland, where he was
admitted to the degree of dodlor of divinity at Leyden,
in 1625. From Holland he took a voyage to Eng¬
land, and after a fhort ftay in that country he returned
to Sedan, where he commenced his labours in the divi¬
nity chair. Thefe he continued for about feven yeatS-
with reputation to himfelf, but not without being
fometimes involved in troubles, which he bore with a
commendable refolution.
In 1631 he was made chaplain to the army of the
duke de Bouillon in Holland 5 but that nobleman hav¬
ing married a Roman Catholic lady, M. de Marets ad-
vifed him to adhere fteadily to the proteftant faith, on
which account he incurred the difpleafure of the duchefs.
Thus circumftanced, he received in 1636, an invitation
to become paftor to the church of Boifleduc, with which
he complied, and in the following year he was appoint¬
ed profeffor of the fchola illujlris of the fame city. The
duties of this office he difcharged with fuch diligence
and fuccefs, that in 1640, the curators of the .univerfity
of Franeker fent him the offer of a profefforfhip, which
he declined •, but two years after he accepted a fimilar
offer from the univerfity of Groningen, to which his
fervices were devoted for upwards of thirty years. In
1652 he was made foie minifter of the Walloon church
at Groningen, where till that time he had gratuitoully
preached once every Sunday, to affift the paftor. In¬
fluenced by the fame of his extraordinary merits, the
magiftrates of Berne in 1661 offered him the chair of
profeffor of divinity at Laufanne, with confiderable emo¬
luments, but he declined this offer; and his death
happened before he took poffeffion of a fimilar charge at
Leyden, of which he had accepted. Plis Syftem of Di¬
vinity was found to be fo methodical, that it was
made ufe of at other academies; and at the end of it
may be found a chronological table of all his works.
Their number is prodigious j and their variety ffiows the
extent of his genius. He was moreover engaged in
many difputes and controverfies, and died in 1673.
MARGARET, St, a celebrated virgin, who, as
is fuppofed, received the crown of martyrdom at An¬
tioch in the year 275 : the manner of her death is
not known. The ancient martyrologifts make no men¬
tion of her name, and (he did not become famous till
the 1 ith century. There is no more foundation for
what is faid concerning her relics and girdles than
for the ftories which are told of her life. A feflival,
however, is ftill held in honour of her memory on the
20th of July : See Bai/leds Lives of the Saints, for that
day. “ Her aftions (fays this authority) have been fo
falfified and altered, in the opinion even of Meta-
phraftus, that the Romifa church have not thought
proper to infert any of them into their breviary. The
Orientals pay reverence to her by the name of Sami
Pelagia or Saint Marina, and the weftern church by
tliat of Saint Geruma or Saint Margaret.
Margaret, the daughter and heirefs of Florent
count of Holland, who is famous on-account of a ftory
repeated by a hundred compilers even of the i8th
century. Having rcfufed charity to a woman whom
ftte at the fame time accufed of adulttr^, Ihe was, a;
4 E a
M A II { 586 ] M A R
Margaret, a punifhment from God, brought to bed (A. D. 1276),
of 365 children, partly boys and partly girls. The
boys, it is added, were all named Jo/in^ and the girls
Elizabeth. This flory is reprefented in a large paint¬
ing in a village not far from the Hague 5 and by the
fide of the painting are feen two large bafons cf brafs,
on which it is .pretended the 365 children were pre-
fented to be baptized. But if a piflure is a fufficient
authority for the truth of any thing, it is impoffible
to tell how many fables would be fully atteiled. It
has been remarked, that the moil ancient annals are
altogether filent concerning this facf j and that it is
related only by modern writers, who befides do not
agree wdth one another concerning either the date of
time, or the life of the countefs, or the number of
the children •, and in ihort, that Naffau, who was at
that time biihop of Utrecht, was called 'John, and not
Gui, as the chronicles declare. Several learned men
have endeavoured to trace the caufe which could have
given rife to a relation fo extraordinary. M. Struik
fixed upon the epitaphs of the mother and fun, which
appeared to him wTorthy of fome attention *, and, in
conformity to the dates which they bear, he fuppofed
that the countefs rvas brought to bed on Good Friday
1 276, which was the 26th of March. Now, as the
year then began on the 25th of the fame month, there
were only two days of the year elapfed when the count¬
efs was brought to bed, which circutnfiance caufed it
to be faid that Jhe had brought into the world as many
children as there were days in the year. In fadl only
two children are mentioned in hiftory, John and Eliza¬
beth. The fable thus explained is only a common
event, wherein there is nothing of the marvellous, but
in confequence of a double meaning in the expreffion.
Later writers, who have not examined this circum-
ftance, have aferibed 365 children to the countefs.
Journal des Spavans, February, 1758, on the General
Hifiory of the United Provinces.
Margaret, Countefs of Richmond and Derby, the
learned and pious mother of Henry VII. was born at
Betflioe in Bedfordihire, in 1441 ; and w?as the foie
heirefs of John Beaufort duke of Somerfet, grandfon
to John of Gaunt. Her mother was the heirefs of
Lord Beauchamp of Powick. Whilft yet very young,
the great duke of Suffolk, niinifler to Henry VI. or
rather to Queen Margaret, fought her in marriage to
his fon ; and (he was at the fame time folicited by the
king for his half brother Edmund earl of Richmond.
To the latter Ihe gave her hand. Henry VII. was the
foie fruit of this marriage, his father dying when he
was but 15 weeks old. Her fecond bulband was Sir
Henry Stafford, knigbt, fecond fon to the duke of
Buckingham •, by whom (he had no iffue. Soon after
his death, which happened in the year 1482, fire
fought confolation in a third hufband, Thomas Lord
Stanley, who, in the firft year cf her fon’s reign,
was created earl of Derby. He died in the year 1504,
without iffue, being then high conftable of England.
She furvived her lord not quite five years, dying at
Weftminfter in June 1509, in the 69th year of her
age. She was buried in Henry VII.’s chapel j on
the fouth fide of which was eredled to her memory
an altav-tomb of black marble, with her llatue of
brafs.
From her funeral fermon preached by her confeffor Margaret.
BUhop Fiilier, who, fays Ballard, knew the very fecrets '
of her foul, we learn, “ that fire poffefied almolt all
things that were commendable in a woman, either in
mind or body.” She underftood the French language
perfeftly, and had fome knowledge of the Latin. She
was devout even to aufterity, in humility romantic,
profufe in the encouragement of learning, and iingu-
larly chafle ; but this laft virtue became confpicuous
only towards the latter end of a third marriage. “ In
her laft hulhand’s days (fays Baker), (lie obtained a
licence of him to live challe, whereupon file took upon
her the vow of celibacy.” ‘ A boon (fays Mr Wal¬
pole), as feldom requefied, I believe of a third huf¬
band, as it probably would be eafily granted.’ Her
life, from the turbulence of the times, and viciflitude
of her fon’s fortune, muft neceffarily have been fubjeft
to infinite difquiet, which however Ihe is faid to have
fupported with lingular fortitude. She wrote, 1. The
Mirroure of Golde for the finful foule, tranfiated from
a French tranfiation of a book called Speculum aureum
peccatorum. Emprynted at London, in Flete-ftrete,
at the figne of St George, by Richard Pynfon, quarto,
with cuts on vellum. 2. Tranfiation of the fourth book
of Dr Gerfen’s Treatife of the Imitation and follow’ing
the bleffed Life of our moft merciful Saviour Chrifit.
Printed at the end of Dr William Atkinfon’s Englifh
tranfiation of the three firft books, 1504. 3. A letter
to the king : in Howard’s collection. 4. By her fon’s
order and authority, fire alfo made the orders for great
eftates of ladies and noble women, for their precedence,
and wearing of barbes at funerals, over the chin anL
under the fame.
Margaret, the daughter of Woldemar III. king
of Denmark, llyled the Semiramis of the North; fhe
fucceeded her father in the throne of Denmark, her
huiband in that of Norway ; and the crown of Sweden
wras given her as a recompenfe for delivering the
Swedes from the tyranny of Albert their king. Thus
poffeffed of the three kingdoms, fine formed the grand
political defign of a perpetual union, which file ac-
compliihed, pro tempore only, by the famous treaty
ftyled the union of Calmar. She died in 1412, aged
59-
Margaret of Anjou, daughter of Rene d’Anjou,
king of Naples, and wife of Henry VI. king of Eng¬
land : an ambitious, enterprifing, courageous woman.
Intrepid in the field, file fignalized herfelf by heading
her troops in feveral battles againrt the houfe of York 5
and if file had not been the authorefs of her hulhand’s
misfortunes, by putting to death the duke of Glouccf-
ter his uncle, her name would have been immortalized
for the fortitude, adtivity, and policy with which fi;e
fupported the rights of her huiband and fon, till the fa¬
tal defeat at Tewkfbury \ which put an end to all her
enterprifes, the king being taken prifoner, and Prince
Edward their only fon bafely murdered by Richard
duke of York. Margaret was ranfomed by her father,
and died in Anjou in 1482. See England, N° 201
— 226.
Margaret, Duchefs of Newcaftle. See Caven¬
dish.
MARGARITA, or Pearl-islanH, an ifiand of
South America, the middle of which is feated in W.
Long.
Margarit;
II
Margate.
M A R [ 587 ]
Long. 64. 2. N. Lat. 11. 30. It was difcovered by Mahrattas
Columbus, and is about 35 leagues in compafs. The
, foil is very fertile in maize and fruits, and abounds in
paiture and verdant groves 5 yet is totally deftitute of
frefh water, which the inhabitants are obliged to bring
from the continent. When the Spaniards firlt landed
here, they found the natives bufy in fdhing for oyfters.
Columbus ordered fome of the favages aboard his Hup,
who w'ere fo far from being terrified, that they very
foon became familiar with the Spaniards. The latter
at firit imagined that the oyflers ferved them for food ;
but on opening the fhells, they found they contained
valuable pearls. Upon this difcovery they immediate¬
ly landed, and found the natives ready to* part with
their pearls for the mereft trifles. In procefs of time
the Spaniards built a caftle, called Monpadre, and em¬
ployed prodigious numbers of Guinea and Angola ne¬
groes in the pearl fifhery; cruelly forcing them to tear
up the oyflers from the rocks to which they ftuck, du¬
ring which time many of them were deftroyed by the
fharks and other voracious fifhes. In 1620, this illand
w’as invaded by the Dutch, who demolifhed the caflle
upon it : fince which time it has been in a manner aban¬
doned by the Spaniards j and is now principally inha¬
bited by the natives, to wdiom fome particular indul¬
gences were granted by the court of Spain, on account
of their ready fubmiffion to Columbus.
Margarita, the Pearl, in Natural Hijlory. See
Pearl and My a.
MARGARITINI, are glafs ornaments, made at
Venice, of final! glafs tubes of different colours, which
are blown at Murano, and which the women of the
lower clafs wear about their arms and necks. The
largeft fort are ufed for making rofaries. This work
is performed with great difpatch, the artifan taking a
whole handful of thefe tubes at once, and breaking
them off one after another with an iron tool. Thefe
lhart cylinders are mixed with a kind of afhes, and put
over the fire in an iron pan ; and w'hen the two ends
begin to melt, by ftirring them about with an iron
wire, they are brought to a round figure ; but care
is taken not to leave them too long over the fire, left
the hole through which they are to be ftrung fhould
be entirely clofed by the melting of the glafs. There
are feveral ftreets at Francefco de Vigna entirely inha¬
bited by people whofe foie occupation is to make and
firing thefe margaritini.
MARGATE, a fea-port town of Kent, on the
north fide of the ifle of Thanet, near the North Fore¬
land. It is noted for (hipping vaft quantities of corn
(moft, if not all, the product of that ifiand) for Lon¬
don ; and has a falt-water bath at the poft-houfe,
which has performed great cures in nervous and para¬
lytic cafes, and numbnefs of the limbs. It lies in St
.Tohn’s parilh, which is a member of the port of
Dover, at the di fiance of 14 miles, 1 2 from Canter¬
bury, and 72 from London j and in the fummer fea-
fon is frequented for fea-bathing, having become one
of the principal watering places for the idle, the opu¬
lent, and the invalid, w'here they meet with every re-
quifite accommodation •, and the adjacent country a-
bounds with mofi extenfive profpedls and pleafant rides.
E. Long. 1. 30. N. Lat. 51. 24.
MARK ATT AS, Merhattahs, Marattas, or
M A Ft
a people of India, and by far the mofi Marhattas-
confiderable of all the Hindoo powers. The Marhat-'"v
tas boafi a very high antiquity; they profefs the reli¬
gion of Brama $ Ipeak a dialed! of the Sanfcrit lan¬
guage, in which they have introduced all the techni¬
cal terms of Mogul adminiftration 5 ufe a charafter
of their own in wonting, though not very different
from fome of the other tribes around them 5 and are
divided into four cafts or dalles of people, with the
various fubdivifions of profeflional diftindtion found
over the reft of Hindoftan j but with this remarkable
difference, that among the Marhattas every individual
may, as in fadt he occafionally does, follow the life of
a foldier. t ,
As a nation inhabiting immemorially the country
properly denominated Marhat or Merhat, and com¬
prehending the greater part of the Paifhwa’s prefent
dominions in the Decan, they were completely fubjuga-
ted, and afterwards for many centuries depreffed, firft
by the Patans, then by the Mogul conquerors of Del¬
hi. At length, towards the end of Alemgeer’s reign,
they united, rebelled, and under the famous Sewajee or
Seeva jee, a leader of their own tribe, laid the founda¬
tions of their prefent vaft empire, which has rifen gra¬
dually on the ruins of the Mohamedan power, as relat¬
ed under the article Hindostan,
Seeva-jee was fiicceeded by his fon Rajah Sahou, who
confiderably extended the Marhatta dominions. When
Rajah Sahou grew old and infirm, and the fatigues of
government began to prefs heavy upon him, he appoint¬
ed Bifionat Balajee, a Brahman born at Gokum, and
leader of about 25,000 horfe, to the office of Pailhwa
or vicegerent.
Rajah Sahou died without iffue, but left nephews
by his brother. The courage and wifdom of Balajee
had gained him, during the latter years of the old
rajah, the afiedtion and efteem of all the nation. But,-
under an appearance of modefty and felf-denial, his
prevailing paffion was ambition j and the fentirnents
of gratitude and loyalty were abforbed in the defire
to command. He made ule of the influence he had
acquired under his benefaRor fo firmly to eftablifh his
own power, that he not only retained the high office
of Paiihwa during his life, but tranfmitted it to his
pofterity. The Marhattas, gradually forgetting a
prmce they knew nothing of, became accnftomed to
obey his vicegerent only : yet a certain refpect for the
royal race, or the dread of the confequence of vio¬
lating the ftrong prejudice which the nation ftill re¬
tains in favour of the family of its founder, have ferv¬
ed perhaps to preferve it 5 and the defendants of
Rajah Sahou’s nephews yet exift, but are kept in cap¬
tivity in the palace at Sattarah. The eldeft is ftyled
Ram Rajah, or fovereign j his name is on the feal and
coin of the Marhatta ftate j bnt his perfon is unknown,
except to thofe who immediately furround him. He
refides in his fplendid prifon, cncompaffed with the
appendages of eaftern grandeur, but debarred of all
power, and kept totally ignorant of bufinefs. The
feat of government wras transferred from the ancient
royal refidence of Sattarah to Poonah j and the ufur-
pet, as well as his fucceffors, feem ftill to have added
under the fuppofed authority of the depofed prince,
by their affuming no other title or charadler than that
4 E 2 of
MAR [ 558 1 M A R
4Vlarh?Uas of Paulnva or prime miniftcr. From tins change, the
'—empire of tire Ram Rajah has been difringuifhed only
by the appellation of the Paijhuwjhip, or otherwife
the Government ofPoonah, from the name of its prefent
capital.
Biffonat Balajee was fucceeded as Paifhwa by his
elded fon Balajee Row (called alfo Nana Saheb, or Na-
nah Row), who left three fons, the elded of whom,
Balajee Pandit, fometimes called Nanah Pundit, fuc¬
ceeded him. The two others were Rogobah or Rago-
nat Row, and Shamfheer Row.
Balajee Pundit left two fons; Mahadava Row, who
was. Pailhwa twelve years 5 and Narrain Raw, who fuc¬
ceeded him.
During the latter part of the life of Mahadava Row,
his uncle Rogobah ivas confined to the palace at Poo-
nah, for reafons wdth which we are not acquainted.
Mahadava Row died without iffue ; and upon the ac-
ceffion of Narrain his brother, a youth of about 19
years of age, Rogobah in vain applied to be releafed
from his confinement. He is therefore fufpefted of
having entered into a confpiracy with twro officers in
his nephew’s fervice, Somair Jing and Yufuph Gardie,
in order to procure that by force -which he could not
obtain by entreaty. The correfpondence between the
confpirators was carried on with fo much fecrecy, that
the court had not the lead intimation or fufpicion of
their defign, till every avenue leading to the palace
had been fecured, and the wffiole building furrounded
by the troops under the command of thofe two offi¬
cers. It is faid, that on the firft alarm, Narrain Row,
« fulpeBing his uncle, ran to his apartment, threw him-
felf at his feet, and implored his protection : “ You
are my uncle (faid he), fpare the blood of your own
family, and take pofleffion of a government which I
am willing to refign to you.”
Somair and Yufuph entered the room whilft the
young Paiffiwa was in this fuppliant pofture. Rogo-
bah, with apparent furprife and anger, ordered them
to withdraw •, but as they either knew him not to be
fin cere, or thought they had proceeded too far to re¬
treat, they llabbed Narrain with their poniards whilft
he clung to his uncle’s knees.
The office of Paiffiwa being now vacant, the chiefs
of the nation thtn at Poonah were affembled, and Ro-
gobaffi being the only furvivor of the family of Biflfo-
nat Balajee, to whofe memory the Marhattas in thofe
parts are enthufiaftically attached, he was. named to
fill it. Being naturally of a warlike temper, he re-
folved to undertake fome foreign expedition for be-
lides gratifying his oaffion for the field, he probably
hoped, bv the fplendour of his exploits, to draw off
the attention of the public from inquiring into the late
Cataftrophe.
A pretence for war w*as not difficult to be found.
He renewed the claim of his nation to the chout, and
marched his army towards Hydrabad, the capital of
the Nizam. The vigour of his meafiires procured him
an accommodation of his demand j and he w^as pro¬
ceeding to enforce a fimilar one upon the Carnatic,
when he received intelligence which obliged him to re¬
turn haftily to Poonah.
Although the Marhatta chiefs had acknowledged
Rogobah as Paifhwa, yet they and the people in ge-
apral were much diflatisfied with his condudl. The
murderers of Narrain Row had not only efcaped pu-M-nhattas.
niftiment, but, as was reported, had been rewarded. y—-—•>
'I he crime was unexampled, and the perpetrators were
beheld with uncommon horror and deteltation. The
Paiihw-a had hitherto fo fully poffeffed the love of the
people, that, till then, guards were confidered as un-
neceffary about the perfon of a man wffiofe character
rendered him inviolable. Every one therefore had
free accefs to his palace, and he relied with confidence
for his fafety upon the affe&ions of thofe who approach¬
ed him.
Thefe reflections operated powerfully upon the
minds of the Marhattas ; but perhaps no violent con-
fequences rvould have enfued, had it not been difeover-
ed, foon after the departure of Rogobah from Poo¬
nah, that the widow of Narrain Row, Ganga Baee,
was pregnant. This determined their wavering refo-
lutions. Frequent confultations were held among the
principal men then in the capital.; and it was finally re-
folved to abjure the allegiance they had fworn to Rogo¬
bah, and declare the child, yet unborn, to be the legal
fucceffor of the late paiffiwa.
A council of regency was immediately appointed to
govern the country until the child ffiould become of
age ; and it was agreed to referve their deliberations,
in cafe it ffiould prove a female or die, till the event
fliould render them neceffary. They who principally
condufted thefe meafures, and wffiofe names will on
that account be remembered, were Sackharam Babou
and Balajee Pundit, called alfo Nanah Pher Nevees from
his having been long the principal fecretary of the Mar¬
hatta ftate. Nine other Marhatta leaders approved of
thefe meafures, and fwore to maintain them.
As the firft ftep towards the execution of their plan,,
the widow of Narrain Row was conveyed to Poorend-
her, a fort of great ftrength, fituated on a high moun¬
tain, about 25 miles from Poonah. As foon as Rogo¬
bah received intimation of this revolution, he march¬
ed back towards the capital. But difeontent had aL-
ready infefted his troops ; fome of the chiefs retired
to their eftates, and others jbined the ftandard of the
regents. He however rifked a battle with an army of
the revolters commanded by Trimbec Row, in which
the latter was flain ; but though he obtained a victo¬
ry, the ftrength of the confederates daily increafed,
while his own troops were diminiffied by continual de-
fertions. He therefore found it neceffary to retire to
Ugein, and to iblicit the affiftance of the Marhatta
chiefs Scindia and Plolkar ; but meeting wuth a refn-
fal, he went to Surat, and applied for fuccour to the
Engliffi.
Rogobah’s fuccefs in this application was the caufe
of twm wars with the Marhatta ftate ; which, after
much w^afte of blood and treafure, we were obliged to
conclude by relinquiffiing his claim, and acknowledging
as legal paiffiwa the fon of Narrain Rowq who was born
about feven months after the death of his father. See
India and EIindostan.
The Marhatta dominions, as already obferved, are
governed by a number of feparate chiefs, all of whom
acknowledge the Ram Rajah as their fovereign ; and
all except Moodajee Boonfalah, own the paiffiwa as
his vicegerent. The country immediately fubjeiR to
the pailhwa, including all the hereditary territories
that were left by the Rajah Sahou to the Ram Rajah,
aiA,
MAR [ 589 ] MAR
Mavliattas. nnd thofe that have been acquired and added to them
   Unce in his name, extends along the coalt nearly from
Goa to Cambay ; on the fouth it borders on the pof-
Teffions of Tippoo Saib, eaftward on thofe of the Ni¬
zam and of the Marhatta rajah of Berar, and towards
the north on thofe of the Marhatta chiefs Scindia and
Holkar.
Moodajee Boonfalah, rajah of Berar, poffeffed, be-
fides Berar, the greateil part of Orixa. This prince
being defcended from the line of the Ram Rajah, eyes
the power of the paiihwa, by whom a branch of his
family is kept in ignominious confinement, with ill will;
has often refufed to fupport his meafures 5 and, on
fome occafions, has even feemed inclined to a£t againft
him.
Next to Moodajee, in point of importance, muft be
ranked Madajee Scindia, a bold and afpiring chief, who
pofleffes the greateft part of the extenfive foubadary or
government of Malva, together with part of the pro¬
vince of Candeilh. The remainder is under the domi¬
nion of Holkar. Both he and Scindia pretend to be
defcended from the ancient kings of Malva. Scindia
reiides chiefly at Ugein, near the city of Mundu, once
the capital of thefe kings ; and Holkar at Indoor, a
town little more than 30 miles weft of it. The domi¬
nions of thefe, and of fome chiefs of Ids confequence,
extend as far as the river Jumna.
The meafures purfued by the Marhattas for fome
years left little room to doubt that they afpired at the
Sovereignty of all Hindoftan, or at leaft at the expul-
fion of the Mohamedan princes : And in this laft de-
* An Hif- fign they appear to have fucceeded *, and to have
toricaland gained a great acceftion of territory, through the arms
view 0/V V0f Scindia> by the capture of the cities of Agra
Decan. and Delhi, with their territorial dependencies, and the
confequent captivity of the unfortunate monarch who
ruled there as the laft imperial reprefentative of the
great Mogul race of Timur. “ The whole of the do¬
minion thus newly eftablithed is of vaft extent, ftretch-
ing near 1200 miles along the frontiers of Tippoo and
the Nizam in a north-eaft direftion, from Goa on the
Malabar coaft to Balafore in Oriffa adjoining to Ben¬
gal ; and from thence northwvefterly 1000 miles more,
touching the confines of the Britith and allied ftates,
on the borders of the Ganges and Jumna, to the ter¬
ritory of the Seiks at Paniput, rendered famous in
1761 for the laft memorable defeat fuftained by the
Marhattas in their ambitious conteft for empire with
the united declining power of the Mohamedans. From
this place in a foutherly courfe, with great encroach¬
ment on the old eaftern boundary of the Rajepoot
country of Ajmere, it runs about 260 miles to the
little Hindoo principality of Kotta, and thence fouth-
wefterly 540 miles further to the extreme point of
the foubah of Gujerat at Duarka, including the whole
of that fertile province •, from whence, along the fca-
coafts of Cambay and Malabar to Goa, the diftance
may be reckoned 8qo miles. Thus the overgrown
empire of the Marhattas may be faid to extend eaft
19 degrees of longitude, near the parallel of 22 de¬
grees north latitude, from the mouths of the Indus
to thofe of the Ganges •, and about 13 degrees of la¬
titude north, from the Kiftnah to Paniput ; compre¬
hending at leaft an area of 400,000 fquare geogra¬
phical miles, being confiderably more than a third part
of Hindoftan, including the Decan, and equal per- Marhattax,
haps in dimenfions to all the Britifh and allied ftates
in India, with thofe of Golconda and Myfore, taken
together.
Such w?as the ftate of affairs in India fo far as the
Marhattas were concerned a few years ago. By con-
fuhing the hiftory of India, the reader will obferve,
that the powder and dominion of thefe enterprifing chiefs
have been fince greatly abridged by the fuccefsful pro-
grefs of tbe Britifh arms. See India.
MARIA, or SanCta Maria, an ifland of tbe In¬
dian ocean, lying about five miles eaft from Madagaf-
car. It is about 27 miles long and five broad \ w-ell
watered, and furrounded by rocks. The air is ex>
tremely moift, for it rains almoft every day. It is in¬
habited by 500 or 600 negroes, but leldom vifited by
ftiips.
Maria, <SV, a ccnfiderable town of South America,
in the audience of Panama, built by tbe Spaniards after
they had difeovered the gold mines near it, and foon
after taken by the Englilh. It is feated at the bottom
of the gulf of St Michael, at the mouth of a river of
the fame name j which is navigable, and the larged
that falls into the gulf. The Spaniards come here
every year in the dry feafon, which continues three
months, to gather the gold dull out of the fands of the
neighbouring ftreams; and carry aw7ay great quantities.
W. Long. 148. 30. N. Lat. 7. o.
Maria, 6’/, a handfome and confiderable town of
Spain, in Andalufia, with a fmall caftle. It w7as taken
by the Englilh and Dutch in 1702, for the archduke
of Auftvia. It is feated on the Guadaleta, at the mouth
of wrhich is a tower and a clofe battery. W. Long.
5. 33. N. Lat 36. 35.
MARIAN islands. See L AO rone IJlands.
MARIANA, John, a learned Spaniih hiftorian,
born at Talavera in the diocefe of Toledo. Pie entered
among the Jefuits in 1554, at .17 years cf age ; and be- .
came cue of the moft learned men cf his time. Pie
was a great divine, a good humanift, and profoundly
verfed in ecclefiaftical as well as profane hiftory. Pfe
taught at Rome, in Sicily, at Paris, and in Spain ; and
died at Toledo in 1624. His principal works are,
I. An excellent hiftory of Spain in-30 books: v.’hich
he himfelf tranflated from the Latin into -Spanifh, with¬
out fevvilely following his owm Latin edition. 2. Scho¬
lia, or ftiort notes on the Bible. 3. A treatife on the
changes the fpecie has undergone in Spain ; for which
he was thrown into prifon by the duke of Lerma, the
Spaniih minifter, 4. A famous treatife De rege ct re-
gu- InJHtutlone, which made much noife, and was con¬
demned by the parliament of Paris to be burnt by the
hands of the common hangman, for his afferting in .
that rvork, that it is- lawful to murder tyrants. 5. A
W’ork on the faults of the government of the fociety
of Jefuits, which has been tranftated into Spanifh,
Latin, Italian, PVench, &c.
MAR I AN US scotus, an Irifh monk, was related
to the venerable Bede, and wrote a chronicle which
is efteemed. Pie died in the abbey of Fuid in 1086,
aged 58.
MARIBONE, or St Mary le Bone, or rather
Borne, from the neighbouring brook, a pariftr of Mid-
dlefex, on the north-weft fide of London. The manor-,
appears to have belonged anciently to the b'ihop of '
London,.,.
Manila-
mim
MAR [ ^
London. The houfes in this parifn are very nuraerotrs,
comprifing feveral exteniive ftreets and fquarcs, which
Marine. are ever7 year increafing. The Paddington road from
—Ilhngton paffes through this pariih, which gives it
pomirmnication with the eaftern part or London with¬
out palling through the ftreets. Mere were three con-
Guits erected about tlie year 1238, for fupplying the
City ot London with water j but anno 1703, when it
was plentifully ferved by the New River, the citizens
let them out at 700I. a-year for 43 years. There
were two for receiving its w ater at the north-eaft cor¬
ner of the bridge on the river Tyburn, and over them
flood the lord mayor’s banqueting houfe, to which (the
life of coaches being not then known) his lordfhip and
the aldermen ufed to ride on horfeback, as their ladies
did in waggons. This banqueting houfe, after being
many years negledted, was taken down in 1737, and
the citterns arched over. This village, if it may
be called by that name, is joined by new buildings to
London. 1 he old church, which was a mean edifice,
was pulled down, and a new one erected in 1741.
Befides which it has a grea^ number of chapels of every
feet and perfuation, and an extentive vvorkhoute for the
poor.
MARIDLNUM, in Jlncicnt Geography, a town of
the Demetae in Britain. Now Caer Mar a in, or Cair-
marthen, the capital of Caermarthenthire.
MARIGALANTE, an iiland of North America,
and one of the lealt of the Caribbees, lies in N. Lat.
J 6, 32. and W. Long. 61. 5. from London, at the di-
itance of four leagues from Guadaloupe, to the fouth.
1 he foil, produce, and climate, are pretty much the
lame as the other Caribbees. Columbus difeovered it
in his fecond American voyage in 1483, and called it
by the name of his fliip Maria Galanta, or Gallant
Mary. It is about fix leagues long, and between
* three and four broad. Viewed at a diftance from on
board a {hip, it appears like a floating ifiand, becaufe,
as it is for the moll part flat, the trees feem to fwim ;
but a nearer profpect fhows it to be interfered by
feme riling grounds, which give a fine variety to the
landfcape. The French fettled here in 1648 ; and it
was taken by the Englifh in 1691, but the French
foon got poffeflion of it again. It was again taken by
the Britiih in 1759, but afterwards rellored at the
peace 1763—This ifiand was thought, on its firft dil-
covery, to want water \ but a charming running ftream
has in time been difeovered, no lefs convenient than
refrefhing and wholefome, on the banks of which are
fome wealthy planters, and excellent plantations of fu-
gar. A little village in a fmall bay is the capital of
'the ifiand, and here the commandant refides. The
whole ifiand is very capable of improvement; the foil
being almoft equally good, and the land rifing no¬
where too high. The coafl affords many little bays,
and fafe anchorage and fhelter to fliips.
MARINE, a general name for the navy of a king-
-dom or flate j as alfo the whole economy of naval af¬
fairs ; or whatever refpefts the building, rigging, arm¬
ing, equipping, navigating, and fighting Ihips. It
comprehends alfo the government of naval armaments,
and the ftate of all the perfons employed therein, whe¬
ther civil or military.
The hiftory of the marine affairs of any one ffate is
a very comprehenfive fubjeft, much more that of all
59° 1
M A R
nations.^ . I hofe who Would be informed of the man- Mariue?*
time affairs or Great Britain, and the figure it has made ~—
at fea in all ages, may find abundance of curious mat¬
ter in Selden’s Mare Claufum; and from his time to
ours, we may trace, a feries of fa£s in Media rdf, and
Burcjiet s Naval Hiilory ; but above all in the Lives
of tne Admirals, by the accurate and iudicious Dr
Campbell.
Ivlxi. ivINES, or Mari nr Forces, a body of foldiers
raifed for the fea fervice, and trained to fight either in
a naval engagement or in an affion afhore.'
The great fervice of this ufeful corps was manifefled
frequently in tne couifc o^ tne war before laff, particu¬
larly at the fiege of Belleifle, where they acquired a
great character, although lately raifed and hardly exer-
cifed in military difeipline. At fc-a they are incorpo¬
rated with the fliip’s crew, of which they make a part :
and many of them learn in a fliort time to be excellent
feamen, to which their officers are ordered by the ad¬
miralty to encourage them, although no fea officer is
to order them to go aloft againft their inclination. In
a fea fight their fmall arms are of very great advantage
in fcouring the decks of the enemy ; and when they
have been long enough at fea to ffand firm when the
fliip rocks, they muff be infinitely preferable to feamea
if the enemy attempts to board, by raifing a battalion
with their fixed bayonets to oppoie him.
The foie dire&ien of the corps of marines is vefied
in the lords commiffioners of the admiralty j and in
the admiralty is a diflin£ apartment for this purpofe.
The fecretary to the admiralty is likewife fccretary to
the marines, for which he has a falary of 300I. a-year 5
and he has under him feveral clerks for the manage¬
ment of this department.
The marine forces of Great Britain in the time of
peace are flationed in three divifions 5 one of which is
quartered at Chatham, one at Portfmouth, and another
at Plymouth. By a late regulation, they are ordered
to do duty at the feveral dock-yards of thofe ports, to
prevent embezzlement of the king’s ftores, for which
a captain’s guard mounts every day $ which certainly
requires great vigilance, as fo many abufes of this kind
have been committed, that many of the inhabitants,
who have been long ufed to an infamous traffic of this
kind, expeft thefe conveyances at certain periods as
their due, and of courfe refent this regulation in the
higheft degree as an infringement of their liberties as
Britifh fubje£Is.
The marine corps are under the command of their
own field officers, who difeipline them, and regulate
their different duties. His late majefly in 1760 form¬
ed a new eftablifliment of marine officers, entitled, the
general, lieutenant general, and three colonels of marines
(one for each divifion), to be taken from officers in the
royal navy. The two firft are always enjoyed by flag
officers, the laft by poft captains only. This eftablifli-
ment was formed to reward jiich officers who diftin-
guiffied themfelves in the fervice of their country.
Marine Difeipline, is the training up foldiers for fea
fervice, in fuch exercifes as the various pofitions of the
firelock and body, and teaching them every manoeuvre
that can be performed on board fhips of war at fea. See
Exercise.
Marine Chair, a machine invented by Mr Irwin
for viewing the fatellites of Jupiter at fea, and of
courfe
M A H [ 591 1 M A R
courfe determining the longitude by their eclipfes. An
account of it is given in the 'journal FJlranger for
March 1760. An account of its accuracy was pub-
Hihed the year following by M. de I’llle allronomer in
the Imperial academy of Peterfburg : but notwith-
ftanding the encomiums bellowed upon it by this gen¬
tleman, it hath never come into general ufe \ and there¬
fore tve may conclude, that it is much inferior to the
inventions of Mr Harrifon for the iame purpofe. See
Harrison and Longitude.
Marins Surveyor, is the name of a machine con¬
trived by Mr H. de Saumarez for meafuring the way
of a (hip in the fea. This machine is in the form of
the letter Y, and is made of iron, or any other metal.
At each end of the lines which conilitute the angle or
upper part of that letter, are two pallets, not much
unlike the figure of the log •, one of which falls in the
fame proportion as the other rifes. The falling or
pendant pallet meeting a refiftance from the water, as
the (hip moves, has by that means a circular motion
under water, which is fafter or flower according as the
veflcl moves. This motion is communicated to a dial
within the (hip, by means of a rope faftened to the
tail of the Y, and carried to the dial. The motion
being-thus communicated to the dial, which has a bell
in it, it ftrikes exadlly the number of geometrical
paces, miles, or leagues, which the ihip has run.
Thus the ihip’s dittance is afeertained j and the forces
of tides and currents may alio be difeovered by
this inilrument: which, however, has been very little
ufed.
Marins Acid, an old name given to muriatic acid,
which fee in CHEMISTRY Index.
MARINER, the fame with a bailor or feaman. See
tliefe articles.
Method of preferring the health of Mariners. See
Seamen.
Mariner's Cornpcfs. See Compass.
St MARINO, a fmall town and republic of Italy,
fituated in E. Long. 13. 44. N. Lat.,44. 21. This
fmall republic confifts only of a mountain, and a few
hillocks, that lie fcattered about the bottom of it. The
number of the inhabitants is about 5000. The moun¬
tain yields good wine, but they have no other than rain
or fhow vrater. The founder of the republic was a
Dalmatian, and a mafon, who upwards of 1300 years
ago turned hermit, and retired to this mountain. Here
his devotion and aufterity, and, in confequence of that,
his reputation for fandlity, were fuch, that the prin-
ues of the country made him a prefent of the moun¬
tain ; on which many, out of veneration for the faint,
foon after took up their abode. Thus wTas the founda¬
tion laid of the towm and republic, which Hill bears
the name of the faint. The town Hands on the top of
the mountain, and there is only one wray by which it
can be come at. In the whole territory are only three
cables, three convents, and five churches. The largeft
of the churches is dedicated to the faint, and contains
his alhes and his ilatue. He is looked upon as the
greateft faint, next to the bleiled Virgin •, and to fpeak
difrefpedlfully of him is accounted blafphemy, and pu-
mfhed as fuch. The republic is under the protedlion
of the pope. All that are capable of bearing arms are
exercifed, and ready at a minute’s call. In the ordi¬
nary courfe of government, the adminiftration is in the
hands of the council of 60, tvbicb, notwithftanding its
name, coniilis only of 40 } one-half of the members of
which are of the noble families, and the other of the
plebeian : on extraordinary occafions, however, the
arengo, in which every houfe has its reprefentative, is
called together. The two principal officers are the ca-
pitaneo ', v ho are chofen every half year ; and next to
them is the commiffary, who judges in civil and criminal
matters, and is joined in commiffion with the capitane-
os ; both he and the phyfician muft be foreigners, and
both have their falaries out of the public Hock. When
any perfon, after due lummons, neglecls to affiH at the
council according to their Hatute book, he is to be
fined in about a penny Engliffi ; and when an ambaf-
fador is to be fent to any foreign Hate, he is to be al¬
lowed about is. a-day.
Marino, John Baptif, a celebrated Italian poetr
born at Naples in 1569. His father, who was an
able civilian, obliged him to Hudy the law 5 at which
being difgufied, he left his parents, and retired to the
houfe of the Sieur Manzi, who was a friend to all per-
fons of wit. He at length became fecretary to Mat¬
thew of Capua, great admiral of the kingdom of Na¬
ples, and contradled a friendfhip with Taffo. A ffiort
time after, he went to Rome, and entered into the fer-
vice of Cardinal Aldobrandini, nephew to Pope Cle¬
ment VIII. who took him with him to Savoy. Ma¬
rino was in great favour with the court of Turin ; but
afterwards created himfelf many enemies there, the
moll furious of whom was the poet Gafpard Murtola,
who, attempting to ihoot him with a piilol, wounded
one of the duke of Savoy’s favourites. Marino being
obliged to leave Turin, went to Paris at the defire of
Queen Mary de Medicis, and publifiied there his poem
on Adonis. Pie afterwards went to Rome, where he
was made prince of the academy of the humorifli ;
from thence to Naples, where he died while he was
preparing to return home. He had a very lively ima¬
gination, but little judgement ; and, giving way to the
points and conceits then in vogue, his authority, far
from correcting the falfe tafle of the Italians, lerved
rather to keep it farther from reformation. His works'
which are numerous, have been often printed.
MARINES, an engraver, who fiouriffied about the
year 1630, and refided principally at Antwerp. His
plates, Mr Strutt obferves, are executed in a very lin¬
gular Hyle, with the graver only : The Hrokes are very
fine and delicate, and crolfed over eaeh other in a lo¬
zenge-like form, which he filled up with thin long dots.
His prints, though generally very neat, want the Hyle
of the mafler in the determination of the folds of the
draperies and the outline of the human figure j
the extremities of which are heavy, and not marked
with precifion. Fine impreflions from his befi plates
are, however, much fought after by collectors ; thofe
efpecially after Rubens and Jordans are held in high
ellimation.
MARIONIS, in Ancient Geography, a town of
Germany : now Hamburg, a famous trading city on
the Elbe, in Lower Saxony, in the duchy of Holfldn.
Another Marionis (Ptolemy), thought to be Wifmar,
a torvn of Lower Saxony, in the duchy of Mecklen-
burgh.
MARJORAM. See Origanum, Botany Index.
MARITAGIUM. In the feudal cultom', manta*
MAR [ 592 ] MAR
e* gium (as contradiflinguifbed from matrimonium) figni-
fies the power which the lord or guardian in chivalry-
had of difpofing of his infant wTard in matrimony. For
while the infant was in wrard, the guardian had the
power of tendering him or her a fuitable match with-
•out difparagement or inequality : which if the infants
refufed, they forfeited the value of the marriage, va¬
lorem maniagii, to their guardian ; that is, fo much as
a jury would affefs, or any one w7ould botm fide give to
the guardian for fuch an alliance: and if the infants
'married themfelves without the guardian’s confent,
they forfeited double the value, duplicem valorem mari-
iagii.
MARITIME, fomething relating to, or bounded
by the fea. Thus a maritime province or country is
one bounded by the fea; and a maritime kingdom is
one that makes a confiderable figure, or that is very
powerful at fea. Hence, by maritime powers among
the European ftates, are underllood Great Britain and
formerly Holland.
Maritime State, in Britifh polity, one of the three
general divifions of the laity : (See Laity). This
date is nearly connefted with the military ; though
much more agreeable to the principles of our free
-conftitution. The royal navy of England hath ever
been its greateft defence and ornament j it is its an¬
cient and natural ftrength; the floating bulwark of
the ifland ; an army from which, however ftrong and
powerful, no danger can ever be apprehended to li¬
berty 5 and accordingly it has been afliduoufly culti¬
vated from earliefl: ages. To fo much perfection was
our naval reputation arrived in the 12th century, that
the code of maritime law's, which are called the laws
of Oleron, and are received by all nations in Europe
'as the ground and fubftruCtion of all their marine
conftitutions, was confeffedly compiled by our king
Richard I. at the ifle of Oleron on the coaft of France,
then part of the poiTeflions of the crown of England.
And yet fo vaftly inferior wTere our anceftors in this
point to the prefent age, that even in the maritime reign
of Queen Elizabeth, Sir Edward Coke thinks it mat¬
ter of boaft, that the royal navy of England then con-
fifted of three and thirty Jbips. The prefent condition
of our marine is in great meafure owing to the falu-
tary provifions of the flatutes called the navigation
■aSis; wdiereby the conflant increafe of Englifli Ihip-
ping and feamen was not only encouraged, but ren¬
dered unavoidably neceffary. By the ftatute 5 Rich¬
ard II. c. 3. in order to augment the navy of Eng¬
land, then greatly diminifhed, it w'as ordained, that
•none of the king’s liege people fhould (hip any mer-
chandife out of or into the realm, but only in fhips of
the king’s ligeance, on pain of forfeiture. In the .
next year, by flatute 6 Rich. II. c. 8. this wife provi-
fion was enervated, by only obliging the merchants to
give Engliih ihips (if able and luflicient) the prefer¬
ence. But the moft beneficial flatute for the trade
and commerce of thefe kingdoms is that navigation
act, the rudiments of which were firft framed in 1650,
with a narrow partial view ; being intended to mortify
our own fugar iflands, which w7ere difaffeCled to the
parliament, and ftill held out for Charles II. by flop¬
ping the gainful trade which they then carried on
with the Dutch, and at the fame time to clip the
wings of tbofe our opulent .and afpiring neighbours.
3
'Ihis prohibited all flrips of foreign nations from tra* Maritime.,
ding with any Englifli plantations, without licenfe "•—
from the council of ftate. In 1651, the prohibition
was extended alfo to the mother country : and no
goods were fuftered to be imported into England, or
any of its dependencies, in any other than Englifli
bottoms •, or in the fliips of that European nation of
which the merchandile imported was the genuine
growth or manufa&ure. At the Reftoraticn, the
former provifions were continued, by flat. 12 Car. II.
c. 18. with this very material improvement, that the
mafler and three-fourths of the mariners fliall alfo be
Englifli fubjefts.
Many law's have been made for the fupply of the
royal navy with feamen j for their regulation wdien on
board 5 and to confer privileges and rewards on them
during and after their fervice.
1. For their fupply. The principal, but the molt
odious, though often neceffary method for this pur-
pofe, is by imprefling; fee Impressing. But there
are other ways that tend to the increafe of feamen,
and manning the royal navy. Parilhes may bind out
poor boys apprentices to the mafters of merchantmen,
wrho fliall be protected from imprefling for the firft
three years ; and if they are impreffed afterwards, the
maflers (hall be allowed their wages : great advantages
in point of wrages are given to volunteer feamen, in
order to induce them to enter into his majefty’s fer¬
vice : and every foreign feaman, who, during a war
fliall ferve two years in any man of war, merchant¬
man, or privateer, is naturalized ipfio faBo. About
the middle of King William’s reign, a fcheme was
fet on foot for a regifter of feamen to the number of
30,000 for a conftant and regular fupply of the king’s
fleet 5 with great privileges to the regiftered men ; and,
on the other hand, heavy penalties in cafe of their
non-appearance when called for j but this regiftry, be¬
ing judged to be rather a badge of flavery, was abo-
lilhed by flat. 9 Ann. c. 21.
2. The method of ordering feamen in the royal
fleet, and keeping up a regular difcipline there, is di¬
rected by certain exprefs rules, articles, and orders,
firfl enafted by the authority of parliament foon after
tile Refloration j but fince new modelled and altered,
after the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, to remedy fome
defeats which were of fatal confequences in conducting
the preceding war. In thefe articles of the navy al-
moft every poflible offence is fet dowm, and the pu-
nilhment thereof annexed : in which refpeR the fea¬
men have much the advantage over their brethren rnf
the land lervice j whofe articles of W'ar are not enaCted
by parliament, but framed from time to time at the
plealure of the crown. Yet from wdience this diflinc-
tion arofe, and why the executive pow’er, which is li¬
mited fo properly with regard to the navy, fliould be
fo extenfive with regard to the army, it is hard to
aflign a reafon : unlefs it proceeded from the perpetual
eftablilhment of the navy, which rendered a permanent
law for their regulation expedient, and the temporary-
duration of the army, which fubfifted only from year
to year, and might therefore with lefs danger be fub-
jeCled to difcretionary government. But, whatever
wTas apprehended at the firfl formation of the mutiny
aCt, the regular renewal of our Handing force at the
entrance of every year has made this diflinCtion idle.
For.,
Marius.
MAR [ 593
For, if from experience paft, we may judge of future
events, the army is now lattingly ingrafted into the
Eritith conftitution ; with this fingularly fortunate cir-
cumftance, that any branch of the legiflature may an¬
nually put an end to its legal exiftence, by refilling to
concur in its continuance.
3. The privileges conferred on failors, are pretty
much the fame with thofe conferred on foldiers, with
regard to relief, when maimed, or rvounded, or fu-
perannuated, either by county-rates, or the royal bof-
pital at Greenwich j with regard alfo to the exercife
of trades, and the power of making nuncupative tefta-
ments •, and farther, no feaman aboard his majelly’s
fhips can be arrefted for any debt, unlefs the fame be
fworn to amount at lead to twenty pounds ; though, by
the annual mutiny afts, a foldier may be arrelted for a
debt which extends to half that value, but not to a lefs
amount.
MARIUS, the famous Roman general, and feven
times conful, who fullied his great military reputation
by favage barbarities. He was born at Arpinum, of
obfcure and illiterate parents. He forfook the meaner
occupations of the country for the camp 5 and figna-
lized himfelf under Scipio, at the fiege of Numantia.
The Roman general faw the courage and intrepidity
of young Marius, and foretold the era of his future
greatnefs. Ey his feditions and intrigues at Rome,
while he exercifed the inferior offices of the date, he
rendered himfelf known ; and his marriage with Julia,
who w’as of the family of the Caefars, contributed in
fome manner to raife him to confequence. He palled
into Africa as lieutenant to the conful Metellus againft
Jugurtha j and after he had there ingratiated himfelf
with the foldiers, and railed enemies to his friend and
benefactor, he returned to Rome and canvaffed for
the confullhip. The extravagant promifes he made to
the people, and his malevolent infmuations about the
conduft of Metellus, proved fuccefsful. He was elect¬
ed and appointed to finifli the war againft Jugurtha.
He Ihowed himfelf capable in every degree to iucceed
to Metellus. Jugurtha was defeated, and afterwards
betrayed into the hands of the Romans by the perfi¬
dy of Bocchus. No fooner w7as Jugurtha conquered,
than new honours and frefti trophies awaited Marius.
The provinces of Rome were fuddenly invaded by an
army of 300,000 barbarians, and Marius was the on¬
ly man whofe aftivity and boldnefs could refift fo
powerful an enemy. He was ele&ed conful, and fent
againft the Teutones. The war was prolonged, and
Marius was a third and fourth time invefted with the
confullhip. At laft two engagements were fought,
and not lefs than 200,000 of the barbarian forces of
the Ambrones and Teutones w7ere flain in the field of
battle, and 90,000 made prifoners. The following
year, A. U. C. 651, was alfo marked by a total over¬
throw of the Cimbri, another horde of barbarians; in
which 140,000 W'ere ftaughtered by the Romans, and
60,000 taken prifoners. After fuch honourable vic¬
tories, . Marius with his colleague Catullus entered
Rome in triumph ; and for his eminent fervices he re¬
ceived the appellation of the t/iirc/ founder of Rome.
file was defied conful a fixth time 5 and as his intre¬
pidity had delivered his country from its foreign ene¬
mies, he fought employment at" home, and his reftlefs
ambition began to raife feditions, and to oppofe the
Vol. XII. Part II.
M A It
power of Sylla. I his was the foundation of a ci¬
vil war. Sylla refufed to deliver up the command of
his forces, with which he was empowered to profe-
cute the fiidfthndatic war v and he refolved to oppofs
in perfon the authors of a demand which he confider-
ed as arbitrary and improper. He advanced to Rome,
and Marius was obliged to fave his life by flight.
I he unfavourable wands prevented him from feeking
a fafer retreat in Africa, and he was left on the coaft
of Campania,^ where the emiflaries of his enemy foon
di(covered him in a marlh, wiiere he had plunged
himfelf in the mud, and left only his mouth above
the fun ace for refpiration. He was violently drag¬
ged to the neighbouring town of Minturnse ; and the
magiftrates, all devoted to the intereft of Sylia, paf-
fed jentence of immediate death on their magnani¬
mous prifoner. A Gaul uTas commanded to cut oft’
his head in the dungeon ; but the ftern countenance of
Marius difarmed the courage of the executioner : and
wnen he heard the exclamation of lune, homo, audes
occidei e Caium M.orium? the dagger dropped from his
hand. Such an uncommon adventure moved the com-
paftion of tne inhabitants of Minturnae. They releafed
Marius from prifon ; and favoured his efcape to Afri¬
ca, where he joined his fon Marius, w'ho had been
arming the princes of that country in his caufe. Ma¬
rius landed near the walls of Carthage, and he receiv¬
ed^ no fmall confolation at the fight of the venerable
ruins of a once powerful city, which like himfelf had
been expofed to calamity, and felt the cruel viciflitude
of fortune. This place of his retreat was foon known j
and the governor of Africa, to conciliate the favour of
by 11*, compelled Marius to fly to a neighbouring ifland.
He foon after learned that Cinna had embraced his
came at Rome, when the Roman fenate had ftripped
him of his confular dignity, and beftoived it upon one
of his enemies. This intelligence animated Marius ;
he fet fail to aliift his friend only at the head of 1003
men. His army, however, was foon increafed, and
he enteied Rome like a conqueror. His enemies were
inhumanly facrificed to his fury j Rome was filled
with blood ; and he, wdio once had been called the fa¬
ther of his country, marched through the ftreets of
the city, attended by a number of affaflins, who im¬
mediately flaughttered all thofe vvhofe falutations were
not anfwered by their leader. Such were the fio-nals
for bloodihed. When Marius and Cinna had fuffici-
ently gratified their refentment, they made themfelves
confuls; but Marius, already worn out w'ith old age
and infirmities, died fixteen days after he had been
•honoured with the confular dignity for the feventh
time, A. U. C. 666. Such was the end of Marius
wno rendered himfelf confpicuous by his victories and
by his cruelty. As he was brought up in poverty and
among peafants, it will not appear wonderful that he
always betrayed rufticity in his behavour, and defpifed
in others thofe polifhed manners and that ftudied ad-
drefs, which education had denied him. He hated the
converfation of the learned only becaufe he was illite¬
rate ; and if he appeared an example of fobriety and
temperance, he owed thefe advantages to the vears of
obfeurity which he pafl’ed at Arpinum. His counte-
nance was ftern, his voice firm and imperious, and his
dupofition untradlable. file was in the 70th year of
his age when he died j and Rome feenied to rejoice at
4 ^ the
Marius.
MAR [ 594 ]
Marius the fall of a man whofe ainbitlon had proved fo fatal
^ !i to many of,her citizens. ILs only qualifications were
Ma;k~ , thofe of a great general j and with thefe he rendered
himfelf the moll illullrious and power! ul of the Romans,
becaufe he was the only one whofe ferocity feemed ca¬
pable to oppofe the barbarians of the north.
Marius, C. the fon of the great Marius, was as
cruel as his father, and (hared his good and his adverfe
fortune. He made himfelf conful in the 25th year of
his age, and murdered all the fenators who oppofed
his ambitious views. He was defeated by Sylla, and
lied to Preenefle, where he killed himfelf.
Marius, M. Aurelius, a native of Gaul; who,
from the mean employment of a blackfmith, became
one of the generals of Gallienus, and at lad caufed
himfelf to be fainted emperor. Three days after this
elevation, a man who had (hared his poverty without
partaking of his more profperous fortune, publicly af-
faffinated him, and he was killed by a fword which he
himfelf had made in the time of his obfeurity. Ma¬
rius has been often celebrated for his great ftrength ;
and .’t is confidently reported, that he could (lop, with
cue of his fingers only, the w heel of a chariot in its
moll rapid courfe.
Marius, Maximus, a Latin writer, who publifhed
an account of the Roman emperors from Trajan to
Alexander, now left. His compofitions were enter¬
taining, and executed with great exa&nefs and fideli¬
ty. Some have accufed him of inattention, and com¬
plain that his writings abounded with many fabulous
and infignificant (lories.
MARIVAUX, Peter Carlet de, a French
w riter in the dramatic way and in romance, was born of
a good family at Paris in 1688. A fine underftanding,
well improved by education, diilinguilhed him early.
His firft objefl was the theatre, where he met with
the higheft fuccefs in comic produflions •, and thefe,
W'ith the merit of his other works, procured him a place
in the French academy. The great characleriflic of
both his comedies and romance was, to convey an
ufeful moral under the veil of wit and fentiment :
“ My only objeft (fays he) is to make men more juft
and more humane j” and he was as amiable in his life
and converfation as he was in his writings. He died
at Paris in 1763, aged 75. His works confift of,
j. Vieces de Theatre, 4 vols. I 2mo. 2. Homere travejli,
i2mo; which is not fuppofed to have done much ho¬
nour to his tafte. 3. Le Spe&ateur Franfois, 2. yols.
I 2mo. 4. Le Philofophe Indegent, I 2mo. 5. Vie de
Marianne, 2 vols. 1 2mo j one of the beft romances in
the French language. 6. Le Payfan Parvenu, 12mo.
7. Pharfamon ; inferior to the former.
MARK, St, w*as by birth a Jew, and defeended of
the tribe of Levi. He was converted by fome of the
apoftles, probably by St Peter *, to whom he w'as a con-
ftant companion in all his travels, fupplying the place
of an amanuenfis and interpreter. He was by St Pe¬
ter fent into Egypt, fixing his chief refidence at A-
lexandria, and the places thereabout : where he was
fo fuccefsful in his miniftry, that he converted multi¬
tudes both of men and women. He afterwards remov¬
ed weftwards, towards the parts of Libya, going
through the countries of Marmorica, Pentapolis, and
ethers thereabouts; where, notwithftanding the bar-
M A R
barity and idolatry of the inhabitants, he planted the Mark,
gofpel. Upon his return to Alexandria, he ordered “"“"v"*”
the affairs of that church, and there fuft'ered martyr¬
dom in the following manner. About Eafter, at the
time the folemnities of Serapis w’ere celebrated, the
idolatrous people, being excited to vindicate the ho¬
nour of their deity, broke in upon St Mark, wdiilp he
was performing divine fervice, and, binding him with
cords, dragged him through the (beets, and thruft
him into prifon, where in the night he had the com¬
fort of a divine viiion. Next clay the enraged mul¬
titude ufed him in the fame manner, till, his fpirits
failing, he expired under their hands. Some add,
that they burnt his body, and that the Chriilians de¬
cently interred his bones and allies near the place
where he ufed to preach. This happened in the year
of Chrift 68. Some writers afiert, that the remains of
St Maik were afterwards, with great pomp, tranflated
from Alexandria to Venice. However, he is the tute¬
lar faint and patron of that republic, and has a very
rich and (lately church eredled to his memory. This
apoftle is author of one of the four gofpels inferibed
with his name. See the following article.
St Mark's Gofpel, a canonical book of the New Te-
ftament, being one of the four gofpels.
St Mark wrote his gofpel at Rome, where he ac¬
companied St Peter in the year of Chrift 44. Ter-
tullian and others pretend, that St Mark was no more
than an amanuenfis to St Peter, who didlated this go¬
fpel to him ; others aftirm, that he wrote it after St
Peter’s death. Nor are the learned lefs divided as to
the language it was written in ; fome affirming that it
was compofed in Greek, others in Latin. Several of
the ancient heretics received only the gofpel of St Mark:
others, among the Catholics, rejedled the 12 laft verfes
of this gofpel. The gofpel of St Mark is properly an
abridgement of that of St Matthew.
St Mark the Evangeli/l's Day, a fe.ftival of the Cha¬
dian church, obferved April 25.
Canons of St Mark, a congregation of regular ca¬
nons founded at Mantua, by Albert Spinola, a pried,
towards the end of the 12th century. Spinola made
a rule for them, which was approved, corredled, and
confirmed by feveral fucceeding popes. About the
year 1450 they were reformed, and followed only the
rule of St Auguftine. This congregation having
flouriffied for the fpace of 400 years, declined by little
and little, and is now become extin6b
Knights of St Mark, an order of knighthood in
the republic of Venice, under the proteftion of St
Mark the evangelift. The arms of the order are,
gules, a lion winged or j with this device, Pax tibi
Marce Evangelista. This order is never conferred
but on thofe who ^have done .fignal fervice to the com¬
monwealth.
Mark, or Marc, in commerce, denotes a weight ufed
in feveral dates of Europe, and for feveral commodities,
efpecially gold and filver. In France, the mark is di¬
vided into eight ounces, 64 drachms, 192 deniers or
penny-weights, 160 efterlins, 300 mails, 640 felins,
or 4608 grains. In Holland, the mark weight is al-
fo called Troy weight, and is equal to that of France.
When gold and filver are fold by the mark, it is divided
into 2C carats.
Mark
MAR
[ 595 ]
M A R
Mark
II
Marlbo¬
rough.
Mark is alfo ufed among us for a money of account,
and in fume other countries for a coin. See Money-
Table.
The Englilh mark is two thirds of a pound fterling,
or i 3s. 4d. and the Scotch mark is of equal value in
Scots money of account, viz. 13yd.
MARKET, a public place in a city or town, in
which live cattle, provifions, or other goods, are fet
to fale j and alfo a privilege, either by grant or pre-
fcription, by which a town is enabled to keep a
market.
Court of the C/erk of the Market, is incident to
every fair and market in the kingdom, to punifh mif-
demeanors therein 5 and a court of pie poudre is to de¬
termine all difputes relating to private or civil pro¬
perty. The objeft of this jurifdiftion (fee flat. 17
Car. II. cap. 10. 22 Car. II. cap. 8. 23 Car. II. cap.
12). is principally the cognizance of weights and mea-
fures 'to try whether they be according to the true
ftandard thereof or not; which flandard was anciently
committed to the cuflody of the bilhop, who appoint¬
ed fome clerk under him to infpedl the abufe of them
more narrowly 5 and hence this officer, though now
ufually a layman, is called the clerk of the market.—
If they be not according to the ftandard, then, be-
fide the puniihment of the party by fine, the weights
and meafures themfelves ought to be burnt. This
is the loweft court of criminal jurifdidfion in the king¬
dom. ,
MARKLAND, Jeremiah, one of the moft learn¬
ed fcholars and penetrating critics of the age, was
born in 1692, and received his education in Chrift’s
hofpital. He became firft publicly known by his E-
pifiola Critic a, addreffed to Eiihop Hare. In this he
gave many proofs of extenfive erudition and critical fa-
gacity. He afterwards publifhed an edition of Statius,
and fome plays of Euripides •, and affifted Dr Taylor
in his editions of Lyfias and Demofthenes, by the
notes which he communicated to him. He has alfo
very happily elucidated fome paffages in the New Te-
ftament, which may be found in Mr Bowyer’s edition
of it ; and was author of a very valuable volume of
remarks on the epiftles of Cicero to Brutus, and of
an excellent little treatife under the title of Queflio
Grammalica. He died in 1775, at Milton, near
Dorking in Surry 5 and was a man not more valued
for his univerfal reading than beloved for the excellency
of his heart and primitive firnplicity of his manners.
MARLBOROUGH, a town of Wiltfhire in Eng¬
land, fttuated near the fource of the Kennet, at the
foot of a chalky hill, 75 miles from London. It has
its name from the chalky foil, which was formerly call¬
ed marl. It was a Roman ftation. In the year
1627, a parliament was held in the caPtle here, which
made thofe laws called Marlborough juitutes. There
are ftill fome final! remains of its walls and ditch.
The town, which is an ancient borough by prefcrip-
tion, fends two members to parliament. It is govern¬
ed by a mayor, 2 juhices, 12 aldermen, 24 burgeffes,
a town-clerk, 2 bailiffs, 12 ferjeants at mace, &c. It
confifts chiefly of one broad ftreet, with piazzas all
along one fide of it, two parifh churches, and feveral
commodious inns, it being the grand thoroughfare from
London to Bath and Briftol. To the fouth are fome
relicts of a priory, particularly the Gate-houfe ; and
Marlbo¬
rough
the fite of a Roman caftrum, the foundations oi which
have been difcovered there, with Roman coins. The ^
ditch is ftill in fome parts 20 feet wide j and towards ]viaiiow.
the river, without the garden walls, one angle of the —y——
caftrum is very vifible with the rampart and ditch
entire. The mount at the weft end of the town,
wffiich wTas the keep or main guard of the caftle, is
coverted into a pretty fpiral walk j at the top of
which is an oflagon fummer houfe. This town has
often fuffered by fire, particularly in 1690, whereup¬
on the parliament palled an aft to prevent its houfes
from being thatched.
Marlborough, Dube of See Churchill.
MARLKOROUGU-Fort, an Englilh faftory on the weft
coaft of the ifland of Sumatra in Alia ; feated three
miles w7eft of the town of Bencoolen. E. Long. 101.
12. S. Lat. 4. 2 r.
MARLE, a mixture of calcareous with filiceous and
argillaceous earth, very much ufed in agriculture as a
manure. See Agriculture and Mineralogy In¬
dex.
MARLINE, in fea affairs, are tarred white Ikains,
or long wreaths or lines of untwifted hemp, dipped in
pitch or tar, with which cables or other ropes are
wrapped round, to prevent their fretting or tubbing
in the blocks or pulleys through which they pals.
The fame ferves in artillery upon ropes ufed for rigging
gins, ufually put up in fmall parcels called fkains.
MARLOE, Christopher, an Englilh dramatic
author, was a ftudent in the univerfity of Cambridge ;
but afterwards turning player, he trode the fame ftage
with the inimitable Shakefpeare. He was accounted
an excellent poet even by Ben Johnfon himfelf. He
wrote fix tragedies, one of which called Lull’s Domi¬
nion, or the Lafcivious Queen, has been altered by Mrs
Behn, and afted under the title of Abdelazar, or the
Moor’s Revenge. Some time before his death, he had
made a confidcrable progrefs in an excellent poem en¬
titled Hero and Leander : which was afterwards finilh-
ed by George Chapman, who is faid to have fallen
lliort of the fpirit and invention difcovered by Marloe.
Mr Anthony Wood reprefents him as a freethinker,
in the vvorft fenfe of the word •, and gives the follow¬
ing account of his death. Falling deeply in love with
a low girl, and having for his rival a fellow in livery,
Marloe, imagining that his miftrefs granted him fa¬
vours, was fired with jealoufy, and rulhed upon him
in order to ftab him with his dagger : but the foot¬
man avoided the ftroke, and, feizing his wrift, ftabbed
him with his own weapon 5 of which wound he died,
in the year 1593.
MARLOW, a town of Buckinghamlhire, in Eng¬
land, 31 miles from London, lies under the Chiltern
hills, in a marly foil. It is a pretty large borough,
though not incorporated, with a bridge over the
Thames, not far from its conflux with Wycomb, and
has a handfome church and town-hall. It firft fent
members to parliament in the reign of Edward II.
Bone lace is its chief manufafture. The Thames
brings goods hither from the neighbouring towns, efpe-
cially great quantities of meal and malt from High
Wycomb, and beech from feveral parts of the county,
which abounds with this wood more than any in Eng¬
land. In the neighbourhood are frequent horfe-races ;
and here are feveral corn and paper mills, particularly
4 F 2 on
M A R f 5
■'■v. tne river Loddon, between this town snd High
Wycomb. I here are, behdes, the 7'emple-mills, for
making thimbles, and another tor preffing oil fr om rape
and flax feeds.
At Great Marlow there is an inftitution fupported
by government for the education of young men dedined
or the army. Ihe pupils are entirely under military
difcipline, and are inltrucled by able profefiers in the
various brandies of mathematics, &c. connected with
military taffies.
MARLY, a palace belonging to the king of France,
between \ erfailles and St Germain ^ feated in a valley,
near a village and foreft of the fame name. It is
noted for its fine gardens and water-works, there be¬
ing a curious machine on the river Seine, which not
only fupplies them with water, but alfo thofe of Ver-
faiilss. It is to miles north-weft of Paris. E. Loner.
3 i. N. Lat. 48. 52.
Msiiur, Machine at. When Lewis the Great had
fixed upon a favourite fituation in the foreft of Marly,
where he intended to ereift a fplendid caftle, he found
that it wanted nothing either in point of beauty or con¬
venience but a fountain of water 5 and he immediately
ct.ennined to lunply by the affiftance of ait what na¬
ture had denied it. An ingenious and fell-taught car-
periter tram Liege, named Rannequin, undertook to
conduct from the Seine a copious fupply of water, and
for this purpofe contrived and ereffed the celebrated
and complicated machine which we are now to deferibe.
The machinery is driven by 14 underftiot water
wheels of 36 feet diameter, reckoning from the ends of
ti e fioatooards, difpofed in three rows. In the firft row
there are feven wheels, in the fecond fix, and in the
third only one. By thefe wheels the water is raifed
tn rough pumps into the firft refervoir about 160 feet
about the level of the river, then to a fecond refervoir
346 feet high, and from this to the fummit of a tower
about 533 feet above the Seine.
The two extremities of the axle of each wheel extend
beyond the gudgeons on which they reft, and are bent
into a crank fo as to form a lever two feet long. The
crank which is towards the mountain drives the water
of the river into the firft refervoir, and the other crank
gives motion to the balances.
An engine of eight pumps is wrought by one of the
cranks of each eft the fix wheels in the firft row.
I hefe engines confift of a balance, at each end of which
Langs a fquare piece of wood that fupports and direftis
four pdlons. This balance is moved by a beam in the
form of a F, the horizontal part of which is connedfed
at one end with the balance by the intervention of a
vertical regulator or beam, and at the other with the
crank of the wheel by means of a horizontal iron rod.
One of the cranks of each of the Jix wheels of the
firft roiv, (excepting that which is next the mountain),
and two of the cranks of the 14th wheel, or that in
the laft rmv, give motion to the pumps in the river
and carry the water into the firft refervoir. This mo¬
tion is communicated from the cranks by means of an
iron rod w hich is fixed to the lower end of a vertical
balance. A horizontal regulator or beam is fixed to
each end of this balance, and to thefe regulators are
ftaftened chains w’hich follow the declivitv of the moun-
iain till they reach the fuperior refervoirs. When the
96 ] M A R
wheel is revolving, therefore, one of thefe chains will Marly,
be dragged towards the river, and the other towards v*"
the mountain. In order to produce this alternate mo¬
tion, the chains are lupported and kept at equal diftances
by a number of vertical balances, placed along the
mountain at every three toiies, and moving upon a cen¬
tre fupported by a frame lying between the two chains
and equidiftant from them. When thefe chains reach
the firft refervoir they are fixed to vertical regulators,
which carry frames., to which are adapted the piftons of
the fucking pumps. Thefe regulators therefore will
be drawn one alter another by their correfponding
chains; and when one regulator is drawn by its chain,
the pi lion of the pumps which it carries will be raifed,
and the water will follow them : At the fame time the
piflons of the other regulator are defeending to form a
vacuum ; and thefe in their turn afeend with their load
of water when the others are in the ail of defeending.
In the pumps formerly mentioned which wmrk in the
river, an efteil is produced upon the piftons both when
they afeend and defeend, becaufe they are moved by
lliff iron rods j but in the prefent cafe the piftons de¬
feend merely by their own weight, as the motion is
tranfmitted only by a chain. By thefe pumps the wa¬
ter is conveyed to the upper relefvoir by twro conduit
pipes of eight inches and three others of fix inches dia¬
meter.
The Jixth wheel of the firft row, which is the firft to¬
wards the dam, moves a long chain which works the
pumps of one of the wells of the upper refervoir. The
feventh wheel gives motion to a chain which goes to
the firft ciftern.
By means fimilar to thefe already deferibed, the fix
wheels of the fecond row move by each of their cranks
a chain that goes to the fecond refervoir, and eight of
thefe chains work 16 pumps behind it, to bring back
into the refervoir the water which is loft out of the fix
pipes that go to the tower. Thefe chains go over one
of the firft cifterns, and five of them at the fame time
give motion to the piftons of thirty pumps, whilft the
other chains go on ftraight to the great refervoir.
ft’hefe 30 pumps convey their water through two pipes
of 8 inches diameter into the upper refervoir. The
five chains, after working thefe 30 pumps, give motion
to the piftons of 82 pumps in the fecond refervoir which
raife the water from it to the tewer.
The balls of the tower which receives the water raifed
from the river is 610 fathoms diftant from it •, and the
water runs from this bafon along an aquedueft of s6 arches
by its own weight. From this aqueduct the water is dif-
tributed into great relervoirs, from which it is conveyed
to the gardens and Ihrubheries around the caftle.
The quantity of water raifed by this machine amounts
at a mean rate to 30,000 or 40,000 gallons per hour ;
though in favourable circumftances it raifes more than
60,000 gallons per hour. But while the Seine either
overflows its banks, or is frozen, or when the water is
very low, the machine is fcarcely capable of performing
any work.
The yearly expence of the machine at Marly includ¬
ing the falaries of the fuperintendants and the expences
of repairs, amounts to about 3300I. fterling, or gl. per
day, which makes the expence of 90 gallons of water
one farthing. But if we take into the account the
intereft
Marly
!!
Marolles.
MAR [
intcrelx of 333,000!. the original expence of
machine, 90 gallons will coft three halfpence, or 15
gallons one farthing.
Not with (landing the magnificence of this great ma¬
chine, and the ingenuity which is difplayed in its con-
flruftion, every perfon who examines it with care, will
perceive innumerable defe£ls, whether he examines it as a
whole, or attends to the parts of which it is compofed. In
feveral portions the moving forces a£t with great obliqui¬
ty, and therefore occafion an immenfe wade of power 5 and
in order to give an alternate motion to a number of chains
of balances extending to a dillance of 3804 feet, more
than nine-tenths of the impelling power are deftroyed.
By a few changes upon the conftru61ion of the ma¬
chine, the w'ater might have been raifed from the
river to the tower without any intermediate refervoirs.
This appears from two experiments made upon the ma¬
chine in 1738 and 1775. In 1738 M. Camus attempt¬
ed to raife the water to the tower at once. He was
able, however, only to bring it to the bottom of the
tower which was confiderably higher than the lecond
refervoir. By this experiment the machine was fo
much drained that feveral parts required chains to fecure
it.. In 1775 the water was elevated to the fecond re¬
fervoir at one jet at different times, but from the age
and infirmity of the pipes feveral of them burd during
the experiment. Hence it is obvious that if the pipes
had been made dronger, the fird refervoir and the ma¬
chinery connefled with it might have been difpenfed
with ; and it is very probable that if the machine had
been condruCted with mere judgement, the water
might have been conduced at once from the river to
the tower.
MARMALADE, a confe&ion of plums, apricots,
quinces, &c. boiled up to a confidence with fugar. In
Scotland, it is made of Seville oranges and fugar only.
MARMANDE, a town of France, in the depart¬
ment of Lot and Garonne. It carries on a great trade
in corn and wine, and is feated on the river Garonne, in
E. Long. 015. N. Lat. 44. 20.
MARMOR. See Marble.
MARMORA, the name of four ifiands of Alia,
in the fea of the fame name. The larged is about 30
miles in circumference 5 and the foil of them all pro¬
duces corn, wine, and fruits. The fea of Marmora
is a large gulf, which communicates both with the
Archipelago and the Black fea by that of Condan-
tinoplc, being 120 miles in length and 30 in breadth •,
and all diips mad pafs through it that fail to Conftanti-
r.ople from the Mediterranean. It was anciently the
Propontis.
MARMORICA, a country of Africa anciently
inhabited by the Libyans. It was bounded on the
ead by Egypt, on the wed by Cyrenaica, on the
fouth by Sahara, or the defert of Libya Interior, and
on the north by the Mediterranean ; and was reckoned
a part of Egypt. There is no didincf hidory of the
country.
MAROBIIDUN, in Ancient Geography, the royal
refidence of Marobuduus, king of the Marcomanni 5 and
hence the appellation. Now thought to be Prague, the
capital of Bohemia.
MAROLLES, Michel de, born in 1600, was
the ion of Claude de Marolles, whom French memoirs
make a military hero. Michel, however, y/as of a
597 ■ ] MAR
the different compofition. He entered early into the ec- Maronkcv
cleliadical date, and by the jntered of his father ob¬
tained two abbeys. He was formed with an extreme
ardour for dudy, which never abated all his life long .
for, from 1619 when he publidred a tranflation of Lu¬
can, to 1681 the year of his death, he was condant-
ly employed in writing and printing. He attached
himfelf unfortunately to the tranflating of ancient La¬
tin waiters : but, being devoid of all claScal tade and
fpirit, they funk miferably under his hands, the poets
efpecially. He v’as certainly, however, a man ot
great learning, and difeovered all nis life a love lor the
arts. He was one of the fird who paid any attention
to prints •, and collefted about 100,000, wnich make
at this day one of the ornaments ot the French king s
cabinet. He compofed memoirs of his own lire, which
were publilhed by the abbe Goujet, 1755? *n. 3 vo^s*
They contain, like fuch fort of things, fome intered-
ing faffs, but an infinity of minute and infipid no¬
things.
MARONITES, in ecclefiadical hidory, a feel of
eadern Chridians, who follow the Syrian rite, and are
fubjefl to the pope } their principal habitation being on
Mount Libanus.
Modieim informs us, that the doflrine of the _Mo-
nothelites, condemned and exploded by the council of
Condantinople, found a place of refuge among the
Mardaites, a people who inhabited the mounts Liba¬
nus and Antilibanus, and who, about the concluuon
of the feventh century, w?ere called Maronites, after
Metro their fird bifirop ; a name which they dill retain.
None (he (ays) of the ancient writers give any certain
account of the fird perfon who indrucled the'e moun¬
taineers in the doffrine of the Monothelites : it is pro¬
bable, hoivever, from feveral circumdances, that it
was John Maro, whole name they had adopted j and
that this ecclefiadic received the name of Maro from
his having lived in the character of a monk in the fa¬
mous convent of St Maro, upon the borders of the
Orontes, before h:s fettlement among the Mardaites-
of Mount Libanus. One thing is certain, from the
teflimony of Tyrius and other unexceptionable wit-
neffes, as alfo from the mod authentic records, viz.
that the Maronites retained the opinions of the Mo¬
nothelites until the 12th century, when, abandoning
and renouncing the do£lrine of one will in Chrid,
they were readmitted in the year 1182 to the com¬
munion of the Roman church. The mod learned of
the modern Maronites have left no method unemploy¬
ed to defend their church againd this-acculation ; they-
have laboured to prove, by a variety of tedimonies,,
that their ancedors always perfevered in the Catholic
faith, in their attachment to the Roman pontiff, with¬
out ever adopting the dofitrine of the Monophyfites,
or Monothelites. Eat all their efforts are infnfficient.
to prove the truth of thefe affertions to fuch as have
any ^acquaintance with the hidory of the church and-
the records of ancient times; for to all fuch the tedi¬
monies they allege will appear abfolutely fictitious and:
deditute of authority.
Faudus Nairon, a Maronite fettled at Rome, has
publilhed an apology, for Maro and the red of his-
nation. His tenet is, that they really took their name
from the Maro v/ho lived about the year 400, and
of whom mention is made in Chryfoitom, Theodoret,..,
andi
M A R
Al- 'r -f 5’ ri111^ t^e ^eno1-°8'um of the Greeks
i  —v-l.-r|J the difcxples of this Maro fpread themfelves through¬
out all Syria; that they built leveral monartcries, aird,
among others, one that bore the name of their leader ;
that all the Syrians who were not tainted with herefy
took refuge among them ; and that for this reafon the
heretics ol thofe times called them Maronites.
Molheim obferves, that the iubjeflion of the Ma¬
ronites to the fpiritual jurifdiftion of the Roman pon¬
tiff was agreed to with this exprefs condition, that
neither the popes nor their emiffaries ftiould pretend
to change or aboliffi any thing that related to the an¬
cient rites, moral precepts, or religious opinions, of
this people : fo that in reality there is nothing to he
found among the Maronites that favours of popery, if
we except their attachment to the Roman pontiff, w'ho
is obliged to pay very dear for their friendfhip. For,
as the Maronites live in the utmoft diftrefs of pover¬
ty, under the tyrannical yoke of the Mahometans,
the biffiop of R,ome is under the neceflity of furnilh-
ing them withTuch fublidies as may appeafe their op-
preffors, procure a lubfiftence for their bifhop and
clergy, provide all things requifite for the fupport of
their churches, and the uninterrupted exercife of pub¬
lic wTorlhip, and contribute in general to leffen their
nfffery. It is certain that there are Maronites in Sy¬
ria w’ho flill behold the church of Rome wuth the
greatelt averfion and abhorrence ; nay, what is ftill
more remarkable, great numbers of that nation redding
in Italy, even under the eye of the pontiff, oppofed
his authority during the laft century, and threw the
court of Rome into great perplexity. One body of
thefe nonconforming Maronites retired into the valleys
of Piedmont, where they joined the Waldenfes ; ano¬
ther, above 600 in number, with a bilhop and feveral
ecclefiaftics at their head, fled into Corfica, and im¬
plored the proteftion of the republic of Genoa againft
the violence of the inquifitors.
The Maronites have a patriarch, who refides in the
monaftery of Cannubin, on Mount Libanus, and af-
lumes the title of patriarch of Antioch, and the name
of Peter, as if (he feemed deflrous of being confidered
as the fuceeffor of that apoftle. He is eletffed by the
clergy and the people, according to the ancient cu-
ftom ; but, fince their reunion with the church of
Rome, he is obliged to have a bull of conflrmation
from the pope. He keeps a perpetual celibacy, as
well as the reff of the bifliops his fuffragans : as To the
reft of the ecclefiaftics, they are allowed to marry be¬
fore ordination ; and yet the monaftic life is in great
efteem among them. Their monks are of the order of
St Anthony, and live in the moft obfeure places in the
mountains, far from the commerce of the world.
As to their faith, they agree in the main with the
reft of the eaftern church. Their priefts do not fay
mafs fingly ; but all fay it together, Handing round
the altar. They communicate in unleavened bread ;
and the laity have hitherto partaken in both kinds,
though the praftice of communicating in one has of
late been getting footing,’ having been introduced by
little and little. In Lent they eat nothing, unlefs it
be two or three hours before funrifing : their other
Tailings are very numerous.
To MAROON, to put one or more failors alhore
ppon a defolate ifland, under pretence of their having
[ 598 ] MAR
He adds, that committed feme great crime. Tills deteftaUe expedi-
ent has been too often practifed by lame inhuman com¬
manders of (hips.
MAROi, Clement, the beft French poet of his
time, was bora at Cahors in 1495; and was the fon
of John Marot, valet de chambre to Francis I. and
poet to Queen Anne of Uritanny. He enjoyed his
fdthei s place of valet de chambre to Francis I. and
was page to Margaret of France wife to the duke
of A)en$on. In 1521 he followed that prince into
Italy, and was wounded and taken prifoner at the
battle or Pavia j but at his return to Paris wras ac-
cufed of herefy, and thrown into prifon, from whence
he was delivered by the protedion of King Francis I.
He at length retired to the queen of Navarre, then
to the duchefs of Ferrara, and in 1536 returned to
Pans : but declaring openly for the Calvinifts, he was
obliged to fly to Geneva ; wdiich he at length left,
and retiring to Piedmont, died at Turin in 1 r4q’
aged 50. His verfes are agreeably filled with natural
beauties. La Fontaine acknowledged himfelf his dif-
ciple, and contributed greatly to reftore to vogue
the works of this ancient poet. Marot, befides his
other works, has tranflated part of the Pfalms into
verfe, which was continued by Beza, and are ftill
fung in the Proteftant churches abroad Michael
Marot, his fon, was afto the author of fome verfes 'r
but they are not comparable to thofe of John, and
much lefs to thofe of Clement Marot.—The works
of the three Marots were collected and printed toge¬
ther at the Hague in 1731, in 3 vols. 410, and in
6 vols. 1 2rno.
MARPURG, a ftrong and confiderable town of
Germany, in the Upper Rhine, and in the landgra-
vate of Heffe Caffel, with an univerfity, a caftle, a
palace, a handfome fquare, and a magnificent torvn-
houfe. It is feated on the river Lohn, in a pleafant
country, 15 miles fouth of Waldeck, and 47 fouth-eaft
of Caffe!. E. Long. 8. 53. N. Lat. 50. 42.
Marpurg, a handfome town of Germany, in Lower
Styria, feated on the river Brave, 25 miles fouth-weft
of Gratz, and 60 north-eaft of Laubach. E. Lon
16. 10. N. Lat. 46. 42.
MARQUARD, Freher, an eminent German ci¬
vilian, born at Auglhurg in 1565. He ftudied at
Bourges, under the learned Cujas } and acquired great
ftiill in polite literature, and in the laws. At his re¬
turn to Germany, he became counfellor to the ele&or
Palatine, and profeffor of law at Heidelberg ; and was
afterwards fent by the eledlor Frederic ! V. as his mi-
nifter, into Poland, to Mentz, and feveral other courts.
He died at Heidelberg in 1614. He wrote many
works which are efteemed ; the principal of which
are, 1. De re monetaria veterum Romanoruni, et hodierni
apud Germanos imperii. 2. Rerum Bohemicarum [crip-
tores. 3. Rerum Germanic arum feriptores. 4. Corpus
hijiorice Francice, &C.
MARQUE, oy Letters of Mar $_ue, in military af¬
fairs, are letters of reprifal, granting the fubjeits oi one
prince or ftate liberty to make reprifals on thole of
another.—They are fo called from the German marcke
“ limit, frontier as being jus concejjum in allerius
pnneipis marckas feu limites tranfeundi, jibique jus fa-
ciendi; as being a right of palling the limits or frontiers
of another prince, and doing one’s felfjuftice.
Letters
M A U
[ 599 ]
M A R
* See Pre
relative-
Marqnefas. Letters of m.nrque among us are extraordinary com-
-v—~J rniffions granted by authority for reparation to mer¬
chants taken and defpoiled by ftrangers at fea j and re-
prifals is only the retaking, or taking of one thing for
another *. The form in thefe cafes is, the fufFerer
muft firft apply to the lord privy-feal, and he fliall
make out letters of requeft under the privy-feal; and
if, after fuch requert of fatisfa&ion made, the party
required do not, within convenient time, make due fa-
tisfaftion or reftitution to the party grieved, the lord
chancellor {hall make him out letters of marque under
the great feal; and by virtue of thefe he may attack
and feize the property of the aggreffor nation, without
hazard of being condemned as a robber or pirate.
MARQUESAS ISLANDS, the name of certain
i(lands in the South fea, lying between 8 and 10
degrees of fouth latitude, and between 139 and 140
degrees of wreft longitude. They are five in number,
viz. La Magdalena, St Pedro, La Dominica, Santa
Chriftina, and Flood ifknd. All the natives of thefe
iflands may be fuppofed to be of the fame tribe. Thofe
fpots that are fit for culture are very populous ; but as
every bland is very mountainous, and has many inac-
ceffible and barren rocks, it is to be doubted whether
the whole population of this group amounts to 50,000
perfons. The Spaniards, who firft vifited here, found
the manners of this people gentle and inoffenfive } but
thefe qualities did not prevent thofe who landed
from wantonly butchering feveral of the natives at
Magdalena.
The inhabitants of thefe ijlands colle&ively, fays
Captain Cook, are, without exception, the fineft race
of people in the South fea. For fymmetry of fliape,
and regular features, they perhaps furpafs all other na¬
tions. Not a (ingle deformed or ill-proportioned per-
fon was feen on the ifland j all were ftrong, tall, well-
limbed, and remarkably adlive. The men are about
five feet ten or fix feet high : their teeth are not fo
good, nor are their eyes fo full and lively, as thofe ox
many other nations : their hair is of many colours, but
none red 5 fome have it long, but the moft general cu-
ftom is to wear it (liort, except a bunch on each fide
the crown, which they tie in a knot: their countenan¬
ces are pleafing, open, and full of vivacity: they are of
a tawny complexion, which is renderea almoft black
by pun&ures over the whole body. They were entirely
naked, except a (mall piece of cloth round their waift
and loins. The pun&ures were difpofed with the ut-
moft regularity, fo that the marks on each leg, arm,
and cheek, were exadlly fimilar. The women, in two
days time, began to appear in confiderable numbers,
and the failors found them not lefs kind than thofe of
the other blands which they had vifited : they were
inferior to the men in ftature, but well proportioned :
their general colour was brown 5 no pundfures were
obferved upon them ; they wore a fingle piece of
cloth made of the mulberry bark, which covered them
from the (boulders to the knees.
The principal head drefs uied in the iflands, and what
appears to be their chief ornament, is a fort of broad fillet,
curicufly made of the fibres of the hulks of cocoa nuts *,
in the front is fixed a mother-of-pearl (hell, wrought
round to the fize of a tea-faucer ; before that another
fmaller, of very fine tortoifeftiel), perforated into cu¬
rious figures} alfo before, and in the centre of that, is
another round piece of mother-of-pearl, about the ilzeMarqneius.
of half a crown ; and before this another piece of per-
forated tortoifefiiell, the lize of a (hilling. Befides
this decoration in front, fome have it alio on each
fide, but in fmall pieces 5 and all have fixed to them
the tail feathers of cocks, or tropic birds, which, when
the fillet is tied on, (land upright, lo that the whole
together makes a very fprightly ornament. They
wear round the neck a kind or ruff or necklace made
of light wood, the outward and upper (ides covered
with fmall peafe, which are fixed on wkh gum ; they
alio wear (bme bunches of human hair falleried to a
firing, and tied round the legs and arms. But all the
above ornaments are ieldom feen on the fame perfon.
All thefe ornaments, except the laft, they freely part¬
ed with for a trifling confideration ; but the human
hair they valued very higly, though thefe bunches
were the ufual relidence of many vermine. It is pro¬
bable, that thefe were worn in remembrance of their
deceafed relations, and therefore were looked upon
with fome veneration j or they may be the fpoils ot
their enemies, worn as the honourable teftimonies of
vidlory. However, a large nail, or fomething which
ftruck their eyes, commonly got the better of their
fcruples. The king, or chief of the bland, came to
vilit Captain Cook : he was the only one feen com¬
pletely dreffed in this manner. Their ordinary orna”
ments are necklaces, and amulets made of (hells, &c.
All of them had their ears pierced, though none were
feen with ear-rings. The king had not much refpeft
paid him by his attendants : he prefented Captain Cook
with fome fruit and hogs 5 and acquainted him that his
name was Honoo, and that he was he-ha-ai, which title
feems to correfpond with the aree of Otaheite, and
arekee of the Friendly iiles. Their dwellings are in
the valleys, and on the fides of the hills near their plan¬
tations. They are built in the fame manner as thofe
at Otaheite, which will be particularly deferibed when
w?e fpeak of that bland; but they are much meaner,
and are only covered with the leaves of the bread¬
fruit tree : in general, they are built on a fquare or
oblong pavement of (tone, raifed fome height above
the level of the ground ; they likewife have fuch pave¬
ment near their houfes, on which they fit to eat and
amufe themfelves. Along the uppermoft edge of the
mountain a row of (lakes or paliiadoes, c'olely con-
nefted together, were feen like a fortbica ion, in which,
by the help of glades, appeared fomething like huts,
which feemed to bear a great refcmblance to the hip-
pas of New Zealand, which will be deferibed in fpeak-
ing of that country. Their canoes referable thofe of
Otaheite, but not fo large ; their heads bad commonly
fome flat upright piece, on which the human face was
coarfely carved ; and their fails were made of mats,
triangular in (hape, and very broad at the top : the
paddles which they ufed were of heavy hard wood j
(hort, but (harp pointed, and with a knob at the upper
end j they w^ere from 10 to 22 feet long, and about
15 inches broad.
Their weapons were all made of the club wood, or
cafuarina •, and were either plain fpears about 8 or 10
feet long, or clubs which commonly had a knob at
one end. They have alfo (lings with which they throw
(tones with great velocity, and to a great diftance, but'
not with a good aim.
The
M A R [ (j-
arqueias. ^ The language of thefe people Is much nearer to
that of Oiaheite than any ether dialed in the South
fea, except that they could Hot pronounce the letter r.
1 Lie only quadrupeds feen here were hogs, except
rats ; here were fowls, and feveral fmall birds in the
woods, whofe notes were very melodious. The chief
difference between the inhabitants of the Marquefas
and thof'e of the Society iflands feems to confifl in
their different degrees of cleanlinefs : the former do not
bathe two or three times a-day, nor vvafh their hands
and face before and after every meal, as the latter do ;
ana they are befides very flovenly in tbe manner of
preparing their meals. Their diet is chiefly vegetable ;
though tney have hogs and fowls, and catch abundance
oi fifh at certain times. I heir drink is pure wrater, co¬
coa nuts being fcarce here.
It was not long before the propenfity of the natives
was difeovered to be rather to receive than give-, for
wlien they had taken a nail as the price of a bread¬
fruit, the article fo purchafed could not be obtained
from them. To remove this difhoneft difpofition, Cap¬
tain Cock ordered a mufket to be fired over their heads,
which terrified them into fair dealing.
Soon after the natives had gathered courage enough
to venture on board the fhip, one of them unfortu¬
nately Hole an iron ftancheon from the gangway, with
which he fprang into the fea, and, notwithftanding
its weight, fwam with it to his canoe, and was making
to the ihore with all {peed. A mufket was fired over
bis head to frighten him back, but to no effect, he ftill
continued to make off with his booty ; the whiffling of
another ball over his head was as ineffectual : an of¬
ficer, lefs patient of fuch an injury than reafon and hu¬
manity fhould have taught him to be, levelled a mufket
at the poor fellow, and (hot him through the head.
Captain Cook had given orders to fire over the canoe,
but not to kill any one ; he was in a boat, and came
up with the canoe feon after. There were two men in
her : one fat bailing out the blood and water in a kind
of hyfteric laugh ; the other, a youth of about 14 or
15 years of age, who afterwards proved to be the fon
or the deceafed, fixed his eyes on the dead body
with a ferious and dejected countenance. This a6b,of
feyerity, however, did not eftrange the iflanders to the
fhip, and a traffic was carried on to the fatisfadtion
of both parties; bread-fruit, bananas, plantains, and
feme hogs, were given in exchange for fmall nails,
knives, and pieces of Amflerdam cloth ; red feathers
of the Amflerdam ifland were greatly elteemed here.
Captain Cook,, accompanied with the gentlemen of
the fhip, in their wuilks about the country, lighted on
the houfe which had been the habitation of tbe man
who had been ffiot; there they found his fon, who fled
at their approach : they inquired for his female rela¬
tions, and were told that they remained at the top
of the mountain, to weep and mourn for the dead.
Notwithftanding they were then among the relations
or a man who had been killed by them, not the lead
tokens of animofity or revenge were difcernible among
the natives.
T he weather being extremely hot, the inhabitants
made ufe of large fans to cool themfelves, of which
great numbers were purchafed: the fans were for¬
med of a kind of tough bark, or grafs, very firm¬
ly and curioufly plaited, and frequently whitened with
3
1 M A R
fliell-lime. Some had large feathered leaves of aMarmefas,
.and ot pann, which anfwered the purpofe of an um-' v—
brella.
The natives at length became fo familiar as to
mount tne fides of the fhip in great numbers. They
frequently danced upon the decks for the diverfion of
the faiffirs; their dances very much refembled thofe
of Otaheite; their mufic too was very much the
fame.
A failor having been inattentive to his duty, receiv¬
ed feveral blows from Captain Cook ; on feeing which,
the natives exclaimed tape-a hei-te turn, 44 he beats his
brother.” From other inftances that had occurred,
it was clear that they knew the difference betrveen the
commander and his people, but at the fame time they
conceived them all brethren; and, fays Mr Forfter,
to. me the moil: natural inference is, that they only
applied an idea to us in this cafe, which really exifted
with regard to themfelves; they probably look on
themfelves as one family, of which the eldeft born is the
chief or king.”
MARQUETRY, inlaid work; a curious kind
of work, compofed of pieces of hard fine wood of dif¬
ferent. colours, fattened, in thin flices, on a ground, and
fometimes enriched with other matters, as tortoife-ffiell,
ivory, tin, and brafs.
There is another kind of marquetry made, inftead of
wood, of glaffes of various colours ; and a third, where
nothing but precious ftones and the richeft marbles are
ufed : but thefe are more properly called mofaic work.
See Mosaic.
The art of inlaying is very ancient; and is fuppofed
to have paffed from the eaft to the weft, as one of the
fpoils brought to tbe Romans from Afia. Indeed it
w-as then but a fimple thing ; nor did it arrive at any
tolerable perfedion till the 15th century among the Ita¬
lians : it feems, however, to have arrived at its height
in the 1 7th century among the French.
I ill John of Verona, a cotemporary with Raphael,
the fineft works of this kind w-ere only black and white,
which are what we now call Morefcos; but that reli¬
gious, who had a genius for painting, ftained his
wooes with dyes or boiled oils, which penetrated them.
But he went no farther than the reprefenting buildings
and perfpedives, which requires no great variety of co¬
lours. Thofe who fucceeded him, not only improved
on the invention of dyeing the woods, by a fecret which
they found of burning them without confuming, which
ferved exceedingly well for the fhadows; but had alfo
the advantage of a number of fine new woods of na¬
turally bright colours, by the difeovery of America.
With thefe affiftances the art is now capable of imita¬
ting any thing ; whence fome call it the art of painting
m %vood.
Tbe ground whereon the pieces are to be ranged
and glued, is ordinarily of oak or fir well dried ; and
to prevent warping, is compofed of feveral pieces glued
together. The wood to be ufed, being reduced into
leaves, of the thicknefs of a line, is either ftained with
fonw colour, or made black for ffiadow; which fome
effedl by putting it in fand extremely heated over the
fire, others, by fteeping it in lime water and fublimate,
and others in oil of fulphur.—Thus coloured, the con¬
tours of the piece are formed according to the parts of
the defign they are to reprefent.
This
/
MAR [ 601 } M A R
Marqfiis. This iuft is tiie moft: difficult part of marquetry,
‘ * ^ and that wherein moll patience and attention are re¬
quired. The two chief inftruments ufed herein are
the faw and the vice $ the one to hold the matters to
be formed ; the other, to take off from the extremes,
according to occaflon. The vice is of wood, having
one of its chaps fixed •, the other moveable, and is open¬
ed and ffiut by the foot, by means of a cord faftened to
a treadle. Its itruidure is very ingenious, yet fimple
enough.
The leaves to be formed (for there are frequently
three or four of the lame kind formed together) are
put within the chaps of the vice, after being glued on
the outermofl: part of the defign whofe profile they are
to follow ; then the workman prefling the treadle, and
thus holding faff the piece, with his faw runs over all
the outlines of the defign.—By thus joining and form¬
ing three or four pieces together, they not only gain
time, but the matter is likewife the better enabled to
fuftain the efforts of the faw $ w hich, how delicate
foever it may be, and how lightly foever the work¬
man may conduct it, without fuch a precaution wmuld
be apt to raife fplinters, to the ruin of the beauty of
the work.
When the work is to confift of one fingle kind of
wood, or of tortoife-fhell, on a copper or tin ground, or
vice verfa, they only form two leaves on one another,
t. e. a leaf of metal, and a leaf of wood or {hell; this they
call /awing in counter parts; for by filling the vacui¬
ties of one of the leaves by the pieces coming out of the
other, the metal may ferve as a ground to the wood, and
the wood to the metal.
All the pieces thus formed with the faw, and marked
to know them again, and the lhadow given in the man¬
ner already mentioned ; they veneer or fallen each in
its place on the common ground j ufing for that purpofe
the bell F.ngliih glue.
The whole is put in a prefs to dry, planed over, and
polifhcd with the fkin of the fea-dog, wax, and fliave-
grafs, as in fimple veneering ; with this difference, how¬
ever, that in marquetry the fine branches, and feveral of
the more delicate parts of the figures, are touched up
, and fini(lied with a graver.
It is the cabinetmakers, joiners, and toymen, among
us who wTork in marquetry $ it is the enamellers and
flone-cutters who deal in mofaic works : the inflruments
ufed in the former are moftly the fame with tbofe ufed
by the ebonifts.
MARQUIS, a title of honour, next in dignity to
that of duke. His office is to guard the frontiers and
limits of the kingdom, which w'ere called the marches,
from the Teutonic word marc he, a “ limitas, in
particular, were the marches of Wales and Scotland
while they continued hoftile to England. The perfons
who had command there, w7ere called lords marchers,
or marquejjes ; wdiofe authority was aboliffied by flatute
27 hen. VIII. c. 27. though the title had long before
been made a mere defign of honour, Robert Vere earl
of Oxford being created marquis of Dublin by Rich¬
ard II. in the eighth year of his reign. A marquis is
created by patent •, his mantle is double ermine, three
doublings and a half; his title is ?noJl honourable; and
his coronet has pearls and ftrawberry leaves intermixed
round, of equal height.
VoL. XII. Part II,
MARR, that part of Aberdeenfhire fituated between Man'
the rivers Dee and Don. t !!
MARRACCI, Lewis, a learned Italian, wras born
at Lucca in Tufcany in 1612. After having finilhed
his juvenile ftudies, he entered into the congregation
of regular clerks of the mother of God, and diflin-
guifhed himfelf early by his learning and merit. He
taught rhetoric feven years, and paffed through feveral
offices of his order. He applied himfelf principally
to the ftudy of languages, and attained of himfelf the
knowledge of the Greek, the Plebrew, the Syriac, the
Chaldee, and Arabic ; which laft he taught fome time
at Rome, by the order of Pope Alexander VII.
Pope Innocent XI. chofe him for his confeffor, and
placed great confidence in him. He would have
advanced him to ecclefiaftical dignities, if Marracci
had not oppofed him.—Marracci died at Rome in
1700, aged 87.—He was the author of feveral pieces
in Italian ; but the grand work, which has made him
defervedly famous all over Europe, is his edition of
the Alkoran, in the original Arabic, wfith a Latin ver-
fion, notes, and confutation of his own. It was beau¬
tifully printed in two vols. folio at Padua in 1698. The
Latin verfion of the Alkoran, by Marracci, with notes
and obfervations from him and others, and a fynopfis
of the Mahometan religion, by way of introduction,
was publiffied by Heineccius at Leipfic, 1721, in
8v®. Marracci had alfo a hand in the “ Biblia facra
Arabica, facrse congregationis de propaganda fide juffu
edita, ad ufum ecclefiarurn orientalium,” Rome, 1671,
in 3 vols. folio.
MARRIAGE, a contract, both civil and religious,
between a man and a wroman, by which they engage to
live together in mutual love and friendffiip for the ends
of procreation, &c. See Moral Philofophy.
Marriage is part of the law of nations, and is in
ufe among all people. The Romanifts account it a
facrament.—The woman, with all her moveable goods,
immediately upon marriage, paffes wholly in potejla-
tem -mri, into the power and difpofal of the huf- ■
band.”
The firff inhabitants of Greece lived together with¬
out marriage. Cecrops, king of Athens, is faid to
have been the firff author of this honourable inftitu-
tion among that people. After the commonwealths
of Greece were fettled, marriage was very much en¬
couraged by their laws, and the abftaining from it w7as
difcountenanced and in many places punifiied. The
Lacedemonians were very remarkable for their feveri-
ty towards thofe who deferred marriage beyond a li¬
mited time, as w'ell as to thofe who wholly abftained
from it. The Athenians had an exprefs law7, that all
commanders, orators, and perfons intruded with any
public affair, fhould be married men. Polygamy was
not commonly tolerated in Greece. The time of mar-
riage was not the fame in all places. The Spartans
were not permitted to marry till they arrived at their
full ffrength ; the reafon affigned for which cuffom by
Lycurgus was, that the Spartan children might be
ffrong and vigorous : and the Athenian laws are faid
to have once ordered, that men fhould not marry till
35 years of age. The feafon of the year which they
preierred for this purpofe was the winter, and particular¬
ly the month of January, called Gamelion. The Greeks
4 G thought
MAR [ 602 ] MAR
Marriage, thought it fcandalous to contraft marriage within cer-
tajn degrees of conianguinity } whilft moft of the bar¬
barous nations allowed inceftuous mixtures.
Moft of the Grecian Hates, efpecially fuch as made
any figure, required their citizens fhould match with
none but citizens, and the children were not allowed
to marry without the confent of their parents. The
ufually ceremony in promifing fidelity was kifling each
other, or giving their right hands, which was a gene¬
ral form of ratifying all agreements. Before the mar¬
riage could be folemnized, the gods were to be con-
fulted, and their affiftance implored by prayers and fa-
crifices, which were offered to fome of the deities that
fuperintended thefe affairs, by the parents or nearefl
relations of the perfons to be married. When the
viflim was opened, the gall was taken out and thrown
behind the altar, as being the feat of anger and ma¬
lice, and therefore the averfion of all the deities
who had the care of love, as well as thofe who be¬
came their votaries. For the particularities relating
to the bride and bridegroom, fee Bride and Bride¬
groom.
The Romans, as well as the Greeks, difallowed of
polygamy. A Roman might not marry any woman
who was not a Roman. Among the Romans, the ka¬
lends, nones, and ides of every month'were deemed un¬
lucky for the celebration of marriage, as was alfo the
feaft of the parent alia, and the whole month of May.
The moft happy feafon in every refpeft was that which
followed the ides of June.
The Roman laws fpeak of fecend marriages in very-
hard and odious terms: Matre jam fecundis nuptiis fu-
nejlata, L. iii. C. de fee. nuptiis. By thefe laws it was
enabled, that the effedls of the hufband or wife de-
ceafe.d fhould pafs over to the children, if the furvi-
vor fhould marry a fecond time. By the law Hac
ediElali (Cod. de fee. nupt.), the furvivor, upon mar¬
rying a fecond time, could not give the perfon he mar¬
ried a portion more than equal to that of each of the
children. In the primitive church the refpedl to chafti-
ty was carried fo high, that a fecond marriage was ac¬
counted no other than a lawful whoredom, or a fpecies
of bigamy ; and there are fome ancient canons which
forbid the ecclefiaftics from being prefent at fecond
marriages.
Marriage, by the Mofaic law, was fubjedt to fe-
veral reftridlions : thus by Levit. chap, xviii. ver. 16.
a man was forbid to marry his brother’s widow unlefs
he died without iffue ; in which cafe it became en¬
joined as a duty. So it wras forbid to marry his wife’s
filler, while (he was. living, ver. iB.-, which was not
forbidden before the law, as appears from the inftance
of Jacob.
The ancient Roman law is filent on this head 5 and
Papinian is the firft who mentions it, on occafion of the
marriage of Caracalla. The lawyers who came after
him ft retched the bonds of affinity fo far, that they
placed adoption on the fame foot with nature.
Affinity, according to the modern'eanonifts, renders
marriage unlawful to the fourth generation, inclufive 5
but this is to be underftood of direct affinity, and not
of that which is fecondary or collateral, slffinis mei
cjjnjs, non ejl a finis mens. It is farther to be obferved,
that this impediment of marriage does not only follow
an affinity contrafted by lawful matrimony, but alfo that
I
contrafled by a criminal commerce ; with this differ- Marriage,
ence, that this laft does extend beyond the fecond ge- v ^
neration j whereas the other, as has been obferved,
reaches to the fourth.
In Germany they have a kind of marriage called
morganatic, wherein a man of quality contradfing with
a woman of inferior rank, he gives her the left hand
in lieu of the right *, and ftipulates in the contrail that
the wife ihall continue in her former rank or condition ;
and that the children born of them fhall be of the
fame, fo that they become baftards as to matters of in¬
heritance, though they are legitimate in effeft. They
cannot bear the name or arms of the family. None
but princes and great lords of Germany are allowed
this kind of marriage. The univerfities of Leipfic and
Jena have declared againft the validity of fuch con-
tradls 5 maintaining that they cannot prejudice the chil¬
dren, efpecially w’hen the emperor’s confent intervenes.
in the marriage.
The Turks have three kinds of marriages, and three
forts of waves ; legitimate, wives in kebin, and Jlaves.
They marry the firft, hire the fecond, and buy the
third.
Among all the favage nations, whether in Afia, A-
frica, or America, the wife is commonly bought by the'
hufband from her father or thofe other relations w!ho
have an authority over her ; and the ccnclufion of a
bargain for this purpofe, together with the payment of
the prfee, has therefore become the ufual form or fo-
lemnity in the celebration of their marriages. The
Hebrews alfo purchafed their wives by paying down a
competent dowry for them 5 and Ariftotle makes it one
argument to prove that the ancient Grecians were an
uncivilized people, becaufe they ufed to buy their
wives; and in proportion as they laid afide their bar¬
barous manners they left off this pradlice.
The Englifh law confiders marriage in no other light
than as a civil contra£l • the holinefs of the matrimo¬
nial ftate being left entirely to the ecclefiaftical law, to
which it pertains, to puniih or annul inceftuous or other
unfcriptural marriages. The law allows marriage to
be good {and valid, where the parties at the time of
making it were walling and able to contrail, and ac¬
tually did contraft, in the proper forms and folemni-
ties required by law. The difabilities for contradling
are of two forts : firft, fuch as are canonical, and there¬
fore fufficient by the ecclefiaftical law7s to void the
marriage in the fpiritual court; fuch as pre-contraft,
confanguinity or relation by blood •, and affinity, or re¬
lation by marriage, and fome particular corporal infir¬
mities. But thefe difabilities in our law do not make
the marriage ipfo faElo void, but voidable only by fen-
tence of reparation 3 and marriages are efteemed valid to
all civil purpofes, unlefs fuch feparation is actually made
during the life of the parties. Thus when a man had
married his firft wife’s filler, and after her death the
bifhop’s court was proceeding to annul the marriage
and baftardife the iffue, the court of king’s bench grant¬
ed a prohibition quoad hoc ; but permitted them to pro¬
ceed t© punifh the hufband for inceft-
By 32 Hen. VIII. c. 38. it is declared, that all per¬
fons may lawfully marry but fuch as are prohibited
by God’s law, &c. And that nothing (God’s law
excepted) (hall impeach any marriage but within the
Levitical degrees : the/e are enumerated in the 18th
chapter
MAR [ 6c>3 ] MAR
Mafriage. chapter of Leviticus, and are illuflrated by Lord Coke
^ jn this manner : a man may not marry his mother,
father’s fitter, mother’s fitter, fitter, daughter, daugh¬
ter of his fon or daughter, father’s wife, uncle’s wife,
father’s wife’s daughter, brother’s wife, wife’s fitter,
fon’s wife or wufe’s daughter, and daughter of his
wife’s fon or daughter. And a woman may not marry
her father, father’s brother, mother’s brother, brother,
fon, fon of her hufband’s fon or daughter, mother’s
hulband, aunt’s hufband, fitter’s hufband, hufhand’s
brother, and fon of her hufband’s fon or daughter.
By the civil law firft coufins are allowed to marry $ but
by the canon law both firft and fecond coufins are
prohibited. Therefore when it is vulgarly faid that
firft coufins may marry but fecond coufins cannot, this
probably arofe by confounding thefe two laws; for
firft coufins may marry by the civil law, and fecond
coufins cannot by the canon law. But by the fore-
faid flat. 32 Hen. VIII. c. 38. it is clear, that both
firtt and fecond coufins may marry. By the fame fta-
tute all impediments arifing from precontra&s to
ether perfons were aboliftied, and declared of none
effect unlefs they had been confummated with bodily
knowledge ; in which cafe the canon law holds fuch
contradl to be a marriage de faBo. But this branch
of the ftatute was repealed by 2 and 3 Ed. VI. c. 23.
How far the aft of 26 Geo. II. c. 33. (which pro¬
hibits all fuits in ecclefiaftical courts to compel a mar¬
riage in confequence of any contraft) may collaterally
extend to revive this claufe of Henry VIII.’s ftatute,
and abolifh the impediment of precontraft, Judge
Blackftone leaves to be confidered by the canonifts.
We ftiall here obferve, that on a promife of marriage,
if it be mutual on both fides, damages may be reco¬
vered in cafe either party refufes to marry ; and though
no time for the marriage is agreed on, if the plaintiff
avers that he offered to marry the defendant who re-
fufed it, an aftion is maintainable for the damages;
but no aftion (hall be brought upon any agreement
except it is in writing, and figned by the party to be
charged. The canonical hours for celebrating mar¬
riage are from 8 to 1 2 in the forenoon.
The other fort of difabilities are thofe which are
created, or at leaft enforced, by the municipal laws.
Thefe civil difabilities make the contraft void ab initio,
by rendering the parties incapable of forming any con¬
traft at all. The firft legal dilability is a prior mar¬
riage, or having another hufband or wife living ; in
which cafe, befides the penalties confequent upon it as
a felony, the fecond marriage is to all intents and pur-
pofes void. See BigaMy and Polygamy.
The next legal difability is want of age : therefore
if a boy under 14, or a girl under 12 years of age,
marries, when either of them comes to the age of con-
fent, they may difagree and declare the marriage void,
without any divorce or fentence in the fpiritual court.
However, in our law it is fo far a marriage, that if at
the age of confent they agree to continue together,
they peed not be married again. Another incapacity
arifes from want of confent of parents or guardians.
By feveral ftatutes, viz. 6 and 7 W. III. c. 6, 7, 8.
W. III. c. 35. 10 Ann. c. 19. penalties of tool, are
laid on every clergyman who marries a couple either
without publication of banns, which may give notice
to parents or guardians, or without a licenfe, to ob¬
tain which the confent of parents or^guardians mull Main
be fw'orn to. And by 4 and 5 Ph. and M. c. 8. who-
foever marries any w'oman child under the age of 16
years, without conlent of parents or guardians, ftiall
be fubjeft to fine or five years imprifonment; and her
eftate during her hufband’s life fhall be enjoyed by
the next heir. Thus alfo in France the fons cannot
marry without confent of parents till 30 years of
age, nor the daughters till 25 5 and in Holland the
fons are at their own difpofal at 25, and the daugh¬
ters at 20. And by the marriage aft, viz. 26 Geo.
II. c. 33. it is enafted, that all marriages celebrated
by licenfe (for banns fuppofe notice), where either
of the parties is under 21, not being a widow or wi¬
dower, without the confent of the father, or if he
be not living, of the mother or guardians, fhall be ab-
folutely void. How'ever, provifion is made wdiere
the mother or guardian is non compos, beyond fea, or
unreafonably froward, to difpenfe with fuch confent
at the difcretion of the lord chancellor *, but no pro¬
vifion is made in cafe the father fliould labour under
any mental or other incapacity. A fourth incapaci¬
ty is want of reafon. It is providecr by 15 Geo. II.
c. 30. that the marriage of lunatics and fons under
phrenfies (if found lunatics under a commifiion or
committed to the care of truttees by any aft of par¬
liament) before they are declared of found mind by
the lord chancellor, or the majority of fuch truftees,
fhall be totally void. Laftly, The parties mutt not
only be willing and able to contraft, but mutt ac¬
tually contraft themfelves in due form of law, to
make it a good civil marriage. Any contraft made
per verba de prcefenti, or in words of the prefent tenfe,
and in cafe of cohabitation per verba de futuro alfo be¬
tween perfons able to contraft, was before the late
aft deemed a valid marriage to many purpofes, and
the parties might be compelled in the fpiritual courts
to celebrate it in facie ecclefue. But thefe verbal con-
trafts are nowT of no force to compel a future marriage.
Nor is any marriage at prefent valid that is not cele¬
brated in fome parifh church, or public chapel, unlefs
by difpenfation from the archbifhop of Canterbury.
It mutt alfo be preceded by publication of banns or
by licenfe from the fpiritual judge. A marriage in
purfuance of banns mutt be folemnized in one of the
churches or chapels wdiere the banns were publiftied.
No parfon, vicar, &.c. fhall be obliged to publifh banns
of matrimony, unlefs the perfons to be married fhall,
feven days before the time required for the firft pub¬
lication, deliver to him a notice in writing of their
true names, and of the houfe or houfes of their re-
fpeftive abode within fuch parifh, &c. and of the time
that they have dwelt in fuch hpufe or houfes. And the
faid banns fhall be publifhed upon three Sundavs pre¬
ceding the fplemnizatipn of marriage during the time
of public fervice : in cafe the parents or guardians, or
either of the parties who fhall be under the age of 21
years, fliall openly and publicly declare, or caufe to
be declared, in the church or chapel where the banns
fhall be fo publifhed, at the time of fuch publication,
their diffent to fuch marriage, fuch publication o£
banns fhall be void. And when the parties, dwell in
divers parifhes, the curate of the one parifh fliall not
folemnize matrimony betwixt them without a certifi¬
cate of the banns being thrice allied from the curate
4 G 2 of
MAR [ 604 ] MAR
Marriage, of the other parifli. A marriage in purfuance of a
' •f ~ licenfe (except a fpecial licenfe), muft be folemnized
in uch church or chapel where the licenfe is granted ;
and no licenfe of marriage fhall be granted by any
archbiftiop, bilhop, &c. to folemnize any marriage in
any other church, &c. than in the parilh church, &c.
within which the ufual place of abode of one of the
parties {hall have been for four weeks immediately be¬
fore the granting fuch licenfe. Ey the fame ftatute
all marriages {hall be folemnized in the prefence of two
credible witneffes at the leaf!, befides the minifter, who
lhall fign their atteftation thereof j and immediately
after the celebration of every marriage, an entry there¬
of fliall be made in the parifli regifter, exprefling that
the faid marriage was celebrated by banns or licenfe j
and if both or either of the parties be under age, with
confent of the parents or guardians, as the cafe lhall
be, figned by the minifter, and alfo by the parties
married, and attefted by the two witnefles prelent. It
is held to be alfo effential to a marriage, that it be
performed by a perfon in orders *, though the inter¬
vention of a prieft to folemnize this contrafl. is merely
juris pojitivi and" not juris naturalis out divini; it being
faid that Pope Innocent III. was the firfl: Mho or¬
dained the celebration of marriage in the church, be¬
fore which it was totally a civil contra61. And in
the times of the grand rebellion, all marriages were per¬
formed by the juftices of the peace ; and thefe marriages
were declared valid without any frefti folemnization, by
12 Car. II. c. 33. But as the lav/ now Hands, we may
upon the whole colle6t, that no marriage by the tem¬
poral law is ipfo faBo void, that is celebrated by a per-
ibn in orders j in a parifli church, a public chapel, or
elfewhere, by a fpecial difpenfation; in purfuing of
banns or a licenfe ; between Angle perfons ; confent-
ing j of found mind $ and of the age of 21 years j or
of the age of 14 in males and 12 in females, with
confent of parents or guardians, or without it, in cafe
of widowhood. And no marriage is voidable by the Marriage,
ecclefiaftical law after the death of either of the par- ^ ^
ties j nor during their lives, unlefs for the canonical
impediments of precontra6I, if that indeed ftill exifts j
of confanguinity ; and of affinity or corporal imbecil-
lity fubfifting previous to the marriage.
By 26 Geo. II. c. 33. the fubftance of which has
been already recited, if any perfon fliall folemnize ma¬
trimony in any other place than a church, &c. where
banns have been ufually publiftied, unlefs by fpecial li¬
cenfe, or without publication of banns, unlefs licenfe
of marriage be firff obtained from fome perfon having
authority to grant the fame, every fuch perfon know¬
ingly fo offending ftiall be guilty of felony, and tranf-
ported for 14 years •, the profecution to be within
three years. By the fame ftatute, to make a falfe en¬
try into a marriage regifter ; to alter it when made ;
to forge or counterfeit fuch entry, or a marriage li¬
cenfe, or aid and -abet fuch forgery •, to utter the fame
as true, knowing it to be counterfeit; or to deftroy or
procure the deftru6tion of any regifter in order to va¬
cate any marriage, or fubjedl any perfon to the penal¬
ties of this a£l *, all thefe offences, knowingly and wil¬
fully committed, fubje6l the party to the guilt of fe¬
lony without benefit of clergy. But this a6I doth not
extend to the marriages off the royal family \ nor to
Scotland ; nor to any marriages among the people
called Quakers, or among perfons profeffing the Jewiflr
religion, where both the parties are Quakers or
Jews refpedlively ; nor to any marriages beyond the
feas.
In Scotland, the parties living together as hufband and
wife, or declaring themfelves fo before witneffes, makes
a valid though informal marriage. See Law, Part III.
N° 160.
For the proportions which marriages bear to births,
and births to burials, in feveral parts of Europe,. Mr
Derham gives us the followung table.
Names of places.
Marriages to
Births, as
Births to Bu¬
rials, as
England in general
London -
Hantfhire, from 1569 to 1658
Tiverton in Devonlhire from 1656 to 1664
Cranbrook in Kent, from 1560 to 1649
Aynho, in Northamptonfture, for 118 years
Upminfter in Effex, for 100 years
Franckfort on the Main, in 1695
Old, Middle, and Lower Marck, in 1698
Dominions of the eleftor of Brandenburg, in 1698
Brcflaw in Silefia, from 1687 to 1691
Paris, in 1670, 1671, 1672 - -
1 to 4.63
1 to 4
I to 4
I to 3.7
I to 3.9
i to 6
I to 4.6
I to 3.7
I to 3.7
I to 3.7
I to 4.7
1.1 2 to I
I. to I.I
1.2 to I
1.26 to I
1.6 to i
1.6 to i
1.8 to i
1.2 to I
1.9 to I
1.5 to I
1.6 to i
1.6 to i
The
R
/
M A R t 605 ] M A
Marriage. Marriage.
The following Table, fmilar to the preceding, is formed from the obfervations colleBed and referred to by Dr Price,
Names of Places.
London, annual medium from 17x6 to 1736
from 1759 to 1768
Northampton, ditto, from 1741 to 1770
Norwich, ditto, from 1740 to 1769
Shrewfbury, ditto, from 1762 to 1768
Maachefler and Salford, exclufive of diffenters
Ditto, from 1755 to 1759 - - -
Ditto, ditto, including diffenters, from 1768 to 1772
Gainfborough in Lincolnfhire, ditto, from 1752 to 1771
Madeira, ditto, from 1759 to 1766
Bofton in New England, from 1731 to 1752
Chriftiana in Norway, in 1761
Paris, mean of fome of the laft years
Vienna, annual medium from 1757 to 1769
Amfterdam, ditto, for fome of the laft years
Copenhagen, ditto ....
Berlin, ditto., for five years, ending at 1759
Breflaw, ditto, from 1633 to 1734
•, ditto, from 1717 to 1725
Rome, ditto, from 1759 to 1761
Vaud in Switzerland, ditto, for 10 years before 1766
Marriages to
Births, as
I to 3.7
I to 4.68
I to 4.3
I to I 9, &c.
I to 3.04, &c.
I to 3.9, &c.
I to 3.9
Births to Burials, as
18,000 to 26,529, or 1 to 1.4, &c.
15,710 to 22,956, or 1 to 1.4, &c.
155 to 191, or 1 to 1.2, &c.
1057 to 1206, or 1 to 1.1, &c.
301 to 329, or 1 to 1.09, Sic.
756 ^ 743*'
1098 to 958, or x.14, See. to i.
1 26 to 105, or 1.2 to 1.
2201 tO 1293, or t*? to r-
538 to 608, or 1 to 1.13, Sec.
11,024 to 6929, or 1.5 to x.
19,100 to 19.400, or 1 to 1.or, &c.
5800 to 6600, or 1 to 1.1, &c.
4600 to 8000, or 1 to 1.1, &c.
2700 to 3300, or 1 to 1.2, &c.
3855 to 5°54> or I to 1.3, &c.
1089 to 1256, or 1 to 1.15, &c.
1252 to 1507, or I to 1.2, &c.
5167 to 7153, or I to 1.3, &c.
3155 to 2504, or 1.2, &c. to I.
For an account of the numbers of male and female
flillborn children and chryfoms, and of boys and girls
under ten, of married men and married women, and of
widows and widowers, who died for a courfe of years
at Vienna, Breflav/, Drefden, Leipfic, Ratifbon, and
fome other towms in Germany, fee Phil. Tranf. Abr.
vol. vii. part iv. p. 46, &c.
The reader may find many curious calculations and
remarks relating to this fubjetl in Dr Price’s excellent
work, entitled, Obfervations on Reveilionary Pay¬
ments. From the preceding table it appears, that
marriages, one with another, do each produce about
four births, both in England and other parts of Eu¬
rope. Dr Price obferves, that the births at Paris, as
may be feen in the table, are above four times the
xveddings ; and therefore it may feem, that in the moft
healthy country fituatxons, every wedding produces
above four children *, and though this be the cafe in
Paris, for reafons which he has given, he has obferved
nothing like it in any other great town. He adds,.
that from comparing the births and w'eddings in coun¬
tries and towns where regifters of them have been kept,
it appears, that in the former, marriages one with an¬
other feldom produce lefs than four children each *,
generally between four and five, and fometimes above
five 5 but in towns feldom above four, generally be¬
tween three and four, and fometimes under three. It
is necefTary to be obferved here, that though the pro¬
portion of annual births to weddings has been confi-
dered as^ giving the true number of children derived
from each marriage, taking all marriages one with an¬
other : yet this is only true, when, for many years, the
births and burials have kept nearly equal. Where
there is an excels of the births occafioning an increafe,
the proportion of annual births to weddings muit be
lefs than the proportion of children derived from each
marriage j and the contrary muft take place where
there is a decreafe : and by Mr King’s computation,
about one in an hundred anj four perions marry 5 the
number of people in England being ellimated at five
millions and a half, whereof about forty-one thoufand
annually marry.
In the diftridl of Vaud in Switzerland, the married
are very nearly a third part of the inhabitants.
Major Graunt and Mr King difagfee in the pro¬
portions between males and females, the latter making
10 males to 13 females in London ; in other cities and
towns, and in the villages and hamlets, 100 males to
99 females : but Major Graunt, both from the Lon¬
don and country bills, computes, that there are in
England 14 males to 13 females 5 whence he juftly in¬
fers, that the Chridian religion, prohibiting polygamy,
is more agreeable to the law of nature than M diome-
tanilm and others that allow it.
This proportion of males to females Mr Derham
thinks pretty juft, being agreeable to what he had ob¬
ferved himfelf. In the hundred years, for inftance, of
his own parilh-regifter of Upminfter, though the burials
of males and females were nearly equal, being 633,
males and 623 females in all that time j yet there vve.'c
baptized 709 males and but 675 females, which is x 2
females to 13.7 males.
From a regifter kept at Northampton for 28 years,
from 1741 to 1770, it appears, that the proportion of
males to females that were born in that period is 2t6
to 2288, or nearly 13.4 to 13. However, thor .. :
more males are born than females, Dr Price h • ef¬
ficiently ftiown, that there is a confiderable difference
between the probabilities of life among males and fe¬
males in favour of the latter j fo that males are more
fhort-lived
M A R
Man'agc. fliortlived tlian females j and as the greater mortality
  v ff xnrdts takes-place among children, as \ tii as among
males at all ages-, the faft cannot be accounted tor
merely by their being more fubjeft to untimely deatns
by various -accidents, and by their being addifted to
the exceffes and irregularities which fhorten life. Mr
Kerffebo 'in informs us, that, during the courfe of i 25
years in Holland, females have in all accidents of age
lived about three or four years longer than the fame
number of males. In feveral towns of Germany, &c.
it appears that of 7 270 married perfons who had died,
the proportion of married men who died to the
married women was 3 to 2 ; and in Breilawr for eight
years, as 5 to 3. In all Pomerania, during nine years,
from 1748 to 1756, this proportion was nearly 1 5 to
Ii. Among the minifters and profeflors in Scotland,
20 married men die to 12 married women at a me¬
dium of 27 years, or in the proportion of 5 to 3 j Jo
that there is the chance of 3 to 2, and in fome cir-
cumlfances ‘even a greater chance, that the woman
Ihall be'the furvivor of a marriage, and not the man*,
and this difference cannot be accounted for merely by
the difference of age between hufbands and their tvives,
without admitting the greater mortality of males. In
the dillria of Vaud in Switzerland, it appears, that
half the females do not die till the age of 46 and up¬
wards, though half the males die under 36. It is like-
wife an indifputable fad, that in the beginning of life,
the rate oi mortality among males is much greater than
among females.
From a table formed by Dr Price, from a regifter
kept for 20 years at Gainlborough, it appears, that, of
thofe who lived to So, the major part, in the proportion
of 49 to 32, are females. Mr Deparcieux at Paris,
and Mr Wargentm in Sweden, have farther obferved,
that not only women live longer than men, but that
married women live longer than (ingle women. From
fome regifters examined by Mr Muret in Switzerland,
it appears, that of equal numbers of (ingle and married
women between 15 and 25, more of the former died
than of the latter, in the proportion of 2 to 1.
With refped to the difference between the mortality
of males and females, it is found to be much lefs in
country pariffies and villages than in towns; and hence
it is inferred, that human life in males is more brittle
than in females, only in confequence of adventitious
caufes, or of fome particular debility, that takes place
in poliihed and luxurious focieties, and efpecially in
great towns.
From the inequality above dated between the males
• and females that are bom, it is reafonable to infer, that
one man ought to have but one wife ; and yet that
every woman without polygamy may have a hufhand :
this furplufage of males above females being fpent in the
fupplies of war, the feas, &c. from which the women are
exempt.
Perhaps, fays Dr Price, it might have been obferved
with more reafon, that this provifion had in view that
particular weaknefs or delicacy in the conftitution of
males, which makes them more fubjeft to mortality ;
and which confequently renders it neceffary that .more
of them (hould be produced, in order to preferve in the
W’orld a due proportion between the two fexes.
That this is a ivork of Providence, and not of
change, is well made out by the very laws of chance
M A TL
by Dr Arbuthnot; who fuppofes Thomas to lay againft Marriage.
John, ' at for 82 years running more males (hall be
bom than females ; and giving all allowances in the
computation to Thomas’s fide, he makes the odds
againft Thomas, that it does not fo happen, to be near
five millions of millions of millions of millions to one j
but for ages of ages, according to the world’s age, to
be near an infinite number to one.
According to Mr Kerffeboom’s ebfervations, there
are about 325 children born from 100 marriages.
Mr Kerffeboom, from his obfervations, eftimates the
duration of marriages, one with another, as in the fol¬
lowing table.
Thofe W'hofe ages, taken together, make
40, live together between 24 and 25 years.
50 22 23
60 23 21
70 19 20
8a 17 18
90 14 15
100 12 13
Phil. Tranf. N® 46S. fe&. iii. p. 319.
Dr Price has ffiown, that on De Moivre’s hynothe-
fis, or that the probabilities of life decreafe uniformly
(fee Complemrnt of Life), the duration of furvivorfhip
is equal to the duration of marriage, when the ages are
equal •, or, in other words, that the expeflation of two
joint lives, the ages being equal, is the fame w ith the
expeftaticn of iurvivorihip *, and, confequently, the
number of furvivors, or (which is the fame, fuppofing
no fecond marriages) of widows and wfidowers, alive
together, which will arife from any given fet of fuck
marriages conftantly kept up, will be equal to the
whole number of marriages, or half of them (the
number of widows in particular) equal to half the
number of mamages. Thus, the expeftatio* of twro
joint lives, both 40, is the third of 46 years, or their
complement, i. e. 15 years and 4 months 5 and this is
alfo the expeftation of the furvivor. That is, fuppof¬
ing a fet of marriages between perfons all 40, they
will one with another laft juft this time, and the fur¬
vivors will laft the fame time. In adding together
the years which any great number of fuch marriages*
and their furvivorfhips, have Tafted, the fums w’ould
be found to be equal. It is obferved farther, that if
the number exprefling the expedlation of (ingle or
joint lives, multiplied by the number of Angle or joint
lives wdiofe expe&ation it is, be added annually to a
fociety or town, the fum gives the w'hole number living
together, to which fuch an annual addition would in
time grow': thus, fince 19, or the third of 57, is the
expeflation of two joint lives whofe common age is
29, or common complement 57, 20 marriages every
year between perfons of this age w'ould in 57 years
grow to 20 times 19, or 380 marriages always exifting
together. The number of furvivors alfo arifing from
thefe marriages, and always living together, would in
twice 57 years increafe to the fame number. More¬
over, the particular proportion that becomes extinft
every year, out of the whole number conftantly exift-
ing together of (ingle or joint lives, muft, wherever
this number undergoes no variation, be exactly the
fame wuth the expectation of thofe lives at the time
when their exiftence commenced. Thus, if it were
, found
[ ^06 1
MAR [ 607 ] MAR
Marriage, found that a 19th part of all the marriages among any
r "' body of men yvhofe niimbers do not vary, are diffolved
every year by the deaths of either the hutband or wife,
it would appear, that 19 was at the time they were
contra&ed, the expectation of thefe marriages. Dr
Price obferves, that the annual average of weddings
among the minifters and profeffors in Scotland for the
laft 27 years has been 31 j and the average of married
perfons for 17 years ending in 1767, had been 667.
This number, divided by 3 1, gives 21 i, the expecta¬
tion of marriage among them ; which, he fays, is above
2^ years more than the expectation of marriage would
be, by Dr Halley’s table, on the fuppofition, that all
firlt, fecond, and third marriages, may be juftly confi-
dered as commencing one with another fo early as the
age of 30 ; and he has proved, that the expectation of
two equal joint lives is to the expectation of a Angle
life of the fame age as 2 to 3 : confequently, the ex¬
pectation of a Angle life at 30, among the minifters in
Scotland, cannot be lefsthan 32.25. If we fuppofe the
mean ages of all who marry annually to be 33 and 25,
the expectation of every marriage would be 19 years j
or one with another they would be all extinCt in 19
years : the marriages which continue beyond this term,
though fewer in number, enjoying among them juft as
much more duration as thofe that fall ftiort of it enjoy
lefs. But it appears from the obfervations and tables
of Mr Muret, that, in the diftriCt of Vaud (dividing
half the number of married perfons, viz. 38,328, by
the annual medium of weddings, viz. 808), the expec¬
tation of marriage is only 234 years : fo much higher
are the probabilities of life in the country than in towns,
or than they ought to be, according to De Moivre’s
hypotheAs.
Marriage (Mantagium), in Law, AgniAes not on¬
ly the lawful joining of man and wife, but alfo the
right of bellowing a ward or a widow in marriage, as
well as the land given in marriage.
Dijfblution of Marriage. See Divorce.
Forcible Marriage. See Forcible Marriage.
Frank Marriage. See Frank.
JaSlitation of Marriage, in Law, is one of the fir ft
and principal matrimonial caufes, when one of the par¬
ties boafts or gives out, that he or fhe is married to the
other, whereby a common reputation of their matrimo¬
ny may enfue. On this ground the party injured may
libel the other in the fpiritual court j and unlefs the de-.
fendant undertakes and makes out a proof of the aCfual
marriage, he or Ihe is enjoined perpetual filence on that
head ; which is the only remedy the ecclefiaftical courts
can give for this injury.
Marriagx Settlement is a legal ad, previous to mar¬
riage, whereby a jointure is fecured to the wife after
the death of the hulband. Thefe fettlements feem to
have been in ufe among the ancient Germans, and
their kindred nation the Gauls. Of the former Ta¬
citus gives us this account: Dotem non uxor marito,,
fed uxori maritus offert: interfunt parentes et propinqui,
et munera probant (De Mor. Germ. c. 18.). And Cae-
far, (De Bell. Gallic, lib. vi. c. 18.) has given us the
terms of a marriage fettleraent among the Gauls, as
nicely calculated as any modern jointure : Viri, quantas
pecunias ab uxoribus dotis nomine acceperunt, tantas ex
fuis bonis, cefimatione faEia, cum dotibus communicant.
Hujus omnis pecumce conjunBim ratio habetur, fruBufque
fervatur. liter eorum vita fuperavit, ad eum pars utn- Marrow
ufque cum fruBibus fuperiorum temporum pervenit. The
dauphin’s commentator fuppofes that this Gaulilh cuf-1 -y-—J
tom was the ground of the new regulations made by
Juftinian, Nov. 97. with regard to the provilion for
widows among the Romans j but furely there is as much
reafon to fuppofe, fays Judge Blackftone, that it gave
the hint for our ftatutable jointures. Comment, vol. ii.
p. 138.
See an excellent marriage fettlement by Blackftone
in the appendix to the fecond volume of his Commen¬
taries.
Duty of Marriage, is a term ufed in fome ancient
cuftoms, Agnifying an obligation on women to marry.
To underftand this, it mutt be obferved, that old
maids and widows about Axty; who held fees in body,
or were charged with any perfonal or military fervices,
were anciently obliged to marry, to render thofe fer¬
vices to the lord by their hulhands, or to indemnify
the lord for what they could not do in perfon. And
this was called duty or fervice of marriage.
Policy of encouraging Marriage. Dr Halley ob¬
ferves, that the growth and increafe of mankind is
not fo much ftinted by any thing in the nature of the
fpecies, as it is from the caitious difficulty moft people
make to adventure on the ftate of marriage, from the
profpedl of the trouble and charge of providing for a
family j nor are the poorer fort of people herein to be
blamed, who, beAdes themfelves and families, are
obliged to work for the proprietors of the lands that
feed them ; and of fuch does the greater part of man¬
kind conAft. Were it not for the backwardnefs to
marriage, there might be four times as many births as
we find ; for by computation from the table given
under the article Mortality, there are 15,000 per¬
fons above 16 and under 45, of which at leaft 7000
are women capable of bearing children 5 yet there are
only 1238, or little more than a fixth part of thefe,
that breed yearly : whereas', were they all married, it
is highly probable that four of fix ftiould bring forth a
child every year, the political confequences of which
are evident. Therefore, as the ftrength and glory of
a kingdom ornate confifts in the multitude of fub-
jedls, celibacy above all things ought to be difcoura-
ged, as by extraordinary taxing or military fervice 5
and, on the contrary, thofe who have numerous fami¬
lies Ihould be allowed certain privileges and immuni¬
ties, like the jus trium liberorum among the Romans :
and efpecially, by effectually providing for the fubfift-
ence of the poor.
MARROW, in Anatomy, a foft oleaginous fub-
ftance contained in the cavity of the bones. See Ana¬
tomy, N* 5,
MARRUBIUM, white horeho-und j a genus of
plants belonging to the didynamia clafs j and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the 4 2d order, Verticillatce.
See Botany Index.
Mx^RS, in Afronomy, one of the eleven planets,
fituated without the earth’s orbit, and remarkable for
the extent of its atmofphere and the rednefs of its light.
See Astronomy Index.
The red colour of this planet, according to Mr * Supple-
Brewfter *, is owing to the fame caufe as the rednefs oimsiltary
the morning and evening clouds. When a beam o^^U,r{J0
white light paffes through any medium, its colour in
dines VoV ih *
MAR r 608 1 MAR
dines to red, in proportion to tlie fpace through which
it has travelled, and the denfity of the medium. The
momentum of the red or lealt refrangible rays being
greater than that of the violet or moft refrangible rays,
the former will make their way through the refilling
medium, while the latter are either refledled or abforb-
ed. The colour of the beam, therefore, when it reach¬
es the eye, mull partake of the colour of the leall re¬
frangible ray } and the rednefs of this colour mull in-
creafe with the number of the violet rays that have been
obftrudled. Hence we fee, that the fun, moon, and
liars appear red when in the horizon; and that every
luminous objeft feen through a miff is of a ruddy hue.
Now, the planet Mars is allowed to have an atmofphere
of great denfity and extent, as is manifell from the dim
appearance of the fixed liars that are placed at a confi-
derable dillance from his dilk. The fun’s light there¬
fore, by which this planet is illuminated, having to pafs
twice through the atmofphere of Mars before it reaches
the earth, mull be deprived of a great proportion of
the violet rays •, and confequently the colour of the re¬
sulting light by which Mars is vifible, muff be red.—
As there is a confiderable difference of colour among
the other planets, and likewife among the fixed liars,
are we not entitled to conclude, that thofe in which
the red colour predominates, have the greatelt or the
denfelt atmofpheres ? According to this principle, Sa¬
turn mull have the next greateft atmofphere to that of
Mars.
Mars, in Pagan worfhip, the god of war. He was,
according to fome, the fon of Jupiter and Juno 5 while
others fay that he was the fon of Juno alone, who be¬
ing difpleafed at Jupiter’s having produced Minerva
from his brain, without female aid, in revenge con¬
ceived without the afliltance of the ether fex, by
touching a flower Ihown to her by Flora in the plains
of Olenus, and became the mother of this formidable
deity. The amours of Mars and Venus, and the man¬
ner in which Vulcan caught and expofed them to the
laughter of the other gods, have been defcribed by fe-
veral of the ancient poets. He is reprefented as hav¬
ing feveral wives and millreffes, and a confiderable
number of children. He was held in the highell vene¬
ration by the Romans, both from his being the father
of Romulus their founder, and from their inclination to
conqueft j and had magnificent temples erefted to him
at Rome.
Mars is ufually reprefented in a chariot, drawn by
furious horfes. He is completely armed ■, and ex¬
tends his fpear with the one hand, and grafps a
fword, imbrued in blood, with the other. He has a
fierce and favage afpe£l. Difcord is reprefented pre¬
ceding his car •, and Clamour, Fear, and Terror, ap¬
pear in his train. The vidlims facrificed to him were
the wolf, the horfe, the woodpecker, the vulture, and
the cock.
Mars, among the older chemifts, denotes iron ; that
-metal being fuppofed to be under the influence of the
planet Mars.
MARSAIS, Cesar Chesneau DU, an eminent li¬
terary charadler, was born at Marfeilles 1676. He at¬
tached himfelf at an early period of life to the order of
the congregation of the oratory ; but the fituation was
too narrow for his genius, and he foon left it. At Pa¬
ris he married, became advocate, and entered -on this
2
new profeffion with great fuccefs and approbation. Dif- Marfais.
appointed, however, in his expectations of making a ' v1
fpeedy fortune, he abandoned the law alfo. About this
time the peevilh humour of his wife occafioned a repa¬
ration. We next find him as governor to the fon of
the prefident de Maifons} and when the premature
death of the father deprived him of the fruits of his
induftry, he engaged with the famous Law in the fame
capacity. After the fall of this extraordinary pro¬
jector, he completed the education of the marquis de
Beaufremont’s children, and reared pupils worthy of
his genius and induftry. Although he was accufed
of a tendency to Deifm, and though there was good
reafon for the accufation $ yet he never infufed into
the minds of his fcholars any principle inconfiftent
with found morality, or with the Chriftian religion.
When he left M. de Beaufremont’s family, he took a
boarding houfe, in which, after a method of his own,
he educated a certain number of young men. Unex¬
pected circumftances obliged him to abandon this ufeful
undertaking. He was even conftrained to give fome
occafional leffons for the bare neceffaries of life. With¬
out fortune, without hope, and almoft without refource,
he was reduced to extreme indigence. In this fituation
he was found by the authors of the Encyclopedic, and
made a partner in conducting that great work. Among
many other excellent pieces, the article Grammar
breathes the fpirit of found philofophy. His principles
are clear and folid. He difcovers an extreme know¬
ledge of the fubjeCt, great accuracy in the rules, and
great propriety in the application. M. le Comte de
Lauraguais was fo much affeCted with the diftreffes,
and fo much convinced of the merit of Du Marfais,
that he procured him a penfion of 1000 livres. Da
Marfais died at Paris on the Iith of June 1756, in his
eightieth year, after having received the facrament.
The compliment which he paid to the prieft on this
occafion has been confidered by fome as rather equivo¬
cal. But there is no neceflity to deprive religion of
this triumph, or philofophy of that honour which con¬
viction and penitence muft confer, on it. “ The faith
of a great genius (fays Bayle, who is entitled to credit
on this fubjeCt), is not totally extinguilhed: It is like
a fpark under the allies. Reflection and the profpeCt of
danger call forth its exertions. There are certain litu-
ations in which philofophers are as full of anxiety and
remorfe as other men.” Whatever were the laft fenti-
ments of Du Marfais, it cannot be denied that in the
vigour of health he furnilhed feveral examples of irreli-
gion, and to thefe have been added many abfurd ftories.
The fuperiority of Du Marfais’s talents confifted in ex-
aCtnefs and perfpicuity. His ignorance of the world,
and of the cuftoms of mankind, together with the
greateft latitude in expreffing whatever he thought,
gave him that frank and unguarded limplicity which
is often th§ chief ingredient of genuine humour. Fon-
tenelle ufed to fay of him, “ that he was the moft lively
fimpleton, and as a man of wit the moft Ample he ever
knew.” He was the Fontaine of philofophers. In
confequence of this character, he was a nice judge o£
what was natural in every production, and a great ene¬
my to all kind of affeClation. His principal works
are, r. ExpoJition de la doBrine de l"* Eg life Gallicane
par rapportaux pretenfons Me la Cour ds Rome, 12mo.
This accurate work was begun at the defire of the pre¬
fident
M A ft [ 6oa ] MAR
Marfais fidcnt de Maifons, and did not appear till after the
^ ,]l.^ death of the author. 1. Expofttioti d^une 7nethode rai-
. arye' '/oncepour apprendre la lanvueRatine. i2mo, 1722, rare.
This method appears conformable to the natural unfold¬
ing of the powers of the mind, and on that account ren¬
ders the acquifition of the language lefs difficult ; but
it was liable to two great objeftions to vulgar and un¬
enlightened underftandings, namely, its novelty, and
the cenfure which it conveyed againft the former me¬
thod. 3. Traite des tropes, 1730, 8vo 5 again printed
in 1771, 1 2mo. This work is intended to explain the
different fignifications of the fame word. It is a mafter-
piece of logic, of accuracy, of perfpicuity, and preci-
fion. The obfervations and the rules are illuftrated by
finking examples calculated to ffiow both the ufe and
the abufe of the rhetorical figures. It is wonderful at
the fame time that this excellent book had very little
fale, and is fcarcely known. A gentleman wffio want¬
ed to compliment the author on this extraordinary per¬
formance, told him that he had heard a great deal of
his Hiftoire des Tropes, and begged to know in what
particular part of the wTorld the nation flourilhed. 4.
Les veritable Principes de la Gramnwire raifonee pour
apprendre la langue Latine, 1729, 410. There was
only the preface of this work publiffied, in which he
introduced the greatefi: part of his mcthode raifonee.
5. Labiege de la fable du Pere Jouvenci, arranged after
the manner of the original plan, 1731, 1 2tno. 6. Une
reponfe manufcrile a la Critique de PHiftoire des Oracles
par is Pcre Baltus. There are only imperfedt frag¬
ments of thefe papers to be found. 7. Logique, ou re-
fed! ions fur les operations de PEfprit. This is a ffiort
tradi, which neverthelefs contains every thing neceflary
to be known on the art of reafoning. It w7as reprinted
at Paris in two parts, together with the articles which
he had furniffiedfor the Encyclopedic, 1762.
MARSAL, a towm of France, in Lorrain, remark¬
able for its fait works; feated in a marffi on the river
Selle, of difficult accefs, which, together with the for¬
tifications, render it an important place. E. Long.
6. 43. N. Lat. 48. 46.
MARSALA, an ancient and ftrong town of Sicily,
in the valley of Mazara. It is well peopled, and built
on the ruins of the ancient Lilyboeum. E. Long. 12. 27.
N. Lat. 37. 52.
MARSAN, or Mount Marsan, x town of France,
in Gafcony, and capital of a fmall territory of the
fame name, fertile in wine ; feated on the river Midufe,
in W. Long. o. 39. N. Lat. 44. o.
MARSAQUIVER, or Marsalquiver, a flrong
and ancient town of Africa, on the coaft of Earbary,
and in the province of Beni Arax, in the kingdom of
Tremefen, with one of the beff harbours in Africa. It
was taken by the Spaniards in 1732. It is feated on a
rock near a bay of the fea, in W. Long. o. 10. N. Lat.
35- 4°-
MARSEILLES, a flrong fea port, and the richeft
town of Provence, in France. Here is a good har¬
bour, where the French galleys are ftationed ; for it
will not admit large men of war. The entrance of
the harbour, which is extremely narrow and furround-
ed by lofty mountains, protedls and ffielters veffels dur¬
ing the moft violent florms. The port itfelf forms a
delightful walk even in the middle of wdnter, as it is
open to the fouthern fun, and crowded with vaft nuru-
Vol. XII. Part II.
bers of people, not only of all the European nations, Marfeilles
but of Turks, Greeks, and natives of the coaft of Bar- ^ ?
bary. The wffiole fcene is one of the moft agreeable. ft
that can be imagined, if the chains of the galley Haves
heard among the hum of bufinefs did not tincture it
with the hateful idea of flavery. The galleys them-
felves, ufelefs and neglected, rot peaceably in their re-
fpedtive ftations : and it is faid that no others will ever
be conftrudted to fupply their place, as they have long
ceafed to be of any utility to the ftate, and are fcarcely
even navigable in fevere weather. Marfeilles pretends
to the moft remote antiquity j a colony of Phocians, in
ages unknown, having given it birth. It is divided
into the Old Town and the New •, which are feparated
by a ftreet, bordered with trees on each fide. The Old
Town is one of the worft built of any in Europe. The
New has fprung up fince the commencement of the
18th century, and has all that regularity, elegance,
and convenience, which diftinguifh the prelent times.
It is faid to contain 100,000 inhabitants, and is one of
the moft trading towns in France. Without the walls
is the caftle of Notre-Dame, which is very well forti¬
fied. It is a biffiop’s fee, and there is a French aca¬
demy 5 it having been noted at all times for men of
learning. In 1660, Louis XIV. built the citadel and
Fort St John to keep the inhabitants in awe, becaufe
they pretended to be free. The Jefuits had a very fine
obfervatory here ; and in the arfenal, built not long
ago, there are arms for 40.000 men. In the Houfe of
Difcipline they weave gold, filver, and filk brocades.
The drugs are brought thither from all parts of the
world. It is feated on the north Ihore of the Mediter¬
ranean, in E. Long. 4. 27. N. Lat. 43. 18. The
furrounding country is rocky and barren, but covered
for feveral miles on all fides with villas and fummer
houfes, which commerce has erefted.
MARSH, Narcissus, a learned Iriffi prelate, was
born at Hannington in Wiltffiire in 1638. He was
made principal of St Alban’s hall, Oxford, in 1673,
but removed to the provoftffiip of Dublin college in
1678, promoted to the biffiopric of Leighlin and Ferns
in 1682, tranflated to the archbilhopric of Caffiel in
1690, to Dublin in 1694, and to Armagh in 1703.
While he held the fee of Dublin, he built a noble li¬
brary for the ufe of the public, filled it with choice
books, and fettled a provifion for two librarians. He
repaired, at his own expence, feveral decayed churches,
befides buying in and reftoring many impropriations,
and prefenting a great number of oriental MSS. to the
Bodleian library. He wras a very learned and accom-
plifhed man j was well verfed in facred and profane li¬
terature, in mathematics, natural philofophy, the learn¬
ed languages, efpecially the oriental, and in both the
theory and practice of mufic. He publilhed, Injli-
tutiones logiccc. 2. ManuduBio ad logicam, written by
Philip de Trieu •, to which he added the Greek text of
Ariftotle and fome tables and fchemes. 3. An intro-
dudfory effay on the dodfrine of founds, &cc. He died
in 1713.
MARSH, fignifies a piece of ground flowed wdth
water, yet fo that the grafs and other vegetables rife
above the furface of the water, and, by their decaying,
give rife to putrid effluvia, which are very pernicious
to the human body.
MARSHAL, or MaresciiaI-, (rnarefcallus), pri-
4 H marily
MAR [ G
Marfhal. marily denotes an officer who lias the care or the com-
mand'of hor!es. Nicod derives the word from pole-
r>:archis, “ rnafter of the camp Matthew Paris from
Marl:s fenefcallus. In tire old Gaulith language, march
signified “ horfewhence marechal might lignify
“ lam who commanded the cavalry.” Other deriva¬
tions have been given by different authors ; and the
name itfelf has been applied to officers of very different
employments.
Marshal of France, the highefl: dignity of prefer¬
ment in the French armies under the old government.
The dignity of marftial came to be for life, though at
its firft: inftitution it was othervvife. They wrere then
only the king’s firft ecuyers under the conftable ■, but
in time they became the conftable’s lieutenants in the
command of the army, the conftable himfelf being then
become captain-general. At firft they vrere but two
in number ; and their allowance was but 500 livres per
Annum in time of war, and nothing in time of peace 5
but in the reign of Francis I. a third was added; Hen¬
ry II. created a fourth. Since, it has been various *,
Touis XIV. increafed it to 20. Their office at firft
was, to marftial the army under the conftable, and to
command in his abfence. They did then what the
marfhah a'e camp do now ; to which iaft they have gi¬
ven their title, and the leaft confiderable part of their
authority.
Earl Marshal of Scotland. His office was to com¬
mand the cavalry, whereas the Constable command¬
ed the whole army. They feem, however, to have
had a fort of joint command, as of old all orders were
addreffed “ to our conftable and marifchal.” The of¬
fice of earl marifchal has never been out of the noble
family of Keith. It was referved at the Union ; and
when the heritable jurifdiftions were bought, it was
in the crown, being forfeited by the rebellion of Geo.
fveith, earl marifchal, in 1715.
Earl Marshal of England is the eighth great of¬
ficer of ftate. This office, until it w7as made heredi¬
tary, always paffed by grant from the king, and
never was held by tenure or ferjeantry (by any fubjefl),
as the offices of lord high fteward and lord high con¬
ftable were fometimes held. The title is perfonal,
the office honorary and officiary. They were for¬
merly ftyled lord marf.al only, until King Richard II.
June 20. 1397, granted letters patent to Thomas
Mowbray, earl of Nottingham, and to the heirs male
of his body lawfully begotten, by the name and ftyle
of earl marfhal; and further, gave them power to bear
iu their hand a gold truncheon, enamelled with black
at each end ; having at the upper end of it the king’s
arms engraven thereon, and at the lower end his own
arms.
King James I. ivas plcafed, by letters patent, dated
Auguft 29th 1622, to conftitute Thomas Howa'-d,
carl of Arundel and Surrey, earl marlhal for life 5 and
the next year, the fame king granted (with the ad¬
vice of the privy council, letters-patent, wherein it wras
declared, that during the vacancy of the office of lord
high conftable of England, the earl marftial had the
like jurifdiftion in the court of chivalry, as both con¬
ftable and marftial jointly ever exercifed. See Ciu-
yialrt, Court of
On the 19th of O&ober 1672, King Charles II.
pleafed to grant to Henry Lord Howard, and the
o ] M A R
heirs male of las body lawfully begotten, the office Marfhal
and dignity of earl marftial of England, with power f >1
to execute the fame by deputy or deputies, in as lull ;V*arf]liilfea:
and ample a manner as the fame was heretofore exe¬
cuted by Henry Howard, Lord Maltravers, late earl
of Arundel, Surrey, and Norfolk, grandfather to the
faid Henry Lord Howard ; or by Thomas Howard
late duke of Norfolk, grandfather to the faid Thomas
Howard, late earl of Arundel, Surrey, and Norfolk ;
or by Thomas Howard duke of Norfolk, grandfather
of the faid Thomas Howard duke of Norfolk ; or by
John Mowbray duke of Norfolk, or any other earl
marlhal of England •, with a penfion of 20I. each
year, payable out of the hanaper office in chancery -7
and on default of the iffue-male of the faid Henry Lord
Howard, v;ith limitation to the heirs male lawfully be¬
gotten of the body of the faid Thomas Howard earl
of Arundel, &c. j and, on the default of fuch iffue, to
defeend in like manner to the heirs male of Thomas
late earl of Suffolk ; and, on default of his iffue male,
to the heirs male of Lord William Howard, late of
Naworth in the county of Cumberland, youngeft fon
to Henry Howard late duke of Norfolk •, and, on de¬
fault of his iffue male, to Charles Howard earl of Not¬
tingham, and the heirs male of his body lawfully be¬
gotten.
Field-Marshal, an officer of high rank in the Eu¬
ropean armies. It is now, however, difufed in the
Eritilh army j Lord Tyrawley was the laft, appointed
in 1763.
Knight-MARSHAL, or Marshal of the King's Houfe,
an Englifti officer, whofe bufinefs, according to Fleta,
is to execute the commands and decrees of the lord
fteward, and to have the cuftody of prifeners commit¬
ted by the court of verge. Under him are fix mar-
ftial’s men, who are properly the king’s bailiffs, and
arreft in the verge of the court, when a warrant is
backed by the board of green-cloths The court where
caufes of this kind, between man and man, are tried,
is called the Marfhalfea, and is under the knight-mar-
ftial. See MARSHALSEA.
This is alfo the name of the prifon in Southwark $
the reafon of which may probably be, that the raarihai
of the king’s houfe was wont to lit there in judgement,
or keep his prifon.
Marshal of the King's Bench, an officer who has
cuftody of the prifon called the King's Bench in South-
wark. He gives attendance upon the court, and
takes into his cuftody all prifoners committed by the
court •, he is finable for his abfence, and non-attend¬
ance incurs a forfeiture of his office. The power of
appointing the marlhal of the king’s benclr is in the
crown.
In Fleta, mention is alfo made of a marfhal of the
exchequer, to uffiom the court commits the cuftody of
the king’s debtors, &c.
MARSHALLING a Coat, in Heraldry, is the
difpofal of feveral coats of arms belonging to diftinft
families in one and the fame efcutcheon or Ihield, toge¬
ther with their ornaments, parts, and appurtenances. See
Heraldry, chap. vi. p. 466.
MARSHALSEA, the Court of and the Palace
Court at Weftminfter, though two diftin£t courts, are
frequently confounded together. The former was
originally holden before the fteward and marlhal of the
king’s
MAH [ 6r
Marfiialfea king’s lioufe, and was inftituted to adminifter judice be¬
ll t 7 tween the king’s domeftic fervants, that they might not
Marfldaiv.I. j3e jrawn jnto otlier courts, and thereby the king lofe
their fervice. It was formerly held in, though not a
part of, the aula regis; and, when that was fubdivid-
ed, remained a diftindl jurifdi&ion : holding plea of all
trefpaffes eommitted within the verge of the court,
where only one of the parties is in the king’s domedic
fervice (in which cafe the inqued diall be taken by a
jury of the country) } and of all debts, contrails, and
covenants, where both of the contradling parties be¬
long to the royal houfehold j and then the inqued drall
be coxnpofed of men of the houfehold only. By the
datute of 13 Rich. II. dat. 1. c. 3. (in affirmance of
the common law), the verge of the court in this refpedl
extends for 12 miles round the king’s place ofrefidence.
And, as this tribunal was never fubjedl to the jurifdic-
tion of the chief judiciary, no writ of error lay from it
(though a court of record) to tire king’s bench, but on¬
ly to parliament, till the datutes of 5 Edw. III. c. 2.
and 10 Edw. III. dat. 2. c. 3. which allowed fuch writ
of error before the king in his place. But this court
being ambulatory, and obliged to followr the king in
all his progreffes, fo that by the removal of the houfe¬
hold aftions wrere frequently difcontinued, and doubts
having arifen as to the extent of its jurifdidlion, King
Charles I. in the fixth year of his reign, by his letters
patent, erefled a new court of record, called the curia
palatii, or palace court, to be held before the dew^ard
of the houfehold and knight-marffial, and the deward
of the court, or his deputy 5 with jurifdi&ion to hold
plea of all manner of perfonal aelions wdiatfoever, which
fliall arife between any parties within 1 2 miles of his
majedy’s palace at Whitehall. The court is now held
once a week, together with the ancient court of mar-
fhalfea, in the borough of Southw-ark : and a wurit of
error lies from thence to the court of king’s bench. But
if the caufe is of any condderable ccnfequence, it is
ufually removed on its fird commencement, together
with the cudody of the defendant, either into the king’s
bench or common pleas, by a wwit of habeas corpus cum
caufa : and the inferior bufinefs of the court hath of
late years been much reduced, by the new courts of
conference erefted in the environs of London } in con-
fideration of which the four counfel belonging to thefe
courts had falaries granted them for their lives by the
dat. 23 Geo. II. c. 27..
MARSHFIELD, a towm of Glouceficrlhire, fe-
ven miles from Bath, 12 from Chipping-Sodbury, 12^-
from Bridol, 35 from Glouceder, and 104 from Lon¬
don, on the road to Bridol, and on the very borders
of Wilts. It is a confiderable clothmg-town, drives a
a good trade in malt, and is famous for cakes. It con-
fids chiefly of one dreet of old buildings near a mile
long; and is governed by a bailiff. It has a large
church, with a well endowed alms houfe and a chapel
to it for eight poor people, and a charity fchool j and
it has a weekly market and two fairs.
MARSHLAND, a marihy peninfula in the county
of Norfolk, oppolite to King’s Lynn, almod furround-
ed wdth the Oufe and other navigable rivers, and an
arm of the fea. It feems formerly to have been reco¬
vered out of the ocean, from whofe inundations it could
never be altogether defended *, and in Sir Henry Spel-
man’s time it differed two general ones, viz. one from
i ] MAR
the fait water, the other from the frefhes 5 by the lad Marfhmai-
of which the inhabitants differed 42,000!. damage. It ^
contains about 30,000 acres, which turn to moie. profit
by grazing than ploughing. It is about 10 miles in'—•' v ■■
the wided place, and has no lefs than III orick bridges.
The commonage of it belongs to feven villages that
furround it. The air is fo unhealthy, that an ague is
commonly called the MarJJjlaud bailiff'
MARSHMALLOW. See Althea, Botany
Index.
MARSI, a nation of Germany, who afterwards
came to fettle in Italy, where they occupied the ter¬
ritory in the environs of the Fucine lake. . I bey at
fird proved very inimical to Rome, but in procels
of time they became its firmed lupporters. . They
were allowed by the Romans to be tne mod intrepid
foldiers of their legions wffien in frienddiip, and the
mod formidable of their enemies when at variance j
and it was a common faying, that Rome courd nei¬
ther triumph over the Marfi nor without them.
They are particularly celebrated for the civil w-ar in
which they were engaged, and which from them has
received the name of the Marjian war. Lhe large
contributions they made to lupport the intered. 01.
Rome, and the number of men which they continu¬
ally fupplied to the republic, rendered them bold and
afpiring j and they claimed, with the red of the Ita¬
lian dates, a ffiare of the honour and privileges which
were enjoyed by the citizens of Rome. J his petition,
though fupported by the intered, the eloquence, and
the integrity of the tribune Drufus, wras received v\itn
contempt by the Roman fenate } upon which, in tne
662d year of Rome, the Marfi put themfelves at the
head of the Social war, one of the mod obflmate and
dangerous oppofitions ever made to the progrels of the
Roman power, ihey obtained feveral victories : but
they were at lad defeated ; though the war was not ter¬
minated but by a grant of thole privileges for which
they contended.
MARSICO NUOVO, a fmall, rich, and handfome
town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples, and in the
blither Principato, with a bihiop’s fee. It is feated at
the foot of the Apennines, near the river Agri, in
E. Long. I 49. N. Lat. 20. 42.
MARSIGLI, Lewis Ferdinand, Count, an Ita¬
lian, famous for letters as well as arms, was defeended
from an ancient and noble family, and born at Bo¬
logna in 1658. He acquired a great knowledge in
the art of war and fortification ; ferved under the em¬
peror Leopold II. againd the Turks, by whom he
was taken prifoner in 1683, but redeemed, alter a
vear’s captivity. In the Spanith {ucceffion ivar, Mar-
figli, then advanced to the rank of marfhal, being in
the fortrefs of Brifac, which furrendered to the duke
of Burgundy in 1703, when the place was deemed
capable' of holding out much longer, was dripped of all
his commiflions, and had his fword broke over him 5 and
the count d’Arco who commanded was beheaded. Mar-
figli now fought for confolation in the Iciences j as,
amidd all the hurry and fatigue of war, he had made
all the advantages the mod philofophic man could do,
"who had travelled purely in qued of knowledge. He
had a rich colledlion bf every thing proper to the ad¬
vancement of natural knowledge, indruments aftrono-
mical and chemiQal, plans of fortifications, models o»
4 H 2 machines,
mar [ 6]
Maifton machines, &c. all which he prefented to the fenate of
Mart. ®0^°g”a by an authentic aft in 1712, forming at the
«—Y-—-' ^atr!e titne out of them what he called the Inftitute of
the. arts and faiences at Bologna. He alfo founded a
printing houfe, and furniOied it wuth the bed types
for^Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and Arabic, which he
prefented in 1728 to the Dominicans at Bologna, on
condition of their printing all the writings of the In-
fttute at prime coft : this was called the printing houfe
of St Thomas Aquinas. His waitings on philofophical
fubjects are numerous and valuable, in Latin, Italian,
and French. He died in 1730.
MAR SI ON, John, an EngLfh dramatic writer,
who lived in the time of James I. Wood fays he was
a Undent in Corpus Chridi college, Oxford*; but nei¬
ther his family nor the time of bis birth is known.
He produced eight plays for the dage, which were
all a died at tlackfnars with applaufe : and one of
them, called the Dutch Courte,z>an^ was once revived
fince the Redoration, under the title of the Revenge,
or a Match tn Newgate. There is no account w:hen
he oied j but wTe find his wmrks wr^re pubhdied after
his death by Shakefpeare, and may thence reafonably
conclude that it happened about the year 1614. He
was a chade and pure writer 5 avoiding all that ob-
fcenity, ribaldry, and fcurrility, which too many
of the playwrights of that time, and indeed much
more fo in fome periods fince, have made the bafis
of their wit, to the great difgrace and fcandal of the
flage.
MARSYAS, in fabulous hidory, a celebrated mufi-
cian of Celaenas in Phrygia, fon of Olympus, or of
Hyagnis, or CEagrus. He wTas fo ikilful in playing on
the flute, that he is generally deemed the inventor of it.
According to the opinion ol lome, he found it when
Minerva had thrown it afide on account ot the diflor-
tion of her face when die played upon it. Marfyas
was enamoured of Cybele, and he travelled with her
as far as Nyfa, where he had the imprudence to chal¬
lenge Apollo to a trial of his fkill as a mufician. The
god accepted the challenge, and it was mutually agreed
that he who was defeated fhould be dead alive by the
conqueror. The Mufes, or (according to Diodorus)
the inhabitants of Nyfa, were appointed umpires.
Each exerted his utmod fkill, and the viftory, with
much difficulty, was adjudged to Apollo. The god
upon this tied his antagonid to a tree, and dead him
alive . (See Apollo). I he death of IVIarfyas was
univerfally lamented; the Fauns, Satyrs, and Dryads,
wept at his fate j and from their abundant tears arofe
a river of Phrygia, well known by the name of Mar¬
fyas. The unfortunate Marfyas is often reprefented
on monuments, as tied with his hands behind his back
to a tree, while Apollo Hands before him with his lyre
in his hands. In independent cities, among the an¬
cients, the datue of Marfyas was generally erefted
in the forum, to reprefent the intimacy which fubfided
between Bacchus and IVIarfyas as the emblems of li¬
berty. At Celaense, the fkin of Marfyas was fhown to
travellers for fome time. It was fufpended in the pub¬
lic place, in the form of a bladder or a foot ball.
The fources ef the Marfyas were near thofe of the
Maeander, and thofe two rivers had their confluence a
little below the town of Celaenae.
MART, a great fair held every year for buying
2 ] MAR
and felting goods. Public marts, on places of buying Martabas
and felling, fuch as markets and fairs, with the tolls ii
thereunto belonging, can only be let up by virtue of IV[aitial
the king’s grant, or by long and immemorial ufage and T?'. .
prefcription, which preluppofes fuch a grant. ° The
limitation of thefe public reforts, to fuch time and
place as may be mod convenient for the neighbour¬
hood, forms a part or economics, or domedic polity j
which, confidermg the kingdom as a large family, and
the king as the mader of it, he has clearly a right to
difpofe and order as he pleafes.
MARTABAN, a province of Ada, in the kingdom
of Pegu, lying in the gulf of Bengal. It is a coun¬
try that produces rice and all kinds of fruits proper
to the climate. It has mines of feveral forts of me¬
tals, and carries on a great trade. The chief town,
which is of the fame name, is rich, handfome, and very
populous, with a good harbour. E. Long. 97. 30.
N. Eat. 15. 35.
MARTEAU, the name given by French naturalifls
to a peculiar fpecies of cyders, called alfo malleus by
others, the figure of which is that of a hammer, or
rather of a pickaxe. See Ostrea, Conchclogy
Index.
MARTHA, St, a province of South America,
on the coaft of Terra Firma, bounded on the north by
the North lea, on the eafl by Rio de la Hache, on the
louth by New7 Granada, and on the wed by Carthage-
na. It is 300 miles in length and 200 in breadth, is a
mountainous country, and the land very high. Here
begins the famous ridge of mountains called the Cordil¬
leras dcs los Andes, which run from north to fouth the
whole length of the continent of South America. It
is extremely hot on the fea coad 5 but cold in the in¬
ternal parts, on account of the mountains. It abounds
with the fruits proper to the climate ; and there are
mines of gold and precious dones, as alfo fait works.
The Spaniards pofiefs but one part of this province, in
which they have built St Martha the capital. The air
about the town is wholefome 5 and is feated near the
fea, having a harbour furrounded with high mountains.
It was formerly very coniiderable when the galleons
were fent thither, but is now come almod to nothing.
W. Long. 74. II. N. Lat. 11. 20.
Martha, St, or Sierra Neveda, a very high moun¬
tain in New Spain. Some fay it is 100 miles in cir¬
cumference at the bottom, and five miles in height.
The top is always covered with fnow in the hotted
weather ; and the French affirm, that they can per¬
ceive it from the idand of St Domingo, which is 370
miles didant. W. Long. 74. 35. N. Eat. 8. o.
Martha's Vineyard, an idand of North America
near the coad of New England, 80 miles fouth of Bof-
ton. The inhabitants apply themfelves chiefly to their
fiffieries, in which they have great fuccefs. W. Long.
70. 35. N. Lat. 41. o.
MARTIAL, is tometimes ufed to exprefs prepara¬
tions of iron, or fuch as are impregnated therewith j as
the martial regulus of antimony, &c.
Martial Court. See Court Martial.
Martial Law, is the law of war that depends up¬
on the jufi but arbitrary will and pieafare of the kimr,
or his lieutenant: for though the king doth not make
any laws but by common confent in parliament, yet, in
time of war, by reafgn of the neceffity of it to guard
againft;
M A R
Mart!alls againfl dangers that often arife, he ufeth abfolute power,
Martin ^at ^'ls wor<^ ^ a law. Smith de Repub. Ang. lib. ii.
c. 4.
Eut the martial law (according to Chief Juftice
Hale), is in reality not a law, but fomething indul¬
ged rather than allowed as a law j and it relates only to
members of the army, being never intended to be exe¬
cuted on others, who ought to be ordered and go¬
verned by the laws to which they are fubjedl, though
it be a time of war. And the exercife of martial law,
whereby any perfon might lofe his life, or member, or
liberty, may not be permitted in time of peace, when
the king’s courts are open for all perfons to receive juf¬
tice.
MARTIALIS, Marcus Valerius, a famous La¬
tin poet, born at Bilbilis, now called Bubiera, in the
kingdom of Arragon in Spain, was of the order of
knights. He went to Rome at the age of 21, and ftaid
there 35 years, under the reign of Galba and the fuc-
ceeding emperors, till that of Trajan ; and having ac¬
quired the efleetn of Titus and Domitian, he was
created tribune. At length, finding that he w^as ne-
glefted by Trajan, he returned to his own country
Bilbilis, where he married a wife, and had the hap-
pinefs to live with her feveral years. He admires and
commends her much, telling her that (he alone was
fufficient to fupply the want of every thing he enjoyed
at Rome. “ Romam tu mihi fola facis” fays he, in
the 21 ft epigram of the 12th book. She appears like-
wife to have been a lady of a very large fortune; for,
in the 31ft epigram of the fame book, he extols the
magnificence of the houfe and gardens he had received
from her, and fays that Ihe had made him a little kind
of monarch.”
Munera funt domino : pojl feptima lujira reverfo.
Has Marcella do?nos, parvaque regna dedit.
There are ftill extant 14 books of his epigrams, filled
with points, a play upon words, and obfcenities. The
ftyle is affe&ed. However, fome of his epigrams are
excellent ; many of them are of the middling kind j
but the greateft part of them are bad i fo that Martial
never fpoke a greater truth, than wThen he faid of his
own works,
Sunt bona, funt qucedam mediocra, funt mala plura.
There is alfo attributed to him a book on the fpec-
tacles of the amphitheatre *, but the moft learned cri¬
tics think that this laft work was not written by Mar¬
tial. The beft editions of Martial are, that in Ufum
Delphini, 410, Paris, 1617, and that cum Notts Vari¬
orum.
MARTIGUES, a fea-port town of France, in Pro¬
vence, with the title of a principality j feated near a
lake 12 miles long and five broad, which is navigable
throughout, and from whence they get excellent fait.
E. Long. 4. 20. N. Lat. 43. 38.
MARTIN, St, was born at Sabaria in Pannonia,
(at prefent Stain in Lower Hungary), in the begin¬
ning of the fourth century. His father was a mili¬
tary tribune ; and he himfelf was obliged to carry arms,
although peace and folitude w?ere much more agree¬
able to his inclination. He was remarkable for every
virtue, in a profeflion which is generally confidered to
give a.fan&ron to vice. He divided his coat with a
MAR
naked wretch whom he met at the gate of Amiens j Martin,
and it is reported, that Jefus Chrift appeared to him '*~—m
on the night following, clothed in this half of his
coat. Martin rvas then a catechumen $ but he toon
afterwards received baptifm, and renounced the mili¬
tary profeffion for the ecclefiatlical. After pafting many
years in folitude, St Hilary biftiop of Poidliers gave
him the power to caft out devils. On his return to-
Panncnia, he perfuaded his mother to embrace Chrifti-
anity; and with great zeal and activity oppofed the
Arians, who governed the church in Illyria. When
he was publicly whipt for giving teftimony to the di¬
vinity of Chrift, he bore the puniihment with the con-
ftancy and patience of the firft martyrs. This illu-
ftrious champion for Chriftianity, when he heard that
St Hilary was returned from banilhment, went and
fettled in the neighbourhood of Poidliers. In this,
retirement, a great number of monks placed themfelves
under his diredHon. His virtues became every day
more fplendid and remarkable, till he was drawn from
his folitude, and with the general approbation of the
clergy and people eledled biftiop of Tours in the.
year 374. To the zeal and charity of a biftiop, he
joined the humility and poverty of an anchorite.
That he might detach himfelf more from the w’orld,
he built the celebrated monaftery of Marmoutier,
which ftill remains, and which is believed to be the
oldeft abbey in France. It is fituated near the city
of Tours, betwixt the Loire and a fteep rock. In
this fituation, together with 80 monks, St Martin dif-
played the moft exemplary fandlity and mortification
nor wrere there any monks better difciplined than thofe.
of Marmoutier. After he had converted his diocefe
to the Chriftian faith, he became the apoftle of all
Gaul. He diffufed the dodlrines of Chriftianity among
the heathens, deftroyed their temples, and (accord¬
ing to the writers of his life), confirmed the truth
by an infinite number of miracles. The emperor Va-
lentinian, at that time in Gaul, received him with
every mark of refpedt and honour. The tyrant Maxi¬
mus, who had revolted againft the emperor Gra-
tian, and feized on Spain, England, and Gaul, receiv¬
ed him in a manner no lefs diftinguiftied. The holy
biftiop attended him at Treves in the year 383, to fo-
licit fome favours. Maximus made him fit at his
table with the moft illuftrious perfons of his court,
and placed him at his right hand. In drinking, the
ufurper commanded his fervants to give him a cup,
that he might again receive it from him ; but this ex¬
traordinary prelate gave it to the prieft who accom¬
panied him on his journey. This holy boldnefs, far
from difpleafing them, gained him the favour of the
emperor and of his court. Martin, who was an ene¬
my to herefy, but a friend of mankind, employed his
influence with this prince to preferve the Prifcilli-
anifts, who ivere profecuted by Ithace and by Idace,
biftiops of Spain. The biftiop of Tours would hold
no communion with men whofe principles of religion
inclined them to flied the blood of mankind j and
he obtained the life of thofe whofe death they had fo-
licited. On his return to Tours, he prepared himfelf
for the reward of his labours in another wmrld. He
died at Candes the 8th of November 397, but accord¬
ing to others on the nth of November 400. His
name is given tp a particular opinion concerning the
myflery;.
[ 513 1
MAR
my Scry 6F the holy Trinity. St Martin is the fir ft
of the faints confeffors to whom the Latin church of¬
fered public prayers. His life is written in elegant
Latin by Fortunatus, and Sulpicius Severus one of
his difciples. Paul of Perigueux and Fortunatus of
Poi&iers have given us Sulpicius’s life of Martin in
verfe ; but they have debafed the admirable profe of
the author by a wretched poetical imitation. Nico¬
las Gervais wrote alf6 the life of St Martin, full of
many curious and entertaining fafts, publiftied at
Tours in 1699, in 4to. The tradition at Amiens is,
that St Martin performed the aft of charity which
rendered him fo famous, near an ancient gate of the
city, of which the ruins are ftill vifible. The follow¬
ing Latin verfes, which do more honour to the
faint than to the poet, are infcribed on one of the
.ftones :
Hie quondam vejlem Mar thins demidiavit;
Ut faceremus idem, nobis exemp/ificavit.
Martin, Benjamin^ one of the moft eminent ar-
tifts and mathematicians of the age, was born in 1704.
After publiftiing a variety of ingenious treatifes, and
j particularly a Scientific Magazine under his own
name, and carrying on for many years a very exten-
five trade as an optician and globe-maker in Fleet-
ftreet, the growing infirmities of age compelled him
to withdraw from the aftive part of bufinefs. Truft-
ing too fatally to what he thought the integrity of
others, he unfortunately, though with a capital more
than fufticient to pay all his debts, became a bank¬
rupt. The unhappy old man, in a moment of defpe-
ration from this unexpefted ftroke, attempted to de-
ftroy himfelf 5 and the wound, though not immediately
mortal, haftened his death, which happened February
9th 1782, in his 78th year. He had a valuable col-
leftion of foffils and curiofities of almoft every fpecies 5
which, after his death, were almoft given away by
public auftion. His principal publications, as far as
they have occurred to recolleftion, are, The Philofo-
phic Grammar ; being a view of the prefent ftate of
experimental phyfiology, or natural philofophy, 1735,
8vo. A new, complete, and univerfal Syftem or
Body of Decimal Arithmetic, 1735, 8vo. The young
Students Memorial Book, or Patent Library, 1735, 8vo.
Defer!ption and Ufe of both the Globes, the Armillary
Sphere and Orrery, Trigonometry, 1736, 2 vols Bvo.
Memoirs of the Academy of Paris, 1740, 5 vols.
Syftem of the Newtonian Philofophy, 1759, 3 vols.
New Elements of Optics, 1759. Mathematical In-
flitutions, viz. Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry, and
Fluxions, 1759. Natural Hiftory of England, with
a Map of each County, 1759, 2 vols. Philology, and
Philoibphical Geography, 1 759. Mathematical In-
ftitutions, 1764, 2 vols. Lives of Philofophers, their
Inventions, &c. 1764. Introduftion to the Newto¬
nian Philofophy, 1765. Inftitutions of Aftronomical
Calculations, 2 parts, 1765. Defcription and Ufe
of the Air Pump, 1766. Defcription of the Torricel¬
lian Barometer, 1766. Appendix to the Defcription
and Ufe of the Globes, 1766. Philofophia Britan-
nica, 1778, 3 vols. Gentleman and Lady’s Philofo¬
phy, 3 vols. Mifcellaneous Correfpondence, 4 vols.
Syftem of Philology. Philofophical Geography. Ma¬
gazine complete, 14 vols. Principles of Pump-work.
3
MAR
Theory of the Hydrometer. Doftrine of Loga- Martia
rithms. ,, I) .
Martin, St, a fmall but ftrong town of France W—1 “"cr>’»
in the ifle of Rhee, with a harbour and a ftrong cita¬
del, fortified after the manner of Vauban. The iHand
lies near the coaft of Poitou. W. Long. 1. o. N. Lat,
45. 40.
Cape Martin, a promontory of Valencia in Spain,
near a town called Denia, and feparates the gulf of Va¬
lencia from that of Alicant.
Martin, St, an ifland of America, and one of
the Caribbees, lying on the gulf of Mexico, to the
north-weft of St Bartholomew', and to the fouth-wefl:
of Anguilla. It is 42 miles in circumference \ has nei¬
ther harbour nor river, but feveral fait pits. After va¬
rious revolutions, it is at length in poffeftion of the
French and Dutch, who poffefs it conjointly. W.
Long. 62. 35. N. Lat. 18. 15.
Martin. See Hirundo, Ornithology Index, and
Mustrla, Mammalia Index.
Free Martin, in Zoology, is a name given in this
country to a cow calf caft at the fame time wdth a
bull calf, which is a kind of hermaphrodite that is
never known to breed nor to difeover the leaft incli¬
nation for the bull, nor does the bull ever take the
leaft notice of it. See Hermaphrodite.
MARTINGALE, in the manege, a thong of lea¬
ther, faftened to one end of the girths under a horfe’s
belly, and at the other end to the mufs-roll, to keep
him from rearing.
MARTINICO, the chief of the French Caribbee
iflands, the middle of which is fituated in W. Long.
61. o. N. Lat. 14. 30.
This ifland was firft fettled by M. Defnambuc a
Frenchman, in the year 1635, wdth only 100 men from
St Chriftopher’s. He chofe rather to have it peopled
from thence than from Europe *, as he forefaw, that
men, tired with the fatigue of fuch a long voyage,
would moftly perifti foon after their arrival, either from
the climate, or from the hardftr.ps incident to moft
emigrations. They completed their firft fettlement
wdthout any difficulty. The natives, intimidated by
their fire-arms, or feduced by promifes, gave up the
weftern and fouthern parts of the ifland to the new
comers. In a ffiort time, however, perceiving the
number of thefe enterprifing ftrangers daily increafing,
they refolved to extirpate them, and therefore called
in the favages of the neighbouring iflands to affift
them. They fell jointly upon a little fort that had
been haftily erefted ; but were repulfed, with the lofs
of 700 or 800 of their beft warriors, who were left dead
on the fpot.
After this check, the favages for a long time difap-
peared entirely *, but at laft they returned, bringing
with them prefents to the French, and making ex-
cufes for what had happened. They rvere received in
a friendly manner, and the reconciliation fealed witR
pots of brandy. This peaceable ftate of affairs, how¬
ever, was of no long continuance ; the French took,
fuch undue advantages of their fuperiority over the fa¬
vages, that they foon rekindled in the others that ha¬
tred which had never been entirely fubdued. The fa¬
vages, whofe manner of life requires a vaft extent of
land, finding themfelves daily' more and more ftrait-
ened, had recourfe to ftratagem, in order to deftroy
thcic
r 614 i
M A R [ 61
Mcrtinico. tlieir enemies. They feparated into frnall bands, and
-v ' way-laid the Trench as they came lingly out into the
woods to hunt, and, waiting till the fportfman had dif-
charged his piece, ruflied upon and kibed him before
he could charge it again. Twenty men had been
thus affaffmated before any reafon could be given for
their hidden difappearance : but as foon as the matter
tvas known, the ‘French took a fevere and fatal re¬
venue ; the favages were purfued and maffacred, with
their wives and children, and the few that efcaped
were driven out of Martinico, to which they never re¬
turned.
The French being thus left foie mailers of the
ifland, lived quietly on thofe fpots which bell fuited
their inclinations. At this time they were divided
into two claffes. The firft conlifted of thofe who had
paid their paffage to the bland, and thele w’ere^ called
inhabitants; and to thefe the government diftributed
lands, which became their own, upon paying a year¬
ly tribute. Thefe inhabitants had under their com¬
mand a multitude of difoiderly people^ brought over
from Europe at their expence, whom they called en¬
gages, or bondlmen. This engagement was a kind, of
flavery for the term of three years : on the expiration
of which they were at liberty, and became the equals
of thofe whom they had ferved. I hey all confined
themfelves at firlt to the culture of tobacco and cotton 5
to which was foon added that of arnotto and indigo.
The culture of fugar alfo was begun about the year
1650. Ten years after, one Benjamin d’Acofta, a
Jew, planted fome cocoa trees j but his example was
not followed till 1684, when chocolate was more com¬
monly ufed in France. Cocoa then became the prin¬
cipal fupport of the colonills, who had not a fufficient
fund to undertake fugar plantations j but by the in¬
clemency of the feafon in 1718, all the cocoa trees
were dellroyed at once.-—Coffee was then propofed as
a proper objedl of culture. The French miniilry had
received, as a prefent from the Dutch, two of theie
trees, which were carefully preferved in the king’s
botanical garden. Two young (hoots were taken from
thefe, put on board a drip for Martinico, and intruded
to the care of one Mr Defclieux. The (hip happened
to be (Irsitened for want of fre(h water ; and the trees
would have perifiied, had not that gentleman (hared
with them that quantity of water which was allowed
for his own drinking. The culture of coffee was then
begun, and attended with the greateft and mod rapid
fuccefs. About the end of lad century, however, the
colony had made but fmall advances. In 1700, it had
only 6597 white inhabitants. The favages, mulattoes,
and free negroes, men, women, and children, amounted
to no more than 507. The number of flaves was but
14,566. All thefe together made a population of
21.645 perfons. The whole of the cattle amounted to
3668 horfes or mules, and 9217 head of horned cattle.
The ifland produced a great quantity of cocoa, tobac¬
co, and cotton ; had nine indigo houfes, and 183 fmall
fugar plantations.
After the peace of Utrecht, Martinico began to
emerge from that feeble date in which it had fo long
continued. The ifland then became the mart for all
the windward French fettlements. In the ports ol it
the neighbouring iflands fold their produce, and bought
the commodities of the mother country and, in (hort,
5 ]
MAR
Martinico became famous all over Europe. In 1 y ^Martmxgr
there were on the ifland 447 fugar works ; 11,953,232 ^ v "
coffee trees, 103,870 of cocoa : 2,068,480 plants of
cotton, 39,400 of tobacco, 6750 of arnotto. The
fupplies for provifions conflfled of 4,806,142 banana
trees, 34,483,000 trenches of caffava ; and 247 plots
of potatoes and yams. The number of blacks amount¬
ed to 72,000 men, women, and children. Their la¬
bour had improved the plantations as far as was con¬
fident with the confumption then made in Europe of
American produff ions •, and the annual exports from
the ifland amounted to about 700,000k
The connexions of Martinico with the other iflands
entitled her to the profits of commiflion, and the
changes of tranfport; as (he alone was in the poilef-
(ion of carriages. This profit might be rated at the
tenth of the produce ; and the (um total mud have
amounted to near 765,000k This danding debt was
feldom called in, and left for the improvement of their
plantations. It was increafed by advances in money,
(laves, and other neceffary articles j fo that Marti¬
nico became daily more and more a creditor to the
other iflands, and thus kept them in condant depend¬
ence ; while they all enriched themfelves by her ai-
fidance.
The connexions of this ifland with Cape Breton,
Canada, and Louifiana, procured a market for the or¬
dinary fugars, the inferior coffee, the molaffes, and rum,
which would not fell in France. In exchange the in¬
habitants received fait filh, dried vegetables, deals, and
fome flour. In the clandefline trade on the coaffs of
Spanifh America, confiding wholly of goods manu-
faflured by the nation, (he commonly made a profit of
90 per cent, on the value of about 175,000b fent yearly
to the caraccas, or neighbouring colonies.
So many profperous engagements brought immenfe
fums into Martinico. Upwards of 787,000b were
condantly circulated in that ifland with great rapidi¬
ty ; and this is perhaps the only country in the world
where the fpecie has been fo confiderable as to make
it a matter of indifference to them whether they dealt
in gold, (liver, or commodities. This extenflve trade
brought into the ports of Martinico annually 200 ihips
from France 5 14 or 15 fitted out by the mother
country for the coafl of Guinea, 60 from Canada, 10
or 1 2 from the iflands of Margarctta and Trinidad 5
befides the Englifli and Dutch flnps that came to carry-
on a fmuggling trade. The private navigation fronrr
the ifland to the northern colonies, to the Spanilh con¬
tinent, and to the windward iflands,. employed 120 vef-
fels from 20 to 30 tons burden..
The war of 1744 pot a (top to this profperity. Not ;
that the fault was in Martinico itfelf; its navy, con-
(lantly exercifed, and accuflomed to frequent engage¬
ments, which the carrying on a contraband trade re¬
quired, was prepared for aflion. In lefs than fix
months, 40 privateers, fitted out at St Peter’s, fpread
themfelves about the latitude of the Caribbce iflands.
They fignalized themfelves in a manner worthy of the-
ancient freebooters ; returning conftantly in triumph,.,
and laden with an immenfe booty. Yet, in the midit
of thefe fucceffes, an entire (lop was put to the navi¬
gation of the colony, both to the Spanilh coaft and to
Canada, and they were conflantly difturbed even on
their, own coaffs. The few (hips that came from
X'Vance,
at a very advanced price, and bought them at a very
low one. By this means the produce decreafed in va¬
lue, the lands were ill cultivated, the works neglefted,
■and the flaves peri filing for want.
When every thing thus feemed tending to decay,
the peace at laft reftored the freedom of trade, and with
it the hopes of recovering the ancient prefperity of the
iiland. ’I he event, however, did not'anfwer the pains
that were taken to attain it. Two years had not elapf-
ed after the ceflation of hoftilities, when the colony
loft the contraband trade fhe carried on with the Ame-
Ttcan Spaniards. This was owing to the fubititution
of regifter (hips to the fleets; and thus were the at¬
tempts of the fmugglers confined within very narrow
bounds. In the new fyftem, the number of ihips was
undetermined, and the time of their arrival uncertain :
which occafioned a variation in the price of commo¬
dities unknown before ; and from that time the fmug-
gkr, who only engaged in this trade from the cer¬
tainty of a fixed and conflant profit, would no longer
purfue it, when it did not fecure him an equivalent
to the rilks he ran. But this lofs was not fo fenfibly
felt by the colony, as the hardfhips brought upon
them by the mother country. An unfkilful admini-
flration clogged the reciprocal and neceffary connex¬
ion between the iflands and North America with fo
many formalities, that in 1755 Martinico fent but four
veflels to Canada. The diredlion of the colonies, now
committed to the care of ignorant and avaricious
clerks, foon loft its importance, funk into contempt,
and was proftituted to venality. The debts which
had been contrafled, during a feries of calamities, had
not yet been paid off, when the war broke out afrefh.
After a feries of misfortunes and defeats, the ifland fell
into the hands of the Britifh. It w^as reftored, how¬
ever, in July 1763, 16 months after it had been con-
tjuered ; but deprived of all the neceffary means of pro-
fperity, that bad made it of fo much importance. For
dome years paft, the contraband trade carried on to
the Spanifti coafts was almoft: entirely loft. The cef-
fion of Canada had precluded all hopes of opening
again a communication, which had only been inter¬
rupted by temporary miftakes. The produftions of
the Grenades, St Vincent, and Dominica, which were
now become Britifti dominions, could no longer be
brought into their harbours ; and a new regulation
of the mother country, which forbade her having any
intercourfe with Guadaloupe, left her no hopes from
that quarter.
The colony, thus deprived of every thing as it were,
•and deftitute, neverthelefs contained, at the laft fur-
vey, which was taken on the ift of January 1770, in
the compafs of 28 pariihes, 12,450 white people of
all ages and of both fexes j 1814 free blacks or mu-
lattoes ; 70,553 (laves, and 443 fugitive negroes. The
number of births in 1766, was in the proportion of
one in 30 among the white people, and of one in 25
among the blacks, brom this obfervation, if it were
conftant, it (hould feem that the climate of America
is much more favourable to the propagation of the A-
fncans than of the Europeans ; fiRce the former mul¬
tiply ftill more in the labours and hardfhips of flavery,
Vian the latter in the midft of plenty and freedom.
2
The confequence muft be, that in procefs of time the Martimco.
increafe of blacks in America will furpafs that of the
white men j and, perhaps, at laft avenge this race of
victims on the defeendants of the oppreffors.
The cattle of the colony confilts of 8283 horfes or
mules 5 12,376 head of horned cattle } 975 hogs j and
13.544 (heep or goats.
Their provifions are, 17,930,596 trenches of caffava ^
3?509>°48 banana trees, and 406 (quares and a half of
yams and potatoes.
1 heir plantations contain 11.444 fquares of land,
planted with fugar ; 6,638,957 coffee trees; 871,043
cocoa^ trees; 1,764,807 cotton plants; 59,966 trees
ot cahia, and 61 of arnotto.
I he meadows or favannahs take up 10,072 fquares
of land ; there are 11,966 in wood, and 8448 uncul¬
tivated or for fa ken.
The plantations which produce coffee, cotton, co¬
coa, and other things of lefs importance, are 1515 in
number. There are but 286 for fugar. They employ
116 water-mills, 12 wind-mills, and 184 turned by
oxen. Before the hurricane of the 1341 of Augull
1766, there were 302 fmall habitations and 15 limar-
wrorks more. 0
In 1760, France imported from Martinico, upon
202 trading veffels, 177,116 quintals of fine fugar,
and 12,579 quintals of raw fugar; 68,518 quintals
o( coffee; 11,731 quintals of cocoa; 6048 quintals
of cotton; 2518 quintals of caftia ; 783 calks of rum ;
307 hogfheads of molaffes; 150 pounds of indigo;
2147 pounds of preferved fruits; 47 pounds of cho¬
colate; 282 pounds of rafped tobacco: 494 pounds
ol rope-yarn ; 334 chefts of liqueurs ; 234 hoglheads
of molaffes, &c. 451 quintals of wood for dyeing ;
and 12,108 hides in the hair. All thefe productions
together have been bought in the colony itfelf, for
536,631!. 9s* lod. It is true, that the colony has
received from the mother country to the amount of
588,412!. 16s. 6d. of merchandife ; but part of this
has been fent away to the Spanilh coafts, and another
part has been conveyed to the Englifii fettlements.
I he illand is 16 leagues in length and 45 in cir¬
cumference, leaving out the capes, fome of which ex¬
tend two or three leagues into the fea. It is very un¬
even, and interfered in all parts by a number of hil¬
locks ; . which are moftly of a conical form. Three
mountains rife above thefe fmaller eminences. The
higheft bears the indelible marks of a volcano. The
woods with which it is covered continually attradl
the clouds, which occafions noxious damps, and con¬
tributes to make it horrid and inacceflible ; while the
two others are in moft parts cultivated. From thefe
mountains iffue the many fprings that water the ifland.
Thefe waters, which flow in gentle dreams, are chan¬
ged into torrents on the flighteft (form. Their qualities
are derived from the foil over which they flow. In
fome places they are excellent; in ethers fo bad, that
the inhabitants are obliged to drink the water they
have collected during the rainy feafon.
Of all the French fettlements in the Weft Indies,
Martinico is the moft happily fituated with regard to
the winds which prevail in thofe feas. Its harbours
poffefs the ineftimable advantage of affording a certain
iheiter from the hurricanes which annoy thefe latitudes.
The harbour of Fort Royal is one of the beft in all
the
M A R [ 6
IVfaxtinico t’ie windward iflands j and fo celebrated for its fafety,
If that, when it was open to the Dutch, their fhipmafters
Martj-r. had
orders from the republic to take Ihelter there in
June, July, and Auguft, the three months in which the
hurricanes are molt frequent. The lands of the La-
tnentin, which are but a league diftant, are the richeft
and mod fertile in the whole ifland. The numerous
dreams which water this fruitful country, convey load¬
ed canoes to a condderable didance from the fea. The
protection of the fortifications fecured the peaceable
enjoyment of fo many advantages ; which, however,
were balanced by a fwampy and unwholefome foil.
This capital of Martinico was alfo the rendezvous of
the men of war; which branch of the navy has always
oppreffed the merchantmen. On this account, Fort
Royal was an improper place to become the centre of
trade, which was therefore removed to St Peter’s. This
little town, notwithdanding the fires that have four
times reduced it to adies, dill contains 1700 houfes.
It is fituated on the wedern coad of the ifland, on a
bay, or inlet, which is almod circular. One part of it
is built on the drand along the fea fide, which is called
the anchorage ; and is the place dedined for diips and
warehoufes. The other part of the town dands upon
a low hill; it is called the Fort, from a fmall fortifica¬
tion that was built there in 1665,10 check the feditions
of the inhabitants againd the tyranny of monopoly $
but it now ferves to proteft the load from foreign ene¬
mies. Thefe two parts of the towm are feparated by a
rivulet.
The anchorage is at the back of a pretty high and
deep hill. Shut up as it were by this hill, which in¬
tercepts the eaderly winds, the mod condant and mod
falubrious in thefe parts •, expofed, wfithout any re-
frediing breezes, to the fcorching beams of the fun, re-
flefted from the hill, from the fea, and the black fand
on the beach ; this place is extremely hot, and always
unwholefome, Befides, there is no harbour; and the
drips w'hich cannot winter fafely upon this coad are
obliged to take dielter at Fort Royal. But thefe dif-
advantages are compenfated by the conveniency of the
road of St Peter’s, for loading and unloading of goods ;
and by its fituation, which is fuch that drips can freely
go in and out at all times, and with all winds.
Martinico again fell into the hands of the Britidr in
1794 ; but was redored to France by the treaty of peace
in 1801.
MARTLETS, in Heraldry, little birds reprefented
without feet 5 and ufed as a difference or mark of di-
dimdion for younger brothers^ to put them in mind
that they are to trud to the wings of virtue and merit,
in order to raife themfelves, and not to their feet, they
having little land to fet their foot on. See Heraldry.
MARTYNIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
didynamia clafs 5 and in the natural method ranking
under the loth OT<\zx,Ferfonntce. See Botany Index.
MARTYR, is one who lays down his life, or differs
death, for the fake of his religion. The word is Greek,
and properly fignifies “ a witnefs.’’ It is ap¬
plied, by way of eminence, to thofe wrho fuffer in wit¬
nefs of the truth of the gofpel.
The Chridian church has abounded in martyrs, and
hidory is filled with furprifmg accounts of their lingu¬
lar condancy and fortitude under the cruelled torments
human nature was capable of luffering. The primitive
Vol. XII. Part II.
17 ] MAR
Chridians Werfe accufed by their enemies of paying a
fort of divine worlhip to the martyrs. Of this we have
an indance in the anfwer of the church of Smyrna to
the fuggedion of the Jews, who at the ’martyrdom of
Polycarp, defired the heathen judge not to fuffer the
.Chridians to carry off his body, led they fhould leave
their crucified mader, and wordiip him in his dead.
To which they anfwered, “ We can neither forfake
Chrid, nor worlbip any other : for wre worlhip him as
the Son of God; but love the martyrs as the difciples
and followers of the Lord, for the great affeftion they
have diown to their King and Mader.” A like an¬
fwer 'was given at the martyrdom of Frufluofus in
Spain. For when the judge alked Eulogius, his dea¬
con, Whether he would not worlhip Frudtuofus ? as
thinking, that, though he refufed to worlhip the heathen
idols, he might yet be inclined to worlhip a Chridian
martyr; Eulogius replied, “ I do not worlhip Fruc-
tuofus, but him whom Fruffuofus worlhips.” The
primitive Chridians believed, that the martyrs enjoyed
very lingular privileges ; that upon their death they
were immediately admitted to the beatific vifion, while
other fouls waited for the completion of their happi-
nefs till the day of judgement ; and that God would
grant chiefly to their prayers the hadening of his king¬
dom, and Ihortening the times of perfecution.
The churches built over the graces of the martyrs,
and called by their names, in order to preferve the me¬
mory of their fufferings, were diltinguilhed by the title
martyrium confejjio, or raemoria.
The fedivals of the martyrs are of very ancient date
in the Chridian church, and may be carried back at
lead till the time of Polycarp, who differed martyrdom
about the year of Chrid 168. On thefe days the Chri¬
dians met at the graves of the martyrs, and offered
prayers and thankfgivings to God for the examples
they had afforded them: they celebrated the eucha-
rid, and gave alms to the poor; which, together with
a panegyrical oration or fermon, and reading the a<ds
of the martyrs, were the fpiritual exercifes of thefe an-
niverfaries.
Of the fayings, fufferings, and deaths of the mar¬
tyrs, though preferved with great care for the above
purpofe, and to ferve as models to future ages, we
have but very little left, the greated part of them ha¬
ving been dedroyed during that dreadful perfecution
which Dioclefian carried on for ten years with fredi
fury againd the Chridians; for a mod diligent fearch
was then made after all their books and papers; and
all of them that were found were committed to the
dames. Eufebius, indeed, compofed a martyrology,
but it never reached down to us ; and thofe fince com¬
piled are extremely fufpefted. From the eighth century
downwards, feveral Greek and Latin writers endea¬
voured to make up the lofs, by compiling, with vad
labour, accounts of the lives and a&ions of the ancient
martyrs, but which confid of little elfe than a feries of
fables : Nor are thofe records that pafs under the name
of Martyrology worthy of fuperior credit, fince they
bear the mod evident marks both of ignorance and
falfehood.
Martyr, Peter, a famous divine, born at Florence
in 1500. He dudied philofophy and the languages
at Padua and Bononia, was a regular Augudine in
the monadery of Fifcoli, and was counted one of the
4 I bed
Mar
M A 11 [ 61
befi: preaciicis in Italy. Zuinglius and Bacer’s writ-
ings gave him a.good opinion of the Piotcilauts, and
Lis converfation xvith Valdes confirmed it. He preach¬
ed that doffrine at Rome in private ; but, being im.
peached, tied to Psaples, and thence to Lucca, where
he brought over to the Protedant intered Emanuel
Tremellius, Celfus, Martinengas, Paul Laficius, and
Jeremiah Zanchy. He was lent for to England by
King Edward VI. and made profeitbr of divinity at Ox¬
ford in 15.19. In Queen Mary’s reign he returned to
Stradmrg, and was prefent at the conference of PoitTy.
His fentiments were not the fame with Calvin’s about
Chrid’s prefence in the eucharift. He wrote a great
number of works, and died in 1562.
MARTYROLOGY, a catalogue or lid of martyrs,
including the hiftory of their lives and fufferings for
the fake of religion. The term comes from {tapTve
“ witnefs” and Aeyoj “ di/cour/e”
The martyrologies draw their materials from the
kalendars of particular churches, in which the feveral
fedivals dedicated to them are marked ; and which
feem to be derived from the pra&ice of the ancient
Romans, who inferted the names of heroes and great
men in their fadi or public regiders.
Jhe martyrologies are very numerous, and contain
many ridiculous and even contradictory narratives:
which is eafily accounted for, if we conlider how many
forged and fpurious accounts of the lives of faints and
martyrs appeared in the fird ages of the church, which
the. legendary writers afterwards adopted without ex¬
amining into the truth of them. However, fome good
critics, of late years, have gone a great way towards
clearing the lives of the faints and martyrs from the
rnondrous heap of fidlion they laboured under. See
the article Legend.
The Martyrology of Eufebius of Csefarea was the
mod celebrated in the ancient church. It was tranflated
into Latin by St Jerome ; but the learned agree that
it is not now extant. That attributed to Beda, in the
eighth century, is of very doubtful authority ; the
names of feveral faints being there found who did not
live till after the time of Beda. The ninth century
was very fertile in martyrologies; then appeared that
of Florus, fubdeaccn of the church at Lyons; who,
however, only filled up the chafms in Beda. This
was publilhed about the year 830, and was followed by
that of Waldenburtus, monk of the diocefe of Treves,
written in verfe about the year 844, and this by that
of Ufuard, a French monk, and written by the com¬
mand of Charles the Bald in 875, which lad is the
martyrology now ordinarily ufea in the Romilh church.
I hat ox Rabanus Maurus is an improvement on Beda.
and Florus, written about the year 845 ; that of Mot¬
her, monk of St Gal, was written about the year 804.
] he martyrology of Ado, monk of Ferrieres, in the
diocefe of Treves, afterwards archbidiop of Vienne, is
a defeendant of the Roman, if we may fo call it; for
Au Solder gives its genealogy thus: I he martyrology
of.St Jerome is the great Roman martyrology ; from
this was made the little Roman one printed" by Rof-
weyd ; of this little Roman martyrology was formed
that of Beda, augmented by Florus. Ado compiled
his in the year 858. The martyrology of Nevelon,
monk of Corbie, written about the year' 1089, is little
■tpore than an abridgement of that of Ado; Father Kir-
8 . ] -M A R
ch.er alio makes mention of a Coptic martyrology pre- Mar tyro,
ferved by the Maronites at Rome. ' Lgy,
.V> e have alio feveral protedant martyrologies, con-1
taming the fu'brings of the reformed under the papids,
vi/.. an Enghlh martyrology, by J. Fox : with others
by Clark, Bray, &c.
Mart PROLOG y is alfo ufed, in the Romilh church,
for a roll or regider kept in the vedry of eachYhurch,
containing the names of all the faints and martyrs, both
of the univerfal church and of the particular ones of
that city or monadery.
Mariirology is alfo applied to the painted or
written catalogues in the Romilh churches, containing
the foundations, obits, prayers, and mafles, to be faid
each day.
MARVELL, Andrew, an ingenious writer in the
17th century, was bred at Cambridge. He travelled
through the mod polite parts of Europe, and was fecrc-
taiy to the embaffy at Condantinople. Elis fird appear¬
ance in public bulinefs at home was as affidant to Mr
John Milton, Latin fecretary to the protestor. A little
before the redoration, he was cbofen by his native town,
Kingdon upon Hull, to fit in that parliament, which
began at Wedminder April 25th 1660; and is record¬
ed as the lad memoer of parliament ■who received the
wages or allowance anciently paid to reprefentatives
by their conllrtuents. Fie feldom fpoke in parliament,
but he had great influence without doors upon the
members of both houfes ; and Prince Rupert had al-
vrays the greated regard for his advice. He made
himfelf very obnoxious to the government by his ac¬
tions and writings; notwithdanding which, King
Charles II. took great delight in his converfation, and
tried ail means to win him over to his fide, but in vain,
nothing being ever able to diake his refolution. There
were many inltances of his firmnefs in refiding the of¬
fers of the court ; but he was proof againd all temp¬
tations. The king having one night entertained him^
Lent the lord treafurer IJanby the next morning to
find out his lodgings; which were then up two pair
of dairs in one of the little courts in the Strand. He
was bufy writing, when the treafurer opened the door
abruptly upon him. Surprifed at the fight of fo un¬
expended a vilitor, Mr Marvell told his Lordthip,
“ That he believed be had midaken his way.” Lord
Tan by replied, “ Not, now I have found Mr Mar¬
vell ;” telling him he came from his majedy, to know
what he could do to ferve him. Coming to a ferious
explanation, he told the lord treafurer, that he knew
the nature of courts full well; that whoever is didin-
guifhed by a prince’s favour, is certainly expe&ed to
vote in his intered. The Lord Danby told him, that
his majedy had only a jud fenfe of his merits, in re¬
gard to which he only defired to know if there was
any place at court he could be pleafed with. Thefe
offers, though urged with the greated earnednefs, had
no effea upon him. He told the lord treafurer, that
he could not accept of them with honour ; for he mud
be either ungrateful to the king Jin voting againd him,
or falfe to his country in giving into the meafures of
the court.. The only favour therefore he had to re-
qued of his .majedy was, that he would edeem him as
dutiful a fubjeft as any he had, and more in his pro¬
per intered by refufing his offers than if he had em¬
braced The Lord Danby finding no argu¬
ments
MAE [ 619 ] MAR
Marvel, mcnts could prevail, told him, that the king had or-
Mary. dered a thoufand pounds for him, which he hoped he
”,'“v would receive till he could think what farther to alk
of his majefty. The laft offer was reje&ed with the
. fame ftedfaftnefs of mind as the firfl *, though, as foon
as the lord treafurer was gone, he was forced to fend
to a friend to borrow a guinea. He died not without
ffrong fufpicions of his being poifoned, in 1678, in
the 58th year of his age. In 1688, the town of King-
fton upon Hull contributed a fum of money to erefl a
monument over him in the church of St Giles in the
Fields, where he was interred, and an epitaph compof-
ed by an able hand j but the mini dry of that church
forbade both the infeription and monument to be placed
there. He wrote many ingenious pieces; as, The Re-
, hearfal tranfprofed j A fhort Hiitorical Effay concern¬
ing General Councils, Creeds, and Impofitions in mat¬
ters of religion, &c. j alfo Poems and Letters.
Martel of Peru, See Mirabilis, Botany Index.
MARY, the mother of our Saviour Jefus Chrift,
and a virgin at the time that fire conceived him j
daughter of Joachim and of Anna, of the tribe of
Judah, and married to Jofeph of the fame tribe. The
Scripture tells us nothing of her parents, not fo much
as their names, unlefs Heli mentioned by St Luke iii.
23. be the fame with Joachim. All that is faid con¬
cerning the birth of Mary and of her parents is only
to be found in fome apocryphal writings : which, how¬
ever, are very ancient.
Mary was of the royal race of David, as was alfo
her hufband j ‘ A virgin, efpoufed to a man whofe
name was ’Jofeph, of the houfe of David,’ fays our
tranflation of St Luke i. 27. which tranflation Mr
Whitby thinks might be better rendered thus r A
virgin of the houfe of David, efpoufed to a man whofe
name w'as Jofeph, and the virgin’s name was Mary ;
becaufe this agrees better with the words of the angel,
“ The Lord lhall give him the throne of his father
David,” ver. 3 2. For lince the angel had plainly told
the virgin, that (lie Ihould have this fon without the
knowledge of any man, it was not Jofeph’s but Mary’s
being of the houfe of David, that made David his fa¬
ther.
Mary wras akin to the race of Aaron, lince Eliza¬
beth the wife of Zacharais was her coufin (ver. 36.)
Mary very early made a vow of chaftity, and enga¬
ged herfelf to perpetual virginity. The Proto-evan-
gelium of St James tells us, that lire was confecrated
to the Lord, and offered in the temple from her ear-
lielt youth 5 and that the priefts gave her Jofeph for
a fpoufe, who was a holy and venerable old man,
whom Providence appointed for his purpofe by a mi¬
racle, the rod which he commonly carried having
grown green and flourilhed as Aaron’s did formerly.
He efpoufed Mary, not to live with her in the ordinary
ufe of marriage, and to have children by her, but
only that he might be the guardian of her virginity.
Though thefe circumftances are not to be relied on as
certain, yet Mary’s refolution of continency, even in
a married Hate, cannot be called in queftion, fince her
virginity is attefted by the gofpel, and that herfelf
fpeaking to the angel, w'ho declared to her that Hie
Ihould become the mother of a fon, told him that
“ fhe knewT not a man,” (ver. 34.), or that (he lived
in continency with her hulhand : for which reafon,
when Jofeph perceived her pregnancy, he ’was extreme- Mary,
ly furprifed at it, knowing the mutual refolution they
had agreed to of living in continence though in a flats
of marriage.
When Mary was ready to lie in, an edi£l was pub-
lilhed by Caefar Auguftus, which decreed, , that all
the fubjefts of the empire fhould go to their own ci¬
ties, there to have their names regiftered according
to their families. Thus Jofeph and Mary, who were
both of the lineage of David, betook themfelves to
the city of Bethlehem, from whence was the original
of their family. But while they were in this place,
the time being fulfilled in which Mary was to be de¬
livered, (lie brought forth her firfl-born fon. She
wrapped him in fwaddling-clothes, and laid him in
the manger of the liable or cavern whither they had
retired : for they could find no place in the public inn,
becaufe of the great concourfe of people that were
then at Bethlehem on the fame occafion ; or they were
forced to withdraw into the liable of the inn, not be¬
ing able to get a more convenient lodging, becaufe of
the multitude of people then at Bethlehem.
At the fame time the angels made it known to
the Ihepherds who were in the fields near Bethlehem,
and who came in the night to fee Mary and Jofeph
and the child lying in the manger, and to pay him
their tribute of adoration. Mary took notice of all
thefe things, and laid them up in her heart, (Luke ii.
19. Matth. ii. 8, 9, 10, 11, &c.) A few days after,
the magi or wile men came from the call, and brought
to Jefus the myfterious prefents of gold, frankincenfe,
and myrrh j after which being warned by an angel
that appeared to them in a dream, they returned in¬
to their own country by a way different from that
by which they came. But the time of Mary’s puri¬
fication being come, that is forty days after the birth
of Jefus, Mary went to Jerufalem (Luke ii. 21.), there
to prefent her fon in the temple, and there to offer the
facrifice appointed by the law for the purification of
women after childbirth. There was then at Jerufa¬
lem an old man named Simeon, who was full of the
Holy Ghoft, and who- had received a fecret affurance
that he Ihould not die before he had feen Chrift the
Lord. He came then into the temple by the influence
of the fpirit of God, and taking the little Jefus with¬
in his arms, he bleffed the Lord: and afterwards ad-
dreffing himfelf to Mary, he told her, ‘ That this
child fhould be for the rifing and falling of many in
Ifrael, and for a fign which fhould be fpoken againft ;
even fo far as that her own foul fhould be pierced as
with a fword, that the fecret thoughts in the hearts
of many might be difeovered.’ Afterwards when Jo¬
feph and Mary were preparing to return to their own
country of Nazareth (Matth. ii. 13, 14.), Jofeph was
warned in a dream to retire into Egypt with Mary
and the child, becaufe Herod had a defign to deftroy
Jefus. Jofeph obeys the admonition, and they con¬
tinued in Egypt till after the death of Herod; upon
which he and Mary returned to Nazareth, not daring
to go to Bethlehem becaufe it was in the jurifdidlion
of Archelaus the fon and fucceffor of Herod the Great.
Here the holy family took up their refidence, and re¬
mained till Jefus began his public miniftry. We read
of Mary being prefent at the marriage of Cana in Ga¬
lilee, with her fon Jefus and his difciples (John ii.
[ 620 '] MAR
M A It
Mary, 2, &c.) On which occafion Jefus having turned
water into wine, being the firft public miracle that he
performed, he went from thence to Capernaum with
his mother and his brethren, or his parents and dif-
ciples : and this feems to be the place where the holy
virgin afterwards chiefly reiided. However, St Epi-
phanius thinks that ihe followed him everywhere dur¬
ing the whple time of his preaching; though we do
not find the evangelifts make any mention of her
among the holy women that followed him and mi-
niftered to his neceflities. The Virgin Mary was at
Jerufalem at the laft paflbver that our Saviour cele¬
brated there; Ihe faw all that was tranfa&ed again!!
him, followed him to Calvary, and flood at the foot
of his crofs with a conftancy worthy of the mother of
God. There Jefus feeing his mother and his beloved
dil'ciple near her, he faid to his mother, “ Woman,
behold thy fon;” and to the difciple, “ Behold thy
mother.” And from that hour the difciple took her
home to his own houfe. It is not to be doubted, but
that our Saviour appeared to his mother immediately
after, his refurre£lion ; and that !he was the firft, or at
leaf! one of the firll, to whom he vouchfafed this great
confolation. She was with the apoflles at his afcenfion,
and continued with them at Jerufalem, expefling the
coming of the Holy Ghoft (A£ls i. 14.). After this,
flie dwelt in the houfe of St John the Evangelift, who
took care of her as of his own mother. It is thought
that he took her along with him to Ephefus, where (he.
died in an extreme old age. There is a letter of the
oecumenical council of Ephefus, importing, that in the
fifth century it was believed (he was buried there. Yet
this opinion was not fo univerfal, but that there are au¬
thors of the fame age who think !he died and was bu¬
ried at Jerufalem.
Mary, Magdalen^ who has been generally con¬
founded with Mary the filler of Martha and Lazarus,
but very improperly, was probably that finner men¬
tioned by St Luke, chap. vii. 36. 37. &c. whofe name
he does not tell us. There are ibme circumftances
fufEcient to convince us, that !he is the fame whom
he calls Mary Magdalen in chap. viii. 2. and from
whom he fays Jefus drove out feven devils. Jefus
having healed the widow’s fon of Nain, entered into
the city, and there was invited to eat by a Pharifee
named Simon. While he was at table, a woman of a
fcandalous life came into the houfe, having an alabafter
box full of perfumed oil, and Handing upright be¬
hind Jefus, and at his feet, for he was lying at table
on a couch after the manner of the ancients, (he pour¬
ed her perfume on his feet, kiffed them, watered them
with her tears, and wiped them with her hair. The
Pharifee obferving this, faid within himfelf, If this
man were a prophet, he would know who this w oman
is that touches him, that Ihe is one of a wicked life.
Then Jefus, who knew the bottom of his heart, illu-
ilrated her cafe by a parable ; and concluded with an-
fwering the woman, that her fins were forgiven her.
In the following chapter, St Luke tells us, that Je¬
fus, in company with his apoftles, preached the go-
fpel from city to city ; and that there were feveral wo¬
men whom he had delivered from evil fpirits, and had
cured of their infirmities, among whom was Mary call¬
ed Magdalen^ out of whom went feven devils. This,
it muft be owned, is no pofitive poof that the finner Mary,
mentioned before was Mary Magdalen ; however, it is y—*
all we have in fupport of this opinion: An opinioa
which has been ably controverted by others. Mary
Magdalen had her furname, it is thought, from the town
of Magdalia in Galilee. Lightfoot believes that this
Mary is the fame with Mary the .filler of Lazarus.
Magdalen is mentioned by the evangelifts among the
women that followed our Saviour, to minifter to him
according to the cuftom of the Jews. St Luke viii. 2.
and St Mark xvi. 9. obferve, that this woman had been
delivered by Jefus Chrift from feven devils. This feme
underftand in the literal fenfe ; but others take it figu¬
ratively, for the crimes and wickednefs of her pad life
(fuppofing her to be the finner firft above mention- <*
ed), from which Chrift had refeued her. Others
maintain, that (lie had always lived in virginity ; and
confequently they make her a different perfon from
the finner mentioned by St Luke : and by the feven
devils of which Hie was polfeffed, they underftand no
other than a real poflefiion, which is not inconfiftenfc;
with a holy life. This indeed is the moft probable opi¬
nion, and that which has been beft fupported. In par¬
ticular, the author of a “ Letter to Jonas Hanway”"
on the fubjedl of Magdalen Houfe, publiftied in 1758,.
has ftiown by a variety of learned remarks, and quo¬
tations both from the Scriptures and from the beft
commentators, that Mary Magdalen was not the fin¬
ner fpoken of by St Luke, but on the contrary that
(lie “ was a w7oman of diftindlion, and very eafy in her
worldly circumftances. For a while, !he had laboured
under feme bodily indifpofition, which our Lord mira-
culoufly healed, and for which benefit file wras ever
after very thankful. So far as we know, her conduct
was always regular and free from ceniure; and we
may reafonably believe, that after her acquaintance-
with our Saviour it was edifying and exemplary, I
conceive of her (continues our author), as a woman
of a fine underftanding, and known virtue and difcre-
tion, with a dignity of behaviour becoming her age,
her wifdom, and her high ftation : by all which, (he
was a credit to him whom (lie followed as her ma¬
iler and benefadlor. She (bowed our Lord great re-
fpett in his life, at his death, and after it; and (he wras
one of thofe to whom he firft (bowed himfelf after his
refurreclion.”
Mary Magdalen followed Chrift in the laft journey
that he made from Galilee to Jerufalem, and was at
the foot of the crofs with the holy virgin (John xix.
25. Mark xv. 47.) After which Ihe returned to Je¬
rufalem to buy and prepare the perfumes, that (he
might embalm him after the fabbath was over which
was then about to begin. All the fabbath day (he re¬
mained in the city; and the next day early in the
morning (he went to the fepulchre, along with Mary
the mother of James and Salome (Mark xvi. I, 2. Luke
xxiv. 1, 2.) On the way, they inquired of one ano¬
ther, who (hould take away the (lone from the mouth
of the fepulchre, and were fenfible of a great earth¬
quake. This was the token of our Saviour’s refurrec-
tion. Being come to his tomb, they faw two angels,
who informed them that Jefus was rifen. Upon this
Mary Magdalen runs immediately to Jerufalem, and
acquaints the apoftles with this good news, returning
herfelf
M A Tv
Mary, lierfelf to the fepulchre. Peter and John came alfo,
—v   and were witneffes that the body was no longer there.
They returned : but Mary flayed, and (looping for¬
ward to examine the infide of the tomb, (he there (aw
two angels fitting, one at the head and the other at
foot of the tomb ; and immediately afterwards, upon
turning about, (lie beheld the Lord himfelf. She
rvould have call herfelf at his feet to kifs them. But
Jefus faid to her, “ Touch me not, for I am not yet
afcended to my Father.” As if he had faid, “ You
(hall have leifure to fee me hereafter j go now to my
brethren, my apoflles, and tell them I am going to
afcend to my God and to their God, to my Father
and to their Father.” Thus had Mary the happinefs of
firft feeing our Saviour after his refurrebdion. (See Math,
xxxviii. 5. &c. Mark. xvi. 6. &c. John xx. 11, 17.
She returned then to Jerufalem and told the apoftles
that (lie had feen the Lord, that fne had fpoken to him,
and told them what he had faid to her. But at firft
they did not believe her, till her report was confirmed
by many other teftimonies.—This is what the gofpel
informs us concerning Mary Magdalen, different from
Mary the After of Martha, though (he has been often
called by this name. For, as to the pretended Hiftory
of Mary Magdalen, which is faid to have been written
in Hebrew by Marcella fervant of Martha 5 this can
only relate to Mary fifter of Martha, and befides is a
mere piece of impofture.
Mary, queen and tyrant of England, was eldeft
daughter of Henry VIII. by his firft wife Catharine
of Spain, and born at Greenwich in February 1517.
Her mother was very careful of her education, and
provided her with tutors to teach her what was fit¬
ting. Her firft preceptor was the famous Linacre,
who drew up for her ufe the Rudiments of Gram-
M A Px
mar, and afterwards De emendata JiruBura Latbii fer- Marr.
monis librifex. Linacre dying when the was but fix
years old, Ludovicus Vives, a very learned man of
Valenza in Spain, xvas her next tutor •, and he com-
pofed for her De ratione Jludn puenlis. Under the di¬
rection of thefe excellent men, (he became io great a
miftrefs of Latin, that Erafmus commends her ror lifer
epiftles in that language. Towards the end of her la¬
ther’s reign, at the earneft folicitation of Queen Ca¬
tharine Parr, (he undertook to tranftate Eralmus’s
Paraphrafe on the gofpel of St John ; but being caft
into ficknefs, as Udall relates, partly by overmuch
ftudy in this work, after (he had made fome progrefs
therein, (he left the reft to be done by Dr Mallet her
chaplain. This tranflation is printed in the firft vo¬
lume of Erafmus’s Paraphrafe upon the New Tefta-
ment, London, 1548, folio; and before it is a Pre¬
face, written by Udall, the famous mafter of Eton
fchool, and addreffed to the queen dowager (a).—
Had (he been educated in Spain, however, and an in-
quifitor had been her preceptor, (he could not have
imbibed more ftrongly the bloody principles of Ro-
miih perfecution ; and to the eternal difgrace of the
Englilh prelacy, though the reformation had taken
root in both univerfities, (he found Englilh bilhops
ready to carry her cruel defigns to fubvert it into ef-
fechial execution. King Edward her brother dying
the 6th of July 1553, (he was proclaimed queen the
fame month, and crowned in October by Stephen
Gardiner biftiop of Winchefter. Upon her accef-
.fion to the throne, (lie declared, in her fpeech to the
council, that (lie would not perfecute her Proteftant
fubjeds ; but in the following month, (lie prohibited
preaching without a fpecial licen(e ; and before the
expiration of three months, the Proteftant bithops
were
[ 621 ]
(a) As this preface contains many reflexions which may very much edify the females of this age, we
(hall for their fakes here tranfcribe a part of it. Mr Udall takes occafion in it to obferve to her majefty,
« The great number of noble women at that time in England, not only given to the ftudy of human iciences
and ftrange tongues, but alfo fo thoroughly expert in the Holy Scriptures, that they were able to compare
with the beft w-riters, as well in enditing and penning of godly and fruitful treatifes, to the inftruCHon and
edifying of realms in the knowledge of God, as alfo in tranflating good books out of Latin or Greek into
Eng lift), for the ufe and commodity of fuch as are rude and ignorant of the faid tongues. It was now (he
faid) no news in England to fee young damfels in noble houfes, and in the courts of princes, inftead of cards
and other inftruments of idle trifling, to have continually in their hands either pfalms, homilies, and other de¬
vout meditations, or elfe Paul’s epiftles, or fome book of holy fcripture matters, and as familiarly both to read
or reafon thereof in Greek, Latin, French, or Italian, as in Engliih. It was now a common thing to fee
young virgins fo trained in the ftudy of good letters, that they willingly fet all other vain paftimes at nought
for learning’s fake. It was now no news at all to fee queens and ladies of moft high eftate and progeny, in¬
ftead of courtly dalliance, to embrace virtuous exercifes of reading and writing, and with moft earneft ftudy,
both early and late, to apply themfelves to the acquiring of knowledge, as wHl in all other liberal arts and (if.
ciplines, as alfo moft efpecially of God and his holy word. And in this behalf (fays he), like as to your high-
nefs, as well as for compofing and fetting forth many godly pfalms, and divers other contemplative meditations, as
alfo for cauling thefe paraphrafes to be tranflated into our vulgar tongue, England can never be able to render
thanks fufficient; fo may it never be able, as her deferts require, enough to praife and magnify the moft noble,
the moft virtuous, the moft witty, and the moft ftudious Lady Mary’s grace, for taking fuch pain and travail in
tranflating this Paraphrafe of Erafmus upon the gofpel of St John.—What could be a more plain declaration
of her mcft conftant purpofe to promote God’s word, and the free grace of his gofpel ?” &c Mr Udall was
miftaken ; (lie never meant any fuch thing : for foon after her accefiion to the throne, a proclamation was iffued
for calling in and fuppreffing this very book, and all others that had the lead tendency towards furthering the
reformation. And Mr Walpole is of opinion, that the ficknefs which came upon her while (he was tranfiating St
John, was all affe&ed ; “ for (fays he) (he would not fo eafily have been caft into ficknefs, had (he been employed
on the Legends of St Terefa or St Catharine of Sienna.”
M A R [ ^
wers excluded the houfe of lords, and all the ftatutes
' oi Edward VI. refpefting the Proteftant religion were
repealed. In July 1554 fire was married to Philip
prince of Spain, elded fon of the emperor Charles V.;
and now began that perfecution againfi: the Prote-
fiants for which her reign is fo juftly infamous. Some
have fuppofed, that the queen was herfelf of a compaf-
llonate and humane difpcfition j and that moft of thofe
barbarities were tranfa&ed by her bifiiops without
her knowledge or privity. Without her knowledge
and privity they could not be : it would be a better
defence of her to fay, that a Uriel: adherence to a falfe
religion, and a confcientious cbfervance of its perni-
c;ous and cruel dictates, overruled and got the better
or that goodnefs of temper which tvas natural to her.
Hut neither can this plea be reafonably admitted by
any one, who confiders her unkind and inhuman
treatment of her filler the Lady Elizabeth j her ad¬
mitting a council for the taking up and burning of
her father’s body ; her moll ungrateful and perfidious
breach of promife with the Suffolk men 5 her unge¬
nerous and barbarous treatment of Judge flales, who
iiad ftrenuoufiy defended her right of fuccelTion to the
crown j and of Archbifhop Cranmer, who in reality
had faved her life. Shall we excufe all this by faying,
lanturn religio potmt fuadcre malorum ? Her obligations
to t^ranmer deferve to be more particularly fet forth.
Burnet fays, “ that her firm adherence to her mother’s
caufe and intereft, and her backwardnefs in fubmitting
to the king her father, were thought crimes of fuch
a nature by his majelly, that he came to a refolution
to put her openly to death : and that when all others
were unwilling to run any rilk in faving her, Cran¬
mer alone ventured upon it. In his gentle way he
told the king “ that lh@ was young and indilcreet, and
therefore it rvas no wonder if Ihe obdinately adhered
to that which her mother and all about her had
been infufing into her for many years ; but that it
would appear ftrange, if he Ihould for this caufe fo
hr forget the father, as to proceed to extremities
with his own child j that if Ihe was ieparated from
her mother and her people, in a little time there might
be ground gained on her j but that to take away
her life, would raife horror through all Europe a-
gainft him j” by which means he preferved her.
—Along with Archbilhop Cranmer, w?ho had thus
faved her life, the bilhops Ridley and Latimer were
alfo condemned for herely at Oxford, and afterwards
burnt. In 1556, the perfecution became general; and
Proteftants of all ranks and ages, and of both fexes, fell
victims to papal fury. It is obfervable, likevvife, that
the fame perfidious violation of promifes and treaties
prevailed in the queen’s council, with refpect to public
affairs. By the treaty of marriage concluded between
the queen and Philip, it was exprefsly ftipulated that
England fliould not be engaged in any wars with
France on account of Spain ; yet in 1 ^57, Philip
who had brought immenie fums of money into Eng¬
land, procuiea an offenfive and defenfive alliance
againfi: France, from the Englifh adminillration, and
8000 of the queen’s choicefi. troops -were fent over to
the affiftance of the Spaniards in the Low Countries :
the lofs of Calais to the French was the firft fruit of
this war ; and fome affert, that upon this Angle occa¬
sion the queen Showed a ftrong attachment to her na-
3
22 ] MAR
tive country, lamenting this ftroke fo deeply, that It Mary,
occafioned her death; but it is better authenticated
that the was carried off by an epidemic fever, which
raged fo violently that it did not leave a fufficient num¬
ber of men in health to get in the harveft. She had
long, however, been a prey, if not to remorfe, yet to
difappointment and chagrin, arifing from various crofs
accidents, fuch as want of children, and the abfence
and unkindnefs of Philip confequent thereupon. Her
death happened Nov. 7. 1558, in the 43d year of her
age, after a reign of five years, four months, and ele¬
ven days. There are fome things of her writing dill
extant. Strype has preferved three prayers cr medi¬
tations of hers : the fird, “ Againd the Affaults of
Vicethe fecond, “ A Meditation touching Adverfi-
tythe third, “ A Prayer to be read at the Hour of
Heath.” In box’s “ Acts and Monuments” are print¬
ed eight of her letters to King Edward and the lords
the council, on her nonconformity, and on the im-
prifonment of her chaplain Dr Mallet. In the Sy/-
loge epijlolarutn are feveral more of her letters, extreme¬
ly curious : one of her delicacy in never having writ¬
ten but to three men ; one of affedlion for her filler;
one after the death of Anne Boleyn ; and one very re-
maiicaole of Cromwell to her. In u Haynes’s State
Papers,” are two in Spanilh, to the emperor Char. V.
There is alfo a French letter, printed by Strype from
the Cottonian library, in anfwer to a haughty mandate
from Philip, when he had a mind to marry the Lady
Elizabeth to the duke of Savoy, againd the queen’s
and princefs's inclination : it is written in a mod abje£t
manner, and a wretched dyle.
Makx of Media's, wife of Henry IV. king of France,
was declared foie regent of the kingdom in 1610, dur¬
ing the conftemation which the affaffmation of that
beioved king had occafioned. By her ambitious in¬
trigues, the nation lod all its influence abroad, and
Was torn to pieces at home by contending factions.
After feveral viciffitudes of fortune, (he was aban¬
doned by her fon Louis XIII. whofe reign had been
confiantly diflurbed by the civil commotions flie had
occafioned ; and died in indigence at Bruffels in 1642,
aged 68. She built the fuperb palace of Luxembourg
at Paris, and embellilhed that city with aquedufls and
other ornaments.
Mary queen of Scotland, daughter of James V.
was born in the royal palace of Linlithgow on the 8th
of December 1542. Her mother was Mary, the elded
daughter of Claude duke of Guife, and widow of Louis
duke of Longueville. Her father dying a few days af¬
ter her birth, flie fcarcely exided before die was hailed
queen.
The government of a queen was unknown in Scot¬
land ; and the government of an infant queen could
not command' much refpefl: from martial and turbu¬
lent nobles, who exercifed a kind of fovereignty over
their own vaffals ; who looked upon the mod warlike
of their monarchs in hardly any other light than as
the chief of the aridocracy ; and who, upon the
flighted difguds, were ever ready to fly into rebellion,
and to carry their arms to the foot of the throne.
James had not even provided againd the diforders of
a minority, by committing to proper perfons the care
01 his daughter’s education, and the adminidration of
affairs in her name. The former of thefe objects,
however,
M A R
[ 62
Mary, however, was not negledled, though the regency cf
—the kingdom was intruited to very ieeble hands. At
fix years of age Mary was conveyed to France, where
{he'received her education in the court of Henry II.
The opening powers of her mind, and her natural dif-
pofitions, afforded early hopes of capacity and merit.
After.being taught to work with her needle and m
tapeftry, fhe was inftru&ed in the Latin tongue ; and
{he is faid to have underftood it with an accuracy,
which is in this age very uncommon in perfons of her
fex and elevated rank, but which w7as not then fur-
prifing, when it was the falhion among great ladies to
lludy the ancient languages. In the French, the Ita¬
lian, and the Spanilh tongues, her proficiency was {Hil
greater, and (lie fpoke them w'lth eijual eafe and pro¬
priety. She walked, danced, and rode with enchant¬
ing gracefulnefs} and fire was qualified by nature, as
well as by art, to attain to diainfiion in painting, poe¬
try, and mufic. Io accomplifh the woman, wras no.,
however, the foie objeft of her education. ^ Either {Ire
was taught, or {he very early difeovered, tne necefhty
of acquiring fuch branches oi knowledge as might en¬
able her to difeharge with dignity and prudence the
duties of a fovereign} and much of her time was de¬
voted to the ftudy of hiftory, in which Are delighted to
the end of her life.
Whilft Mary refided In the court of Henry II. her
perfonal charms made a deep impreffion on the mind
of the Dauphin. It was in vain that the conftable
Montmorency oppofed their marriage with all his in¬
fluence. The importance of her kingdom to I ranee,
and the power of her uncles the princes of Lorraine,
were more than fufficient to counteract his intrigues •,
and the Dauphin obtained the molt beautiful princefs
in Chriftendom.
Though this alliance placed the queen of Scotland
in the mofl confpicuous point of view, in the politeft
court of Europe, and drew7 to her thole attentions which
are in the higheit degree pleafing to a femaie mind in
the gaiety of youth 5 it may yet.be confidered as hav¬
ing accidentally laid the toundation of the greatefl part
of her future misfortunes. Elizabeth, who now fway-
ed the feeptre of England, had been declared inegiti-
mate by an a£I of parliament : ana though .the Eng-
lilh Proteftants paid no regard to a declaration which
was compelled by the tyrannic violence oi Henry \
and which he himfelf had indeed rendered null by call¬
ing his daughter to the throne pater her brother and
elder After 5 yet the papifts both 'at home and abroad
had objeclions to the legitimacy oi Elizaoeti. s birth,
founded on principles wdiich with tnem had gieyUr
weight than the a£!s of any human legiflature. Maiy
wras unqueftionably the next heir in regular fucceflion
to the Englifh throne, if Elizabeth ftiouid die wdthout
legitimate iffue ; and upon her marriage ^to the Dau¬
phin, ftie was induced by the perfuafion of her uncles,
by the authority of the French king, and no doubt
partly by her own ambition, to aflume the title and
arms of queen of England and Ireland. Fhefc, in¬
deed, {he forebore as foon as flte became her own mi-
ftrefs j but the having at all aflumed them w7as an of¬
fence which Elizabeth could never forgive, and which
rankling in her bofom made her many years afterwards
purfue the unhappy queen of Scots to the block.
Henry II. dying foon after the marriage of the
3 ] M A R
Dauphin and Mary, they mounted the throne of ^
France. In that elevated' ftation, the queen did not
fail to diftinguifti herfelf. The weaknefs of her hulband
ferved to exhibit her accomplifliments to in.e gr^a-e.r
advantage , and in a court w7here gallantry co the fox,
and the mofl; profound refpeft for the perfon of the
fovereign, were infeparable from the manners of a gen¬
tleman, ihe learned the ftrft leffons of royalty.. But
this feene of fuccefslul grandeur and unmixed lelicity
was of Ihort duration. Her huiband Francis died un-
expededly after a ftiort reign of fixteen months. Re¬
gret for his death, her own humiliation, the dif-
grace of her uncles the princes of Lorraine,, w hich in-
ilantly followed, and the coldnefs of Catharine of Me-
dicis the queen mother, who governed her Ion Charles
IX. plunged Mary into inexpreffible forrow. She was
invited to return to her own kingdom, and flie tried
to reconcile herfelf to her fate.
She was now to pafs from a fituation. of elegance
and fplendour to the very reign of incivility and. tur¬
bulence, where moft of her accomplifliments would be
utterly loft. Among the Scots of that period, ele¬
gance of tafte was little known. Inc geneianty oi
them w7ere funk in ignorance and harbanim } and what
they termed religion, diblated to all a petulant rudenefs
of fpeech and conducl to which the queen of France
wras wholly unaccuftomed. During her minority and
abfence, the proteftant religion had gained a kind of e-
ftabliftunent in Scotland j obtained, indeed, by violence,
and therefore liable to be overturned by an aft of. the
fovereign and the three eilates in parliament. hue
queen, too, w7as unhappily of a different opinion from
the great body of her fubjefts, upon tnat one topic,
which among them aftuated aimoft every heart, and
direfted aimoft every tongue. She had been educated'
in the church of Rome, and was ftrongly attached to
that fuperftition : Yet {he had either moderation enough
in her fpiiit, or diferetion enough in her underrEnd-
ing, not to attempt any innovation in the prevailing
faith of Proteftantifm. She allowed her fubjefts thfc
full and free exercife of their new religion, and only
challenged the fame indulgence for her own. She con¬
trived to attach to her, whether from his heart or on¬
ly in appearance, her natural brother, the prior Ci St
Andrew’s ; a man of ftrong and vigorous parts, who,
though he had taken the ufual oath of obedience to
the pope, bad thrown oft his fpintual allegiance, and
placed himfelf at the head of the reformers. . By his
means {he cruflied an early and formidable rebellion ;
and in reward for his fervices conferred upon him a
large eftate, and created him earl or Murray. Fcr
two or three years her reign w:as profperous, ana ner
adminiftration applauded by all her fubjefts except the
Proteftant preachers j and had {lie either remained un¬
married, or bellowed her affeftions upon a more worthy
objeft, it is probable that her name would have defcenci-
ed to pofterity among thofe of the moft fortunate and
the moft deferving of Scottiih monarens.
But a queen, young, beautiful, and accomplifliea,
an ancient and hereditary kingdom, and the expec¬
tation of a mightier inheritance, were objefts to excite
the love and ambition of the moft illuftrious perron-
ages. Mary, however, w7ho kept her eye ftesdily
fixed on the Engliih fucceffion, rejefted every offer .01
Mary.
a foreign alliance } and, fwayed
t ftrft by prudential
motives,
MAR- [ 624 ] M A R
motives, and afterwards by love the moft: exceflive,
^ flie gave her hand to Henry Stuart lord Darnley, the
fon of the earl of Lenox. This nobleman was, af¬
ter herfelf, the neareft heir to. the crown of England j
he was likewife the firft in fucceffion after the earl
of Arran to the crown of Scotland ; and ft is known
that James V. had intended to introduce into his
kingdom the Salique law, and to fettle the crown upon
Lenox in preference to his own daughter. Thefe con-
fiderations made Mary folicitous for an interview with
Darnley *, and at that interview love ftole into her
heart, and effaced every favourable thought of all
her other fuitors. Nature had indeed been lavifh to
him of her kindnefs. He was tall of ftature; his
countenance and fhapes were beautiful and regular j
and, amidft the mafks and dancing with which his ar¬
rival was celebrated, he fhone with uncommon luftre.
But the bounty of nature extended not to his mind.
His underftanding w-as narrow7 ; his ambition exceffive j
his obftinacy inflexible •, and under the guidance of no
fixed principle, he was inconftant and capricious. He
knew neither how to enjoy his profperity nor how to
enfure it.
On the 29th of July 1565, this ill-fated pair w7ere
married j and though the queen gave her hufband
every poflible evidence of the moft extravagant love 5
though fhe infringed the principles of the conftitution
to confer upon him the title of king j and though fhe
was willing to (hare wdth him all the offices, honours,
and dignities of royalty—he wTas not fatisfied with his
lot, but foon began to clamour for more powder. He
had not been married feven months, when he entered
into a confpiracy to deprive Mary of the government,
and to feat himfelf on her throne. With this view he
headed a band of fa&ious nobles, who entered her
chamber at night ; and though fhe was then far ad¬
vanced in her pregnancy, murdered her fecretary in
her prefence, whilft one of the ruffians held a cocked
piftol to her breaft. Such an outrage, together with
his infidelity and frequent amours, could not fail to
alienate the affe&ions of a high fpirited woman,
and to open her eyes to thofe defefls in his chara&er
which the ardors of love had hitherto prevented her
from feeing. She fighed and wept over the precipita¬
tion of her marriage : but though it was no longer
poflible to love him, fhe ftill treated him with attention
and refpedft, and laboured to fafhion him to the humour
of her people.
This was labour in vain. His prepofterous vanity
and afpiring pride roufed the refentment and the
fcorn of the nobles: his follies and want of dignity
made him little with the people. He deferted the con-
fpirators with whom he had been leagued in the aflafli-
nation of the fecretary; and he had the extreme im¬
prudence to threaten publicly the earl of Murray,
who, from his talents and his followers, poffeffed the
greateft pow'er of any man in the kingdom. The
confequence w'as, that a combination was formed for
the king’s deftruftion ; and, on the 10th day of Febru¬
ary 1567, the houfe in which he then refided was early
in the morning blowm up with gunpowder, and his Mary,
dead and naked body, without any marks of violence,
was found in an adjoining field.
Such a daring and atrocious murder filled every
mind with horror and aftonifhment. The queen, who
had been in fome meafure reconciled to her huiband,
wras overwhelmed with grief, and took every method
in her pow'er to difcover the regicides ; but for fome
days nothing appeared which could lead to the difco-
very. Papers indeed were polled on the moft confpi-
cuous places-in Edinburgh, accufing the earl of Both-
well of the crime ; and rumours were induftrioufly
circulated that his horrid enterprife w7as encouraged
by the queen. Confcious, it is to be prefumed, of her
own innocence, Mary was the lefs difpofed to believe
the guilt of Bothwell, who w'as accufed as having only
a£fed as her inftrumcnt; but when he was charged
with the murder by the earl of Lennox, fhe inftantly
ordered him on his trial. Through the management
of the earl of Morton and others, w'ho wrere afterwards
difcovered to have been partners in his guilt, Bothwell
was acquitted of all Ihare and knowledge of the king’s
murder ; and wdiat is abfolutely aflonifhing, and Ihow'S
the total want of honour at that time in Scotland, this
flagitious man procured, by means of the fame treach¬
erous friends, a paper figned by the majority of the
nobles, recommending him as a fit hufband for the
queen I
Armed with this inftrument of mifchief, winch he
w'eakly thought fufficient te defend him from danger,
Bothwell foon afterwards feized the perfon of his fove-
reign, and carried her a prifoner to his caftle at Dun¬
bar. It has indeed been alleged by the enemies of
the queen, that no force was employed on the occa-
fion ; that Ihe was feized with her own confent: and
that Ihe was even privy to the fubfcribing of the
bond by the nobles. But it has been well obferved
by one of her ableft vindicators (a), that “ her previous
knowledge of the bond, and her acquiefcence in the
feizure of her perfon,-are two fadls in apparent oppo-
fition to each other. Had the queen afted in concert
with Bothwell in obtaining the bond from the nobles,
nothing remained, but, under the fan&ion of their un¬
animous addrefs, to have proceeded diredlly to the
marriage. Inftead of which, can we fuppofe her fo
weak as to rejefl that addrefs, and rather choofe that
Bothwell fhould attempt to feize and carry her off by
violence ?—an attempt which many accidents might
fruftrate, and which at all events could not fail to ren¬
der him or both of them odious to the whole nation.
Common fenfe, then, as wrell as candour, mull induce
us to believe, that the fcheme of feizing the queen
was folely the contrivance of Bothw-ell and his afib-
ciates, and that it w'as really by force that fhe was carried
to Dunbar.” Being there kept a clofe prifoner for
1 2 days ; having, as there is reafon to believe, adually
fuffered violence on her perfon ; perceiving no ap¬
pearance of a refcue ; and being fhown the infamous
bond of the nobles ; Mary promifed to receive her ra-
viflier for a hufband, as in her opinion the only refuge
for
(a) Ty tier's Dijjertation on the Marriage of ^ueen Mary with the earl of Bothwell: Tranfaclions of the So.
riety of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. i. 1
MAR [ (
Mary, for her injured honour. Without condemning with
afperity this compliance of the queen, it is impodible
not to recolleft the more dignified conduft which
Richardfon attributes in fimilar circumftances to his
Clariffa 5 and every man who feels for the fufferings,
and refpefls the memory of Mary, mull regret that
fhe had not fortitude to refill every attempt to force
upon her as a hufband the profligate and audacious
villain who had offered her luch an infult as no virtu¬
ous woman ought ever to forgive. This, however,
is only to regret that Ihe was not more than human ;
that Ihe who poflelfed fo many perfections, Ihould have
had them blended with one defeCti “ In the irre¬
trievable fituation of her affairs, let the moft fevere of
her fex fay what courfe was left for her to follow ?
Her firft and moll urgent concern was to regain her
liberty. That probably (he attained by promifmg to
be direCled by the advice of her council, where Both-
well had nothing to fear.” The marriage, thus inauf-
picioully contracted, was folemnized on the 15th ef
May 1567 ; and it was the fignal for revolt to Mor¬
ton, Lethington, and many of the other nobles, by
whofe wicked and relentlefs policy it had been chiefly
brought about, and who had bound themfelves to
employ their fwords againfl: all perfons who fhould
prefume to dilturb fo delirable an event.
As Bothwell was juftly and univerfally detefted,
and as the rebels pretended that it was only againfl:
him and not againfl their fovereign that they had
taken up arms, troops flocked to them from every
quarter. The progrefs and iffue of this rebellion will
be feen in our hiflory of Scotland : fuflice it to fay
here, that upon the faith of promifes the moft folemn,
not only of perfonal fafety to herfelf, but of receiving
as much honour, fervice, and obedience, as ever in any
former period was paid by the nobility to the princes
her predeceflbis, the unhappy queen delivered herfelf
into the hands of her rebels, and perfuaded her huf¬
band to fly from the danger which in her apprehenfion
threatened his life. Thefe promifes were inftantly
violated. The faithlefs nobles, after infulting their
fovereign in the cruelleft manner, hurried her as a pri-
fbner to a caftle within a lake, where Are was com¬
mitted to the care of that very woman who was the
mother of her baftard brother; who, with the natural
infolence of a whore’s meannefs, fays Mr Whitaker,
afferted the legitimacy of her own child and the ille¬
gitimacy of Mary 3 and who aClually carried the natur¬
al vulgarity of a whore’s impudence fo far, as to ftrip
her of all her royal ornaments, and to drefs her like a
mere child of fortune in a coarfe brown caiToc.
In this diftrefs the queen’s fortitude and prefence of
mind did not forfake her: She contrived to make her
efcape from her prifon, and foon found herfelf at the
head of 6000 combatants. This army, however, wras
defeated 3 and, in oppofition to the advice and en¬
treaties of all her friends, (he haftily formed the re-
folution of taking refuge in England. The archbi-
fhop of St Andrew’s in particular accompanied her to
the border ; and when (he was about to quit her own
kingdom, he laid hold of her horfe’s bridle, and on
his knees conjured her to return : but Mary proceed¬
ed, wdth the utmoft reliance on the friendftiip of Eliza¬
beth, which had been oiTered to her when Ihe was a
VOL. XII. Part II.
!5 1 -MAR
prifoner, and of the fmcerity of which Ihe harboured not Mary,
a doubt. u—y-—
That princefs, however, who had not yet forgotten
her affumption of the title and arms of queen of Eng¬
land, was now taught to dread her talents, and to Le
envious of her charms. She therefore, under various
pretences, and in violation not only of public faith, but
even of the common rights of hofpitality, kept her a
clofe prifoner for 19 years: encouraged her rebellious
fubjecls to accufe her publicly of the murder of her
hulband : allowed her no opportunity of vindicating
her honour: and even employed venal fcribblers to
blaft her fame. Under this unparalleled load of com¬
plicated diftrefs, Mary prefeved the magnanimity of
a queen, and pradtifed wdth ftncerity the duties of a
Chriftian. Her fufferings, her dignified affability, and
her gentlenefs of difpofition, gained her great popu¬
larity in England, efpecially among the Roman Catho¬
lics 3 and as Are made many attempts to procure her
liberty, and carried on a conftant correfpondence with
foreign powders, Elizabeth became at laft fo much
afraid of her intrigues, that ihe determined to cut her
oft, at whatever hazard. With this view Are prevail¬
ed upon her fervile parliament to pafs an a£I which
might make Mary anfwerable for the crimes of all
who ihould call themfelves her partizans 3 and upon
that flagitious flatute ftie was tried as a traitor con¬
cerned in the confpiracy of Babington : (See Scot¬
land). Though the trial was conduced in a manner
wdrich wrould have been illegal even if flie had been a
fubjedl of England, and though no certain proof ap¬
peared of her connexion with the confpirators, Are was,
to the amazement of Europe, condemned to fuffer
death.
The fair heroine received her fentence with great
compofure 3 faying to thofe by whom it was announ¬
ced, “ The news you bring cannot but be moft wel¬
come, fince they announce the termination of my mi-
feries. Nor do I account that foul to be deferving of
the felicities of immortality, which can ftrrink under
the fufferings of the body, or fcruple the ftroke thrt
fets it free.” On the evening before her execution,
for which, on the fucceeding morn, Are prepared herfelf
with religious folemnity and perfect refignation, Aia
ordered all her fervants to appear before her, and drank
to them. She even condefcended to beg their pardon
for her omiflions ornegledts 3 and Ihe recommended it to
them to , love charity, to avoid the unhappy paflions-
of hatred and malice, and to preferve themfelves fted-
faft in the faith of Chrift. She then diftributed a-.
mong them her money, her jewels, and her clothes,
according to their rank or merit. She wrote her will
with her own hand, conftituting the duke of Guife
her principal executor 3 and to the king and queen of
France Are recommended her fon, provided he Aiould
prove worthy of their efteem.—In the caftle of Fo-
theringay Are was beheaded on the 8th of February 1587,
in the 45th year of her age ; and her body, after being
embalmed and committed to a leaden coffin, was buried
with royal pomp and fplendour in the cathedral of
Peterborough. Twenty years afterwards her bones
were, by order of her fon and only child King James I.
removed to Weftminfter, and depofited in their proper
place among the kings of England.
4 & The.
MAR [ 626 ] MAR
Mary. The general chara&er of Mary, which in the regular
v-—v- ' or jer of biography ihould now be laid before the reader,
has furnithed matter of controverfy for 200 years.—
She is univerfally allowed to have had confiderable ta¬
lents, and a mind highly cultivated.^ By one party
fhe is painted with more virtues and with fewer defeats
than almoft any other woman of the age in -which fhe
lived. By another, fire is reprefented as guilty df the
groiTelt crimes which a woman can commit—adultery
and the murder of her hufband. By all it is confeiled,
that, previous to her connexion with the earl of Both-
well, her life as a Chridian was exemplary, and her
adminiilration as a queen equitable and mild ; and it
has never been denied that fhe bore her tedious fufter-
ings with fuch refignation and fortitude as are feldom
found united with confcicus guilt. Thefe are flrong
prefumptions of her innocence. Lhe moral charadlers
of men change by degrees ; and it feems hardly con¬
fident with the known principles of human nature, that
any perfon fhould at once plunge deliberately from the
fummit of virtue to the depths of vice ^ or, when funk
fo low, fhould by one effort recover his original date
of elevation. But in this controverfy prefumptions
muft go for nothing. The pofitive evidences which
were brought againft the queen of Scots are fo con-
clufive, that if they be genuine fhe muft have been
guilty ; and if they be fpurieus there can be no doubt
of her innocence. "I hey confifted of a box with let¬
ters, contrafb, and fonnets, laid to be written by her-
felf and fent to the earl of Bothwell. In addition to
thefe, the fuppofed confeffions of the criminals who
had fuffered for the king’s murder were originany
urged as proofs of her guilt: but thofe confeilions are
now admitted by all parties to be either wholly forged,
or fo grofsly interpolated, that no ftrefs whatever can
be laid upon them j and during Mary's Ine it was af¬
firmed by her friends, and not fufficiently contradiaed
by her enemies, that the perfons who had accufed
Bothwell, and were doubtlefs his accomplices, inftead
of criminating the queen, had openly protefted her in¬
nocence in their dying moments.
Stuart's Hi- This box then, with its contents, W'as the evidence
Jlory of Up0n which her accufers had the chief and indeed the
Scotland. 0^jy reiiance • and it is upon this evidence, whatever
it he, that the guilt or innocence of the Scottifh prin-
cefs muft finally be determined. It is uniformly af¬
firmed upon the part of the earl of Murray and his
faaion, that the cafket with the letters and the fonnets
had been left by Bothwell in the caftle of Edinburgh ;
that this nobleman, before he fled from Scotland, fent
a meffenger to recover them ; and that they were found
in the pofleflion of this perfon. _ The 20th day of June
1567 is fixed as the date of this remarkable difeovery.
The governor of the caftle at that time w^as Sir James
Balfour. George Dalgleifh, a fervant of Bothwell’s,
is named as bis meffenger upon this errand. He was
feized, it is faid, by the domeftics of the earl of Mor¬
ton ; and it was the earl of Morton himfelf who made
the a&ual produ&ion of the calket and its contents. _
This ftory is unfupported by vouchers, contains im¬
probabilities, and cannot be reconciled with hiftory
and events. There remains not any authentic or un-
fufpicious evidence that the queen had diftionoured the
* Whit a- bed Df Lorcj Damley ; and there is the moft fatisfac-
Sl^'tory evidence*, that though Bothwell was intruded
with the defence of the borders on account of his tried Mary,
courage and loyalty, he was privately difliked by Mary
for his uncommon zeal in the caufe of Proteftantifm.
At the very time when the queen is faid to have had
the moft violent love for that nobleman, and with him
to have been carrying oft the moft: criminal intercourfe
againft her hufband, we know both from Randolph
and from Knox, that BothwTell refufed to gratify her by
the fmalleft compliance with the ceremonies of her re¬
ligion, though many of the other Proteftant peers
fcrupled not to accompany her to the celebration of
the mafs. That the villain who could deliberately
commit murder, ihould be fo fcrupuloufly confcientious
with refpeft to modes of faith and worlhip, as to ftand
forward with a peculiar drain of bravery to oppofe, in
a favourite meafure, the queen, who was then admit¬
ting him to her bed, and actually forming plans for raff¬
ing him to her throne, is furely, to fay the lead of it,
extremely improbable.
But let us fuppofe this non-compliance on the part
of Bothwell to have been a meafure concerted between
the queen and him to conceal more efledlually from
the eyes of the public the criminal intercourfe in which
they were engaged ; is it not very furprifing, that of
fuch politicians, the one fliould have written thofe let¬
ters, and the other have left them in the power of
their enemies ? The earl of Bothwell was expoled to
more than fufpicions of a concern in the murder of the
king. Thefe papers contained manifeft proofs of his
guilt. It evidently was not his intereft to preierve
them: or admitting, that till his marriage was folem-
nized with the queen he might look upon them as his
bed fecurity for the realizing of his ambitious hopes,
yet, after that event, when all his former friends had
deferted him, he muft have felt the ftrongeft induce¬
ments to deftroy fuch a criminal correfpondence ; and
Mary muft have been ardently animated with the
fame wifti. The caftle of Edinburgh, where the box
is faid to have been lodged, was at this time entirely
at their command j and Sir James Balfour, their de¬
puty, was the creature of Bothwell. If his enemies,
who were now in arms againft him, ftiould pofl’ds
themfelves of this box and its contents, his deftruftion
was inevitable. From his marriage till the 5th day of
June, it was in his power to have deftroyed the fatal
papers 5 and if they had exifted, it is not to be im¬
agined that he would have negle&ed a ftep fo expe¬
dient, not only for his own fecurity and reputation,
but alfo for thofe of the queen. During all this time,
however, he made no effort to recover his box and let¬
ters : he had lodged them in the caftle of Edinburgh *,
and there he chofe to leave them in the cuftody of a
man in whom he could not have one particle of affi¬
ance. This was exceflively foolifh •, but his fubfe-
quent conduft was ftill more fo. Upon the 6th day
of June, it is evident that he had reafon to fufpect
the fidelity of Sir James Balfour, fince he avoided to
take refuge in the caftle of Edinburgh and fled to
Dunbar. Fie returned, however, with an army in
order to fight the rebels. The balance of empire
might then feem to hang fufpended between himfelf and
his enemies: and in that ftate of things, a man of
fuch commodious principles as Balfour appears to have
been, might be inclined to do his old friend and pa¬
tron a fecret fervice, both to efface his former perfidy
and
MAR [ 627 ] MAR
Mary, and to create himfelf a new intereft with him in cafe
■"■v"-—' he fhould be victorious over the rebels. Yet in thefe
critical moments Bothwell negle&ed to make any ap¬
plication to him for the calket and the letters! On
the 15th of June, all his towering imaginations were
at once dalhed to the ground. He had come to Car-
berry hill, followed by an army and accompanied by
a queen ; but he fled from it attended only by a Angle
fervant, and w^as glad to ftielter himfelf in the caflle
of Dunbar from the vengeance due to his crimes.
Yet in this extremity of diftrefs he is reprefented as
trying a bold experiment, which he had not courage
to try when he wras fortified with the authority of his
fovereign, and when he was facing the rebels in the
held. In the very hour when almoft every friend
had deferted him, he expefted a return of friendlhip
from a man who had deferted him at firfl: only be-
caufe he fufpeBed him to be in danger. At this period
he fent his fervant George Dalgleifli to wait upon
Balfour, the ading governor of the caftle of Edin¬
burgh, with a requifition for the box of letters, and
to bring back the important charge, through ten thou-
fand dangers, to Dunbar. Though this man was one
of his agents in the murder of the king, and might
therefore have been fafely intrufted with any fecret,
he did not order him, as common fenfe requires he
Ihould have done, to deftroy the letters as foon as he
fliould get them into his poffeflion. No ! he fent him
to fetch them from the caftle, as if there was no dan¬
ger in going thither, no doubt of receiving them
* Whita- there, and no difficulty in carrying them back. * To
ker’s Vindi- a traveHer in an eafy chair, all roads are fmooth, and
cation. tja^s are Accordingly this fame Dalgleilh,
though the well-known fervant of BothwTell, makes
good his entrance at the gates of the city, though
thefe were guarded by 450 harquebufiers all hoftile to
his mafter, finds his way to the caftle,I and delivers
his meffage. But what is more aftoniftiing than all,
he actually receives the box of letters from Sir James
Balfour. This indeed, fays Mr Whitaker, “ is o’er-
doing Termagant j it out-herods Herod.” Balfour
was the jduflile flave of felfiftmefs. He had with in¬
finite perfidioufnefs turned againft his friend, his pa¬
tron, and his queen, only becaufe he faw them oppof-
ed by a party which he thought would prove too ftrong
for them \ but now when they wTere both plunged
into the lowreft ft ate of diftrefs, and branded with the
appellation of regicides, his felfiftmefs was fuddenly
changed into generofity, his meannefs gave place to
exalted fentiments, and, at the peril of his own life,
he performed an heroical aft of kindnefs ! “ In fuch
circumftances (aiks a contemporary writer), is it to
be thought, either that the earl would fend to the
faid Sir James, or that the faid Sir James would fend
any thing to the earl ? Is it likely ? Is it credible ?”
No matter: Bothwell is made to fend for his papers
at a time when his difficulties and his defpair render
it improbable that he could think of them, and when
it was absolutely impojjible that he could recover them.
His mcffenger accordingly is intercepted .with the
calket •, and the adverfaries of the queen, upon the
20th day of June, became pofieffed of vouchers with
which they might operate her deftruftion. Thefe in-
confiftencies are glaring, and of a force not eafily to
be-controuled $ and the ftory is open to other objec¬
tions, which are, if poffible, greater, and altogether in- Mary,
furmountable.
By comparing different proclamations of the rebels
with the feveral defpatches of Throgmorton, who was
then Elizabeth’s refident in Scotland, Mr Whitaker
has made it appear in the higheft degree probable, that
Dalgleilh was not feized till the 17th of July ; that he
was then, in confequence of an order iffued by the
court of feffion, apprehended, together with Powrie,
another of Bothwell’s fervants, in that nobleman’s
lodgings in the palace of Holyroodhoufe $ and that
therefore he could not be the bearer of the letters in¬
tercepted by the earl of Morton on the 20th of June.
What adds greatly to this probability is the account
which the rebels themfelves give of his examination.
A few days after he was taken, he was examined, fay
they, judicially, in a council where the earls of Mor¬
ton and Athol are marked as prefent. It was natu¬
ral upon this occafion to make inquiries about the
calket and the papers. No queftions, however, wrere
put to him on that fubjeft. He was not confronted
with Sir James Balfour, from whom he had received
the calket; nor with the domeftics of the earl of Mor¬
ton, by w’hom it was faid that he had been appre¬
hended. He was kept in prifon many months after
this examination \ and during a period when the rebels
were infinitely preffed to apologize for their violence
againft the queen, there were opportunities without
number of bringing him to a confeffion. Thefe op¬
portunities, however, were avoided $ and there exifts
not the flighteft evidence that the calket and the pa¬
pers had ever been in his poffeffion. Is it then to be
fuppofed, that if the calket and the papers had really
been difcovered with him, the eftablilhment of a faft
fo important would have been neglefted by the adver¬
faries of the queen ? No ! they would have cftablilhed
it by the moft complete evidence $ which they were
fo far from attempting to do, that the earlieft account
which they give of their pretended feizure of the let¬
ters is dated fifteen months after the event itfelf, and
nearly nine months after the death of Dalgleilh. To
have blazoned their difcovery at the time they pre¬
tend it was made, might have been attended with very
difagreeable confequences j for Dalgleiffi, who at his
execution, afferted the innocence of the queen, and
aftually charged the earls of Murray and Morton as
the contrivers of the murder, might have found proof
that the calket could not polfibly have been intercepted
in his cuftody.
The 20th of June 1567 is fixed as the sera of the
difcovery of the letters. If this difcovery had been
real, the triumph of the enemies of the queen would
have been infinite. They would not have delayed one
moment to {proclaim their joy, and to reveal to her
indignant fubjefts the fulnefs and the infamy of her
guilt. They preferved, however, a long and a pro¬
found filence. It was not till the 4th of December
1567 that the papers received their firft mark of no¬
tice or diftinftion ; nor till the 16th of September
1568, that the earl of Morton was faid to have inter¬
cepted them with Dalgleifli. From the 2pth day of
June to the 4th day of December, many tranfaftions
and events of the higheft impsrtance had taken place ;
and the moft powerful motives that have influence
with men had called upon them to publilh their dif-
4 K 2 covery.
MAH
[
^■Roiert-
fm'sDiJc
tation,
*3,th edit.
covery. They yet made no .production of the papers,
and ventured not to appeal to them. In the procla¬
mation which they iffued for apprehending Both well,
they inveigh againlt his guilt, and exprefs an anxious
delire to punilh the regicides : yet though this deed
was pofterior to the 20th of June, there is no affer-
tion in it to the difhonour of the queen •, and it con¬
tains no mention of the box and the letters. An am-
baffador arrived in this interval from France, to in¬
quire into the rebellion and the imprifonment of the
queen; yet they apologized not for their conduft by
communicating to him the contents of the cafket.
To Throgmorton, who had inftrudtions to a£t with
Mary as well as with her adverfaries, they denied the
liberty of waiting -upon her at Lschleven, where Ihe
was detained a clofe prifoner; and they were earned
to imprefs him with the idea that her love of Both-
well wa#' incurable. He preffed them on the fubjefl
of their behaviour to her. At different times they
attempted formally to vindicate themfelves ; and they
Avere uniformly vehement on the topic of the love
which Ihe bore to that nobleman. Yet they abftained
from producing the letters to him. “ They even fpoke
of her to him with refpeB and reverence which fure-
ly they could not polhbly have done had they been
then in poffeffion of the letters. They were felicitous
to divide the fadtion of the nobles who adhered to
the queen ; and there could not have been a meafure
fo effedlual for this end as the production of the caiket
and its contents j yet they called no convention of
her friends, to furprife and difunite them with this fa¬
tal difcovery. They flattered the Proteftant clergy,
•attended affemblies of the church, inftilled into them
a belief of the queen’s being guilty of murder and
adultery, and incited Mr Knox to “ inveigh again!!
her vehemently in his fermons, to perfuade extremi¬
ties towards her, and (as Throgmorton conti¬
nues) to threaten the great plague of God again ft the
whole country and nation if ftie ftiould be fpared from
her condign punifhment but they ventured not to ex¬
cite the fury of thefe ghoftly fathers by exhibiting to
them the box and the letters. They compelled the
queen to fubfcribe a refignation of her crown ; and
they had the ftrongeft reafon to be felicitous tojuftify
this daring tranfadtion. The box and the letters
would have ferved as a complete vindication of them j
yet they negledted to take any notice of thefe import-
-ant vouchers •, and were contented with refting on the
wild and frivolous pretence that the queen, from ftck-
r.efs and fatigue, was difgufted with the care of her
kingdom.
To the irrefragable proof of the forgery of the
letters arifing from their having been fe long conceal¬
ed, it has been replied, that the rebels could not pro¬
duce them fooner with any regard to their own fafety.
“ * A confiderable number of their fellow fubjedls,
"-headed by feme of the moft powerful noblemen in the
kingdom, was combined again!! them. This combi¬
nation they could not hope to break or to vanquilh
without aid either from France or England. In the
former kingdom, Mary’s uncles, the duke of Guife
and the cardinal of Lorrain, w^ere at that period all-
powrerful, and the king himfelf was devotedly attached
to her. The loading the queen, therefore, wtith the
imputation of being acceffory to the murder of her
628 ] MAR
hufband, would be deemed fuch an inexpiable crime Mary,
by the court of France, as mull cut off every hope of
countenance or aid from that quarter. From Eng¬
land, with which the principal confederates had been
long and intimately connefled, they had many reafens
to expe6! more effeftual fupport but to their aftonifh-
ment, Elizabeth condemned their proceedings with
afperity. Her high notions of royal authority, and
of the fubmiffion due by fubjefts, induced her on this
'occafion to exert herfelf in behalf of Mary, not only
with fincerity but with zeal : !he negotiated, fhe fe-
licited, fhe threatened. From all thefe circumftances,
the confederates had every reafon to apprehend that
Mary would foon obtain her liberty, and by feme ac¬
commodation be reftored to the whole, or at lea!! to a
confiderable portion, of her authority as fovereign 5 and
therefore they were afraid of the confequences of ac-
cufing her publicly of crimes fe atrocious as adultery
and murder.”
This apology for the rebels con fills of affei-tions for
which there is no evidence, and of arguments which are
wholly untenable. There is no evidence that Elizabeth
exerted herfelf in behalf of Mary with fincerity and wnth
zeal. If Ihe had, !he would have done more than
threaten. An Englifti army of 3000 men, aided by the
Scottiflr combination which continued faithful to the
queen, wTould have overturned the rebel government in
the fpace of a month. It is inconceivable that the re¬
bels were prevented' by any apprehenfion of the queen’s
reftoration from accufing her of the crimes of murder
and adultery 5 for we learn from a defpatch of Throg¬
morton’s dated the 19th of July 1567, that “ men of
good regard did then boldly and overtly by their
fpeech, utter great rigour and extremity again!! their
fevereign ; faying, it ftiall not be in the power of any
within this realm, neither without, to keep her from
condign punilhment for her notorious crimes.” From
another defpatch of the fame ambaffador’s, dated five
days after the former, we learn, that through him they
aBualhj did accufe her to Elizabeth of “ incontinency,
as well with the earl of Bothwell as with others, and
likewife of the murder of her hufband, of which, they
faid, they had as apparent proof again!! her as might
be ; as well by the teftimony of her own hand writing,
which they had recovered, as alfo by fufficient witnef-
fes.” This teftimony, howTever, was not produced till
more than four months afterwards ; a certain proof,
that though it was now in the hands of the manufac¬
turers, it was not yet ready for inlpeftion.
But let us take the fa6!s of this able!! antagonift of
Mary as he has ftated them, and confider the argu¬
ment wfeich they are made to fupport. It is apparent,
from the laft quoted defpatch of Throgmorton *, that * Whitaker.
it could not be unknown, either to the court of France
or the court of England, that the rebels were at all
events determined to crown the prince, and either to
put the queen to death or to keep her a clofe prifon¬
er for life. Thefe defperate enterprifes, however,
could not, it feems, be carried into effe£I without the
countenance and aid of Elizabeth or Charles : but E-
lizabeth’s notions of regal authority, and of the fub-
miflion due by fubjedls, were high ; and the French
king was devotedly attached to the dethroned queen.
If this was fo, common fenfe lays, that the bufinefs of
the confederate?, fince they expecled aid from thefe
princes*
MAH
Mary, princes, was to charge Mary at once with the murder
—» ' and adultery, and fupport the charge with the moft
convincing evidence which they had to produce. No!
fays this apologift of theirs, Charles IX. would have
confidered fuch conduct as a crime inexpiable, though
he might reafonabiy be expected to give them his coun¬
tenance in putting to death, cr keeping in perpetual
prifcn, for a comparatively venial offence, the queen
to wdrom he was devotedly attached ! This is ftrange
reafoning ■, but it feems not to have occurred to the
rebels themfelves. The letters made their firft appear¬
ance in a fecret council affembled by the earl of Mur¬
ray on the 4th of December 1567} and the reafon
there affigned by the confederates for their unwilling-
nefs to produce them was, “ That luif they beare un¬
to hir perfon, wha fometime was theire fovereine, and
for the reverrance of his majeilie, whais moder (he is,
as alfua thay mony gude and excellent gifts and ver-
tues quherewith God fometimes indowit hir.” And
they proceed to fay, that they would not have produ¬
ced them at all, “ gif otherwife the finceritie of their
intentions and proceedings from the beginninge myht
be known to forrein nacions and the inhabitants of this
ile (of whome mony yet remains in fufpence in judge¬
ment) fatisfiet and refolvit of the richtnefnefs of theire
quarrel, and the fecuritie of them and their pofteritie
be ony other meane might be providit and eftablifhed.”
So far wrere they from dreaming that the produdlion
of the letters would injure their caufe in the court of
France, that we fee they frankly acknowledged that
the fincerity and redlitude of their proceedings could
not otherwife be manifefted to foreign nations. In this
indance they think and talk like reafonable men j but
they do not long preferve the lame confiftency.
In this aiSl of council the rebels difcover the great-
eft anxiety for their pardon and fecurity : And “ the
matter being largelie and with gude deliberacion
reffonit at great length, and upon fundry daies *, at
laft all the laid lords, barrones, and others above ex-
premit, can find no other w7ay or moyen how to find
or make the faid fecuritie but be oppyngynge and re¬
veling of the truth and grunde of the hail matter fre the
beginninge, plainlie and uprightlie, &c. Therefore the
lords of lecrete council, &c. defires it to be found and
declarit be the eftates and haill body of the parlia¬
ment, that the caufe and occafion of the tacking of the
queen’s perfon upon the 15th daie of Junii laft by paft,
and holding and detaininge of the fame within the
hous and place of Lochlevin continewallie fenfyne,
prelentli , and in all tyrnes comyng; and generally all
other things inventit, fpokin, writtin, or donne be
them, or onny of them, fen the tent daie of February
laft by paft unto the daie and date heirof, towiching
the faied queen hir perfon : that caus, and all things
depending theiron, or that onie wife maie apperteine
theirto, See. was in the faied queen’s awin default, in
as far as be DIVERS HER PRIVIE LETTERS WRITTEN
AND SUBSCRIVIT WITH HIR AWIN HAND, and lent
by her to James Erll Bothwell, &c.—and be her un-
godlie and difhonour ble proceedinge in a privait mar¬
riage, foddanlie and unprovilitly, it is moft certain,
that the was previe, art and part, and of the aftual
devife and deid of the for-mencionit murther of the
king, her lawchfull Injlhand, our fovereigne lord’s
M A II
father, Committit be the faid James Erll BothweU, Mary.
&c.”   /-
Had the letters been really genuine, into the ab-
fardity of this declaration no man of common fenfe
could poftibly have fallen. Truth is always confiftent
with itfelf: but in a feries of forgeries contradicfions
are fcarcely avoidable. The confederates rofe in re¬
bellion againft the queen on the 10th of June 5 they
faced her in rebellion at Carberry hill on the 15th ;
they fent her away into prifon on the 16th: yet they
afterwards juftified all that they had done fince the
tenth of February by letters, which, they faid, they had
not till the twentieth of June! “ This (fays Mr Whit¬
aker), if wTe confider it as folly, is one of the molt
ftriking and eminent a£b of folly that the world has
ever beheld. But it ought to be confidered in a light
much more diftionourable to the rebels 5 and as knavery,
it is one of the rankeft that has ever been attempted to
be impofed upon the fans of men.” On the 4th of De¬
cember, it muft be remembered that they had not fixed
any day for the difeovery of the letters. The ftory of
the feizure of Dalgleiftr with the calket was not thought
oi till near a.year afterwards j and when it w7as invent¬
ed, they had certainly forgotten the date of their acb
of council. In that a£l, therefore, they were free to
rove at large j but they roved very incautioully. By
grounding upon the letters, proceedings prior to the
10th of June, they plainly declare the difeovery of
thefe fatal papers to have been antecedent to the twentieth.
By grounding upon them their fecret meffages for fe-
dition, their private conventions for rebellion, and
“ every thing inventit, fpokin, written, or done, be
them, or anny of them, refpefting the queen, Both-
well, or Darnley, fen the tent daie of Februarif laft by
paft,” they even intimate the difeovery to have been
previous to the murder of the king ; and yet by their
own accounts fome of the letters were then aclually un¬
written. This is aftonifhing ; and (hows the extreme
difficulty of carrying to any length a confiftent feries
of falfehoods. Even Murray, Morton, and Lething-
ton, could not do it. They knocked down one nine-
pine in endeavouring to fet up another ; and they final¬
ly threw down all, by making them mutually and fuc-
ceffively to ftrike one another.
We have not yet done with this a£t of council. It
was with a view7 to the approaching convention of the
eftates that it had been formed and managed. It was
a preparation for the parliament in which the confpira-
tors had fecured their fulleft fway, and where they pro-
pofed to effectuate their pardon and fecurity, and to
eftabliih the letters as decifive vouchers againft; the
queen. Accordingly, upon the 15th day of December
1567, the three eftates were affembkd. The confpira-
tors invited no candid or regular inveftigation. The
friends of the nation and of the queen were overawed.
Every thing proceeded in conformity to the adl of
council. The confpirators, by a parliamentary decree,
received a full approbation of all the feverities which
they had exercifed againft the queen. A pardon by
anticipation was even accorded to them for any future
cruelty they might be induced to indiCI upon her.—
7’he letters were mentioned as the caufe of this lingu¬
lar law7 ; and this new7 appeal to them may be termed
the feepnd mark qf their dtftinclion. But, amidft thsj
pletfituds:
[ 629 ]
MAH [ ^
Mary. plenitude of their power, the confpirators called not
v 1 the eftates to a free and honeft examination of them.
This, indeed, had the letters been genuine, would
have annihilated for ever all the confequence of the
queen. Upon this ineafure, horvever, they ventured
not. The letters were merely produced in parliament,
and an a£l founded on them ; but the queen wras not
brought from her confinement to defend herfelf, nor
was any advocate permitted to fpeak for her. We
ntTr'Yvi!' learn from a paper of unqueftionable authenticity *, that
dication. “ hndrie nobilmen that was her Grace’s favouraris then
prefent, buir with all (the rebel proceedings in this
parliament), maiti principellie for fafety of hir Grace’s
lyfe, quhilk, or thair coming to parliament, was con-
cludit and fubfcryvit be ane greit part of hir takeris,
to be taken frae hir in meiit crewel manner, as is no-
tourlie known.” By the power of this magic, the
friends of Mary were bound fad. They durrt not
venture to queftion publicly the authenticity of the
letters, from their dread of expofing the queen to the
dagger of the affaflin. The parliament, therefore,
fuftained thefe forgeries as vouchers of her guilt,
without fcrutiny or debate of any kind. The confpi¬
rators, who rvere themfelves the criminals, were her
accufers and her judges, and paffed a law exa&ly in
the terms in which the a& of fecret council had be¬
fore drawn it up.
It was neceffary to defcribe the letters both in the
a£t of council and in the ordination of parliament *,
and thefe deeds having fortunately defcended to pofte-
rity, it is apparent, from a comparifon of them, that
between the 4th and the 15th days of December, the
letters mud have undergone very eflential alterations
under the management of the confpirators. In the
aft of council the letters are defcribed exprefsly as
“ written and fubfcrivit with the queen’s awin hand
but in the aft of parliament they are faid to be only
“ written helilie with hir awin hand,” and there is no
intimation that they were fnbfcribed by her. Whence
arifes this difference ? From a blunder in the clerk pen¬
ning the aft of council, fays one : From a habit con-
trafted by the fame clerk, wdrich made him mechanical¬
ly &&& fubfcribed to written, fays another : From the
carelejjhefs of the writer wdro tranfcribed the copy of
the aft of council which has defcended to us, fays a
third. Thefe fubterfuges have been expofed in all
their weaknefs by MefTrs Tytler and Whitaker: but
in this abftraft it is fufficient to obferve, that they are
-mere fuppolitions, fupported by no evidence j and that
the copy of the aft of council which we have was
given to the miniflers of Elizabeth by the leaders of the
faftion, who were neither blundering clerks, nor under
the habit of mechanically adding fubfcribed to written.
. Under one form, therefore, the letters were certainly
exhibited before the council, and under another form
they were produced in parliament j but had they been
genuine, they would have appeared uniformly with the
fame face. The clerk of the council was Alexander
Hay, a notary public accuftomed to draw up writings
and to atteft them 5 and what puts his accuracy with
refpeft to the letters beyond all poffibility of doubt,
his defcription of them is authenticated in the fulled:
manner by the fignatures of Murray, Morton, and a
long train of others wrho formed the fecret council.
The letters, therefore, were aftually prefented to the
2
o ] M A R
fecret council with the cuftomary appendage of fub- Mary
fcription to them. But when thefe artificers of fraud '-"■"’V*”
came to refleft more clofely on the approach of parlia¬
ment, and to prepare their letters for the infpefticn
of the friends of Mary, they began to fhrink at the
thoughts of wThat they had done. To fubftantiate
the charge by letters under her own hand, they had
naturally annexed her own fubfcription, a letter unfub-
fcribed being a folecifm in evidence. But mod: unfor¬
tunately for the caufe of ccinplete forgery, Mary was
ftill in poffeffion of her own feal, and he wdro fabri¬
cated the letters was not an engraver. For this rea-
fon, “ the allegit writings ’n form of midive letters
or epidles,” fays the bidiop of Rofs, in an addrefs to
Elizabeth, “ are not fell'd or Jignetit.'1'' They were
neither attefted by her fubfcription at the bottom, nor
fecured by her feal on the outfide. In the fecret council,
where all were equally embarked in rebellion, thefe
O’ iilions were of no importance. But that letters con¬
taining intimations of adultery and of murder, fhould
be fent by the queen to the earl of Bothwell, with her
fubfcription to them, and yet without any guard of a
feal upon them, fo far exceeds all the bounds of cre¬
dibility, that they could not expeft it to gain the be¬
lief of parliament. They were ftruck with the ab-
furdity of their plan, and dreaded a deteftion. They
were under the neceffity of altering it; but they could
not fupply the defeft of the feal. They, therefore,
wrote over the letters anew, and withheld the fub¬
fcription.
Thefe letters were now as complete as the confpira¬
tors wilhed them ; yet in this Hate, while they were
unfubfcribed and unfealcd, they wanted other forma¬
lities which are ufual in defpatches. They were with¬
out direftions, and they had no dates. They muff,
therefore, have been fent by the queen to Bothwell as
open and loofe papers ; yet they contained evidence again ft
herfelf, and againft him, of the moft horrid wicked-
nefs; and Nicholas Hubert, the perfon who is faid to
have carried moft of them, was of the loweft condi¬
tion, and, as Dr Robertfon charafterizes him, “ a
foolifh talkative fellow-.” He would, therefore, furely
read thofe papers, which are polluted from end to end
with open and uncovered adultery’, and as furely report
their contents to others. Thefe are moft incredible
circumftances, on the fuppofition that the letters are
authentic, unlefs the queen wras, what none of her ene¬
mies ever reprefented her, an abfolute idiot.
The letters in their compofition bear no refemblance
to the other writings of the queen. They have a
vulgarity, an indelicacy, and a coarfenefs of expreffion
and manner, that by no means apply to her. They
breathe nothing of the paftion of love befides the im-
pulfes of the fenfual appetite j and they reprefent a
queen, highly accomplifhed, in love with one of her
fubjefts, as afting wfith all the fneaking humility of a
cottager to a peer*. A few infiances will fhow this.*S£emit
and
aker's Vin-
The devil finder /vr,” (he is made to exclaim, .
•j i * CttCCltlGTi*
God knit us togidder for ever for the maift faithful
coupill that ever he unitit: this is my feith; I will die
in it.7' “ I am,” fire lays in another place, “ varrey
glad to write ufito zow quhen the reft are fieipand j
fen I cannot lleip as they do, and as I wold defyre,
that is, in your arms, my dear lufe.” “ Seeing to
obey zowT, my dear lufe, I fpare noulher honor, confcience,
hafarde,
MAR [ 631 ] MAR
Mary, hafarde, nor grcatnefs quhatfumever; tah it, I pray zow,
—v~—' vi glide part, as from the maift faithful luifer that ever
ze had, or ever fall have.” “ Se not hir (his' wife,)
quhais fenzeit teires fuld not be fa mikle preiiit nor
eilemit as the trew and faithful trevellis quhilk I fuf-
tine for to merite her place?' “ God give zow, my on¬
ly lufe, the hap and profperitie quilk your humble and
faithful lufe defyres unto zou, who hnpis to be fchortly
another thing to you for the reward of my irkfome tra-
velles,” “ When I will put you out of dout, and cleir
myfelfe, refufe it not, my dear lufe •, and fuffer me to
mak zou fome prufe be my obedience, my faithfulnes,
conftancie, and voluntary fubjtElion, quhilk I tak for the
plefandejl glide that I might reffeif, gif %e will ecccpt
it?' “ Such (fays Mr Whitaker) was the coarfe kirtle,
and the homely neckatie, in which thefe wretched re-
prefenters of Mary drefled themielves up, for the exhi¬
bition of a queen dignified, refined, and elegant;—a
queen whom, according to their ©wrn account, “ God
had indowit with mony gude and excellent gifts and
virtues !”
The evidence which points to the forgery of the
letters is profufe and inftruflive. In its feparate parts,
* Stuart, it is powerful and fatisfaftory *. When taken to¬
gether, and in the union of its parts, it is invincible.
But, amidfi: all its cogency and ftrength, there is
a circumftance moft peculiarly in its favour, and of
which it required no aid or affillance. By this pecu¬
liarity, it is cafed completely in fteel, and armed at
every point. The letters have come down to us in
the French, the Scottifh, and the Latin languages.
Now the confpirators affirmed, that they were written
by the queen in the French language. But by a cir-
tical examination of them in thefe different languages,
Mr Goodall demonftrated, that the pretended French
originals are a tranflation from the Latin of Buchanan,
which is itfelf a verfion from the Scotch. This is
indeed acknowledged by Dr Robertfon, the ableft and
mofl: perfevering of all Mary’s enemies, who pretends,
that, fo far as he knows, it never was denied. Deter¬
mined, however, to fupport the authenticity of the let¬
ters at all events, the fame elegant and ingenious wri-
■f THJferta- ter ^uPP°^es ^ French originals are now loft,
tioiu but that two or three fentences of each of thofe origi¬
nals were retained, and prefixed to the Scottifh tranf¬
lation ; and that the French editor obferving this,
foolifhly concluded, that the letters had been written
partly in French and partly in Scottith. In fupport
of this Angular hypothefis, he proceeds to affirm, that
“ if wTe carefully confider thofe few French fentences of
each letter which ftill remain, and apply to them that
fpecies of criticifm by which Mr Goodall examined
the whole, a clear proof will arife, that there was a
French copy, not tranflated from the Latin, but which
was itfelf the original from which both the Latin and
Scottifti have been tranflated.” He accordingly ap¬
plies this fpecies of criticifm, points out a few varia¬
tions of meaning between what he. calls the remaining
fentences of the original French and the prefent La¬
tin ; and thinks, that in the former he has difcovered
a fpirit of elegance which neither the Latin nor the
Scottifh have retained. His critical obfervations have
been examined by Mr Whitaker 5 who makes it appa¬
rent as the noon-day fun, that the dodlor has occa-
fionally miftaken the fenfe of the Latin, the French,
and even the. Scotch ; and that he has forgotten to point Mary:
out either the elegance or the fpirit of any particular
claufes in his pretended originals. The fame mafterly
vindicator of Mary then turns his antagonift’s artil¬
lery againft himfelf j and demonftrates, that fuch vari¬
ations as he has thought fufficient to prove the exift-
ence of a former French copy, are not confined to the
firft fentence of each of the three firft letters, but are
extended to other fentences, and diffufed over all the
letters. Hence he obferves, that this mode of prov¬
ing will demonftrate the prefent French, and every fen¬
tence in it, to be that very original, which it primarily
pretended to be, wThich Mr Goodall has fo powerfully
proved it not to be, and which even the doftor him-
ielf dares not affert it is. Oar limits will not admit
of our tranfcribing the obfervations of thefe two illuf-
trious critics j nor is it neceffary that we ftiould.
tranfcribe them. By acknowledging that “ Bucha¬
nan made his tranflation, not from the French but
from the Scottilh copy (of which he juftly obferves,
that, were it neceffary, feveral critical proofs might
be brought),” Dr Robertfon, in effeft, gives up his
caufe. Had there been any other French letters than
the prefent f, what occafion had Buchanan for the \Tytler^
Scotch, when he himfeif muft have had poffeffion of Inquiry-
the originals ? It is evident from Mr Anderfon’s ac¬
count, that thofe letters were tranflated by Buchanan
at London during the time of the conferences. He
was one of the affiftants appointed to the rebel com-
miffioners, and intrufted with the whole conduft of
the procefs againft the queen. By him, with Leth-
ington, Macgill, and Wood, the original letters were
exhibited, and their contents explained to the Engliftv
commiffioners j and we know from the authentic hi-
ftory of thofe papers, that they were neither loft nor
miflaid for many years afterwards. It cannot be pre¬
tended that Buchanan did not underftand the French $
for he paft moft of his life in that country, and taught
a fchool there. He was, indeed, a daring zealot of re¬
bellion ; but, with all his audacity, he muft have felt
the talk in which he was engaged a very ungracious
one. When he fat down to defame, in the eyes of all
Europe, a queen to whom he owed not only allegiance^
but alfo perfonal gratitude, it is not conceivable that
he could have tranflated from a Scotch tranfation, had
he known any thing of a French original; and if the
rebel commiffioners, who were faid to produce them,
knew nothing of fuch originals, certainly np body elfe
ever did : if they exifted not with Buchanan, they ex-
ifted nowhere.
Dr Robertfon, however, has another argument a-
gainft Mr Goodall, which he thinks conclufive. Of
the eight letters “the five remaining (he fays) never
appeared in Latin: nor is there any proof of their ever
being tranflated into that language. Four of them,
however, are publifhed in French. This entirely over¬
turns our author’s hypothefis concerning the neceffity
of a tranflation into Latin.”—An authentic fafl will
indeed overturn any hypothefis ; but, moft unluckily
for this argument, the do&or advances the hypothe¬
fis, and the fad refts with Mr Goodall. It is indeed
true that Buchanan publifhed only the three firft letters
in Latin at the end of his Detedionj but it does not
therefore follow, that the other five were never tranf¬
lated into that langttage. Indeed Mr Whitaker nag-.
made-
M AH [ 632 ] M A R
any tiling _can^ be, that the \y anxious to eflablifh the criminality of the queen,
^ Stuart.
Ma^ made it as apparent as
whole eight were turned into Latin for the ufe of
t oe I rench tranflator, who, by his own account, un-
derfcood not the Scotch. He has made it in the
Ingheft degree probable, that this tranflator was one
Camuz, a French refugee ; and he has demonftrated,
tuat the tranflation was made in London under the
eye of Buchanan himfelf. Vvre do not quote his at-
guments, becaufe they confifl: of a great number of
obfervations which cannot be abridged j and becaufe
the tranflator himfelf confefles every thing which is
oi importance to the caufe maintained by Mr Goodall.
<s Au refle (he tells us) epiftras mifas fur la fin,”
which were all but the eighth, “ avaient efle eferites par
la Royne, partie en Francois, partie en Efcoflbis; et
depuis traduiftes entierement en Latin : mais
n ay ant cognoiiTance de la langue Efcoflbife, j’ay
mieux aime exprimer tout ce, que j’ay trouve en
Latin, que, &c. “ This confeflion (fays Mr Whit¬
aker) takes a comprehenfive fweep. It makes all
the /even Jeters at leaft, and the whole of each, to have
been tranflated into Latin, and from thence to have
been rendered into French. It flarts no piddling ob-
jeclions about fentences or half fentences, at the head
or at the tail of any. It embraces all within its wide¬
spread arms. And it proves the fancied exiftence of a
French copy at the time to be all a fairy vifion •, the
creation of minds that have fubjedled their judgements
to their imaginations j the invited dreams of felf-delu-
fion.”
Vj£ Lgers> fo weak on every fide, and fo incapable
ot lufiaining any ferutiny, give the marks of fufpi-
cion and guilt in all the ftages of their progrefs. Even
with the parliamentary fan&ion afforded to them by
the three eftates, which the earl of Murray affembled
upon the 15th day of December 1567, he felt the
dehcacy and the danger of employing them openly to
the purpofes for which they were invented. For while
he was fcheming with Elizabeth his accufation of the
queen of Scots, he took the precaution to fubmit pri¬
vately the letters to that princefs by the agency of his
fecietary Mr Wood. The objedl of this fecret tranfac-
tion, which took place early in the month of June 1568,
was mofi: flagitious, and preffes not only againfi; the
integrity of Murray, but alfo againfl: that of the Eng-
lifli queen. Before he wrould advance with his chargee,
he folicited from her an affurance that the judges to be*
appointed in the trial of Mary would hold the letters to
be true and probative.
By the encouragement of Elizabeth, the earl of Mur-
r»7 was prevailed upon to prefer his accufation *. He
was foon to depart for England upon this bufinefs. A
privy council w>as held by him at Edinburgh. He took
up in it with formality the letters of the queen from the
earl of Morton, and gave a receipt for them to that
nobleman, lhat receipt is remarkable and intereft-
ing. It is dated upon the 16th of September 1568,
and contains the firft mention that appears in hiflory of
the difeovery of the letters as in the aftual poffeflion of
Dalgleifh upon the 20th of June 1^67. This, as we
have already noticed, is a very fufpicious circumffance ;
but it is not the only fufpicious circumftance wdiich is
recorded in the receipt. In the ad of fecret council,
and in the ordination of parliament, in December 1567’
'V-Ln the earl of Murray and his aflbeiates were infinite-
3
the only vouchers of her guilt to wdiich they appealed
were the letters 5 and at that time, doubtlefs, they had
prepared no other papers to which they ceuld allude.
But in Murray’s receipt in September 1568 there is
mention of other vouchers befide the letters. He ac¬
knowledges, that he alfo received from the earl of Mor¬
ton contrafts or obligations, and fonnets or love verfes.
Thefe remaikable papers, though faid to have been
ound upon the 20th of June 1567, appeared not till
September 1568 5 and this difficulty is not to be folved
by thofe who conceive them to be genuine. The gene¬
ral arguments which affeft the authenticity of the let¬
ters apply to them in full force 5 only it muft be obfer-
ved, that as the original letters were undoubtedly in
Scotch, the original fonnets were as certainly written
in French. I his has been completely proved by Dr
Robertfim, and is fully admitted by Mr Whitaker, who
has made it in the highelt degree probable that Lethin-
ton forged the letters and Buchanan the fonnets. Be
this as it may, the fonnets have every external and in¬
ternal evidence of forgery in common wdth the letters,
and they have fome marks of this kind peculiar to*
themfelves. In particular, they make the love of Mary
ftill more grovelling than the letters made it ; and with
a degree of meannefs, of which the foul of Lethington
was probably incapable, the author of the fonnets
has made the queen confider it as “ na lytill honor to
be maiftres of her fubjefts gudis!” In this the dig¬
nified princefs is totally loft in “ the maid Marien” Sf
her pretended imitators} and Buchanan, who in his
commerce wdth the fex WTas a mere fenfualift, forgot
on this occafion that he wTas perfonating a lady and a
queen.
1 here, is, howrever, in thefe fonnets, one paffige of
Angular importance, which we muft not pdfs wholly un¬
noticed. The queen is made to fay,
Vour luy aufftfay jette mainte larme
Premier qiPilfujl de ce corps pqffejfeur,
Duquel alors il rdavoit pas le coeur.
Puis me donna un autre dur alarme,
&uand il verja de Jon fang mainte dragme*
For him alfo I powrit out mony teiris,
Firft quhen he made himfelf poffeffour of this bodv,
Of the quhilk then he had not the heart.
Erter he did give me an uther hard charge,
Quhen he bled of his blude great quantitie, &c.
If thefe fonnets could be fuppofed to be genuine
this paffage would overthrow at once all the letters
and both the contrafts which were produced} and
would prove, with the force of demonftration, that the
feizure of Mary by Bothwell was not with her own
confent; that he aftually committed a rape upon her •
that (he had for him no love 1 and that fhe married him
merely as a refuge to her injured honour. The fonnets
however,, are undoubtedly fpurious; but, confidered
m this light, the yerfes before us prove with equal
force the full conviftion in the minds of the rebels of
what in an unguarded moment they aftually confeffed
to 1 hrogmorton, and was manifeft to all the world}
viz. that “the queen their fovereign was led captive,
and by fear, force, and (as by many conjeftures
may be well fufpefted) others extraordinary and
Mary.
moue
MAR [ 633 ] M A R
Maiy. more UNLAWFUL means compelled to become bed-
1 v- 1 fellow to another wife’s hufband.” They prove like-
wife, that after the rape, finding Mary highly indig¬
nant at the brutality done her, Both well actually flab-
bed himfelf; not, we may believe, with any intention
to take away his own life, but merely that by (bedding
many a “drachm” of blood he might mollify the heart
of the queen.
But we mean not to purfue the hiftcry of the fon-
nets any farther. Though they were undoubtedly in¬
vented in aid of the letters, to prove that fundamental
principle of the confpirators,—that the love of Mary
to Bothwell was inordinate; yet they are fo incom¬
patible with hiftory, and with one another, that they
demonftrate the fpurioufnefs of themfelves, and of the
evidence which they were intended to corroborate. By
thus endeavouring to give an air of nature and probabi¬
lity to their monftrous fi£Hons, the rebels at once betray¬
ed the fabrication of the whole. They have themfelves
fupplied us wdth a long and particular journal, to lhow
the true dates of fadfs j and by that journal have their
letters and their fonnets been demonftrated to be fpurious.
“ The makers of thefe papers (^fays Mr Whitaker) have
broken through all the barrier of their oxvn hijlory.
They have ftarted afide from the orbit of their own chro¬
nology. They have taken a flight beyond the bounds
of their own creation, and have there placed themfelves
eonfpicuous in the PARADISE OF fools.”
This mafs of forgery was clandeflinely fhown to
Elizabeth’s commiffioners during the conferences at
York : (See Scotland). It w'as fhown again to the
fame commiffioners and others during the conferences
at Weftminfter. But neither Mary nor her commif¬
fioners could ever procure a fight of a fingle letter or
a fingle fonnet. By the bifhop of Rofs and the lord
Herries flie repeatedly demanded to fee the papers
faid to be written by her ; but that requeft, in itfelf fo
reafonable, Elizabeth, with an audacity of injuftice of
W'hich the hiftory of mankind can hardly furnifh a par-
rallel, thought fit to refufe. Mary then inftrudted
her commiffioners to demand copies of the letters and
fonnets ; and offered even from thefe to demonftrate in
the prefence of the Englifh queen and parliament, and
the ambaffadors of foreign princes, that the pretended
originals were palpable forgeries. Even this demand
was denied her ; and there is undoubted evidence ftill
exifting, that neither (he nor her commiffioners had fo
much as a copy of thefe criminal papers till after thofe
important conferences had for fome time been at an
end. This laft demand perplexed Elizabeth j the con-'
ferences wrere fuddenly broken up ; Murray was difmif-
fed with his box to Scotland j and the letters were feen
no more!
But the letters, w7e are told, w7ere at Weftminfter
compared with letters of the queen’s, and found to
be in the fame Roman hand. They were indeed com¬
pared with other waitings *, but w'ith what writings ?
I his queftion let Elizabeth’s commiffioners themfelves
anfwer. They collated them, they fay7, “ with others
her letters, which were fliowed yefternight, and avovv-
* ed by them (the rebel commiffioners) to be written
by the faid queen.” 'I his was fuch a collation as
muff have pronounced them to be idiots *, if we had
*k^nta~ known them to be othervvife j and fuch as muff
pronounce them to be knaves^ as ijve know7 them to
VOL. XII. Part II.
have been men of fenfe. Like perfons totally incom- Mary,
petent to the management of bufmefs, but in truth _l" v'““
adfing minifierially in the work of profligacy, they com¬
pared the letters produced, NOT with letters furnifhed
by Mary’s cornmiffioners, NOT with letters furnifhed
even by indifferent perfons, but with letters prefent-
ed by the producers themfelves.—“ This (fays Mr Whit¬
aker) is fuch an inftance of impofition upon Mary
and the world, as can icarcely be paralleled in the an¬
nals of knavery. Many inftances of impofition, in¬
deed, occur in the wretched hiftory of our race; but
we can hardly find one, in which the impofition was
fo grofs, fo formal, fo important, and fo clear. It
was very grofs, becaufe it has not a fhred of artifice
to cover its ugly nakednefs. It rvas very formal, be¬
caufe it was done by men fome of whom were of the
firft character in their country j and all w7ere bound by
honour, and tied down by oaths, to a<5t uprightly
in the bufinefs. It was very important, becaufe no
lefs than the reputation of a queen, and the continu¬
ance of an ufurpation, depended upon it. And it is
very clear, becaufe we have the fa£l related to us by
the commiffioners themfelves, recorded to their fhame
in their own journal, and tranfmitted by their own hands
to pofterity with everlafting infamy on their heads.”
When Ty tier’s Inquiry into the Evidence produced by
the Earls! of Murray and Morton againf Mary fncen of
Scots was firft publifhed, it was reviewed in the Gen¬
tleman’s Magazine by the late, Dr Johnfon. The re¬
view7, which confifts of a brief analyfis of the work,
wfith reflections interfperfed on the force of the evi¬
dence, concludes thus :—“ That the letters were for¬
ged is now made fo probable, that perhaps they w ill
never more be cited as teftimonies.” Subfequent ex¬
perience has fhown, that the great critic’s knowledge
of human nature had not deferted him when he guard¬
ed his prediction with the w7ord perhaps. Few authors
pofiefs the magnanimity of Fenelon : and it is not to be
expeCted that he who has once maintained the letters
to be genuine, fhould by reafoning or criticifm be com¬
pelled to relinquifh them : but we are perfuaded, that,
after the prefent generation of writers ftiall be extinCt,
thefe letters and fonnets wall never be cited as evidence,
except of the profligacy of thofe by whom they were fa¬
bricated.
Such is a view (partial it may be deemed by fome) of
this remarkable controverfy previous to the publication of
Mr Laing’s Hiftory of Scotland. But, in oppofition to all
thefe arguments againft the genuinenefs and authenticity
of the letters and fonnets attributed to Mary, this hiftorian
obferves, that it is impoffible to fix the fuppofed forgery on
any one of the different perfons to whom it has been a-
feribed, which, if true, renders it abundantly evident, that
they mull have been the genuine produClions of the ill-
fated Mary. According to Mr Laing, it was neceffa-
ry for Mary to difavow the letters ; and confequently
her commilfioners were inftruCted to affirm that they
wTere forged, and that there w7ere diverfe of each fex in
Scotland, particularly of thofe in company with her
adverfaries, who could counterfeit and write the queen’s
hand, as well as herfelf. This ftrange affertion, fo ap¬
parently falfe, is repeated in Lefly’s memorial to Eli¬
zabeth j but of thole who could write and counterfeit
the queen’s blind, none were ever named, even in his
defence of her honour j and the fuppofed forgery could
4 L - he s. .
MAR [ 634 ] 'MAR
Mary, be fixed on no particular perfon during Mary’s life,
*v which, it mud be confefl'ed, renders their forgery ex¬
tremely fufpicious. The writings fupprefled in England
■were Lefly’s and other anonymous vindications of Ma¬
ry, in which there is no intimation whatever of Le-
thington’s confeffion, that he had frequently forged the
queen's hand. The letters are thofe in the Cecil col-
leclion, and the Cotton library, which are equally fi-
lent ; and we mud conclude, that the author, whether
Cotton, James, or Camden, improving on Norfolk’s
apology, that Lethington moved him to confider the
queen as not guilty, aiTerted gratuitoufly that Lething¬
ton acknowledged the whole forgery, as he had alrea¬
dy done, that Buchanan frequently repented on his
deathbed, of thofe calumnies which he reprinted in his
hidcry, at that time in the prefs. He who examines
with care, Camden’s mutilated account of the confer¬
ences in England, mud be fatisded that the evidence of
the Cecil and Cotton papers, which he confeffedly exa¬
mined, has been fuppreffed in his annals, in which Nor¬
folk’s letters from York are indudrioufly concealed.
Mr Laing is of opinion, that the fonnets afcribed to
Mary, are as certainly the productions of her pen, and
that the grofihefs of fome of them can only be a pre¬
vailing argument for their forgery with thofe who are
ignorant of the groffhefs of the age, or foolrfh enough
to believe with Goodall, that Mary never once be¬
trayed a fingle foible from the cradle to the grave.
As to the three contracts of marriage between the
queen and Bothwell, reckoned forgeries by fome au¬
thors, Mr Laing is alfo of opinion that they are the
genuine productions of Mary, who was glad to get rid
of a hulband whofe diffolute manners had-rendered him
odious in her eyes \ and die exprefled no genuine for-
row after his extraordinary and atrocious murder. He
thinks that there is not to be found in any authentic
hidory of thofe times, a Angle convincing argument of
their being forgeries. In a word, after much ingenious
criticifm on the merits of the contrails, he concludes by
faying, that the private, indead of being a copy or
abdraCl from the public contrail, is evidently the
original from which the latter was formed *, and it is
obfervable that the two fird contrails written by Mary,
or under her infpeilion, are far fuperior in delicacy to
the lad : a circumdance in vain imputed to the art of the
forgers, who, in fail, were more delirous to aggra¬
vate than to extenuate the groffnefs of her guilt (b).
She wuote, 1. Poems on various occafions, in the
Latin, French, and Scotch languages. One of her
poems is printed among thofe of A. Blackwood $ an¬
other in Brantome’s Dames illufres^ written on the
death of her fird hufband Francis. 2. Confolation of Mai
her long imprifonment, and royal advice to her fon.
3. A copy ol verfes, in French, fent with a diamond ring
to Queen Elizabeth. There is a tranllattoa of thefe
verfes among the Latin poems of Sir Thomas Chaloner.
4. Genuine Letters of Mary Queen of Scots, to James
earl of Bothwel j tranflated from the French, by E.
Simmonds, There are, befides, many other of
her epidles to Queen Elizabeth, Secretary Cecil, Mild-
maye, &c. which are preferved in the Cottonian, Afh-
molean, and other libraries.
Mary II. queen of England, elded daughter of
James II. by his fird wife, was born at St James’s
in 1662. She was bred up a Protedant, and mar¬
ried to William Henry of Naffau, then prince of
Orange, afterwards king of England, in the i6lh
year of her age. She daid in Holland with her huf¬
band till February 12. 1689, when die came over, and
was folemnly proclaimed queen of England, Sec. She
was an equal diarer with her hulhand in all die
rights belonging to the crowm 5 but the adminidra-
tion and execution thereof wTere lodged folely in the
king. She was a princefs endowed with the high-
ed perfections both of body and mind : die loved hif-
tory, as being proper to give her ufeful indruCtions j
and was alfo a good judge as well as a lover of poe¬
try. She dudied more than could be imagined, and
would have read more than die did, if the frequent re¬
turns of ill humours in her eyes had not forced her to
fpare them. She gave her minutes of leifure to archi¬
tecture and gardening ; and fince it employed many
hands, die faid, die hoped it would be forgiven herv
She was the mod gracious of fovereigns to her fub-
jecls, and the mod; obliging of wives to her huiband,
as well as the mod excellent of miftrefles to her fer-
vants : die ordered good books to be laid in the places
of attendance, that perfons might not be idle while
they wTere in their turns of fervice. She was exceed¬
ing zealous for a reformation of manners 'y charitable
in the highed: degree, without the lead oilentation."
This excellent queen died on the 28th of December
1695, at Kenfington, of the fmallpox, in the 33d year
of her age. In her the arts loft a proteClrefs, the
unfortunate a mother, and the world a pattern of every
virtue. As to her perfon die wras tall, of a majedic
graceful mein, her countenance ferene, her complexion
ruddy, and her features beautiful.
Mary Magdalen's Day, a fellival of the Romidi
church, obferved on the 22d of July.
MARY-Gerane's-Hsufe, a name given to Dun more-
head, in the paridi of Dunqueen, county of Kerry, and
province
(e) This article dands in need of an apology j but wdiether for its length or its fliortnefs, our readers may per¬
haps differ in opinion. If it be confidered as a piece of common biography, and compared with the limits which
we have preferibed to our other articles of the fame kind, it has fw7elled to an extent beyond all proportion. But
as a piece of common biography it ought not to be confidered : it is intimately conneCled with the hidory of
Scotland at a very intereding period 5 and it has been judly obferved, by one of the abled writers of the age,
that “ the fa£l under difpute in the life of Mary, is a fundamental and effential one ; and that, according to the
opinion which the hidorian adopts with regard to it, he mud vary and difpofe the whole of his fubfequent narration.”
Viewed in this light, our abdraft of the evidence which has been urged on both fides of this contrcverfy will by
many be deemed too fhort. To fuch as widi for complete fatisfaftion, we can only recommend the unbiaffed dudy
of the writings of Buchanan, Lejlle bifliop of Rofs, Goodel, Robertfon, Hume, Tyller, Sir David Dalrymple, Stuart,
Whitaler, and Laing.
Marybo¬
rough
M A ; R [6
province of Munfter, in Ireland. It is tlie mofl; weftern
point of all Europe, and called by the IriQi Ty Vorney
II, Geerone. It is a point as much celebrated by them as
.Maryland. j0|ln_0f. Groat’s home by the Scots, which is the utmoft
extremity of North Britain.
MARYBOROUGH, a borough, market, and poll
town, and the affizes town to (Queen’s county, in the
province cf Leinfter, in Ireland } fo called in honour of
Mary queen of England, who reduced this part of the
country to (hire-ground by acl of parliament 6th and
7th Philip and Mary. It is governed by a burgomaf-
ter and bailiflfs, and has a barrack for a troop of horfe.
It formerly returned two members to parliament. It is
diftant from Dublin 40 miles. N. Eat. 53. o. W. Long.
7. 20.
MARYBURGH. See Fort William.
MARYGOLD. See Caltha, Botany Index.
Corn Martoold. See Chrysanthemum, Botany
Index.
French Marygold. See Tagetes, Botany Index.
MARYLAND, one of the Thirteen United States
of America. It received that name in honour of Hen¬
rietta Maria, the confort of King Charles I. who made
a grant of this country, with very extraordinary powers,
to Lord Baltimore. It lies between 38 and 40 de¬
grees north latitude, and in longitude from 74 to
78 degrees weft from London. It is bounded on the
north by Pennfylvania ; on the eaft by the Delaware
ftate ; on the fouth-eaft and fouth by the Atlantic
ocean, and a line drawn from the ocean over the penin-
fula (dividing it from Accomack county in Virginia)
to the mouth of Patomack river, thence up the Pato-
mack to its’firft fountain, thence by a due north line
till it juiterfedts the fouthern boundary of Pennfylvania,
in Lat. 390 43' 18''j fo that it has Virginia on the
fouth, fouth-weft, and weft. It contains about 14,000
fquare miles, of which about one-fixth. is water. It
is divided into 18 counties, 10 of which are on the
weftern and 8 on the eaftern ftiore of Chefapeak bay,
St Mary’s, Somerfet, Calvert, Montgomery, Wa(h-
ington, Queen Ann’s, Caroline, Kent, Charles, Tal¬
bot, Dordhefter, Baltimore, Ann Arundel, Worcefter,
Hartford, Cecil, Frederick, and Prince George’s.
Each of the counties fends four reprefentatives to the
houfe of delegates 5 befides which the city of Anna¬
polis and town of Baltimore fend each two, making
in the whole 76 members. The climate is generally
mild and agreeable, fuited to agricultural produ&ions
a.nd a great variety of fiuit trees. In the interior
hilly country the inhabitants are healthy : but in the
flat country, in the neighbourhood of the marfhes
and ftagnant waters, they are, as in the other fouthern
(fates, fubjef! to intermittents. Chefapeak bay di¬
vides this ftate into the eaftern and weftern divifions.
It affords feveral good fiftieries j and, in a commercial
view, is of immenfe advantage to the ftate. It re¬
ceives a number of the larged rivers in the United
States. From the eaftern ftiore in Maryland, among
other fmaller ones, it receives Pokomoke, Choptank,
Chefter, and Elk rivers; from the north the rapid
Sufquehannah; and from the weft Patapfco, Severn,
Patuxent, and Patomack, half of which is in Mary¬
land and half in Virginia. Except the Sufquehannah
and Patomack, thefe are fmall rivers. Eaft of the blue
ridge of mountains, which ftretches acrofs the weftern
^ ] mar
part of this ftate, the land, like that m all the fouthern Maryland..
dates, is generally level and free of (tones. W heat and v
tobacco are the ftaple commodities of Maryland. In
the interior country, on the uplands, confiderabie quan¬
tities of hemp and flax are raifed.
The number of inhabitants in this ftate, including
the negroes, is 254,050 ; which is 18 for every fquare
mile. The inhabitants, except in the populous towms,
live on their plantations, often feveral miles diftant
from each other. I o an inhabitant of the middle,
and efpecially of the eaftern dates, which are thickly
populated, they appear to live very retired and unfo-
cial lives. The effeffs of this comparative folitude are
vifible in the countenances as well as in the manners
and drefs of the country people \ there being among
them very little of that cheerful fprightlinefs of look
and adtion wfttich is the invariable and genuine off-
fpring of focial intercourfe ; nor do they pay that at¬
tention to drefs which is common, and which decency
and propriety have rendered neceffary, among people
who are liable to receive company almoft every day. As
the negroes perform all the manual labour, their mafters
are left to faunter away life in (loth, and too often in
ignorance. Thefe obfervations, how’ever, muft in juftice
be limited to the people in the country, and to thofe
particularly whofe poverty or parfimony prevents their
fpending a part of their time in populous towns or
otherwife mingling with the world.
The chief towns in this ftate are Annapolis and Bal¬
timore. Annapolis, the capital, and the wealthieft
town of its (ize in America, is fituated juft at the
mouth of Severn river, 30 miles fouth of Balti¬
more. The houfes are generally large and elegant *,
and the ftadthoufe is the nobleft budding of the kind
in America.—Baltimore has had the moft rapid growth
of any town on the continent, and is the fourth in
fize and the fifth in trade in the United States. It
lies in Lat. 39. 21. on the north fide of Patapfco river,
around what is called the Bafon. The fituation of
the towm is low. The houfes were numbered in 1787,
and found to be 1955; about 1200 of which were
in the town, and the reft at Fell’s point. Ihe num¬
ber of (lores was 152-, and of churches 9, which be¬
long to German Calvinifts and Lutherans, Epifcopa-
lians, Prefbyterians, Roman Catholics, Baptifts, Me-
thodifts, Quakers, Nicolites, or New Quakers. Ihe
number of inhabitants is between 10,000 and 11,000.
There are many very refpedlable families in Baltimore,
who live genteelly, are hofpitable to ftrangers, and
improving intercourfe with
of the inhabitants, recently
quarters of the world, bent
on the purfuit of wealth, varying in their habits, their
manners, and their religions, if they have any, are un-
(ocial, unimproved, and inhofpitable. ri he trade of
Maryland is principally carried on from Baltimore,
with the other dates, with the Weft Indies, and with
fome parts cf Europe. To thefe places they fend an¬
nually about 30,000 hoglheads of tobacco, befides
large quantities of wheat, flour, pig iron, lumber, and
corn,—-beans, pork, and flax feed, in fmaller quanti¬
ties j and receive in return, clothing for themfelves and
negroes, and other dry goods, wines, fpirits, fugars,
and other Weft India commodities. The balance is
generally in their favour.
4 L 2 The
maintain a friendly and
each other •, but the bulk
collefled from almoft all
MAR [6
lann. . Tljc Rote an Catholics, who were the fir ft fettlers
j^n Maryland, are the mod numerous religious feel:.
Jlefides thefe, there are Proteftant Eplfcopalians, Eng-
uni, Scots, and Irith Prefbyterians, German Calvi-
rofts, German Lutherans, Friends, Bap tilts, Metho-
difts,. and Nicolites, or New Quakers. The colleges
in this ftate have all been founded fince the year 1782,
and are yet in their infancy. The names of the feve-
sal feininaries are, Wafliington College at Cheftertown
inftituted in 17825 St John’s College at Annapolis’
founded in 1784; Cakelhury College at Abingdon,
anftituted by the Methodifts in 1785; and a college
founded by the Roman Catholics at Georgetown.
There are a few other literary inftitutions, of Inferior
note, in different parts of the ftate, and provilion is
made for free fchools in moft of the counties : though
fome are entirely neglefted, and very few carried on
with any fuccefs 5 lo that a great proportion of the
lower clafs of people are ignorant, and there are not a
few who cannot write their names. But the revolu¬
tion, among other happy effects, h\s rouzed the fpirit
of education, which is faft fpreading its falutary influ¬
ences over this and the other fouthern ftates.
_ The legiflature of this ftate is compofed of two di-
flinft branches, a lenate and houfe of delegates ; and
ftyled 77/o General /IJJemblij of Maryland. The fenate
confitts of 15 members, chofen every five years. Nine
of thefe mult be refidents on the weftern Ihore and
fix on the eastern ; they mufl be more than 25 years
of age, tnuft have refided in the ftate more than three
years next preceding the election, and have real and
perfonal property above the value of xoool. The
houfe of delegates is compofed of four members for
each county, chofen annually on the firft Monday in
Oftooer. i ne city of Annapolis and town of Balti¬
more fend each two delegates. The qualifications of
a delegate, are, full age, one year’s refidence in the
county where he is chofen, and real or perfonal pro¬
perty above the value of 500!. The qualifications of
a freeman are, full age, a freehold eftate of 50 acres of
land, and adlual refidence in the county where he offers
to vote \ property to the value of 30I. in any part of
the ftate, and a year’s refidence in the county where he
offers to vote.
On the fecond Monday of November annually a go¬
vernor is appointed by the joint ballot of both houfes.
The governor cannot continue in office longer than
three years fucceffively, nor be elecled until the expi¬
ration of four years after he has been out of office,
1 he qualifications for the chief magi-ftracy are 2y
years of age, five years refidence in the ftate next
preceding the elettion, and real and perfonal eftate
above the value of 5000I. ; icool. of which muft be
freehold eftate. This conftitution was eftablilhed by
a convention of delegates at Annapolis, (Vuvuft 14.
J776.
Maryland was granted, as has been already noticed,
by King Charles I. to Cecilius Calvert, baron of Bal¬
timore in Ireland, June 20. 1632. The government
of the province was by charter vefted m the proprie-
tary 5 but it appears that he either never exercifed
thefe powers alone, or but for a fhort time. The
honourable Leonard Calvert, Efq. Lord Baltimore’s
brother, was the firft governor or lieutenant general,
in 1638, a law was palfed, conftituting the firft regular
^ M A S
houfe.o: afiembly, which was to conhll of fuch repre- Mar.-o-
fentatives, called lurgeffes, as ihouldbe elefted purfuant Mas.
to wnts lilued by the governor. Thefe burgeffes pof- — 1
v-neet all the powers of the perfons ele&in? them j but
any other freemen, who did not affent'to the elec¬
tion, might take their feats in perfon. Twelve bur-
geffes or freemen, with the lieutenant general and fe-
cretary, conftituted the affembly or leffiflature. This
afiembly fat at St Mary’s, one of the fouthern coun¬
ties winch was the firft fettled part of Maryland. In
1687, the government was taken out of the hands c£
Lord Baltimore by the grand convention of England.
Mr Copley' was appointed governor by commiffion
bom William and Mary in 1692, when the Proteftant
religion was eftablifhed by law. In 1716, the Govern¬
ment of this province was reftored to the proprietary
and continued in his hands till the late revolution ;
wnen, being an abfentee, his property in the lands was
confifeated, and the government affumed by the free¬
men of the province, who formed the conftitution now
exifhng. At the clofe of the war, Henry Harford,
Efq. the natural fon and heir of Lord Baltimore, peti¬
tioned the legiflature of Maryland for his eftate 5 but
fis petition was not granted. Mr Harford eftimated
ms lofs of quit-rents, valued at 20 years purchafe, and
including arrears, 31259,4881. 5s.—dollars at 7s. 6d.
and the value of his manors and referved lands at
327,441!. of the fame money.
MARY PORI, a lea port town of Cumberland, fi-
tuated at the mouth of the Elne. It has a good har¬
bour ; and has 70 or 80 fail of fliipping frcnu 30 to 250
tons burden, principally employed‘in^the coal trade j
fome of them fail up the Baltic for timber, flax, iron,
&c. T hey have a furnace for caft iron and a glafs-
houie. A chapel was erebled here in 1760.
IVIAS, Lewis du, natural fon to Jean Louis de
Montcalm Seigneur de Candiac, and a widow of rank
of Rouergue, was bom at Nifmes in 1676. His firft
attention was beftowed on jurifprudence 5 but after¬
wards^ he was altogether occupied with mathematics,
philofophy, and the ftudy of the languages. Father
Malebranehe cultivated his acquaintance and efteemed
his virtues. Hs firft appearance was fevere, his ge¬
neral temper tranquil 5 yet he had a lively and fertile
imagination. His mind was aftive, full of refources,
and methodical. We are indebted to his induftry for
the Typographical Bureau. This invention is the
more ingenious, as it preients the tedious parts of edu¬
cation, namely, reading, waiting, and the elements of
languages, to the youthful mind as a delightful enter¬
tainment 5 and many people in France, both in the ca¬
pital and in the provinces, have adopted it with fuc¬
cefs. After he had conceived the idea of this inven¬
tion, he made the firft trial of it on the young Candiac
who w’as remarkable for his underftanding in his ear-
lieft years. Du Mas condufted his pupil to Paris and
the principal cities in France, where he was univer-
fally admired. 1 his prodigy was carried off in the
year 1726 before he w’as feven years of age, and his
lofs had nearly deprived Du Mas of his reafon. A
dangerous illnefs was the confequence of his vexation 5
and he would har e died of want, if a gentleman had
not taken him from his garret and entertained him in
his own houfe. Du Mas afterwards retired wfith Ma¬
dame de Vaujour. within two leagues of Paris, and died.
in
M A S
[ 637 ]
MAS
MafafuerOjin the yfear 1774, againfl 63. He was a philofopher
Mafbfcthsei. both in genius and character. His works are, i.L'Art
1 v cJe iranfpofer tovtes fortes de Mufques fans etre oblige de
connoiire, ni le temps, ni le mode, published at Paris in
4to. 1711. This work is extremely curious, but of
no advantage to the ftudy of mufic. 2. A volume in
quarto, printed at Paris 1733, in four parts, entitled,
Bibliotheque des enfans. In this treatife he has placed,
in a clear point of view, the fyftem and economy of
his Typographical Bureau. This invention, like every
thing new, was cenfured by fome and admired by
others. The author himfelf defended it with much
fuccefs in the journals and in feveral occafional pam¬
phlets. This colleftion, however, is become exceed¬
ingly fcarce. The Typographical Bureau was brought
to perfeftion by M. Reybert a citizen of Avignon,
who enriched it with many articles containing ufeful
and agreeable information in geography, hiftory, fable,
&c. &c. 3. Memoires de I'EcoJfe fous le regne de Marie
Stuart, by Crawford, and tranflated from the Englilh.
This tranflation was found in manufcript in the library
of the marquis d’Aubais, with whom Du Mas had lived
in the mod intimate habits of fnendlhip.
Mm Planta, a plant which upon the fame root pro¬
duces male flowers only. See Mascvlvs Flos, Bo¬
tany Index.
MASAFUERO, an ifiand of the South fea, ly¬
ing in S. Lat. 33. 45. W. Long. 80. 46. It is very
high and mountainous, and at a didance feems to con-
fift of one hill or rock. It is of a triangular form,
and feven or eight leagues in circumference. There is
fuch plenty of fid), that a boat with a few hooks and
lines may very foon catch as many as will ferve loo
people. Here are coal-filh, cavilliers, cod, hallibut,
and cray-fifli. Captain Carteret’s crew caught a king-
filber that weighed 87 pounds, and was five feet and
a half long. The (harks were here fo ravenous, that,
in taking foundings, one of them (wallowed the lead,
by which they hauled him above water ; but he re¬
gained his liberty by difgorging his prey. Seals are
fo numerous here, that Captain Carteret fays, if many
thoufands were killed in a night, they would not be
miffed next morning. Thefe animals yield excellent
train oil ; and their hearts and plucks are very good
food, having a tafte fomething like thofe of a hog ;
their (kins are covered with a very fine fur. There are
many birds here, and fome very large hawks. Of the
pintado bird one (hip caught 700 in one night. Com¬
modore Byron landed here with difficulty in 1765, in
order to take in wood and water, of both which he
found plenty. He found alfo great numbers of goats,
whofe flefli tafted as well as venifon in England.
MASBOTHiEI, or Meseoth.ei, the name of a
fe£l:, or rather of two fefls ; for Eufebius, or rather
Hegefippus whom he cites, makes mention of two
different fefts of Mafloothscans. The firfi was one of
the feven fe&s that rofe out of Judaifm, and proved
very troublefome to the church ; the other was one
of the feven Jewifli feds before the coming of Jefus
Chrift.
The word is derived from the Hebrew’ T-'^t),fchalat,
“ to reft or repofe,” and fignines idle eafj indolent people.
Eufebius fpeaks of them as if they had be<*n fo called
from one Maffiotheus their chief: but it is much more
probable that their name is Hebrew’, or at leaft Chal-
daic, fignifying the fame thing with a Sabbatarian in
our language •, that is, one who makes profeftion of^
keeping Sabbath.
Valefius wift not allow the two feds to be confound¬
ed together: the laft being a (ed of Jew’s before, or
at leait contemporary with Chrift ; and the former a
fed of heretics defeended from them. Rufinas diftin-
guiflies them in their names; the Jew'ifli fed he calls
Mafbuthsei *, and the heretics Malbuthseani. The Maf-
buthseans were a branch of the Simonians.
MASCULINE, fomething belonging to the male,
or the (Longer of the two fexes. See Male.
Masculine, is more ordinarily uled in grammar to
fignify the firft and worthiefl: of the genders of nouns.
See Gender.
The mafeuline gender is that which belongs to the
male kind, or fomething analogous to it.
Moft fubftances are ranged under the heads of maf¬
euline or feminine.—This, in fome cafes, is done with a
(how of reafon ; but in others is merely arbitrary, and
for that reafon is found to vary according to the lan¬
guages and even according to the words introduced
from one language into another.—Thus the names of
trees are generally feminine in Latin and mafeuline in
the French.
Farther, the genders of the fame word are fometimes
varied in the fame language. Thus a/vus, according
to Prifcian, was anciently mafculine, but is now become
feminine. And navire, “ a (hip,” in French, was an¬
ciently feminine, but is now mafeuline.
Masculinr Rhyme, in the French poetry, is that
made with a word which has a (Long, open, and ac¬
cented pronunciation; as all words have, excepting
thofe which have an e feminine in their lad fyilable.
For inftance, amour and jour, mort and fort, are mai-
cuiine rhymes ; and pere and mere, gloirc and memoirs,
are feminine. Hence alfo verfes ending with a maf-
cuiine rhyme, are called mafeuline %>erfes, and thofe end¬
ing with a feminine rhyme, feminine verfes. It is now
a rule eftabliihed among the French poets never to ufe
the above two mafeuline or two - feminine verfes fuc-
ceffively, except in the loofer kind of poetry. Marut
whs the firil who introduced this mixture of mafcnline
and feminine verfes, and Ronfard was the firft who
praftned it with fuccefs. The mafeuline verfes.ihould
always have a fyliable lefs than the feminine ones.
Masculine Signs. Aftrologers divide the figns into
raafeuline and feminine j by reafon of their qualities,
which are either aftive, and hot or cold, accounted
mafeuline •, or paftive, dry and moift, which are fe¬
minine.—-On this principle they call the Sun, Jupiter,
Saturn, and Mars, mafeuline; and the Moon and Venus
feminine. Mercury, they fuppofe, partakes of the two.
Among the.figns, Aries, Libra, Gemini, Leo, Sagitta¬
rius, Aquarius, are mafeuline : Cancer, Capricornus,
Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio, and Pifces, me feminine.
MASCULUS ft.os. See Flos, Botany Index.
MASH, a drink given to a horfe, made of Haif a.
peck of ground malt put into a pail, into which as
much fealding hot water is poured as will wet it very
well : when that is done, ftir it about, till, by tailing,
you find it as fweet as honey *, and when it has (food
till it is lukewarm, it is to be given to . the horfe. This
Uquqr
Mafeuline
!l
Ma(h.
Mafic
li
Mafon.
6^8
M A S l ,,
liquor is only ufed after a purge, to make it work the
better : or after hard labour, or inilead of drink in the
_j time of any great ficknefs.
MASK. See Masque.
MAS1NISSA, a king of a fmall part of Africa,
who at firlt affifted the Carthaginians in their wars
again ft Rome ; but afterwards joined the Romans,
and became the firmed ally they ever had. See Numi-
D1A.
MASON, a perfon employed under the dire&ion of
an architect, in the railing of a ftone building.
The chief bufinefs of a mafon is to make- the mor¬
tar raife the walls from the foundation to the top,
with the neceflary retreats and perpendiculars , to firm
the vaults, and employ the ftohes as delivered to him.
When the ftones are large, the bufinefs of hewing or
cutting them belongs to the ftonecutters, tho ,gh thefe
are frequently confounded with mafons: the orna¬
ments of fculpture are performed by carvers in ftones
or fculptors. The tools or implements principally ufed
by them are the fquare, level, plumb line, bevel, com-
pafs, hammer, chiffel, mallet, faw, trowel, &.c. See
Square, &c.
Befides the common inftruments ufed in the hand,
they have likewufe machines for raifing of great bur¬
dens, and the conducing of large ftones ; the principal
of which are the lever, pulley, wheel, crane, &c. See
Lever, &c.
Mason, William, an Englifti poet of diftindlion,
born in 1725, was the fon of a clergyman who held
the living of Hull. He took his firft degrees at St
John’s college, Cambridge in 1745, whence he remov¬
ed to Pembroke college, of which he was admitted a
fellow in 1747. He was M. A. in 1749, a minifter
in 1754. The earl of Holderneffe prefented him to
the valuable rectory of Afton in Yorkfliire, and pro¬
cured for him the office of chaplain to his majefty. His
ode on the inftallation of the duke of Newxaftle as
•chancellor of the univerfity of Cambridge was the firft
fpecimen of his poetical talents, which gained him con-
fiderable reputation, although the fubje6t was not popu¬
lar. His monody to the memory of Pope, and Ills, an
elegy, added to his fame, which was ftill farther in-
creafed by his dramatic poem of Elfrida in 1752, and
Caractacus in 17 ^9.
He did not fucceed in writing tragedy as he did not
compofe for the modern ftage, but wiffied to revive the
manner of the ancients. He published a fmall collec¬
tion of odes in J756, intended as an imitation of his
dear friend Gray. He gave the world fome elegies in
1763, which in general are marked with the fimplicity
of language proper to this fpecies of compofttion,
breathing noble fentiraents of freedom and of virtue.
In point of morality he may juftly be confidered as the
pureft of poets, and one of the warmelt friends of civil
liberty by which the age he lived in was diftinguiftred.
The firft book of his Englifti Garden made its appear¬
ance in 1772, a didadlic poem in blank verfe, of which
the fourth and laft book was printed in the year 1781.
Some good ciitics confider tills poem as rather ftiff, and
the dry minutenels of the preceptive part, prevented it
from bringing the author any great degree of populari¬
ty. In 1775 he publiftied the poems of Mr Gray, to
which he prefixed memoirs of his life and writings.
His obfervations on the character and genius of Ins
] MAS
friend did honour to his tafte and feelings, and of con- Mafonry.
iequence the volume was favoarablv received. >. —
At the place of his refidence he adled with the
friends of reform, and the enemies ot fuch meafures as
were deemed incompatible with the liberties of free¬
men. During the continuance of the American war,
he addreffed an ode to the naval officers of Great Bri¬
tain, on the acquittal of Admiral Keppel in 1779, in
which he decidedly execrated the war carrying on
againft the people of America. When Mr Pitt rofe to
power in 1782, Mafon addreffed an ode to him, which
contained patriotic and manly fentiments, but his lyric
imagery did it confiderable injury. He publiftied in
\783 a poetical tranftation of Frefnoy’s Latin poem on
t'le art of painting, which unites great elegance of
language and verfification with a correct reprefentation
of a difficult original.
^ Befides tne living with which he was prefented foon
arter taking orders, he obtained the preferments of pre¬
centor and canon refidentiary of the cathedral of York.
At that church he preached an occafional difeourfe in
1/88 on the fubje£t of the flave-trade, full of animated
declamation againft the inhumanity of the traffic. The
centenary commemoration of the revolution in that year
produced his fecular ode, which breathed his ufual
fpirit of freedom. An additional volume of his poems
was given to the world in 1797, confifting of mifcella-
neous pieces, the revifed produedions of his youth, and
the effufions of his old age. In his Palinody to Liberty
we behold the change wrought in his political princi¬
ples by the melancholy events of the French revolu¬
tion.
Mr Mafon died in April 1797, at the age of 72,
the confequence of a mortification by a hurt in his leg.
He had married an amiable lady, who died of a con-
fumption in 1767, and was buried at Briftol cathedral,
under a monument on which are inferibed fome very
tender and beautiful lines by her hufband. The cha-
rafter of Mafon in private life was exemplary for worth
and aftive benevolence. A tablet has been placed to
his memory in Poets Corner in Weftminfter abbey.
Some fatirical pieces of merit have been aferibed to him,
but fome are of opinion that the internal evidence is
fufticient to decide againft his title to them ; yet it mufi
be allowed that he could write with energy and fimpli-
city, and the objefts of fatire in thefe pieces are fuch
as it was extremely probable that he would fix upon.
MASONRY, in general, a branch of architefture,
confifting in the art of hewing or fquaring ftones, and
cutting them level or perpendicular, for the ufes of
building : but, in a more limited fenfe, maforiry is
the art of affembling and joining ftones together with
mortar.
Hence arife as many different kinds of mafonrv as
tnere are different forms and manners for laying or
joining ftones. Vitruvius mentions feveral kinds of
mafonry ufed among the ancients $ three of hewed
ftone, viz. that in form of a net, that in binding, and
that called the Greek mafonry ; and three of unhewed
ftones, viz. that of an equal courfe, that of an unequal
courfe, and that filled up in the middle : and the feventh
was a compofition of all the reft.
Net mafonry, called by Vitruvius retlculatum, from
its refetnblance to the mefties of a net, confifts of ftones
fouared in their courfes, and fo difpofed as that their
joints
M A S
[ 639 ]
MAS
Mafomy. joints go obliquely and their diagonals are the one
Y' - perpendicular and the other level. Ihis is the mod
agreeable tnafonry to the eye, but it is very apt to
crack.
Bound mafonry, is that in which the Hones were placed
one over another, like tiles j the joints 01 theii beds
beino-level, and the mounters perpendiculars, lb that
the pmit that mounts and feparates two Hones always
falls dire&ly over the middle of the Hone below. This
is lefs beautiful than the net work ; but it is more folid
and durable.
Greek mafonry, according to Vitruvius, is that where
after we have laid two Hones, each of which makes a
courfe, another is laid at the end, which makes two
courfes, and the fame order is obferved throughout
the building j this may be called double binding, in re¬
gard the binding is not only of Hones of the lame courfe
with one another, but hkewife of one courfe with ano¬
ther courfe.
Mafonry by equal courfes, called by the ancients 1J0-
dornmn, differs in nothing from the bound mafonry, but
only in this, that its Hones are not hewn.
Mafonry by unequal courfes, called pfeudifodomum,
is alio made of unhewed Hones, and laid in bound
work 5 but then they are not of the fame thicknefs,
nor is there any equality obferved excepting in the
feveral courfes, the courfes themfelves being unequal to
each other.
Mafonry filled up in the middle, is likewife made of
unhewed Hones, and by courfes: but the hones are
only fet in order as to the courfes.
Compound mafonry is of Vitruvius’s propofing, fo
called as being formed of all the refl. In this the
courfes are of hewed Hone } and the middle being left
void, is filled up with mortar and pebbles thrown in
together : after this the Hones of one courfe are bound
to thofe of another courfe with iron cramps xaHened
with melted lead.
All the kinds cf mafonry now in ufe may be reduced
to thefe five, viz. bound mafonry •, that of brick work,
where the bodies and projedlures of the Hones enclofe
fquare fpaces or pannels, &c. fet with bricks , that de
moilon, or fmall work, where the courfes are equal,
well fquared, and their edges or beds ruHicated ; that
where the courfes are unequal j and that filled up in the
middle with little Hones and mortar.
Free Masonry, denotes the rules or fyHem of my-
flenes and fecrets peculiar to the fociety of free and ac¬
cepted mafons.
Catfe of 1. When men are in a Hate of barbarity, and are
the fepara- fcattered over the furface of a country in fmall and in-
tion of pro- dependent tribes, their wants are as fmall in magni-
feffions. tude, as tliey are few jn number. It is in the power,
therefore, of every individual, to perform, for himfelf
and his familv, every work of labour which necefiity 01
comfort requires and whue, at one time, he equips
himfelf for the chafe or the combat, at another, he is
rearing a habitation for his offspring, or hollowing his
canoe to furmount the dangers of the fea. But as loon
as thefe tribes affociate together, for the purpofes of
mutual proteflion and comfort, civilization advances
apace •, and, in the fame proportion, the wants and de¬
files of the community increafe. In order to gratify
thefe, the ingenuity of individuals is called forth ; and
thofe, who, from inability or indolence^ cannot fatisfy
their own wants, will immediately refort to the fuperior V^ -rvr ^
Ikill of their neighbours. Thofe members of the com- 7
munity, who can execute their work with the greateff
elegance and celerity, will be moH frequently employ¬
ed j5 and, from this circumflance, combined with the
principle of emulation, and other caufes, that diffinflion
of profeflions will arife, which is found only among
nations confiderably advanced in civilization and re¬
finement. .
2, One of the firfi obje&s cf man, in a rude Hate, isKeafons
to fereen himfelf and his family from the heat of the ^§u"chl"
tropic fun, from the inclemency of the polar regions, or muft have
from the Hidden changes of more temperate climates.been the
If he has arrived at fuch a degree cf improvement, as firft profef-
to live under the dominion of a fuperior, and under theli0n*
influence of religious belief, the palace of his king,
and the temple of his gods, will be reared in the moH
magnificent flile which his {kill can devile and his in—
duflry accomplifh, and decked with thofe falfe orna¬
ments which naturally catch the eye of unpoliftied
men. From that principle which impels the lowen
orders to imitate the magnificence and fplendour of
of their fuperiors, a foundation will be laid for improv-
ment in the art of building j and it is extremely proba¬
ble, from the circumHances which have been mention¬
ed, as well as from others which the flighteit refle&ioiv
will fuggefl, that architefltue will be the firH profeffion
to which men will exclufively devote their attention,
and for which they will be trained by an eflablhhed
courfe of preparatory education.
3. Nor is it from this ground only, that mafonry de-A-rcfftee-
rives its fuperiority as a feparate profeflion. While
many other arts admmifler to our luxury and pride, ry otber
and gratify only thofe temporary wants and unnatural mechanical
defires which refinement has rendered neceffary, the profeffion.
art of building can lay claim to a higher objeft. The
undertakings of the architeft, not only furnifli us with
elegant and comfortable accommodation from the in¬
clemency of the feafons, from the rapacity of wild
beads, and the Hill more dangerous rapacity of man *,
they contribute alfo to the ornament and glory of na¬
tions, and it is to them that w7e are indebted for thofe
fortreffes of Hrength which defend us from the inroads
of furrounding enemies. Nor can the works of the
architeft be ranked among thofe obje&s which fumifti
amufement and accommodation for a few years, or at
moH during the Qiort term of human life •, they defeend
unimpaired from generation to generation •, they ac¬
quire additional grandeur and value from an incieafe
of age •, and are the only fpecimens of human labour
which, in fome meafure, furvive the revolutions of king¬
doms, and the w’afle of time. The fplendid remains of
Egyptian, Grecian, and Roman architefture, which, in
every age, have attra&ed the attention of the learned,,
and excited the afloniHnnent of the vulgar, are Handing
monuments of the ingenuity and power of man *, and,
in ages yet to come, they will refleil a dignity on the
art of building, to wdnch no other profeffion can arro¬
gate the llightefl claim.
4. But there is Hill another confideration, which en-Other
titles architecture to a decided pre-eminence among the ^‘iufes .
otner arts. It is itleli the parent or many leparate pro-nf.nte Qf ar.
feffions j and requires a combination of talents, and andutedura.
extent of knowledge, for which other profeffions have
not the fmalleil occafion. An acquaintance with the
feiences
MAS r 640 ] MAS
J-’afodry. feiences of geometry and mechanical philofophy, with.
the arts of fculpture and defign, and other abftrufe and
elegant branches of knowledge, are indifpenfible re-
tjuilites in the education of a good archite£l; and raife
his art to a vaft height above thofe profeffions, which
praftice alone can render familiar, and which confift in
the mere exertion of mufcular force. It appears, then,
from thefe confiderations, that there is fome foundation,
in the very nature of architcdlure, for thofe extraordi¬
nary privileges to which mafons have always laid
claim, and which they have almoft always pofleffed—
privileges, which no other artifts could have confidence
to afe, or liberty to enjoy; and there appears to be
fome foundation for that ancient and refpe&able order
of free mafons, whofe hiftory we are now to inveftigate.
5. But, that we may be enabled to difcover free
ttiafonry under thofe various forms, which it has affum-
ed in different countries, and at different times, before
it received the name which it now bears, it will be ne-
ceffary to give a fhort defcription of the nature of this
inftitution, without developing thofe myfteries, or re¬
vealing thofe ceremonial obfervances which are known
only to the brethren of the order.
Defcription g jrree mafonry is an ancient and refpe&able infti-
tufiotvof** tut^on> embracing individuals of every nation, of every
freemafon- religion, and of every condition in life. In order to
ry. confirm this inftitution, and attain the ends for which it
was originally formed, every candidate, comes under a
folemn engagement never to divulge the myfteries of
the order, nor communicate to the uninitiated the fe-
crets with which he may be entrufted, and the pro¬
ceedings and plans in which the fraternity may be
engaged. After the candidate has undergone the
neceffary ceremonies, and received the ufual inftruc-
tioHs, appropriate words and fignificant figns ape im¬
parted to him, that be may be enabled to diftinguith
bis brethren of the order from the uninitiated vulgar,
and convince others that he is entitled to the privileges
of a brother, fhould he be vifited by diftrefs or want,
in a diftant land. If the newly admitted member be
found qualified for a higher degree, he is promoted,
after due intervals of probation, till he has received
that mafonic knowledge, which enables him to hold
the higheft offices of truft to which the fraternity can
raife its members. At regular and appointed feafons,
convivial meetings of the fraternity are held in lodges
conftru&ed for this purpofe : temperance, harmony, and
joy, charafterife thefe mixed affemblies. All diftinc-
tions of rank feem to be laid afide, all differences in re¬
ligious and political fentiments are forgotten : and thofe
petty quarrels which difturb the quiet of private life,
ceafe to agitate the mind. Every one Ilrives to give
happinefs to his brother j and men feem to recoiled, for Mafonry.
once, that they are fprung from the fame origin, that' “ v-1"'
they are poffeffed of the fipue nature, and are deftined
for the fame end.
7. Such are the prominent features of an inftitution,Various e-
which has of late produced fo great divifion in the fen-pinions a-
timents of the learned, refpefling its origin and ten-bo.u^ the
dency. While a certain clafs of men (a), a little over-
anxious for the dignity of their order, have reprefented ry.
it as coeval with the world ; others, influenced by an
oppofite motive, have maintained it to be the invention
of Englifli Jefuits, to promote the views of that in¬
triguing and dangerous affociation (b). Some philofo-
phers, among whom we may reckon the celebrated
Chevalier Ramfay, have laboured to prove, that free
mafonry arofe during the crufades •, that it was a fe-
condary order of chivalry j that its forms originated
from that warlike inftitution, and were adapted to the
peaceful habits of fcientific men (c). Mr Clinch (d)
has attempted, with coniiderable ingenuity and learn¬
ing, to deduce its origin from the inftitution of Pytha¬
goras. M. Barruel (e) fuppofes it to be a continuation
of the fociety of knights templars j while others, with a
degree of audacity and malice rarely to be found in
the chara&er of ingenuous men, have imputed the
origin of free mafonry to fecret affociations, averfe to
the interefts of true government, and purfuing the
villanous and chimerical projeft of levelling the diftinc-
tions of fociety, and freeing the human mind from the
facred obligations of religion and morality.
8. Without adopting any of thefe untenable opini-Free mafon-
ons, or attempting to difcover the precife period when r7 fias exift-
free mafonry arofe, it may be fufficient to eftablilh ®tr
its claim to an early origin, and to fhew that it has ex-forms ;n
ifted in different ages of the world under different formsferentcoun-
and appellations (f). In the execution of this talk, the tries,
candid enquirer wall be fatisfied with ftrong and numer¬
ous refemblances, as the nature of the fubjeft excludes
the poffibility of rigid demonftration. Every human
inftitution is fubjeft to great and numerous variations $
the different afpefts under which they appear, and the
principles by which they are regulated, depend upon
the progrefs of civilization, upon the nature of the go¬
vernment by which they are protected, and on the pe¬
culiar opinions and habits of their members. If, there¬
fore, in comparing free mafonry with other ancient af¬
fociations, we fhould find it coincide with them in every
circumfiance, there would be ftrong reafons for fuf-
pefling, that the imagination of the writer had coun¬
terfeited refemblances when deftitute of authentic in¬
formation ; or that the order had adopted the rites and
ceremonies of antiquity, to cloak the recency of their
origin,
(a) Anderfon’s Hiftory and Conftitutions of Free Mafonry, p. 1. Prefton’s Illuftrations of Mafonry, p. 6. tenth
edition. # rn/r n/r •
(b) Manufcript of Bode of Germany, in the poffeffion of M. Mourner.
(c) Leyden’s Preliminary Differtation to the Complaynt of Scotland, p. 67, 71.
(d) Anthologia Hibernica, for January, March, April, and June 1794.
(e) Memoirs of Jacobinifm, vol. ii. p. 377, 378, &c. . .
(f) M. Mounier obferves, that if the order of free mafons exifted among the ancients, it would have been
mentioned by cotemporary authors. This argument, however, for the recency of their origin, is far from being
conclufive. For though it is allowed by all, that free mafonry has exifted in this country for at leaft 300 years,
vet the affociation is never once mentioned in any of the hiftories of England.
3
MAS
[ 641 ]
MAS
Mafor.ry.
Reafons
why the
knowledge
of architec¬
ture would
be confined
to a few.
Gaufes of
the union
of religious
rites with
the myfie-
jies of free
mafonry.
origin, to command the veneration and excite the no¬
tice of the public. Againit free mafonry, however,
this charge cannot be preferred : we ihall have occa-
ilon to confider it when conne&ed with the idolatry of
the heathens, when devoted to the church of Rome,
and when Hour!dung under the milder influence of the
reformed religion.
9. As men, in the early ages of fociety, were defti-
tute of thofe methods of diffuling knowledge which we
now enjoy, and even of thofe which were ufed in
Greece and Rome, when the art of printing was un¬
known ; the few difcoveries in art and fcience which
were then made, mull: have been confined to a fmall
number of individuals. In thefe ages, the purfuit of
fcience mull: have been a fecondary confideration, and
thofe who did venture to explore the untrodden regions
of knowledge, would overlook thoie unfubflantial {pe¬
culations, which merely gratify the curiofity of philofo-
phers; and would fix their attention on thofe only
which terminate in public utility, and adminiller to the
neceffities of life. As architedure could only be pre¬
ceded by agriculture, it muft have been in this fcience
that the firft efforts of human Ikill w^ere tried ; and in
which man muff have firft experienced fuccefs in ex¬
tending his dominion over the works of nature. I he
firft archite&s, therefore, would be philofophers. They
alone required the afliftance of art; and they alone
would endeavour to obtain it. The information which
was acquired individually, would be imparted to others
of the fame profeflion ; and an affociation would be
formed for the mutual communication of knowdedge,
and the mutual improvement of its members. In order
to preferve among themfelves that information which
they alone collefted j in order to excite among!! others
a higher degree of refpeT for their profeflion, and pre¬
vent the intrufion of thofe -who were ignorant of archi-
teifture, and, confequently, could not promote the ob-
je£l of the inftitution, appropriate words and figns
wTould be communicated to its members *, and fignificant
ceremonies would be performed at their initiation, that
their engagement to fecrecy might be impreffed upon
their minds, and greater regard excited for the infor¬
mation they were to receive. Nor is this mere pecu¬
lation j there exift at this day, in the deferts of Egypt,
fuch monuments of archite&ure, as muft have been
reared in thofe early ages which precede the records
of authentic hiftory ; and the ereftion of thefe ftupend-
ous fabrics, muft have required an acquaintance with
the mechanical arts, which is not in the poffeffion of
modern archite&s. It is an undoubted fa6f, alfo, that
there exifted, in thefe days, a particular affociation of
men, to whom fcientific knowledge wTas confined, and
who refembled the fociety of free mafons in every thing
but the name.
10. In Egypt, and thofe countries of Afia which
lie contiguous to that favoured kingdom, the arts and
faiences were cultivated wdth fuccefs, wThile other na¬
tions were involved in ignorance : it is here, therefore,
that free mafonry w7ould flourish, and here only can we
VOL. XII. Part II.
difcover marks of its exiftence in the remoteft ages. It Mafonry-
is extremely probable, that the firft and the only ob-' v
jeT of the focicty of mafons, w'as the mutual communi¬
cation of knowledge connected with their profeffion ;
and that thofe only would gain admittance into their
order, whofe labours w'ere fubfidiat'y to thofe of the
architect. But when the ambition or vanity of the E-
gyptian priefts prompted them to erefl huge and ex-
penfive fabrics, for celebrating the wonhip of then-
gods, or perpetuating the memory of their kings, they
wTould naturally defire to participate in that fcientific
knowledge, which was poffeffed by the architefts they
employed*, and as the facerdotal order feldoar fail,
among a fuperftitious people, to gain the objetfts of their
ambition, they would, in this cafe, fucceed in their at¬
tempts, and be initiated into the myfteries, as well as
inftrucled in the fcience of free mafons. Thefe remarks
will not only affift us in difcovcring the fource from
which the Egyptian priefts derived that knowledge
for which they have been fo highly celebrated ; they
will aid us alio in accounting ior thofe changes which
w-ere fuperinduced on the forms of free mafonrv, and
for the admiflion of men into the order, w’hofe profef-
fions had no connexion with the royal art.
11. When the Egyptian priefts had, in this manner,
procured admiflion into the fociety of free mafons, they
connected the mythology of their country, and their
metaphyftcal fpeculations, concerning the nature of God
and the condition of man, w’ith an 'affociation formed
for the exclufive purpofe of fcientific improvement, and
produced that combination of fcience and theology
which, in after ages, formed fuch a confpicuous part of
the principles of free mafonry.
1 2. The knowledge of the Egyptians was carefully
concealed from the vulgar ; and when the priefts did
condefcend to communicate it to the learned men of
other nations, it was conferred in fymbols and hierogly¬
phics, accompanied with particular rites and ceremo¬
nies, marking the value of the gift they bellowed.
What thofe ceremonies w'ere, which were performed at
initiation into the Egyptian myfteries, u'e are unable, at
this diftance of time, to determine. But as the Eleu-
finian and other myfteries had their origin in Egypt,
we may be able, perhaps, to difcover the qualities of
the fountain, by examining the nature of the ftream.
13. The immenfe population of Egypt, conjoined The fcience
with other caufes, occafloned frequent emigrations from anci
that enlightened country. In this manner it became ^
the centre of civilization, and introduced into the moftcan-iedinto
diftant and favage climes the fublime myfteries of its Greece,
religion, and thofe inventions and difeoveries which
originated in the ingenuity of its inhabitants. The firft
colony of the Egyptians that arrived in Greece, was
conducted by Inachus, about 1970 years before the
Chriftian era 5 and about three centuries afterwards, he
was followed by Cecrops, Cadmus, and Danaus (g).
The favage inhabitants of Greece beheld with aftonilh-
ment the magical tricks of the Egyptians ; and regard¬
ed as gods thofe fkilful adventurers, who communicated
4 M to
(g) Voyage du Jeune Anacharfis en Grece, qto. tom. i. p. 2. Cecrops arrived in Attica in 1657 B. C.
Cadmus came from Phenicia to Boeotia in 1593 B. C. and Danaus to Argolis in 1 r86 B. C.
M A S
Mafonry.
Inftitution
of the Eleii'
finian my-
fteries.
Inftitution
of the Pan-
athe»ea
and Eiony.
iian my-
fteries.
Refem-
biance be¬
tween the
Eleufinian
and Diony-
fian my-
fteries.
Similarity
between
the Eleufi¬
nian my-
iteries and
free ma¬
fonry.
to them the arts and fciences of their native land (h).
In this manner were Town thofe feeds of improvement,
which, in future ages, exalted Greece to fuoh pre-emi¬
nence among the nations.
14. Alter the Egyptian colonies had obtained a fe-
"cure fettlement in their new territories,' and were freed
from thole uneafy apprehenlions which generally
trouble the invaders of a foreign land •, they inllituted,
after the manner of their anceftors, particular feftivals or
myfteries, in honour of thofe who had benefited their coun¬
try by arts or by arms. In the reign of Eridthonius, (A.
C. 1500), the myfteries of the Egyptian Ifis were e-
ftabliftied at Eleufis under the name of the Eleufinia.
They were inftituted in honour of Ceres, who having
come to Greece in queft of her daughter Proferpine,
relided with Triptolemus at Eleufis, and inftructed him
m the knowledge of agriculture, and in the ftill more
important knowledge of a future ftate (t).
15. About the lame time, the Panathenea were infti-
' tuted in honour of Minerva, and the Dionyfian my-
fteries in honour of Bacchus, who invented theatres (k),
and inftrudted the Greeks in many ufeful arts, but par¬
ticularly in the culture of the vine (l). That the E-
leufinian paid Dionyfian myfteries were intimately con-
nedled with the progrefs of the arts and fciences, is ma-
nifeft from the very end for which they were formed ;
and that they were modelled upon the myfteries of Ifis
and Ofiris, celebrated in Egypt, is probable from the
fimilarity of their srigin, as well as from the confent
of ancient authors (ai). If there be any plaufibility in-
our former reafoning concerning the origin of know¬
ledge in Egypt, it will follow, that the Dionyfia and
the myftenes of Eleufis, were, like the focieties of free
mafons, formed for fcientific improvement, though tinc¬
tured with the dodlrines of the Egyptian mythology.
16. But it is not from conjedlure only that this con-
clufion may be drawn. The ftriking fimilarity among
the external forms of thefe fecret aftbeiations, and the
ft'ill more ftriking fimilarity of the objedts they had in
view, are ftrong proofs, that they were only different
ftreams iffuing from a common fountain. Thofe who
were initiated into the Eleufinian myfteries, were bound
[ 642 ]
M A S
by the moll awful engagements, to conceal the inftruc- Mafonry.
tions they received, and the ceremonies that were per- u—-
formed (n). None were admitted as candidates, till
they arrived at a certain age } and particular perfons
were appointed, to examine and prepare them for the
rites of initiation fo). I hofe, whofe condudl was found
irregular, or who had been guilty of atrocious crimes,
were rejedled as unworthy of initiation ; while the fuc-
cefsful candidates were inftrudled, byfignificant fymbols,
in the principles of religion (p), were exhorted to quell
every turbulent appetite and paftion (q_), and to merit,
by the improvement of their minds, and the purity of
their hearts, thofe ineffable benefits which they were
ftill to receive (r). Significant words were communi¬
cated to the members : grand officers prefided over
their affemblies (s) : Their emblems' were exaftly fimi-
lar to thofe of free mafonry (x) and the candidate ad¬
vanced from one degree to another, till he received all
the leffons of wifdom and of virtue which the priefts
could impart (u). But befides thefe circumftances of
refemblance, there are two fa£ts, tranfmitted to us by
ancient authors, which have an aftoniffiing fimilarity to
the ceremonies of the third degree of free mafonry. So
ftriking is the refemblance, that every brother of the
order who is acquainted with them, cannot queftion,
for a moment, the opinion which we have been attempt¬
ing to fupport (x).
17. Having thus mentioned fome features of refem-The myfte-
blance between the myfteries of Eleufis, and thofe ofries of
free mafonry 5 let us now attend to the fentiments of ancl
contemporaries, refpeaing thefe fecret affociations j and fonry'w'
vve will find,, that they have been treated with the fame experien-
illiberality and infolence. That fome men, who, from t;ed the
felf-fufficiency, or unfocial difpofitions, have refufed to 'ame
be admitted into thefe orders, ffiould detraft from the
charafter of an affociation, which pretends to enlighten tiated.
the learned, and expand the affeftions of narrow and
contrafted minds, is by no means a matter of furprife ;
and it is equally confiftent with human nature, that
thofe, whofe irregular conduft had excluded them fronr
initiation, ffiould calumniate an order, whofe bleffings
they were not allowed to participate, and whofe honours
they
(h) Herodot, lib. i. cap. 58. (1) Ifocrates Paneg. tom. i. p. 132.
(k) Polydor Virg. de Rerum Invent, lib. iii. cap. 13.
(l) Robertfon’s Greece, p. 59. Bacchus or Dionyfius came into Greece during the reign of Amphydlyon who
flouriffied about 1497 B. C.
(m) En adfum natura parens tuis Luci admota precibus fumma numinum,—-cujus numen unicum, multiformi
ipecic, ritu vario, totus veneratur orbis. Me primogenii Phryges Peffinunticam nominant deum matrem j bine
Autochtcnes Attici Cecropiam Minervam (alluding to the Panathenea) ’7 Illinc Cretes Diftynnam Dianam, &c.
Eleufinii vetuftam Deam Cerercm j prifeaque doftrina pollentes Egyptii, ceremoniis me prorfus propriis percolen-
tes, appellant vero nomine reginam Ifidem. L. Apuleii Metamorph. lib. xi.
(n) Andoc. de Myft. p. 7. Meurfius in Eleuf. Myft. cap. 20. This latter author has collected all the paf-
fages in ancient writers, about the Eleufinian myfteries.
(o) Hefychius in Y^«».
(p) Clemens. Alexand. Strom, lib. i. p. 325. lib. vii. p. 845.
(q.) Porphyr. ftp. Stob. Eclog. Phyf. p. 142.
(r) Arrian in Epiftet. lib. iii. cap. 21. p. 440.
(s) Robertfcn’s Greece, p. 127.
(x) Eufeb. Prepar. Evangel, lib. iii. cap. 12. p. 117.
(u) Petav. ad. Themift. p. 414. Anacharfis. tom. iii. p. 582.
(x) The brethren of the order may. confult, for this purpofe, the article Eleusinia, and Robertfon’s hiftory of
Ancient Greece, p. 127.
MAS [
Mafoary. they were prohibited to (hare. Men of this defeription
-—v reprefented the celebration of the Eleufmian myfteries, as
feenes of riot and debauchery; and reproached the mem¬
bers of the affociation, that they were not more virtuous
and more holy than themfelves ( Y ). But it is the opinion
of contemporary writers, that thefe rumours were com¬
pletely unfounded, and arofe from the filence of the
initiated, and the ignorance of the vulgar. They even
maintain, that the myfteries of Eleufis produced fandti-
ty of manners, attention to the focral duties, and a de¬
fire to be as diftinguiftied by virtue, as by filence.
See Eleusinia. The illuftrious Socrates could never
be prevailed upon to partake of thefe myfteries (z) j
and Diogenes, upon receiving a fimilar folicitation, re¬
plied, “ That Patsecion, a notorious robber, obtained
initiation ; and that Epaminondas and Agefilaus never
defired it (a).” But did not thefe men know, that in
all human focieties, the virtuous and the noble muft
fometimes aflbeiate with the worthlefs and the mean ?
Did they not know that there often kneel in the fame
temple, the righteous and the profane 5 and that the
faint and the finner frequently officiate at the fame al¬
tar ? Thus did the philofophers of antiquity calumniate
and defpife the myfteries of Eleufis ; and, in the fame
manner, have fome philofophers of our own day, de¬
famed the character, and queftioned the motives of free
mafons.
18. This fimilarity of treatment, which the myfteries
of Ceres and free mafonry have received, is no fmall
proof of the fimilarity of their origin, and their objedl.
To this conclufion, however, it may be objefled, that
though the points of refemblance between thefe fecret
focieties are numerous, yet there were circumftances in
the celebration of the Eleufinian myfteries, which have
no counterpart in the ceremonies of free mafonry. The
facrifices, purifications, hymns, and dances, which were
neceffary in the feftival of Ceres, have, indeed, no
place in the fociety of free mafons. But thele points
of diftimilarity, inftead of weakening, rather ftrengthen
our opinion. It cannot be expe&ed, that in the reign
of Polytheifm, jmft fentiments of the deity ftiould be
entertained ; and much lefs, that the adherents of
Chriftianity ftiould bend their knees to the gods of the
heathens. The ancients worihipped thofe beings, who
conferred on them the moft fignal benefits, with facri-
Gbjedlion
gnfwered.
643 ] MAS
fices, purifications, and other tokens of their humility Maionry.
and gratitude. But when revelation had difclofed to ><r^"
man more amiable fentiments concerning the Divine
Being, the fociety of free mafons baniftied from their
myfteries thole ufelefs rites, with which tne ancient
brethren of the order attempted to appeafe. and requite
their deities •, and modelled their ceremonies upon this
foundation, that there is but one God, who muft b.
worihipped in fpirit and in truth.
ip. The myfteries of Ceres were not confined to the The niylie-
city of Eleufis; they were introduced into Athens
bout 1356 B. C. (b) ;5 and, with a few flight varia- re cele_
tions, w7ere obferved in Phrygia, Cyprus, Crete, and Crated in
Sicily (c). They had reached even to the capital offeveral
France (d) * and it is highly probable that, in a countries,
ftiort time after, they were introduced into Britain, and
other northern kingdoms (e). In the reign of the em¬
peror Adrian (e), they were carried into Rome, and
were celebrated, in that metropolis, with the fame rites
and ceremonies which were performed in the humble
village of Eleufis. They had contracted impurities,
however, from the length of their duration, and the
corruption of their abettors •, and though the forms of
initiation were ftill fymbolical of the original and noble
obje&s of the inftitution; yet the licentious Romans
miftook the (hadovv for the fubftance •, and, while they
underwent the rites af the Eleufinian myfteries, they
were ftrangers to the object for winch they were
20. About the beginning of the fifth century, Theo-
dofius the Great prohibited, and almoft totally eKtin-£ieufimafi
guiflied the Pagan theology in the Roman empire (g) ;myfteries
and the myfteries of Eleufis fuffered in the general de-
vaftation (11). It is probable, however, that thefe
myfteries were fecretly celebrated, in fpite of the fevere
edi&s of Theodofius 5 and that they were partly conti¬
nued during the dark ages, though ftripped of their
original purity and fplendour. We are certain, at
leaft, that many rites of the Pagan religion were per¬
formed, under the diflembled name of convivial meet¬
ings, long after the publication of the emperor’s
edifts (l)|: and Pfellus (k), informs us, that the myf¬
teries of Ceres fubfifted in Athens till the eighth centu¬
ry of the Chrifti&n era, and were never totally fuppref-
fed.
4 M 2 21. Having
(y) Robertfon’s Greece, p. 127. Porphyr. de Abftinentia, lib. iv. p. 353. Julian oral. v. p. 173.
(z) Lucian in Demonaft. tom. ii. p. 380.
(a! Pint, de aud. Poet. tom. ii. p. 21. Diog. Laert. lib. vi. § 39.
(b) Playfair’s Chronology.
(c) Lucii Apuleii Metamorph. lib. xi. p. 197> 1
(d} Praife of Paris, or a Iketch of the French capital, 1803, by S. Weft, F. R. S. F. A. S. This autnof
obferves, in the preface to his work, that Paris is derived from Par IJis, becauie it was built befide a temple, de¬
dicated to that goddefs} that this temple was demoliftied at the eftablifhment of Chriftianity, and that there re¬
mains, to this day, in the Petits Auguftins, a ftatue of Ifis nurfing Orus.
(e) Omitto Eleuftnam fanftam illam et auguftam, ubi initiantur gentes orarum ultima:, Cic. de Nat. Deorum,
lib. i. fub fine.
(f) A. D. 117. Encyclop. Brit. vol. vi. p. 555. Potter’s Antiq. vol. i. p. 389.
(g) Gibbon’s Hiftory of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, 8vo. vol. v. p. 120.
(h) Zozim. Hill. lib. iv.
(1) Gibbon, vol. v. p. 1 10.
(k) In his treatife Seupoicov ira ooZumriy h quoted by Mr Clinch in the Anthclogia Hibemica, for
January 1794, p. 36.
&Tifcnrv.
Origin ard
Liftory of
the Diony-
dan myile-
^ '"til)*
M AS [64
, c2\- A'Xavin^ thus confidered the origin and decline
o; tne mylteries of Eleufis, and difcovered in them
luimerous and prominent features of rcfemblar.ee to
• hole of free mafonry ; vve may reafonably infer, that
tne .Egyptian myfteries which gave rife to the former,
i ad a itill nearer affinity to the latter j and, from this
conclufion, the opinions that were formerly dated, con¬
cerning the antiquity of the order, and the origin of E-
gyptian knowledge, will receive very conliderable con-
hrmation.
22. Let us now direff our attention to the Dionyfia,
or m\denes of Lacchus, wdiich were intimately con¬
nected with thofe of Ceres, and, perhaps, dill more
with the myfleries of free mafonry. Herodotus (l) in¬
forms us that the folemnities, in honour of Hionydus or
Bacchus, were originally inftituted in Egypt; and
were tranfported from that country into Greece, by one
Melampus. But not only did the myderies of Ceres
rmd Bacchus dow from the fame fource ; the one was
in feme meafure interwoven with the other, and it is
■«.mok cciuain, from wdiat we are now to mention, that
?hois who were initiated into the former, were entitled
’ o be prefect at the celebration of the latter. The
kxth day of tne B'cufinian fellival was the mod bril¬
liant of the whole. It received the appellation of
Bacchus, becaufe it was chiefly, if not excludvely, de¬
voted to the worfhip of that god. His flatue, attended
by tne initiated and the miniflers of the temple, was
conducted from Athens to Eleufis, with much pomp
nnd folemnity (m). And after it had been introduced
into the temple of Ceres, it was brought back to A-
thens with fimilar ceremonies. 1 he connexion be¬
tween the Eleufinian and Hionyfian myfleries is mani-
Ld, alfo, from the common opinion, that Ceres was
the mother of Bacchus (n). And Plutarch affures us,
that the Egyptian Ills was the prototype of Ceres ; that
Ofiris was the fame with Bacchus ; and that the Dio-
nyfla of Greece was only another name for the Pamy-
Jia of Egypt (o). As Bacchus was the inventor^of
theatres, as wrell as of dramatical reprefentations, that
particular clafs of mafons, vvho were employed in the
ercfHon of thefe extenflve buildings, were called the
Dionyfian artificers (p), and were initiated into the
myfleries of their founder, and confequently into thofe
of Eleufis (qj. But, from the tendency of the human
mind to embrace the ceremonial, while it neglefis the
fubflantial part of an inflitution, the IJicnyfian feftival,
in the degenerate ages of Greece, was more remark¬
able for inebriation and Keenticufnefs, than for the cul-
4 1 MAS
trvation of vntue ami of fcience ; and he vvho was at Mafcrry.
firfl celebrated as the inventor of arts, was afterwards —v—
worlln’pped as the god of wine. Thofe who were defi-
rous of indulging fecretly in licentious mirth and un¬
hallowed fellivity, cloaked their proceedings under the
pretence of worlhipping Bacchys; and brought dif-
grace upon thofe myfteries, which were inflituted
01 t^e promotion of virtue, and the improvement of
art.
23. About 200 years B. C. an illiterate and licen-^Bi¬
lious prieft came from Greece to Tufcany, and inftitu-chanalia
ted the Bacchanalia, or feafl of the Bacchanals
From Tufcany they were imported to Rome ; but thetheDiony-
promoters of thefe midnight orgies having proceeded to kan roylte-
the fartheft extremity of diflipation and difloyalty, theyries*
were aboliflied throughout all Italy, by a decree of the
fenate (s).^ It has been foolifhly fuppofed, that the
Bacchanalia were fimilar to the Dionyfian myfleries,
merely becaufe they were both dedicated to Bacchus!
The Liberalia of Rome was the feflival correlponding-r-i T •«
to the Dicnyfia of Greece (t) ; and it is probable that Sb wert
tnis reaii was obferved throughout the Roman empire, ^luilar to
till the abrogation of the Pagan theology in the reignthe £)iony-
of Ibcodofius. The opinion which nn imnortbi m f-a
The opinion which an impartial myfte.-
quirer would form, concerning the nature and tenden-5^
cy of the myfleries of Bacchus, would rot be very fa¬
vourable to the chara&er of the inflitution. But it
flaould be remembered that deviations from the inten¬
tions and form of any affociation, are no objeftion to
the affociation itfelf. They are rather proofs of its ori¬
ginal purity and excellence ; as it is not from the paths
of vice, but from thofe of virtue, that we are accuflom-
ed to ffray.
24. Hitherto we have confidered the Dionyfian my¬
fteries under an unpropitious afped ; let us now trace
them in their progrefs from Europe to Alia, where
they retained their primitive luftre, and effedually
contributed to the rapid advancement of the fine
arts.
2S’ -About 1 coo years B. C. (u), the inhabitants ofin CGr,lE.
Attica, complaining of the narrownefs of their tern-quence ®f
tory, and the unfruitfulnefs of its foil, went in queft ofthe Ionic
more extenfive and fertile fettlements. Being joined ff‘lgrrition
by a number of the Inhabitants of furrounding provin-f™^
ces, they failed to Aha Minor, drove out the inhabi-ries were
tants, feized upon tlie moft eligible fituations, and unit-e^akB0ied
ed them under the name of Ionia, becaufe the greateftin Afia*
number of the refugees were natives of that Grecian
province (x). A^ the Greeks, prior to the Ionic mi¬
gration,
(l.) EAAjj// ei/j MiXxftinss, nm o wramtds rs Atcivm ra ts avo/ttn xki tjjv Svtikv. Herodot. lib, ii, cap 4.0
(m) Anachariis, tom. iii. p. 531. Plut. in Phoc. tom. i. p. 754. Meurf. in Eleuf. cap. 27.
(n) Potter, vol. i. p. 393.
(o) De Ifide et Ofiride. Idee du Gouvernment Ancien et Modern de PEgypte, p. 2(5. Paris 1743,
(!’) Atotunxx^i Aulus Gellius, lib. xx. c. 4. ’’
(Q_) Vid. Potter, vol. i. p. 41.
(r) Tit. Liv. lib. xxxix. cap. 8.
(s) Grtecus ignobihs in Etrunam venit, nu//a cum arte earum quas multas ad animorum corporumque cuhum
nobis eruditijjima omnium gens ihvexity fed facrificuliis et vatis. J
Liberalia (fays Feftus) liberi Fefta, quae apud Grascos dicuntur Dionyfia. Vid. Univerfal Hiflory, vol. xiii3
nacha’L^Travel^in1!^;1^1110 migratlon ln I044 c- Gillies in 1055; and Barthelemy, the author of A-
(j<) Herodotus, lib. i, cap. 142. Gilhes’s Hifl. of Greece, 8vo. vol. i. p. 102,
Mafonry.
Hiftofy of
the Uiony-
fian arti-
hcc:b.
Tiieir re-
femblance
to free
uiafons.
M A S [ 645 ] MAS
gration,' had made confiderable progrefs in the arts and
iciences (y), they carried thefe along with them into
their new territories ; and introduced into Ionia the
myfteries of Minerva and Dionyfius (z), before they
were corrupted by the licentioufnefs of the Athenians.
In a fhort time the Afiatic colonies furpaffed the mo¬
ther-country in profperity and fcience. Sculpture in
marble, and the Doric and Ionian orders, were the re-
fult of their ingenuity (a). They returned even into
Greece } they communicated to their anceftors the in¬
ventions of their own country } and inftrudled them in
that ftyle of architecture which has been the admira¬
tion of fucceeding ages. For thefe improvements the
world is indebted to the DiornjsiaJi artificers, an affoci-
ation of fcientific men, who poileffed the exclunve pri¬
vilege of ere&ing temples, theatres, and other public
buildings in Afia Minor (b). They fupplied Ionia,
and the furrounding countries, as far as the Hellefpont,
with theatrical apparatus by contrafl ; and erefted the
magnificent temple at leos, to Bacchus, the founder
of their order (c). Thefe artifts were very numerous
in Alia, and exifted, under the fame appellation, in
Syria, Perfia, and India (d). About 300 years before
the birth of Chrift, a confiderable number of them
were incorporated, by command of the kings of Per-
gamus, who affigned to them 1 eos as a fettlement,
being the city of their tutelary god (e). The mem¬
bers of this affociation, which was intimately conneft-
ed with the Dionyfian myfteries, were diftinguiftied
from the uninitiated inhabitants of Teos, by the fcience
which they poffeffed, and by appropriate words and
figns, by which they could recognize their brethren of
the order (f). Like free mafons they were divided
into lodges, which were diftinguilhed by different
names (g). They occafionaliy held convivial meetings
in houfes ere&ed and confecrated for this purpofe j and
each feparate affociation was under the dire&ion of a
mailer, and prelicknts, cr wardens (h). ri ney held a Mafj
general meet'ng once a year, which was folemnized ^
with great pomp and fcftivity j and at which the breth¬
ren partook of a fplendid entertainment, provided by
the mafter, after they had finilhed the facrifices to their
gods, and cfpecially to their patron Bacchus (1).-
They ufed particular utenfils in their ceremonial cbfer-
vances 5 fome of which were exadlly fimilar to thofe
that are employed by the fraternity of free mafons (k).
And the more opulent artifts were bound to provide
for the exigencies of their poorer brethren (l). The
very monuments which were reared by thefe mafons, to
the memory of their .mafters and wardens, remain to
the prefent day, in the Turkifti burying grounds, at
Siverhiffar and Eraki (m). The infcriptions upon them
exprefs, in ftrong terms, the gratitude of the fraternity,
for their difinterefted exertions in behalf of the order ;
for their generofity and benevolence to its individual
members j for their private virtues, as well as for their
public condufl. From fome circumftances which are
Hated in thefe infcriptions, but particularly from the
name of one of the lodges, it is highly probable, that
Attains, king of Pergamus, was a member of the Dio¬
nyfian fraternity.
26. Such is the nature of that affociation of archi-
te£fs, who ere£fed thofe fplendid edifices in Ionia,
whofe ruins even afford us inftruflion, while they ex¬
cite our furprife. If it be poffible to prove the identity
of any two focieties, from the coincidence of their ex¬
ternal forms, we are authorifed to conclude, that the
fraternity of the Ionian architefls, and the fraternity of
free mafons, are exadlly the fame •, and as the former
prn£tifed the myfteries of Bacchus and Ceres, feseral
of which we have ftiown to be fimilar to the myfteries
of mafonry •, we may fafely affirm, that, in their inter¬
nal, as well as external procedure, the fociety of free
mafons refembies the Dionyliacs of Afia Minor (n).
27. The
(Y) According to the author of Anacharfis’s Travels, the arts took their rife in Greece about 1547, B. C. .
(z) Chandler’s Travels in Afia Minor, p. 100, 4to. 1775. The Panathenea and the Dionyfian myfteries-
were inftituted about 300 years before the Ionic migraucm.
(a) Gillies’s Hift. Ant. Greece, vol. ii. p. 162.
(B) Strabo, lib. iv. Chifhull Antiquitates Afiaticm, p. 107. Robifon’s Proofs of_a Confpiracy, p. 20.
(c) Ionian Antiquities, publHbed by the Society of Dilettanti, p. 4. Strabo, lib. iv. Chifhull Antiq. Afiat,
p. 139. i ....
(d) K<*i ra Acrutv oXai netiit^uiru'irif r/>f Strabo, p. 47Ionian Antiquities, p. 4.
(e) Chandler’s Travels, p. 100. Chilhull Antiq. Afiat. p. 138. Ionian Antiquities, p. 4.
(f) Robifon’s Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 20.
(g) One of thefe lodges was denominated Ko<vo» r#r> ArrscXicmv, i. e. Commune Attaliflarum j and another
Tijf i. e. Commune Sodantii Echini. Chiftiul, p. 139*
(h) See the two decrees of thefe artifts preferved by Chifliull, p. 138—149. The place where they affembled.
is called rvwxtx, contubernium •, and the fociety itfelf, fometimes ruvctyaiyA, collegium } feftaj a-vyo}*,
nodes ; rare?, communitas. See Aulus Gellius, lib. viii. cap. xi.
(l) Chandler’s Travels, p. 103.
(k) See the decree of the Attalifts in Chilhull, particularly the paffages at the bottom of p. 141, 142 ; MvcXiTnii
cs xui 'Ta ivcry'Yix-'i&tv i-rxAycc, 1. c* m delubro etiam, ultia ea quae ornameuto erant, non
pauca utenlilia reliquit.
(l) Chifhull, p. 140.
(m) Chandler’s Travels, p. 100. Thefe monuments were erected about 150 years B. C. The infcriptions up¬
on them were publiftied by Edmund Chilhull, in 1728, from copies taken by Conful Sberard in 1709, and exa¬
mined in 1716. Ionian Antiquities, p. 3.
(n) Dr Rcbifon, who will not he.fufpe&ed af partiality to free mafons, aferibes their origin to the Dionyftan-
artifts.
iVl A S
, , 27. The opinion, therefore,    , t.iat
The exift- or<^er exiiled, and flouriflied at the building of
ence of free Solomon’s temple, is by no means fo pregnant with ab-
mafonry at furdity as fome men would wilh us to believe. We
the biuld- have already fhown, from authentic fources of informa-
•morfs tern." t^at 51 ie my^eries °f Ceres and Bacchus, were in-
pie not im. about 400 years before the reign of Solo-
probable. rnon(o); and there are ftrong reafons for believing,
tnat even the alfociation of the Dionyfian archite£fs ex-
ifted before the building of the temple. It was not, in¬
deed, till about 300 years before the birth of Chrift,
that they rvere incorporated at Teos, under the
kings of Pergamus •, but it is univerfally allowed, that
they arofe long before their fettlement in Ionia, and,
what is more to our prelent purpofe, that they exifted
in the very land of Judea (r). It is obferved by Dr
Robifon ((^), that this affociation came from Perfia in¬
to Syria, along with that ftyle of archite&ure which is
called Grecian : And lince we are informed by Jofe-
phus (r), that that fpecies of architecture was ufed at
tiie ereCtion of the temple 5 there is reafon to infer, not
'only that the Dionyfiacs exilted before the reign of So¬
lomon, but that they affilted this monarch in building
that magnificent fabric, which he reared to the God of
Ifrael. Nothing, indeed, can be more fimple and con-
fifient than the creed of the fraternity, concerning the
Hate of their order at this period. The vicinity of Je-
rufalem to Egypt; the conneflion of Solomon with
the royal family of that kingdom (s) ; the progrefs of
the Egyptians in architeaural fcience; their attach¬
ment to myfteries and hieroglyphic fymbols ; and the
probability of their being employed by the king of If¬
rael, are additional confiderations, which corroborate
the fentiments of free mafons, and abfolve them from
thofe charges of credulity and pride with which they
have been loaded.
28. To thefe opinions, it may be objeCIed, that if
the fraternity of free mafons flourilhed during the reign
of Solomon, it would have exifted in Judea in after
ages, and attraCled the notice of facred or profane hif-
torians. Whether or not this objection is well founded,
wTe lhall not pretend to determine ; but if it can be
fhown, that there did exift, after the building of the
temple an affociation of men, refembling free mafons,
Objection
anfwered.
[ 640 ] ivl A S
of free mafons, that in the nature, ceremoni'es, and objecY of their inftitu-' Mafonty.
tion ; tue force of the objeftion will not only be taken
away, .but additional ftrength will be communicated to
the opinion which we have been fupporting. The af-
iociation here alluded to, is that of the'Effenes, wfiofe
oiigin and fentiments have occafioned much difeuflion
among ecclefiaftical hiftorians. They are all of one
mind, however, reipeCting the conftitution and obfer-
vances of this religious order.
1 2?'. ^ ;i£n a c.anclidate was propofed for admiflion, Hitory of
the ftnCteft ferutiny was made into his character Ct). die ElTenes.
If his life had hitherto been exemplary ; and if he ap¬
peared capable of regulating his conduCl according to
the virtuous though auftere maxims of their order, he
was prefented, at the expiration of his noviciate, with a
white garment, as an emblem of the correftnefs of his
conduCt and the purity of his heart (u). A folemn
oath was then adminiftered to him, that he would ne¬
ver, even at the rifk of his life, divulge the myfteries
of the order; that he would make no innovations on
the doarines of the fociety ; and that he would conti¬
nue in that honourable courfe of piety and virtue which
he had begun to purfue (x). Like free mafons, they
mftruaed the young member in the knowledge which
they derived from their anceftors(y). They admitted
no women into their order (z). They had particular
figns for recognifing each other, which have a ftrong
refemblance to thofe of free mafons (a). They were r
divided into feparate lodges or colleges (b). They had
different places of meeting, where they pradifed their
rites, and fettled the affairs of the fociety ; and, after
the performance of thefe duties, they affetnbled in a
large hall, where an entertainment was provided for
them by the prefident, or mafter of the college, who
allotted a certain quantity of provifions to every indivi¬
dual (c). They aboliftied all diftinftions of rank ; and,
if preference was ever given, it was given to piety, li¬
berality, and virtue (b). Stewards were appointed in
every town, to lupply the wants of indigent ftran-
gets (e). The Effenes pretended to higher degrees of
piety and knowledge, than the uninitiated vulgar ; and
though their pretenfions were high, they were never
queftioned by their enemies. Aufterity of manners was
one of the chief charaCterrftics of the Effenian fraterni¬
ties :
(o) According to Playfair’s Chronology, the temple of Solomon was begun in 1016, and finiftied in 1008,
. ^7 The Eleufinian myfteries were introduced into Athens in 1356 B. C. a confiderable time after their in-
ftitution.
(p) Robifon’s Proofs of a Confpiracy, p; 20.
(0_) Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 20, 21.
(u.) Jewifh Antiquities, book viii. chap. v.
(s) Jofephus’s Jewifh Antiquities, book viii. chap. ii.
(t) Jofeph. de Bello Judaico, lib. ii. cap. 1. {u) Id. id. (x) Id. id.
(y) Philo de Vita Contemplativa, apud opera, p. 691. Bafhage, b. ii. ch. 13. S 8.
(z) Bafnage, b. ii. ch. 12. $ 26. Id. Id. § 22.
(a) In order to be convinced of this, our brethren of the order may confult fome of the works already quoted •
particularly, Philo’s Treatife de Vita Contemplativa, apud opera, p. 691.
(b) Bafnage, b. Hi. c. 12. | 14. vid. opera Philonis, p. 679. When Philo, in his Treatife entitled “ Quod
pirnds piobus Liber,is deferibing the fociety of the Effenes, he employs the fame terms to denote the affociation
itfelf, and their places of meeting, which are ufed in the decree of the Dionyfians already mentioned. Vide Philo
de Vita Ccntemplativa, p. 691.
(c) Jofeph. de Bello Judaico, lib. ii. cap. i. (d) Id. Id. § 20, 22. Philonis Opera, m 678.
(e) Eafnage, b. in. c. 12. 5 20. chap. 13. § 1.
I
M A S
[ 647 ]
M A S
TvfSfoftry. ties : They frequently affembled, however, in convivial
u^r,~'' parties ; and relaxed for a while the feverity of thofe
duties which they were accuftomed to perform (f). This
remarkable coincidence between the chief features of
the mafonic and EfTenian fraternities, can be accounted
for, only by referring them to the fame origin. Were
the circumllances of refemblance either few or fanci¬
ful, the fimilarity might have been merely cafual. But
when the Ratine, the objeft, and the external forms of
two inilitutions, are precifely the fame, the arguments
for their identity are fomething more than prefumptive.
There is one point, however, which may, at firft fight,
feem to militate againft this fuppofition. TheFdTenes
appear to have been in no refpefts connefled with ar-
chite&ure, nor addifted to thofe fciences and purfuits
which are fubfidiary to the art of building. ’I hat the
Effenes diredted their attention to particular fciences,
which they pretended to have received from their fa¬
thers, is allowed by all writers; but, whether or not thefe
fciences wrere in any lhape connedted with architedlure,
we are, at this diftrfcice of time, unable to determine.
Be this as it may, uncertainty upon this head, nay,
even an affurance that the Effenes wrere unconnedled
with architedlural fcience, will not affedl the hypothefis
which we have been maintaining. For there have been,
and Hill are, many affociations of free mafons, where
no architedls are members, and which have no connec¬
tion with the art of building. But if this is not deemed
a fufficient anfwer to the objedlion, an inquiry into the
origin of the Effenes will probably remove it altogether,
while it affords additional evidence, for the identity of
the mafonic and Effenian affociations.
TheEflenes 30. Sacred and profane hiflorians have entertained
originated different opinions concerning the origin of the Effenes.
from the Xhey all agree, however, in reprefenting them as an
ancient affbciation, originating from particular fraterni¬
ties, which formerly exilled in the land of Judea (g).
Pliny refers them to fuch a remote antiquity (h), that
they muff: have exifted during the reign of Solo¬
mon ; and even Bafnage, who is the only writer that
feems difpofed to confider them as a recent aflbciation,
confefles that they exifted under Antigonus, about 30a
years before the Chriftian era (1). Scaliger contends,
with much appearance of truth, that the Eflenes were
defcended from the Kafideans, wrho make fuch a con-
fpicuous figure in the hiftory of the Maccabees (k).
The Kafideans were a religious fraternity, or an order
Kafideans,
who were
bound to
preferve
the temple
of Jerufa-
lem.
of the Knights of the Temple of Jerufalem, who bound Mafonry.
themfelves to adorn the porches of that magnificent v '
ftru£lurc, and to preferve it from injury and decay (l).
This affbeiation was compofed of the greateft men of
Ifrael, who were diftinguilhed for their charitable and
peaceful difpofitions (m) j and always fignalized them¬
felves by their ardent zeal for the purity and preferva-
tion of the temple (n). From thefe fa£ls it appears,
that the Eflenes w-ere not only an ancient fraternity,
but that they originated from an aflbciation of archi-
tefts, who were connefted with the building of Solo¬
mon’s temple. Nor was this order confined to the Holy
Land. Like the fraternities of the Dionyfiacs and free
mafons, it exiffed in all parts of the wTorld (o) ; and
though the lodges in Judea were chiefly, if not wholly,
compofed of Jews, yet the Eflenes admitted into their
order men of every religion, and every rank in
life (p). They adopted many of the Egyptian myfte-
ries (qj) ; and, like the priefts of that country, the ma¬
gi of Perfia, and the gymnofophifts in India, they unit¬
ed the ftudy of moral with that of natural philofo-
phy (r). Although they were patronized by Herod,
and refpeffed by all men for the correftnefs of their
condu£f, and the innocence of their order (s), they
fuftered fevere perfecutions from the Romans, till their
order was abolilhed, about the middle of the fifth cen¬
tury (t) •, a period extremely fatal to the venerable in-
ftitutions of Egypt, Greece, and Rome.
31. Connefled with the Effenian and Mafonic fraterni-Inftit:uticn
ties, was the inftitution of Pythagoras at Crotona. After 1 ' T!“4
this philofopher, in the courfe of his travels through tona>
Egypt, Syria, and Ionia, had been initiated into the
myfteries of thefe enlightened kingdoms, he imported
into Europe the fciences of Afia, and offered to the in¬
habitants of his native foil, the important benefits which
he himfelf had received (u).. The offers of the fage
having been rejected by his countrymen of Samos (x),
he fettled at Crotona, in Italy, where more refpeft was
paid to his perfon, and more attention to bis pre¬
cepts (y). When the kindnefs of the Crotonians, and
their folicitude to obtain fcientific information, had in-
fpired Pythagoras with fome hopes of fuccefs, he feleft-
ed a number of his difciples, who, from the fimilarity
of their characters, the mildnefs of their difpofitions,
and the fteadinefs of their conduft, feemed beft adapted
for forwarding the purpofes he had in view (z). Thefe
he formed into a fraternity, or feparate order of men,
whom
(f) Dicam aliquid de fodalitiis eorum, quoties hilarius convivia celebrant. Philonis opera, p. 692.
(g) Gale’s Court of the Gentiles, part ii. book iix chap. 6. p. 147. Serrarii Trihaenef. lib. iii. cap. ii. Vid.
etiam Bafnage, b. ii. ch. 12. $ 4. j and Piftet. Theolog. Chret. tom. iii. part iii. p. 106.
(h) Plin. lib. v. cap. 17, Vid. etiam Solinum, c. 35. p. 43. edit. Salmafii *, and art. Essenes.
(1) Bafnage, book ii. chap. ii. $ 8. PiCtet. Theolog. Chret. tom. iii. part iii. p. 107.
(k) Scaliger de Emend. Temp.
(l) Scaliger Elench. Trihaeraefii Nicolai Serrarii, cap. 22. p. 441.
(m) 1 Maccabees, vii. 13. (n) Scaliger ut fupra.
(o) Bafnage, b. ii. chap. 13. § 4.
(p) Id. Id. chap. 12. § 20. compared with chap. 13. $ 4. (q3 Id. Id. chap. 12. § 24.
(r) Philo’s Treatife, entitled, “ Quod omnis probus Liber,” apud Opera, p. 678.
(s) Id. Id. chap. 12. § 13, 25. (t) Bafnage, b. ii. chap. 12. $ 25, 26.
(u) Pythagoras returned from Egypt about 560 years before Chrift.
(x) lamblichus de vita Pythagorse, part i. cap. 5. p. 37. (y) Id. Id. cap. 6. p. 42,-43.
^z) Gillies’s Hiftory of Ancient Greece, vol. ii. p. 27.
M A S [ 64S T M A S
;<;^-onvy. ^ twioni he miTru&ed in the fcienccs of tlie eafl: (a), and
™”'v to whom he imparted the myfleries and rites of the E-
gyptian, Syrian, and Ionian aifociations. Before any¬
one was received into the number of bis difciples, a mi¬
nute and diligent enquiry was made into his temper
Refem- and character rB). If the iiTue of this enquiry was fa-
■bhnc-e be- vourable to the candidate, he bound himfelf, by a folemn
Pytha^o*16 enqaoement> to conceal, from the uninitiated, the myf-
-rears and tenes " hich he might receive, and the fciences in which
tree matbnA6 might be inltruCted (c). i'he doflrines of charity,
of univerfal benevolence, and efpecially of affedtion to
the brethren of the order, were warmly recommended
to the young difciples (d) 5 and fuch was the influence
which they had upon their minds, that difcord feemed
to have been banifhed from Italy (e), and the golden
age to have again returned. Strangers or every coun¬
try, of every religion, and of every rank in life, were
received, if properly qualified, into the Pythagorean
aiTociation (r }. Like free mafons they had particular
words and figns, by which they might diflinguifh each
ocher, and correfpond at a diftance (g). They wove
white garments, as an emblem of their innocence (h).
They had a particular regard for the eafl: (1). They
•advanced irom one degree of knowledge to another (k).
-I hey were forbidden to commit to writing their myfle-
ries, which were preferved folely by tradition (l) : The
Pythagorean fyTmbols and fecrets were borrowed from
the Egyptians, the Orphic and Eleulinian rites, the
the Iberians, and the Celts (m). They confided
chiefly of arts and fciences, united with theology and
ethics, and were communicated to the initiated in cy-
pners and lymbols (n). An aflbciation of this nature,
founded upon luch principles, and fitted for fuch ends,
did not remain long in obfcurity. In a fhort time it
- extended over the kingdoms of Italy and Sicily, and
was diflufed even through ancient Greece, and the
illands of the Egean fea (0). Like other fecret focjcties,
it was vilified by malicious men, who were prohibited
from (haring its advantages, from the weaknefs of their
minds and the depravity of their hearts (p). Chagrined
with difappointment, and enflamed with rage, they of¬
ten executed vengeance upon the innocent Pythago¬
reans, and even fet fire to the lodges in which they
were affembled (q_). But the difciples of the fage per- Mafomy.
filled in that honourable caufe in which they had em- v—■
barked ; and, though the peifecution of their enemies
drove them from their native land, they dill retained
for each other the fympathy of brothers, and often dif¬
fered death in its mod agonizing form, rather than vio¬
late the engagements into which they had entered (r).
An attempt, like this, againd the focietyof free ma 1'ons,
has been witnefled in our own day. It has not, indeed,
proceeded to fuch an extremity of violence. The fpirit
of extirpation, however, exided in fentiment, though it
had not the courage to difplay itfelf in aftion. Difaf-
fedion to government, and dh'refpeCl to religion, were
charged upon them with all the confidence of truth :
And, had the governments of Europe been weak enough
to credit the fancies of a few political enthufiads, their
fubje&s might, at this moment, have been armed a-
gaind each other, and the nations of the world embroiled
in difcord.
3 2. From thefe obfervations, it is manifed, that the
Pythagorean and Mafonic inditutions were fimilar in
their external forms, as well as in the obje&s which
they had in view ; and that both of them experienced,
from contemporaries, the fame unmerited reproach.
Mr Clinch, in his Eflays on Free Mafonry (s), has e-
numerated, at great length, all the points of refemblance
between thefe two inditutions. He attempts to prove,
that free mafonry took its rife from the Pythagorean
fraternity ; but though he has been fuccefsful in point¬
ing out a remarkable coincidence between thefe affocia-
tions, he has no authority for concluding that the for¬
mer originated from the latter. In a mafonic manu-
feript, preferved in the Bodleian library, in the hand¬
writing of King Henry VI. it is exprefsly faid, that
Pythagoras learned mafonry from Egypt and Syria, and
from thofe countries where it had been planted by the
Phenicians j that the Pythagoreans carried it into
France \ and that it was, in the courfe of time, im¬
ported from that country into England (t). This, in¬
deed, is no direft proof of our opinion 5 it (hows us, at
lead, that the fame fentiments have been entertain¬
ed about four hundred years ago by the fraternity
in England. It has been fuppofed by fome philofo-
phers
(a) Aulus Gellius lib. i. cap. 9. Gillies, vol. ii. p. 27.
(b) Jamblichus de vita Pythagoras, cap. 17. p. 76. Gillies vol. iii. p. 27.
(c) Jamblichus cap. 23. p. 104.
(d) Id. cap. 8. p. 53. cap. 33. p. 193. cap. 6. p. 43. cap. 23. p. 102. Bafnage’s Hidory of the Jews, b. u,
cap. 13. § 21. Anthologia Hibernica for March 1794, p. 181.
(e) Jamblichus, cap. 7. p. 46.
(f) Gillies, vol. ii. p. 28. Jamblichus, cap. 33. p. 202.
(g) Gillies, vol, ii. p. 27. Anthologia Hibernica, for March 1794, p. i8r.
(h) Bafnage, b. ii. chap. 13. § 21. Anthologia Hibernica for March 1794, p. 183.
(l) Bafnage, b. ii. chap. 13 § 21. (k) Jambiichus, cap. 17. p. 72.
(1.) Jamblichus, part i. cap, 32. p. 19r.
(m) Warburton’s Divine L-gation of Mofes, book iii. fe£I. 3, vol. 2. p. 132, 133. Jamblichus, cap. 8. p. 1-39.
Gillies, vol. ii. p. 27.
(n) Jamblichus, cap. 8. p. 139. Gillies ut fupra.
(o) Gillies, vol. ii. p. 28. Jamblichus cap. 35. p. 207. (p) Id. Id. p. 2CQ.
(Q.) Jamblichus p. 208. et feq. (r) Id. Id. chap 32. p. 1S9.
(s) Publidied in the Anthologia Hibernica for 1794.
(T) Fives ot Leland, Hearne, and Wood, Oxford, 1772. Appendix to the life of Leland, N° vii. A copy
£*f this manufeript may be feen in every work on free mafonry.
3
M -AS [ 649 ] - ' MAS
Objeiflion
anfwered.
Mafonry.^ pliers (u), that Pythagoras derived his myfteries chiefly
~v hrom the Eflenes, who were at that time much refpeffed
and very numerous in Egypt and Syria. The wonderful
fimilarity, indeed, between thefe focieties, both in the
forms which they had in common with free mafonry,
and in those leiier cuftoms and ceremonies, which were
peculiar to tnemfelves, render fuch a fuppofition ex¬
tremely probable. It is remarked by all ecclefiaitical
hiftorians, that the EiTenes wTere Pythagoreans, both in
difniuline and doctrine (x) $ without ever confidering
tha;, the former exifted feme hundred years before the
birth of Pythagoras (y). The Pythagoreans, there¬
fore, w'ere connected with the EiTenes, and the ETenes
with the Kafideans, who engaged to preferve and adorn
the temple of jerufalem.
33- There is one objection to the view which we
have taken of this fubjeCt, which, though it has al¬
ready been flightly noticed, it may be neceTary more
completely to remove. Although it will be acknow¬
ledged by every unbiaffed reader, that free mafbnry has
n wonderful refemblance to the Eleufmian and Diony-
fian myfteries, the fraternity of Ionian architects, and
the ETenian and Pythagorean affociations; yet fome
may be difpofed to queftion the identity of thefe inftitu-
tions, becaufe they had different names, and becaufe
fome ufages were obferved by one, which were negleCt-
ed by another. But thefe circumftances of diffimilarity
arife from thofe neceffary changes, which are fuperin-
duced upon every infiitution, by a fpirit of innovation,
by the caprice of individuals, and by the various revo¬
lutions in civilized fociety. Every alteration or im¬
provement in philofopbical fyftems, or ceremonial infti-
tutions, generally produces a correfponding variation in
their name, deduced from the nature of the improve¬
ment, or from the name of the innovator. The diffe¬
rent aflociations, for example, whofe nature and tenden¬
cy we have been confideving, received their names from
circumftances merely cafual, and often of trifling confi-
deration ; though all of them were eftabliihed for the
fame purpofe, and derived from the fame fource. When
the myfteries of the EiTenes were imported by Pytha¬
goras into Italy, without undergoing much variation,
they w^ere there denominated the myfteries of Pythago¬
ras ; and, in our own day, they are called the fecrets
of free mafonry, becaufe many of their fymbols are de¬
rived from the art of building, and becaufe they are
believed to have been invented by an affociation of ar-
chiteCls, who W'ere anxious to preferve, among them-
felves, the knowledge which they had acquired (z).
T he difference in the ceremonial obfervances of thefe
inftitutions may be accounted for nearly upon the fame
principles. From the ignorance, or fuperior fagacity of
thole who prefided over the ancient fraternities, fome
ceremonies wmuld be infifted upon more than others,
Vol. XII. Past II.
fome of lels moment would be exalted into confe- Mafonrj!.
quence, while others of greater importance w-ould be i
depreffed into cblcurity. In procefs of time, therefore,
fome trifling changes would be effeefed upon thefe ce¬
remonies, fome rites aboliftied, and fome introduced.
The chief difterence, however, between the ancient
and modern myfteries, is, in thefe points which concern
religion. But this arifes from the great changes which
have been produced in religious knowledge. It cannot
be fuppofed that the rites of the Egyptian, Jewifh, and
Grecian religions, fhould be obferved by thofe who pro-
feis only the religion of Chrift ; or that we fhould pour
out libations to Ceres and Bacchus, who acknowledge
no heavenly fuperior, but the true and the living God.’
34- 11 may be proper here to take notice of an ob-objedGn
jection urged by M. Barruel, againft the opinion ofofBarrueFa
thofe, who believe that the myfteries of free mafonry ar‘fweredr^
are fimilar to the myfteries of Egypt and Greece (a).
From the unfairnefs with which this writer has ftated
the fentiments of his opponents on this fubjeft; from
the confidence and triumph with which he has propofed
hi.^ own ; and, above all, from the difingenuity with
which he has fupported them, many inattentive readers
may have been led to adopt his notions, and to form as
defpicable an idea of the underftandings, as he would
wifh diem to form of the charafter of mafons. He
takes it for granted, that all who embrace the opinion
which we have endeavoured to fupport, muft neceffariiy
believe, that a unity of religious fentiments, and moral
precepts, was maintained in all the ancient myfteries;
and that the initiated entertained juft notions of the
unity of God, while the vulgar were addiifted to the
groffeft polytheifm. Upon this gratuitous fuppofition,
which v\ e completely difavow, becaufe it has no connec¬
tion with our hypothefis, does Barruel found all his de¬
clamations againft the connection of our order with
the Pythagorean and Eleufmian inftitutions. If this
fuppofition, indeed, were true, his opinion would be ca-
pable of pi oof. But he is all the while combating the
dogmas of Warburton, while he thinks he is overturn¬
ing the antiquity ot our order. There is perhaps in no
language fuch a piece of downright fophiftry as this por¬
tion of Barruel’s work. He feems to fcruple at no me¬
thod, however bafe or dhhonourable, that can bring dif-
credit upon free mafonry, and every thing conne&ed
with it. After having overturned the opinion of War-
burton, he then attacks us on our ground, and ftiles us
the children of fophiftry, deifm, and pantheifm, who de¬
duce our origin from affociations of men that were ene¬
mies to Chriftianity (b), and followed no guide but the
light of nature. But this writer ftiould recoiled, that
the fon is not accountable for the degeneracy of his pa¬
rents ; and, if the ancient myfteries were the riurferies
of fuch dangerous opinions, as this writer, in oppofi-
4 ^ tion
(u) Faydit Lettre, Xouvelles de la Republique des Lettres, Oftobre 1703, p. 472.
(x) Gregory’s Church Hiftory, vol. i. cent. j.
(y) Pliny, book 5. cap. 17. Solinus, cap. qy. p. 43.
• A-SyTb°[S fden^ed from. art of building, were alfo employed by the Pythagoreans, for conveying:
in it ru Ti on to tnofe who were initiated into their fraternity. Yid. Proclus in Eucl. lib. xi. def. 2. &c.
(A) Memoirs of Jacobinifm, vol. ii. p. 355*—360.
. (B) Vid. Barrud, vol 11. P- 357; I do not find in any fyftem of chronology, that Chriftianity exifted in the
time of I ytmagoras, or at the eftablifhmGnt of the Eleufinian myftenes!
Mafonry.
Modern hif-
tory of free
Qiafonry.
The acade¬
my of fe-
crets efta-
feiiihed by
Baptifla
Porta.
M AS [65
tion to autlientlc hiftory, lays tov their charge, it is to
the gloty of their polterity, that they have ihaken oft
the yoke, and embraced that heavenly light which their
anceflors affedfed to defpife.
35. Having finifhed what may properly be denomi¬
nated the ancient hiftory of free mafonry, we are now
to trace its progrefs from the abolition of the heathen
rites, in the reign of Theodofius, to the prefent day
and, though the friends and enemies of the order feem
to coincide in opinion upon this part of its hiftory, the
materials are as fcanty as before, and the incidents
equally unconne&ed. In thofe ages of ignorance and
diforder which fucceeded the deftruffion of the Roman
empire, the minds of men were too much debaied by
fuperftition, and contra&ed by bigotry, to enter into
affociations for promoting mental improvement and
mutual benevolence. The fpirit which then raged,
was not a fpirit of enquiry. The motives which then
influenced the conduft of men, were not thofe bene¬
volent and correct principles of adfion which once di-
ftinguifhed their anceftors, and which ftill diftinguifh
their pofterity’. Sequeftered habits and unfocial dif-
pofitions charatfterized the inhabitants of Europe, in this
i'eafon of mental degeneracy ; while free mafons, actuat¬
ed by very different principles, inculcate on their
brethren the duties of focial intercourfe, and commu¬
nicate to all within the pale of their order, the know¬
ledge which they poffefs and the happinefs which
they feel. But, if fcience had e.xifted in thefe ages, and
if a defire of focial intercourfe had animated the minds
of men, the latter mull; have languifhed for want of
gratification, as long as the former was imprifoned
within the walls of a convent, by the tyranny of fu¬
perftition, or the jealoufy of power. Science was in
thefe days fynonimous with herefy ; and had any bold
and enlightened man ventured upon philofophical in-
veftigations, and publifhed his difcoveries to the world,
he would have been regarded by the vulgar as a magi¬
cian, and punifhed as a heretic by the church of
Rome. Thefe remarks may be exemplified and con¬
firmed by an appropriate inftance of the interfering
fpirit of the Romifti church, even in the fixteenth cen¬
tury, when learning had made confiderable advance¬
ment in Europe. The celebrated Baptifta Porta ha¬
ving, like the fage of Samos, travelled into diftant
countries for fcientific information, returned to his na¬
tive home, and eftablifhed a fociety which he deno¬
minated the academy of fecrets. He communicated
the information which he had collefted to the members
of this affociation, who, in their turn, imparted to
their companions the knowledge which they had indi¬
vidually obtained. But this little fraternity, advancing
in refpe&ability and fcience, foon trembled under the
rod of ecclefiaftical oppreflion *, and experienced in its
diffolution, that the Romifti hierarchy was determined
to check the ardour of inveftigation, and retain the
human mind in its former fetters of ignorance and fu¬
perftition. How then could free mafonry llourilh, when
the minds of men had fuch an unfortunate propensity
to monkilh retirement, and when every fcientific and
o ] M A S
fecret affociation w'as overawed and perfecuted by the Mafonry.
rulers of Europe ? v
36. But, though the political and intelle&ual condi-it ;s proba¬
tion of fociety was unfavourable to the progrefs of freebie that the
mafonry •, and, though the fecret affociations ot the an- ancient
cients w’ere diffolved in the fifth century, by the com-
mand of the Roman emperor, yet there are many rea- ferved pri-
fons for believing that the ancient myfteries were ob- vately after
ferved in private, long after their public abolition, by their aboli-'
thofe enemies of Chriftianity who were ftill attached to11011,
the religion of their fathers. Some authors (cj even
inform us, that this was affually the cafe, and that the
Grecian rites exilted in the eighth century, and were
never completely aboliihed, (Art. 20.). Thefe con-
fiderations enable us to connedf the heathen myfteries,
with that trading affociation of architefrs, which ap¬
peared, during the dark ages, under the fpecial au¬
thority of the fee of Rome.
37. The infatiable defire for external finery, and Trading af-
gaudy ceremonies, which was difplayed by the catholic fociation of
priells in the exercife of their religion, introduced a
correfponding defire for fplendid monafteries, and mag- dark ages!
nificent cathedrals. But as the demand for thefe build¬
ings was urgent, and continually increafing, it was with
great difficulty that artificers could be procured, even
for the erection of fuch pious works. In order to en¬
courage the profeflion of architefture, the bifliops of
Rome, and the other potentates of Europe, conlerred
on the fraternity of free mafons the moft important
privileges ; and allowed them to be governed by laws,
cuftoms, and ceremonies, peculiar to themfelves. The
affociation was compofed of men of all nations, of Ita¬
lian, Greek, French, German, and Flemifli artifts, who
were denominated free mafons, and who, ranging from
one country to another, creeled thofe elegant churches
and cathedrals, which, though they once gratified the
pride and flieltered the rites of a corrupted prieffhood,
now excite the notice of antiquarians, and adminifter
to the grandeur of kingdoms. The government of this
affociation was remarkably regular. Its members lived
in a camp of huts, reared befide the building in which
they were employed. A furveyor, or mailer, prefided
over and directed the whole. Every tenth man w7as
called a warden, and overlooked thofe who were under
his charge •, and fuch artificers as were not members of
this fraternity, were prohibited from engaging in thofe
buildings which free mafons alone had a title to
rear (r>). It may feem ftrange, and perhaps incen-
fiffent with what we have already faid, that the frater¬
nity of free mafons fliould have been fanftioned, and
even protedled by the bilhops of Rome. Secret affoci¬
ations, indeed, are always a terror to temporal and
fpiritual tyranny. But the church of Rome, inftead of
approving of the principles of free mafonry, by the en¬
couragement and patronage which they gave to archi-
tech, only employed them as inftruments for gratifying
their vanity, and fatiating their ambition. For in after
ages, when rnafons were more numerous, and when the
demand for religious ftrudlures wras lefs urgent than be¬
fore, the bilhops of Rome deprived the fraternity of
thofe
(c) Gibbon, Bvo. vol. v. p. no.
’i’arentalia, or a H
8 vo. vol. viii. p. 273. b. iv. chap. 5
(d) Wren’s Parentalia, or a Fliflory of the Family of Wren, p. 306, 307. Henry’s Hiftory of Great Britain,
1 _ --- 1- -n— ~ § J‘ Robilbn’s Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 21.
Majonry.
Introduc¬
tion of free
mafonry
into Scot¬
land.
Connection;
between
free mafons
and the
knights
templars.
MAS [65
tnofe very privileges which had been conferred upon
them without folicitation, and penecuted, with unre¬
lenting rage, the very men whom they had voluntarily
taken into favour, and who had contributed to the
grandeur of their ecclefiaftical eilablifhment.
28. Wherever the catholic religion was taught, the
meetings of free mafons were fanctioned and. patroni¬
zed. The principles of the order were even imported
into. Scotland (e), where they continued, for many ages,
in their primitive fimplicity, long after they had been ex-
tinguilhed in the continental kingdoms. In this man¬
ner, Scotland became the centre from which theie
principles again ifiued, to illuminate, not omy the na¬
tions on the continent, but every civilized portion of
habitable world. What thofe caufes were _which
continued the focieties of free mafons longer m Bri¬
tain than in other countries, it may not, perhaps, be
eafy to determine ; but as the faft itfelf is unqueftion-
able, it mud have arifen, either from fome favourable
circumftances in the political date of Britain, which
did not exid in the other governments of Europe 5 or
from the fuperior policy, by which the Britifli mafons
eluded the fufpicion of their enemies, and the fuperior
prudence with which they maintained the primitive
fimplicity and refpeclability of their order. Ihe form¬
er of thefe caufes, had, without doubt, a confiderable
lhare, in producing the effeft under confideration 5 and
we know for certain, that, in our own days, the latter
has preferved free mafonry in a flouridling condition
throughout thefe united kingdoms, while, _ in other
countries, the imprudence and foolifti innovations of its
members, have expoled it to the feveied and juftefl
cenfure, and, in many cafes, to the mod violent perfe-
cutions. It is a fa£I, requiring no confirmation, and
refulting from the mod obvious caufes, that free mafon¬
ry never floundies in feafons of public commotion j and
even in Great Britain, though the feat of war is com¬
monly in foreign countries, it has univerfally declined.
But in thofe lands which are the theatre of hodilities,
it will be neglefted in a dill greater degree 5 and, if
thefe hodilities are long continued, or frequently recur,
the very name .and principles of the order mud be foon
extinguilhed. Amid thofe continual wars, therefore,
which, during the middle ages, didradted and defolated
the continent of Europe, the affociation of architects
would be foon diffolved j while in the humble village
of Kilwinning, on the wedern coad of Scotland,^ they
found a fafe retreat from the violent convulfions of con¬
tinental wars.
39. Before we detail the progrefs of tree malonry,
after its importation into Britain, it will be neceffary to
give fome account of the knights templars, a fiaternity
of free mafons wbofe affluence and virtues often raifed
the envy of contemporaries, and whofe unmerited and
unhappy end mud have often excited the compaflion ©f
poderity. It would be needlefs labour to enter into
1 ] MAS
any invedigation, in order to prove, that the order of,
the knights templars was a branch of free mafonry.
This faft has been invariably acknowledged by free
mafons themfelves 5 and none have been more zealous
to edablilh it than the enemies of their order (f).
The former have admitted the fa6I, not became it was
creditable to them, but becaufe it was true; and the
latter have fupported it, becaufe by the aid of a little
fophidry, it might be employed to difgrace their oppo¬
nents. _ . i Hiftorv of
40. The order of the knights templars was indituted ^ knights
during the crufades, in the year 1118, by Hugo de templars.
Paganis, and Geoffrey of bt Omers. It received this
appellation becaufe its members originally refided near
the church in Jerufalem, w'bich wTas dedicated to our
Saviour. Though the profeffed objeft of this religi¬
ous affociation was to proteft thofe Chridian pilgrims,
whofe midaken piety had led them to the hoiy city ;
yet it is almod beyond a doubt, that its chief and pri¬
mary intention, was to pradlife and preferve the utes
and myderies of mafonry. We know at lead, that the
knights templars, not only poffeffed the myderies, but
performed the ceremonies, and inculcated the duties ot
free mafons; and it is equally certain, that the piac-
tifing of thefe rites could contribute nothing to the pro-
teftion and comfort of the Catholic pilgrims. Had
the templars publicly avowed the real object of txieir
inditution, indead of that favour which they fo^ long
enjoyed, they would have experienced the animofity of
the church of Rome. But as they were animated with
a fincere regard for the Catholic religion, and with
a decided abhorrence for the infidel poffeffors of Judea,
it was never once fufpefted that they tranfafted any
other bufinefs at their fecret meetings, but that which
concerned the regulation of their order, the advance¬
ment of religion, and the extirpation of its enemies.
The many prodigies of valour which they exhibited
againd the infidels ; the many charitable deeds which
they performed towards the didreffed pilgrims ; and
the many virtues which adorned their private charafter,
procured them, from the rulers of Europe, that refpech
and authority to which they w’ere fo judly entitled, and
which they fo long maintained. But refpeft and au¬
thority wrere not the only rewards which they pur-
chafed by their virtues and military prowefs. From
the munificence of the popes, the generofity of the
pious princes and nobles of Europe, and from the gra¬
titude of thofe opulent pilgrims, who, in tire moments
of didrefs, had experienced their kind aflidance, the
knights templars had acquired fuch immenfe poffeflions
in every kingdom of Europe, but particularly in France,
that their revenues often exceeded thofe oi the fecular
princes. Thus independent in their circumdances, and
being fatigued with thofe unfuccefsful druggies againft
the infidels, which they had maintained with fuch man¬
ly courage, they returned to their native land to enjoy,
4 N 2 in
(e) A. D. 1140. Vid. Statidical Account of Scotland, vol. xi. Parilh of Kilwinning ; or Edinburgh Magazine
(f/Vid. Barruel’s^Memoirs of Jacobinifm, vol. ii. p. 379—383* where thls IS attempted at fome length. As
Barruel, however, was unacquainted with the obfervances of the templars and mafons, he has attributed to both
many abfurd rites which probably never exided but in his own mind. *or the fame reafon he has omitted many
points of refemblance which would have eitabliflied the common opinion upon an immoveable foundation.
MAS t 65
Miifonry. in peace and quiet, the recompenfe of tlieir toils. But,
like ail men who aie fuddenly tranfported from danger
and fatigue, to opulence and ^afe, many of the templars
deviated from that virtuous courfe which they had
hitherto purfued, and indulged too freely in thofe lux*
inks and falhionable amuiements to which they were
invited by opulence, and impelled by inadiivity. Thus,
from the indiferetions of a few, did the knights templars
lofe a confiderable fhare of thofe honours, and that ce¬
lebrity, which they had longlenjoyed. But this relaxa¬
tion of difeipline, and attachment to luxurious indol¬
ence, were the only crimes of which the templars were
guilty •, and to men of honour and fpirit like them, the
forfeiture of popularity, which was the confequence of
their apoftafy, would be a fufficient punifhment. This,
however, was not the fentiment of Philip the Fair.
That •barbarous monarch, infligated by private revenge
againft fome individuals of the order *, encouraged by
the profpedl of iharing in their ample revenues j and
fpurred on by a fpiiit which feldom refides in a human
breaft, imprifoned in one day all the templars in France,
merely at the inftance of two worthlefs members of the
order, who had been difgraced and punilhed by their
fuperiors, for the enormity of their crimes. It was
pretended by thefe bafe accufers, that the templars ab¬
jured our Saviour, that they fpit upon his crofs, that
they burned their children, and committed other atro¬
cious crimes, from which the human mind recoils with
horror, and which could have been perpetrated only
by men fo completely abandoned as the informers them-
felves. Under the pretence of difeovering what de¬
gree of credit might be attached to thefe accufations,
the templars were extended on the rack till they con-
feffed the crimes writh which they were charged. Se¬
veral of the knights, when ftretched on this inftrument
of agony, made every acknowledgement which their
perlccutors ddired. But others, retaining on the rack
that fortitude and contempt of death which they had
exhibited in the field, perfifted in denying the crimes
laid to their charge, and maintained vrith their lateft
breath, the innocence of their order. Many of thofe,
even, who had tamely fubmitted to their perfecutors,
retraded thofe ignominious confeffions which the rack
had extorted *, and maintained their integrity in the
midft of thofe flames which the barbarous Philip had
kindled for their deflrudion. Fifty-nine of thefe un¬
happy men were burnt alive at Paris, by a flow fire j'
and the fame vindiftive and inhuman fpiiit was exhibit¬
ed in the other provinces of France, and in the other
nations of Europe. The fortitude which, in every
country, was difplayed by thefe unfortunate fufferers,
could have been infpired by innocence alone j and is a
ftrong proof, that their minds wTere not fo enervated by
indolence, nor their bodies fo enfeebled by luxury, as
has been generally believed. The only murmurs which
parted from their lips, were thofe which expreffed their
anguilh and remorfe, that they had betrayed, in the
hour of pain, the interefts of their order, and had con-,
felled themfelves guilty of crimes unworthy of a
templar and a man.
Beath of 41 ’ ■^ut t^ie atr0(40US feene vyas yet to come which was
t)ie grand
ipafter and
153: her cligni-'
taries.
2 ] M A S'
to complete tire ruin of the templars, and fatiate the ven- Mafonry,
geance of their enemies. Their grand mailer Malay, and l- 
other dignitaries of the order fliil i’urvived: and, though
they had made the moll fubmilfive acknowledgements to
their unrelenting perfecutors, yet the influence which they
had over the minds of the vulgar, and their connexion
with many of the princes of Europe, rendered them
formidable and dangerous to their oppreflbrs. By the
exertion of that influence, they might rdftore union to
their difmembered party, and infpire them with courage
to revenge the murder of their companions; or, by
adopting a more cautious method, they might repel, by
uncontrovertible proofs, the charges for which they
fuffered; and, by interefting all men in their behalf,
they might expole Philip to the attacks of his own fub-
je£ls, and to the hatred and contempt of Europe.
Awxare of the dangers to which his charadler and per-
fon would be expofed by pardoning the furviving
templars, the French monarch commanded the grand
matter and his brethren to be led out to a fcaffold,
eredled for the purpofe, and there to confefs before the
public, the enormities of which their order had been
guilty, and the juftice of the punifhment which had
been inflidled on their brethren. If they adhered to
their former confettions, a full pardon was premifed to
them 5 but if they ftiould perfift in maintaining their
innocence, they were threatened with dettru£lion on a
pile of wood, which the executioners had eredled in
their view, to awe them into compliance. While the
multitude were ftaiyling around in awful expedlation,
ready, from the words of the prifoners, to juftify or con¬
demn their king, the venerable Molay, with a cheerful
and undaunted countenance,. advanced, in chains, to
the edge of the fcaffold ; and, with a firm and impref-
five tone, thus addreffed the fpeftators. “ It is but
juft, that in this terrible day, and in the laft moments
of my life, I lay open the iniquity of falfehood, and
make truth to triumph. I declare then, in the face
of heaven and earth, and I confefs, though to my eter¬
nal fhame and confufion, that I have committed the
greateft of crimes j but it has been only in acknowledg¬
ing thofe that have been charged with fo much viru¬
lence upon an order, which truth obliges me to pro- '
nounce innocent. I made the firft declaration they re¬
quired of me, only to fufpend the exceffive tortures of
the rack, and mollify thofe that made me endure tfiem.
I am fenfible what torments they prepare for thofe that
have courage to revoke fuch a confeffion. But the hor¬
rible fight which they prefent to my eyes, is not capable
of making me confirm one lie by another. On a con¬
dition fo infamous as that, 1 freely renounce life -which
is already but too odious to me. For what would it
avail me to prolong a few miferable days, when I mutt;
owe them only to the blackeft of calumnies (g).” In
eonfequence of this manly Revocation, the grand matter
and his companions w'ere hurried into the flames, where
they retained that contempt of death which they had
exhibited on former occafions. This mournful feene
extorted tears from the loweft of the vulgar. Four
valiant knights, whofe charity and valour had procured
them the gratitude and applaufe of mankind, fuffering,
without
(g) Hiftoire de Chevaliers Hofpitaliers de Saint Jean de Jerufalem, par Abbe Yertot, tom. ii. p. 101, iOZ>
MAS
f 653 ]
M A S
The inno¬
cence of
the knights
templars
conhdered.
Mafonry. without fear, the moft cruel and ignominious death,
-""~v  was indeed, a fpe&acle well calculated to excite emo¬
tions of pity in the hardeft hearts j and, whatever opi¬
nion we may entertain concerning the charafter of that
unhappy order, every mind of fenfibility will compaf-
fionate the fate of the templars, and curfe the inhuman
policy of Philip the Fair.
42. From this fhort and imperfedt account of the
origin and rtun of the knights templars, the reader will
be enabled to underhand the merits of the queftion, re-
fpedling the innocence of that order, which it will be
neceifary here to confider. The opinions of contempo¬
rary writers were too much influenced by party fpirit,
and religious zeal, to deferve any regard in this invefli-
gation. All thofe writers (h), however, wdio are ge¬
nerally deemed impartial hitforians, and who w'ere in
no refpedts intereffed, either in the condemnation or
acquittal of the templars, have, without hefitation, pro¬
nounced them innocent of the crimes laid to their
charge, and imputed their deftrudlion to the avarice
and private refentment of Philip. In the deciiion of
thefe hiftorians, the public had, in general, acquiefced,
till their fentiments wTere unfettled by the bold preten-
fions, and the fophiflical. reafoning of Barruel. Ibis
writer has charged upon the templars all thofe crimes
with which their enemies had formerly loaded them :
he has attempted to juftify the feverity of the French
king, and has reproached, with the bittereft inveftive,
the fociety of free mafons, becaufe they were once con-
nefted wuth a fraternity, which, in his opinion, was fo
wicked and profane. While we endeavour, therefore,
to defend the templars againft thefe recent calumnies,
we fhall, at the fame time, be maintaining the refpe<£ta-
bility of the mafonic inftiiution, by vindicating its mem¬
bers from that imputed depravity, which, according to
Barruel, they have inherited from their fathers.
43. In order to form an impartial judgement refpeft-
ing any fentence which has been paffed, without pro¬
per evidence, either againfl individuals or affociations,
it is neceffary to be acquainted with the motives and
charafler of the accufers, and wuth the benefits wdiich
might accrue to them and the judges, by the punifh-
ment or liberation of the accufed. In the cafe before
us, the accufers had been difgraced and imprifoned by
the accufed, for their villany and crimes. Their chief
profecutor and judge was adfuatedby motives of avarice
and private refentment; and many rival orders who
had been languifliing in obfcurity and indigence, propa¬
gated with afliduity the fianderous tale, in hopes of
fharing in thofe ample poffeffions, and that public fa¬
vour, which had been acquired by the fuperior abilities
of the knights templars. To all ranks of men, indeed,
the veneration which the name of a templar infpired,
was an ohjeft of envy : their opulent revenues were cal¬
culated to give trouble to a covetous mind, and the re¬
markable regularity of their conduit was no fmall in¬
citement to the exercife of detraction. Such were the
motives and profpeits of their judges and accufers.
Let us attend now to the accufations which were
brought againfl; them, and wTe (hall find that theie Mfaonry.
could fcarcely come under the cognizance of law, as v "
their pretended crimes were committed againfl: them-
felves, and not againfl: lociety. Did they perpetrate
murder upon any of their fellow-citizens: — Inis was
never laid to their charge. Did they purloin any
man’s treafures ?—Of theft they were never accufed.
Did they infligate to rebellion the fubjeils of any go¬
vernment, or plot deftruilion againfl: the perfon of any
king ?—Under fuch a charailer they were never known,
till Barruel called them traitors ami regicides : becaufe,
forfooth, it was his opinion, that their lucceffors, the
free mafons in France, were accefipry to the murder of
their king. What then were their crimes ? it was faicl,
that they burned their own infants ! and yet an inHance
was never produced, in w7hich the child of a templar
had difappeared, and in which the tendernefs of a mo¬
ther, as would certainly have happened, remonftrated
againft the murder of her child. They were faid to
have committed the moft unnatural of all crimes ! and*
yet, no individual produced a fpecific inftance which he
could corroborate by indubitable proof. They were
accufed of infulting the crofs of Chrift ; and yet they
had fhed their blood in the defence of his religion. Of
crimes like thefe, one may conceive a depraved indi¬
vidual to have been guilty ; but to believe, that a re-
fpectable fraternity, confiding of thoufands of members,
could be capable of fuch enormities, requires a degree
of faith to which the moft credulous will fcarcely at¬
tain.
44. The innocence of the templars, and the injuftice
of Philip, will be ftill more apparent, by confidering
the condufl of the latter, as related even by BarrueL
This writer obfierves, “ That two men, who had been
imprifoned for their crimes, declared that they had
fome important difcoveries to make concerning the
knights templars, and that this declaration, though
entitled to little credit, made the king determine on
the dilfolution of the order, and arreft: on one day all
the templars in his kingdom (1).” Here then was
the molt flagrant injuftice in the very threftiold of the
whole affair. Without fammoning a Angle witnefs j
without examining a fingle templar •, without confult-
ing a Angle friend j without even knowing what the
important difcoveries were which the criminals had to
make ; the French king determined on the deltruclion
of the templars, on the deflruftion of an order whole
grand mafter had been his particular friend, and even ;
the god-father of one of his children (k). This lat¬
ter circumtiance, indeed, is brought forward by Bar¬
ruel, to juftify the conduct of Philip, becaufe he facri-
ficed the duties of friendffnp to the principles of juftice.
But, when we take it in connedion with the reft of
his condud, it muft infpire every honeft mind with a
more degrading opinion of the head and heart of that
perfecuting monarch.
45. Such being the premature and precipitant de¬
termination of Philip, we may ccnflder the order, of the
templars as at that time diilolved, and regard all, thofe
examinations, .
(h) Among thefe we may reckon Hume, Hiftory of England, vol. ii. p. 373’ Henry, Hiflory of Britain,,,
vol. viii. p. 43, and Vertot, ut fupra.
(4) Memoirs of Jacobinifro, vol. ii. p, 364, (k) Id. Id. p. 3^’
MAS [6
Mafonry. examinations, inquiries, confefTions, trials, and councils
which fucceeded, as mere phantoms of juhice, conjured
up by that crafty prince, to dazzle the eyes of his fub-
jefls, and fan&ify the depravity of his own conducf.
By keeping this circumitance in view, the intelligent
reader will be enabled to underftand the minute,
though fometimes contradictory, details of hittorians,
refpefting the trial and confeffions of the knights
templars; and, notwithftanding the veil of juftice with
which the judges attempted to cover their proceedings,
he will be enabled to develope the deteftable principles
upon which their trial was conduced, and the itill
more deteftable motives which invited Clement V. to
partake in the guilt of Philip the Fair.
46. The moft formidable, and indeed the only plau-
ftble argument by which Barruel fupports his opinions,
is drawn from the confeflions of the templars. He
maintains that the avowals of the knights were free
from compullion, and that no fet of men could be fo
bafe as to accufe their brethren of crimes, of which they
believed them to be entirely innocent. But the fallacy
of his reafoning will appear from the flighteft refleftion.
It is a curious, though unqueftionable fa£!, that, when
arf avowal mutt be made, men are more ready to accufe
themfelves of crimes of which they have never been
guilty, than to confefs thole which they have aftually
committed. Such as have attended to the operation
of their own minds, particularly in the earlier part of
life, will acquiefce in this extraordinary truth ; and
thofe who have not had occafion to obferve it, will
find, upon confideration, that it is confonant to the con-
ftitution of the human mind. When a man confeffes
himfelf guilty of a crime which he has really perpe¬
trated, he is expofed, not only to the reproaches of
his own confcience, but to thofe of the world ; and,
fhould he, at any time, retradl his confeflions, he muft
be aware that every fubfequent enquiry wrould only
confirm the truth of his firft depofition. But when a
man, from a principle of fear, acknowledges the truth
of accufations with which he has been unjuftly loaded,
a fenfe of his integrity and innocence fupports him
under the opprobrium of the world, and he is confcious
that his character will be vindicated by every inveftiga-
tion, and that the confeflions which he himfelf made,
may at any time be proved to have been the offspring
of neceflity. Such undoubtedly w’ere the feelings by
which the templars were aftuated. Convinced, that
the crimes which they were defired to acknowledge,
were of fuch an unnatural kind, that they could never
be imputed, by any reafonable man, to a numerous and
hitherto reipeClable fraternity, they yielded to the feli¬
citations of their perfecutors; with the well-grounded
hope that future enquiry would remove the ftain which
the irrefiftible defire of felf-prefervation had prompted
them to throw upon their charadler. From this very
confideration, indeed, namely, from the nature of the
crimes charged upon the templars, have many eminent
hiftorians maintained the innocence of that unhappy
order. But, w'ere we even to allow with Barruel, in
oppofition to all hiftory, that the avowals of the knights
54 '1 M A S
■were free and numerous ; by an application of the prin- Mafonry.
ciples already laid down, we would from that circum- “—
ftance, prove the innocence, and not the guilt of the
templars.
47. It is not, however, upon fpeculative principles
alone, that we can account for the confeflions and fub¬
fequent recantations of the knights". There are, for¬
tunately, feme hiftorical fads which furnifli a rational
explanation of their conduft ; hut which Barruel,
either from ignorance or defign, has totally overlooked.
About the commencement of the wTole affair, Malay
the grand mafler of the order, had been examined at
Paris. ,Frora the caufes already explained, but parti¬
cularly from a dread of thofe torments, to which an
obftinate avowal of his innocence would expofe him,
he made every confeflion which his perfecutors demand¬
ed ; but he at the fame time tranfrnitted circular letters
to an immenfe number of his brethren, requefting them
to make the fame confeflions with himlelf (l) ; for it was
only by fubmiflive conduct, that they could hope to difarm
the fury of their enemies, and avert the blow which was
threatened to their order. Agreeably to the requeft ox
Molay, many of the templars made the fame acknow¬
ledgements ; while others with a morality more inflex¬
ible, and courage more undauntedj difdained to do evil
that good might come, and perievered unto death in
the avowal of their own innocence, and that of their
order. Molay, however, and thofe knights who had
followed his example, foon perceived that though their
fubmiffions had prote<fted them from injury as indivi¬
duals, they had neverthelefs rather inflamed the rage,
of Philip againft the order ; and being now convinced
that their acknowledgements of guilt had produced an
effe£t oppofite to what they expected, they boldly re¬
traced their former avowals, and adopted that intrepid
conduC of which we have already given a fnort ac¬
count. There is another circumftance connedted with
this part of our fubjeC, which, though not taken notice
of by hiftorians, is ■well deferving of the reader’s at¬
tention. It is aflerted by all contemporary writers,
wdxether the friends or adverfaries of the templars, that
all thofe knights who maintained their innocence, were
condemned either to death, or to a punithment equally
fevere ; while all who confeffed, and adhered to their
confeflions, were either completely acquitted, or fen-
tenced to a few days fading and prayer, or a ftiort im-
prifonment (m.) It is allowed alfo by thefe hiftorians,
and even by Barruel, that a very confiderable number
of the templars were altogether ignorant of the crimes
perpetrated by the reft, and that fome who were privy
to them, were not partakers in their guilt. In which
clafs then are wre to rank thefe innocent men ? among
thofe who fuffered or among thofe who were faved ? If
among the former, their enemies were guilty of the
moft flagrant injuftice and cruelty, in confuming the
innocent on the fame pile with the guilty. If among
the latter, they muft have been compelled to confeis
themfelves guilty of crimes of which they were com¬
pletely innocent.
48. In order to fliow that the confeflions of the tem¬
plars
(l) Hiftoire de Chevaliers Hofpitaliers, par Abbe Vertot, tom. ii. p. 86.
(m) Some of them even received penfions for their confeflions. See Vertot, tom, ii. 9. 91.
2
M A S
[ 655 ]
M A S
Mafomy. plars were voluntary, and not extorted by the rack,
■ y—> jgarruel is obliged to deny tacts which are admitted by
everyhiftorian. But, left his readers ftiould not be to
fceptical on this point as himfelf, he takes care to inform
them, that the bithops declared, that all whole confef-
licns were extorted by the rack, tnouid be regaid^o^ as
innocent, and that no templar thould be fubjedl to it ;
that Clement V. rather favoured the templars, and that
he fent the moft venerable perfons to interrogate thole
whofe ^ye and infirmities prevented them from appear¬
ing before him. But who were thofe aged and infirm
templars to whom Clement is fo compaffionate ? Were
they men fmarting under difeafes infiidied by the hand
of heaven ? Were they men wdiofe aged limbs were
unfit for the fatigues of a journey, or whofe gray hairs
bad excited the pity of the Roman pontiff? No—they
w’ere a few undaunted knights whom the blood-extort-
in o- forews of their tormentors had tortured and dil-
abled ; whofe flefh had been lacerated on the rack,
and whofe bones had been disjointed or broken on the
wheel. Thefe are the men, who, in the language of
the above writer, were prevented by their age and in¬
firmities from travelling to Poiftiers, or who, in the more
ample ftile of the Pope himfelf, were unable to ride on
horfieback, or to bear any other method of conveyance
whatfoever. _
49. Having thus endeavoured to vindicated the cnarac-
ter of the templars from the accufations of their ene¬
mies, it will be neceffary to make a few remarks re-
fpefting the ceremonial obfervances which are attributed
to them and their pofterity, by the author of the me¬
moirs of Jacobinifm. But this, our enemies well know;,
is forbidden ground, on which free mafons are piomoi-
ted to enter by the laws of their order. It is here, con-
fequently, that the moft numerous, and apparently the
moft fuccefsful attacks have been made, for we can be
provided with no means of defence without laying open
the myfteries of the fraternity. Confcious of the dil-
advantages under which free mafons labour, their ad-
verfaries have fabricated the moft frightful and ioohfti
ceremonies, and impofed them upon the world as the
ceremonies of mafonry. .Among this number, may be
reckoned thofe rites and oaths which Barruel aferibes
to the teroolars and their pofterity, but which, we fo-
femnly aver, have no connexion either with the one or
the other •, and, were we permitted to divulge to the
world the whole of our ritual fyftem, many who have
duped the public by deceitful information, would ftand
abalhed at their conduct 5 while others, who have con¬
fided in fuch information, would be aftoniftied at the
extent of their credulity. Then might free mafons de¬
fy, as they have done in every other point, the fabrica¬
tions of the malicious, and the conjectures of the igno¬
rant : then, too, might they mock at the ingenuity of
the wife. But, as they are bound to preferve from pu¬
blic view the rites of their order, it is highly difinge-
nuous to a {Tail them in a quarter where refiftance is
impcffible, and where every unprincipled man may
triumph with impunity. Is not this to affaffinate an
enemy with his hands tied behind his back ? Is not
this to reproach a foe who is deprived of the organs of
utterance ?
50. But there is another important confideration,
which, while it points out in a more ftriking manner
the difingenuity of fuch conduft, ftiould, at the fame
time, incite the candid enquirer to reject every calufn- Mafonry,
ny againft fecret affociations, ariiing from reports con-
cerning their rites and ceremonies. If ever the lecrets
of free mafonry were betrayed, they muft have beeri
betrayed by men who were completely deftitute of reli¬
gious principle j who paid no relpect to thofe ties w inch
unite the members of civil, as well as fecret afforia-
tions; who, in fhort, neither feared God, nor regarded
man. Suppofe, then, that a perfon, pretending to be
a free mafon, offered to communicate, either to an in¬
dividual, or to the public, the rites and ceremonies of
his order. What degree of credit ihould men of pro¬
bity attach to the information thus received ? A per¬
fon addrtffes them under the chara&er of a perjurer,
offering to violate the meft folemn engagements, and
to divulge myfteries which have been concealed for
ages. He may give them accurate information, or he
may not. If the fecrets which he offers to betray have
been hitherto unknown, there is no poffible wray of
afeertaining the truth of his depofition. And it is ra¬
ther to be fufpedted, that he will dupe his auditors by
falfe information, than trample upon an engagement,
guarded by the moft awfful fan6fions. He might, in¬
deed, confirm by an oath, the truth of his affeveration j
but, as he muft have violated an oath equally folemn,
no man of fenfe will give him the fmalleft credit. But,
fuppofing that he really divulges the fecrets and cere¬
monies of free mafonry, it is clear, that he has not un-
derltood their true import, or, at leaft, that they have
made no impreffion upon his mind. It is almoft cer¬
tain, therefore, that, from ignorance, or mifapprehen-
fion of their meaning, he w ill exhibit, under an afpeft
calculated to excite ridicule, tbofe rites and ceremonies,,
which, if properly explained, w’ould command admira¬
tion. If then it be fo difficult for the uninitiated to dif-
cover the fecrets of free mafonry, and ftill more fo to
afeertain their fignification, if they fhould difeover
them 5 what muft we think of thofe men who open
their ears to every flanderous tale againft free mafons,
which unprincipled men may impofe upon their credu¬
lity ? What muft W’e think of thofe who reproach and
vilify the order, upon the uncertain reports of cun¬
ning and interefted men ? We appeal to the impartial
reader, if they are not equally bale with the informers
themfelves.
51. Such are the confiderations by which u^e would
attempt to repel thofe charges and diftorted fads, with
which Barruel has calumniated the charader, and dif-
figured the hiftory of the templars. They will be
fufficient, we hope, to remove thofe erroneous imprel-
fions which the perufal of the Memoirs of Jacobinifm
may have left upon the reader’s mind. Although we
have adopted the opinion of thofe wffio maintain the in¬
nocence of that unfortunate order, we cannot coincide
with them in believing, that, as individuals, they were
free from blame. The templars wrere poffeffed of the
fame nature, and influenced by the fame paflions as
their fellow men } and they w7ere, unquftionably, ex-
pofed to more ftrong and numerous temptations. Some,
of the knights, therefore, may have been guilty of.
crimes, and thefe too of an aggravated kind, which,
by a ftrange, though not uncommon miftake, might
have been transferred to their order. But it was never
proved that they were traitors, child murderers, regi¬
cides, and infidels. A certain clafs of hiftorians, iur
deed,,.
MAS
j ^eeJi ^ave imputed to them fuch iniquities ; and, when
unable to eftablifh their affertions, have fixed upon their
order the more probable crimes of drunkennefs and de¬
bauchery. But, amidft all thefe accufations, vve hear
nothing of that valour which firfl raifed the templars to
pre-eminences nothing of that charity and beneficence
which procured them the relpedl of contemporaries j
nothing of that fortitude and patience which moft of
them exhibited on the rack, and in the dames. In their
calc it has been too true, that
1 656 ]
MAS
The evil which men do lives after them :
The good is oft interred with their bones.
52; But allowing the templars to be as guilty as their
enemies have reprefented them ; upon what principles
ov found reaToning, or of common fenfe, does Barruel
transfer their guilt to the fraternity of free mafons ? Is
it abfolutely neceffary, that the Ton Ihould inherit the
bodily difeafes, and the mental debility of his fore-fa-
thers? or is it fair, that one order, propofing to itfelf
the fame objecf, and inftituted upon the fame principles
as another, Ihould be charged alfo with the fame
•erimes ? Certainly not. If virtue and vice were here¬
ditary qualities, free mafons might arrogate to thetnfelves
much honour from their connexion with the templars;
but, as wre have not been applauded for a templar’s vir¬
tues, we Ihould not be reproached fora templar’s crimes.
But the reafoning of Barruel is as repugnant to the dic¬
tates of experience, as it is to thofe of common fenfe.
Were not the inhabitants of England, at one period
fanatics, rebels, arid regicides ? But where now is the*
nation that is more liberal in its religion, and more Heady
in its loyalty! Did not the French, at one time, tor¬
ture, burn, and maflacre their fellow citizens, from the
fury of their religious zeal, and the ftrength of their
attachment to the Catholic communion? But what na¬
tion under heaven was a few years ago lefs influenced by
religious principles, and lefs attached to the church of
Rome ! Did not the rulers of France, at one time
torment and aiTaffinate hundreds of the templars, be-
caufe they deemed them infidels, traitors, and regi¬
cides ? And have we not feen, in thefe latter days,
the very rulers of France themfelves, infidels, traitors,
and regicides ! But if the impartial reader Ihould, upon
farther inquiry, give credit to the guilt of the templars j
m order to remove the imputed ftain which has been
transferred to free mafons, it may be fufficient to addrefs
him in the words of the poet,
Tetvpora t?wtantur, et nos mutamur in UUs.
©n'gln End 53. About the time of the knights templars, chivalry
advances had arrived at its higheft perfection. It had its ex-
f c ^a ry. jftgnce^ indeed, prior to this period, but as it continued
to influence the minds of men long after the dellruftion
of that unhappy order, it was thought proper to defer
its confideration till the prefent iiage of our hiftory.
When chivalry made its firlt appearance, the moral and
political condition of Europe was in every refpeft de-
plorable. The religion of Jefus exifled only in name. Mafonry.
A degrading fuperftition had ufurped its place and
threatened ruin to the reafon and the dignity of man.
Ihe political rights ol the lower orders were lacrificed
to the mtereft of the great. War was carried on with
degree of favage cruelty, equalled only by the fangui-
nary contentions of the beafts of prey; no clemency
was mown to the vanquifhed, and no humanity to the
captive. 1 he female lex, even, were funk below their
natural level : They were doomed to the moft labori¬
ous occupations, and were deferted and defpifed by that
very fex, on whole protection and fympathy they have
io natural a claim. To remedy thefe diforders, \ few
intelligent and pious men formed an affociation, whole
meinbers Iwore to defend the Chriftian religion, to prac-
ti e ns morals, to proteift widows, orphans, and the
weaker lex 5 and to decide judicially, and not by arms
the disputes that might arile about their goods" or ef-
*e<fts. It was from this affociation, undoubtedly, that
chivalry arofe (n) ; and not, as feme think, from the
public mveftituve with arms which was cuftomary
among the ancient Germans. But, whatever was its
origin, chivalry produced a confiderable change in the
manners and fentiments of the great. It could not
indeed, eradicate that ignorance and depravity which
engendered thofe awful evils which we have already
enumerated. It has loftened, however, the ferocity of
war. It has reftored the fair fex to that honourable
lank which they now poflefs, and which at all times
they are entitled to hold. It has infpired thofe fenti¬
ments of generofity, fympathy, and friendfliip, which
have contributed fo much to the civilization of the world •
and has introduced that principle of honour which,
though far from being a laudable motive to aftion, of¬
ten checks the licentious, when moral and religious
confiderations would make no impreffion upon their
minds. x
54. Such was the origin of chivalry and fuch the blef- Chivalry n
fings which it imparted. That it was a branch of free branch of
mafonry, may be inferred from a varity of confidera-free mafoa-
tions, from the confent of thofe who have made thery*
deepert refearches into one, and who were intimately
acquainted with the fpirit, rites, and ceremonies of the
other. 1 hey were both ceremonial inftitutions. Im¬
portant precepts were communicated to the members of
each, for the regulation of their conduft as men, and
as brethren of the order (o). The ceremonies of chi¬
valry, like thofe of free mafonry, though unintelligible
to the vulgar, were always fymbolical of feme impor¬
tant truths (f). The object of both inftitutions was
the fame, and the members bound themfelves, by an
oath, to promote it with ardour and zeal (qJ. In c}ft_
valry there were alfo different degrees of honour,
through which the youths were obliged to pafs before’
they were invefted with the dignity of knighthood (r) •
and the knights, like free mafons, were formed into
fraternities or orders, diffinguilhed by different appella¬
tions (s).
55 From
(n) Bontainvilliers on the Ancient Parliaments of France,
Heraldry, pp. 24, 25, 26.
(o) Brydfon’s Summary View of Heraldrv p. 31.
(i<) Id. pP. 36, 37. (s) Id. pp. 38, 40.
letter fifth, quoted in Brydfon’s Summary View of
(p) Id. p. 95. (q) id. p. 32.
\ !
3
MAS
[
Mafonry. ^ From thefe circumftances of refemblance, we do
—' not mean to infer that chivalry was free mafonry un-
Provedfromjer another name; we mean only to (how that the two
n ’’^inflitutions were intimately connefted ; that the former
learned and took its origin from the latter, and borrowed from it, not
other con- only fome of its ceremonial obfervances, but the lead-
fiderations. jn^ features and the general outline of its conllitution.
Thefe points of fimllarity, indeed, are in fome cafes fo
linking, that feveral learned men have affirmed that
free mafonry rvas a fecondary order of chivalry, and
derived its origin from the ufages of that inftitution
(x). For what reafons thefe authors deduce the forms
of free mafonry from the ceremonies of chivalry, it is
difficult to conjecture. The only argument which they
adduce, is the iimilarity of the inditutions; but they do
not conhder, that this proves, with equal force, that free
mafonry is the parent of chivalry. We have already
ffiown, that there were many fecret inftitutions among
the ancients, but particularly the fraternity of Diony-
fian architects, which refembled free mafonry in every
thing but the name; and it requires no proof that thefe
fraternities arofe many hundred years before the exift-
ence of chivalry. If then there be any refemblance
between the inllitutions which we have been comparing,
we mull conlider free mafonry as the fountain, and chi¬
valry only as the dream. The one was adapted to the
habits of intelligent artids, and could flouriffi only in
times of civilization and peace ; the other was accom¬
modated to the difpolitions of a martial age, and could
exill only in feafons of ignorance and war. With thefe
obfervations, indeed, the hiltory of both fraternities en¬
tirely correfponds. In the enlightened ages of Greece
and Rome, when chivalry was unknown, free mafonry
flourithed under the fanClion of government, and the
patronage of intelligent men. But, during the reign
^of Gothic ignorance and barbarity, which followed the
dedruClion of imperial Rome, free mafonry languiffied
in obfcurity, while chivalry fucceeded in its place, and
propofed to accomplifh the fame objeCl by different
means, which, though more rough and violent, were
better fuited to the manners of the age. And when
Icience and literature revived in Europe, and fcat-
- tered thofe clouds of ignorance and barbarifm with
which ffie had been overlhadowed, chivalry decayed
along with the manners that gave it birth, while
free mafonry arofe with increafing fplendour, and
advanced with the fame pace as civilization and re¬
finement.
56. The connexion between chivalry and free ma¬
fonry, is excellently exemplified in the fraternity of the
knights templars. It is well known that this affocia-
tion was an order of chivalry, that the templars per-
exempllfied formed its ceremonies, and were influenced by its pre-
in the fo- cepts; and we have already ffiown, that the fame af-
cxety ofthe fociation was initiated into the myileries, and pradlifed
templars. Vou XIL part IL
The con¬
nexion of
chivalry
and free
mafonry
657 ] MAS
the rites of free mafonry (Art. 39, 40.) : But, though Mafonry.
they then exifled in a double capacity, it muff be evi-
dent to all who ftudy the hiftory of the templars, that
their mafonic charadler chiefly predominated, and that
they deduced the name of their inftitution, and their
external obfervances, from the ufages of chivalry, to
conceal from the Roman pontiff the primary objedl of
their order, and to hold their fecret meetings free from
fufpicion or alarm. About this time, indeed, the
church of Rome famffioned the fraternity of operative
mafons, and allowed them to perform their ceremonies
without moleffation or fear. But this clemency, as we
have already ffiown, was the offspring of neceffity
(Art. 37.); and the fame interefted motive which
prompted his holinefs to patronize that trading affocia-
tion, could never influence him to countenance the du¬
plicity of the templars, or permit them to exift in their
mafonic capacity. It was the difcovery, indeed, of
their being free mafons, of their affembling fecretly,
and performing ceremonies to which no ftranger was
admitted, that occafioned thofe awful calamities which
befel their order. It will, no doubt, appear furprifing
to fome readers, that fuch zealous defenders of the Ca¬
tholic religion ffiould praftife the obfervances of an affo-
ciation, which the church of Rome has always perfe-
cuted with the bittereft hoftility. But their furprife
will ceafe, when it is recollefted, that even about the
middle of the 18 th century, when free mafor.ry was
prohibited in the ecclefialtical ftates, by a papal bull, the
members of the Romiih church adopted the fame plan.
So much attached were they to the principles and prac¬
tice of the fraternity, that they eftabliffied a new fecret
affociation fimilar to that of free mafonry, into which
they profeffed to admit none but zealous abettors of the
papal hierarchy. In this manner, by flattering the pride
of the church, they eluded its vigilance, and preferved
the fpirit of tree mafonry, by merely changing its name,
and profeliing to make it fabfervient to the intereft of
the pontificate.
57. Before leaving this fubjeft, it may be intereft-The tern-
ing to lome readers, and neceffary for the fatisfadftion plars were
of others, to (how in what manner the knights templars abated by
became dqpoiuaries of the mafonic myfteries. We have
already feen, that almoft all the fecret affociations of
the ancients either flouriffied or originated in Syria,
and the adjacent countries. It was here that the Dio-
nyfian artifts, the Effenes, and the Kafideans arofe.
From this country alfo came feveral members of that
trading affociation of mafons, which appeared in Eu¬
rope during the dark ages (u) ; and we are affured,
that, notwithftanding the unfavourable conditions of that
province, there exifts, at this day, on Mount Libanus,
one of thefe S' riac fraternities (x). As the order of
the templars, therefore, was orig'nally formed in Syria,
and exifted there for a confiderable time, it would be
4 O no
(t) Chevalier Ramfay, See Robifon’s Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 39. Leyden’s Preliminary Differtation to
the Complaynt of Scotland, pp. 67* 71* anc^ preface to Guilliam’s Difplay of Heraldry, edit. 6th.
(u) Mr Clinch, who appears not to have been acquainted with this fa£l, fuspofes that free mafonry was introdu¬
ced into Europe by means ofthe Gypfies. Anthologia Hibernica, for April 1794, p. 280. There was fuch a
conftant communication between Alia and Europe in the time of the crufades, that the cuftoms and manners of
the one, muft, in fome meafure, have been transferred to the other.
(x) Anthologia Hibernica, April 1794, p. 279.
I
T'TafonrT.
Uiflory of
free ma-
fonry in
Britain.
MAS [ 6
no improbable fuppofition that they received their ma-
Ibnic knowledge from the lodges in that quarter. But
we are fortunately in this cafe not left to conjefture,
for we are exprefsly informed by a foreign author (y),
who was well acquainted with the hiftory and cuffoms
of Syria, that the knights templars were aclually mem¬
bers of the Syriac fraternities.
58. Having thus compared free mafonry with thofe
fecret affociations which arofe during the dark ages;
let us now’ direct our attention to its progrefs in Bri¬
tain, after it was extinguifhed in the other kingdoms of
Europe. We have already feen that a trading frater¬
nity of free mafons exifted in Europe during the mid¬
dle ages ; that many fpecial favours were conferred
upon it by the Roman fee ; that they had the excluftve
privilege of ereffing thofe magnificent buildings, which
the pride of the church of Rome, and the mifguided
zeal of its members, had prompted them to rear; and
that feveral mafons travelled into Scotland, about the
beginning of the 12th century, and imported into that
country the principles and ceremonies of their order,
/ind we have illuftrated feveral caufes which preferved
this aiTociation in Britain after its total diffolution on
the continent.
Free ma- 59. That free mafonry W’as introduced into Scotland
trodu-edin ^ archite£ls who built the abbey of Kilwinning,
to Scotland. ismanifelVnot ordy from thofe authentic documents,
by which the exiflence of the Kilwinning lodge has been
traced back as far as the end of the 15th century, but
by other collateral arguments, which amount almott to
a demonftration. In every country where the tempo¬
ral and fpiritual jurifdidiion of the pope was acknotv-
ledged, there was a continual demand, particularly du¬
ring the 1 2th century, for religious ilruftures, and con-
fequently for operative mafons, proportional to the piety
of the inhabitants, and the opulence of their ecclefiaf-
tical eftablilhment; and there u’as no kingdom in Eu¬
rope where the zeal of the inhabitants for popery was
more ardent than in Scotland, where the kings and
nobles were more liberal to the clergy, and where,
of confequence, the church was more richly endow¬
ed (z). ’I he demand, therefore, for elegant cathe¬
drals and ingenious artifts, mull have been propor-
tionably greater than in other countries, and that de¬
mand could be fupplied only from the trading affocia-
tion on the continent. When wTe confider, in addition
to thefe fa£ls, that this affociation monopolized the
building of religious ftruflures in Chrilfendom ; we are
authorifed to conclude, that thofe numerous and elegant
ruins, which Hill adorn the villages of Scotland, were
erefted by foreign mafons, who introduced into this
ifland the cuftoms of their order.
60. It was probably about this time, alfo, that free
mafonry was introduced into England ; but whether
the Englilh received it from the Scotch mafons at
Kilwinning, or from other brethren who had arrived
And alfo
into Eng¬
land.
58 ] MAS
from the continent, there is no method of determining.
I he fraternity in England, however, maintain, that
St Alban, the proto-martyr, wdio flouriflied about the
end of the third century, was the firlt who brought
mafonry to Britain ; that the brethren received a char¬
ter from King Athelftane, and that his brother Edwin
fummoned all the lodges to meet at York, which form¬
ed the firft grand lodge of England (a). But thefe
are merely affertions, not only incapable of proof from
authentic hillory, but inconfillent, alfo, udth feveral hi-
ftorical events w-hich reil upon indubitable evidence (b).
In fupport of thefe opinions, indeed, it is alleged, that
no other lodge has laid claim to greater antiquity than
that of York, and that its jurifdiclion over the other
lodges in England has been invariably acknowledged
by the whole fraternity. But this argument only
proves that York was the birthplace of free mafonry in
England, It brings no additional evidence in fupport
of the improbable ftories about St Alban, Athelftane,
and Edwin. If the antiquity of free mafonry in Bri¬
tain can be defended only by the forgery of filly and
uninterefting ftories, it does not deferve to be defended
at all. Thofe who invent and propagate Inch tales, do
not, furely, confider that they bring difcredit upon
their order by the warmth of their zeal; and that, by
fupporting what is falfe, they prevent thinking men
from believing what is true.
Mafonry.
61. After the eftabliftiment of the Kilwinning and r>ra£refist,f
York lodges, the principles of free mafonry were ra-f.ree m.a"
pidly diffuled throughout both kingdoms, and feveral
lodges were eretled in different parts of the ifian'd. As “ <ua‘
all thefe derived their exiftence and authority from the
two mother lodges, they were likewife under their ju-
rifdiftion and controul ; and when any differences arofe,
that were connefted with the art of building, they were
referred to the general meetings of the fraternity, which
v.’ere always held at Kilwinning and York. In this
manner did free mafonry flourifti for a while in Britain,
after it was completely abolifhed in every part of the
world. But even here it was doomed to fuffer a long
and ferious decline, and to experience thofe alternate
fucceffions of advancement and decay, which mark the
hiftory of every human inftitution. And, though dur¬
ing feveral centuries after the importation of free ma¬
fonry into Britain, the brethren of the order held their
public afiV.mblies, and were fometimes prohibited from
meeting by the interference of the legifiature, it can
fcarcely be faid to have attrafted general attention till
the beginning of the 17th century. The caufes of this
remarkable retardation which the progrefs of mafonry
experienced, it is by no means difficult to difcover.
In confequence of the important privileges which the
order received from the church of Rome, many chofe
the profefiion of an architetft, which, though at all
times an honourable employment, was particularly in
high requeft during the middle ages. On this account,
the
(y) Adler de Drufis Montis Libani, Rom. 1786.
(z) The church poffeffed above one half of the property in the kingdom. Robertfon’s Hiftory of Scotland
vol. i. pp. 137, 65, 269.
(a) A. D. 926. Prefton’s Illuftrations of Mafonry, p. 148. Smith’s Ufe and Abufe of Free Mafonry n ex
Free Mafon’s Calendar 1778. * ^ '
(b) See Dr Plot’s Natural Hiftory of Sfciffordihire, chap. viii. pp. 316—318.
MAS [659] MAS
Mafonry. tlic body of operative mafons xncreafed to fuch a de-
" "V" ' gree, and the rage, as well as the neceffity for religious
edifices, was fo much diminiihed, that a more than fuf-
ficient number of hands could, at any time, be procur¬
ed for fupplying the demands of the church, and of
Caufes of its pious individuals. There being now no fcarcity of ar-
fubfequent chitefts, the very reafon which prompted the church to
decline. proteft the fraternity, ceafed to exift } they, therefore,
withdrew from them that patronage, which they had
fpontaneoufiy proffered, and denied them even the li¬
berty of holding their fecret affemblies. Eut thefe
were not the only caufes which produced fuch a linking
change in the conduft of the church, to the mafonic
order. The fpirit of free mafonry, as wTe have already
laid, wras holtile to the principles of the church of
Rome. The intention of the one was to enlighten the
mind ; the objedl and policy of the other to retain it in
ignorance. When free mafonry flourilhed, the power
of the church mull have decayed. The jealoufy of the
latter, therefore, was aroufed ; and, as the civil powrer
in England and Scotland was almolt always in the
hands of ecclefiallics, the church and the date were
combined again!! the principles and praftice of free
mafonry (c). Along with thefe caufes, the domeftic
and bloody wars, which convulfed the two kingdoms
from the 13th to the 17th century, confpired, in a
great degree, to produce that decline of the fraternity
for which wTe have been attempting to account.
Freema- 62. Eut notwfithllanding thefe unfavourable circum-
W . fiances, free mafonry feems to have flourilhed, and at-
tWeigri oIft:ra^:ec^ t^ie attention of the public in the reign of Hen-
Henry VI. ry VI. who, when a minor, afcended the throne of
England in 1422. In the third year of his reign, in¬
deed, the parliament paffed a fevere aft againll the fra¬
ternity, at the mitigation of Henry Beaufort, bilhop of
Wlnchelter, who was then entrulled wfith the education
of the young king. They enadted that the mafons
Ihould no longer hold their chapters and annual aflem-
blies ; that thofe who fummoned fuch chapters and af¬
femblies Ihould be confidered as felons ; and that thofe
who refoited to them Ihould be fined and imprifon-
ed (d). Eut it wrould appear that this a£t wras never
put in execution; for, in the year 1429, about five
years after it was framed, a refpedlable lodge wTas held
at Canterbury, under the patronage of the archbifhop
himfelf (e). When King Henry was able to take into
his own hands the government of his kingdom, and to
form an opinion of his own refpedling the ufe and ten¬
dency of the mafonic fraternity, in order to atone for
the rigorous condudl of his parliament, he not only fer- Mafonry.
mitted the order to hold their meetings without molef- ~J-
tation, but honoured the lodges by his prefence as a
brother. Before he was initiated, however, into the
myfteries of the order, he feems to have examined, with
fcrupulous care, the nature of the inllitution, and to
have perufed the charges and regulations of the frater¬
nity, as collefled from their ancient records. Thefe
faiffs are contained is a paper written in the reign of
his fucceffor, Edward IV. and confirmed by a manu-
feript in King Henry’s owm hand-writing, which is fa¬
miliar to every perfon who has lludied the hiflory of the
order. This manufeript conlifls of queftions and an- AcCount cr
fwers refpecting the nature and tendency of free mafon-
ry, and feems to be the refult of the king’s examina- nufeript.
tion of feme of the brethren before he became a mem¬
ber of the fraternity. It was firll procured from the
Bodleian library by the celebrated Mr Locke, who
tranfmitted it to the earl of Pefnbroke, accompanied
with explanatory notes (f). In the title of the manu¬
feript, it is faid to have been faithfully copied from the
hand-writing of King Henry VI, by John Leland, an¬
tiquarian, who, according to Mr Locke, wTas the cele¬
brated antiquary of that name who lived in the 16th
century, and wTas appointed by King Henry VIII. at
the diffolution of monalleries, to fearch for, and fave
fuch books as were worthy of prefervation. As this
manufeript was originally printed at Frankfort, I was
led to inquire wfftat grounds there wTere for believing
that the explanatory notes, and the letter to the earl
of Pembroke which accompany it, were the production
of Mr Locke. But I found that this had been uni¬
formly taken for granted by every writer upon the fub-
ject, though the circumltance is not mentioned in the
large edition of Mr Locke’s works. The Ityle of the
letter, however, and the acutenefs of the annotations,
refemble fo much that philofopher’s manner of waiting,
and the letter is fo deferiptive of Mr Locke’s real fitu-
ation at the time when it wTas written, that it is almoit
impoflible to deny their authenticity. In the letter it-
felf, which is dated 6th May 1696, Mr Locke re¬
marks that he compofed the notes for the fake of Lady
Malham, who was become very fond of mafonry, and
that the manufeript had fo much excited his own curio-
fity, that he w7as determined to enter into the fraternity
the next time he went to London, which, he adds, will
be very foon. Now Mr Locke was at this time refid-
ing at Oates, the country feat of Sir Francis Malham,
as appears from one of his letters to Mr Molyneux,
4 O 2 which
(c) As a proof of the hoflility of the church of Rome to fecret affociations which pretended to enlighten the
mind, wre mentioned (p. 53. fupra) its treatment of the academy of fecrets, inftituted in the i6tb century for the
advancement of phyfical fcience. When a local and temporary inllitution drew down the vengeance of the Ro¬
man fee, what mull have been its conduft to a lodge of mafons ? A farther account of the academy of fecrets
may be found in Prieltley’s Hillory of Vifion, vol. ii.
(d) 3 Henry VI. cap. 2. A. D. 1425, fee Ruff head’s Statutes. Dr Plot’s Natural Hillory of Staffordlhire,
chap. viii. p. 318.
(e) Manufeript Regiller of William Molart, prior of Canterbury, p. 28. entitled, Liberatis generalis Domini
Gulielmi prioris Kcclcjice Chrijli Cantuarenjis, erg a fejlum natal is Domini 1429. In this Regilter are mentioned
the names of the mailers, wardens, and other members of the lodge.
(f) This manufeript was firll printed at Franckfort in 1748, and afterwards reprinted in the London and Gen¬
tleman’s Magazines for 1753. It may be feen in the lives of Leland, Hearne, and Wood, 8vo. Oxford, 1772,
vol. i. pp. 96, 104. Appendix, N° viii.; and in Prefton’s Illuftrations of Mafonry, p. no.
MAS [ 660 ] M A S
iMafonry. which is dated Oates, March 30. 1696 j and it ap-
— pears, that he actually went to London a fhort time af¬
ter the 6th of May ; for another letter to the fame
gentleman is dated, London, 2d July 1696 (g). Not-
vvithftanding thefe fahts, Dr Plot maintains that free
raafonry was not patronifed by King Henry VI. (h),
and that thofe who have fupported a different opinion,
were ignorant of the laws and chronicles of their own
country. Dr Plot may have been a good chemift and
natural hiftorian, but when our readers hear upon what
foundation he has effablilhed his opinion, they will
agree with us in thinking that he was a bad logician.
He obferves, that an a6t was palled in the king’s mi¬
nority, prohibiting all general affemblies and chapters
of free mafons, and that as this aft was not repealed
till 1562, by 5th Elizabeth, cap. 4. it was impoffible
that Iree mafonry could be patronifed in the fame reign
in which it was prohibited. The faft is', that the aft
was net repealed by 5th Elizabeth, cap. 4. which dees
not contain a fingle word about free mafons. If Dr
Plot’s argument, therefore, proves any thing, it would
prove that free mafonry has not been patronifed fince
tiie reign of Henry VI. for that aft has never yet been
repealed. But fuppoling that it was repealed, the pro¬
hibitory ft at ate in Henry’s reign might never have been
put in execution, as very often happens; and Dr Plot
himfelf remarks, that the aft 5th Elizabeth w^as not
obferved. It is plain, therefore, that inftead of being
impoffible, it is highly probable that King Henry pa¬
tronifed the fraternity. When they were perfecuted
by his parliament, he was only three years of age, and
could neither approve nor difapprove of its fentence ;
and it was very natural, that when he came to the
years of maturity, he Ihould undo a deed which his
parliament had dilhonourably done.
Tree ma- ^3* While free mafonry was flourifhing in England
fonrypa- under the aufpices of Henry VI. it was at the fame
trenized in time patronifed, in the fifter kingdom, by King James I.
^ ^ t^e authority this monarch, every grandmafter
James I. w^° was c^°^en by the brethren, either from the nobi¬
lity or clergy, and approved of by the crown, was en¬
titled to an annual revenue of four pounds Scots from
each mafter mafon, and likewife to a fee at the initia¬
tion of every new member. He w7as empowered to ad-
juft any differences that might arife among the breth¬
ren, and to regulate thofe affairs, connefted with the
fraternity, which it was improper to bring under the
cognizance of the courts of law. The grandmafter alfo
appointed deputies or wardens, wTho refided in the chief
towns of Scotland, and managed the concerns of the
order, when it was inconvenient to appeal to the grand-
mafter himfelf (1).
And by
64. In the reign of James II. free mafonry wTas by
J•troll ri° rowans neglefted. The office of grandmafter w’as
granted by the crown to William St Clair, earl of
Orkney and Caithnefs, baron of Rollin, and founder of
the much admired chapel of Roflin. On account of
the attention which this nobleman paid to the mterefts Mafonry.
of the order, and the rapid propagation of the royal art 
under his adminiftration, King James II. made the of¬
fice of grandmafter hereditary to his heirs and fuccef-
fors, in tne barony of Roflin j in which family it conti¬
nued till the inftitution of the grand lodge of Scotland.
I he barons ol Roflin, in the capacity of hereditary
grandmafters, held their principal annual meetings at
Kilwinning, the birthplace of Scotifli mafonry, while
the lodge of that village granted conllitutions and char¬
ters of ereftion to thofe brethren of the order, who
w ei e anxious that regular lodges ffiould be formed in
different parts of the kingdom. Thefe lodges all held
of the lodge of Kilwinning ; and, in token of their re-
fpeft and fubmiffion, joined to their own name, that of
their mother lodge, from whom they derived their ex-
iftence as a corporation (k).
65. During the reigns of the fucceeding Scotifli mo-
narchs, free mafonry Hill flourifhed, though very little
information can be procured refpefting the ftate of the
fraternity. In the privy feal book of Scotland, how¬
ever, there is a letter dated at Holyroodhoufe, 25th
September J590, and granted by King James VI. “ to
Patrick Copland of Udaught, for ufing and exercifing
the office of wardanrie over the art and craft of mafon-
rie, over all the boundis of Aberdeen, Kanff, and Kin¬
cardine, to had wardan and juffice courts within the
faid boundis, and there to minifter juftice (l).” This
letter confirms what has already been faid concerning
the ftate of mafonry in Scotland. It proves beyond
difpute, that the kings of Scotland nominated the of¬
fice-bearers of the order; that thefe provincial mafters,
or wardens, as they were then called, adminiftered ju¬
ftice in every difpute rvhich concerned the “ art and
craft of mafonrie that lodges were eftabliftred in all
parts of Scotland, even in thofe remote, and, at that
time, uncivilized counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and
Kincardine ; and it completely overturns the unfounded
affertion of Dr Robifon, who maintains (m), that the
celebrated antiquary Elias Aftimole, who was initiated
in 1646, is the only diftinft and unequivocal inftance
of a perfon being admitted into the fraternity who was
not an architeft by profeflion.
66. The minutes of St Mary’s chapel, which is the Minutes of
oideft lodge in Edinburgh, extend as far back as the St Mary’s
year 1598 ; but as they contain only the ordinary pro-chaPe1,
ceedings of the lodge, we can derive from them no
particular information refpefting the cuftoms and condi¬
tion of the fraternity. It appears, however, from thefe
minutes, that Thomas Bofwell, Efq. of Auchinleck,
wTas made a warden of the lodge in the year i6ooj
and that the honourable Robert Moray, quartermafter-
general to the army in Scotland, was created a mafter
mafon in 1641. Thefe fafts are deferving of notice,
as they fhow, in oppofttion to Dr Robifon, that per-
fons were early admitted into the order, who were not
architefts by profeffion.
67. When
(g) Locke’s Works, folio, vol. iii.
(h) Natural Hiftory of Staffordihire, cap. viii. p. 318.
(1) Charter. Hay’s MSS. fee art. 66.
(l) Privy Seal Book of Scotland, 61. F. 47.
(m) Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 21.
(k) Such as Canongate Kilwinning,
MAS [ 661 ] MAS
grand ma-
flers.
Mafor.ry. 67. When James VI. afcended the throne of Eng-
u‘ \ land, he feems to have negle&ed his right of nominat-
cHnfof" office-bearers of the craft. In Hay’s manufcript
Rodin ap- in the advocates library, there are two charters granted
pointed he- by the Scotiili mafons, appointing the Sinclairs of Rof-
reditary hereditary grandmaders. The firft of thefe is
without a date, but ligned by feveral mafons who ap¬
point William St Clair of Rollin, his heirs and fuccef-
ibrs, their “ patrons and judges.” The other is, in
fome meafure, a ratification of the firft, and dated
1630, in which- they appoint Sir William St Clair of
Rollin, his heirs and fuccefiors, to be their “ patrons,
protedtors, and overfeers, in all timfe coming.” In the
firft of thefe deeds, which feems to have been written a
little after the union of the crowns, it is ftated, that /or
fome years the want of a prote&or had engendered
many corruptions among the mafqns, and had confider-
ably retarded the progrefs of the craft j and that the
appointment of William Sinclair, Efq. was, with the
advice and confent oft William Shaw, mafter of work
to his majefty. After prefiding over the order for ma¬
ny years, William St Clair went to Ireland, where he
continued a confiderable time ; and, in confequence of
his departure, the fecond charter was granted to his
fon Sir William St Clair, invefting him with the fame
powers which his father enjoyed. It deferves alfo to be
remarked, that in both thefe deeds, the appointment of
William Sinclair, earl of Orkney and Caithnefs, to the
office of grandmafter, by James II. of Scotland, is
fpoken of as a faft well known, and univerfally admit¬
ted. Thefe obfervations will fet in a clear point of
view what muft hitherto have appeared a great inconfiit-
ency in the hiftory of Scotifti mafonry. In the deed
by which William Sinclair, Efq. of Roflin, refigned the
office of hereditary grandmafter in 1736, it is ftated
that his anceftors, William and Sir William St Clair of
Roflin, were conftituted patrons of the fraternity by the
Scotith mafons themfelves j while it is well known, that
the grant of hereditary grandmafter was originally made
by James II. of Scotland, to their anceftor, William
Sinclair, earl of Orkney and Caithnefs. But, when
we confider that James VI. by not exercifing his power,
virtually transferred to the craft the right of ele&ing
their office-bearers, the inconfiftency vaniflies $ for Mr
Sinclair and his predeceffors, as far back as the 3ate of
thefe charters, held their office by the appointment of
the fraternity itfelf. Left any of Mr Sinclair’s pofte-
rity, how'ever, might, after his refignation, lay claim
to the office of grandmafter, upon the pretence that this
office was bequeathed to them by the grant of James II.
to the earl of Caithnefs and his heirs j he renounces not
only the right to the office which he derived from the
brethren, but any right alfo, which, as a defcendant of
the earl of Caithnefs, he might claim from the grants
of the Scotifti monarchs.
68. Notwithftanding thofe civil commotions which
difturbed Britain in the 17th century, free mafonry
flouriffied in Scotland, under the aufpices of the Sin¬
clairs of Roflin. No particular event, however, which
is worthy of notice, occurred during that time, or even
during the remainder of the century. The annual af- Mafonry.
femblies of the fraternity w-ere ftill held at Kilwinning, '■“’"■"v
and many charters and conftitutions were granted by
the lodge of that village, for the ereflion of lodges in
different parts of the kingdom.
69. In the year 1736, William St Clair of Roflin, We office^
who was then grandmatter of Scotland, was under
neceffity of difponing his eftate, and, as he had no chil-flgne(j by."
dren of his own, he was anxious that the office of grand-W. Sinclair,
mafter ftiould not be vacant at his death. Having,,
therefore, affembled the Edinburgh and neighbouring,
lodges, he reprefented to them the utility that would'
accrue to the order, by having a gentleman or noble¬
man, of their own choice, as grandmafter of mafonry
in Scotland ; and, at the fame time, intimated his in¬
tention to refign into the hands of the brethren, every
title to that office which he at prefent poffeffed, or
which his fucceffors might claim from the grants of the
Scotifti kings, and the kindnefs of the fraternity. In
confequence of this reprefentation, circular letters were
difpatched to all the lodges of Scotland, inviting them
to appear, either by themfelves or proxies, on next St
Andrew’s day, to concur and affift in the election of a
grandmafter. When that day arrived, about 32 lodges
affembled, and, after receiving the deed of reiignation
from William Sinclair, proceeded to the ele&ion of an¬
other grandmafter ; when, on account of the zeal which
William Sinclair of Roflin had always fliown for the
honour and profperity of the order, he was unanimoufly
ele&ed to that high office, and proclaimed grandmafter rnft;tut;on
mafon of all Scotland. Thus was inftituted the grand of the
lodge of Scotland, which continues to flourifli at thegrand lodge
prefent day. Scotland
70. We have already brought down the hiftory o£m
mafonry in England to the end nearly of the 15th
century. During the whole of the 16th, and the be¬
ginning of the 17th century, no events occurred which
can be inferted in a general hiftory of the order. The
lodges continued to meet, but feem neither to have at-
trafted the notice, nor excited the difpleafure of the le-
giflature.
71. During the civil wars, however, between theFree ma¬
king and the parliament, the fraternity appears to have k>nry flour,
been better known ; and many were initiated into its^
myfteries, who were equally diftinguiftred by their life-^”5 wars,,
rary talents, and their rank in life. Elias Aftrmole in¬
forms us, that he and Colonel Mainwaring were admit¬
ted into the order at Warrington, in Odlober 1646 (n).
This gentleman was the celebrated antiquarian who
founded the Aftimolean mufeum at Oxford. His at¬
tachment to the fraternity is evident from his diligent
inquiries into its origin and hiftory, and his long and
frequent attendance upon its meetings (o). Charles II.
too, was a member of the fraternity, and frequently
honoured the lodges with his prefence (r). From this
faft, chiefly, Dr Robifon afferts, that free mafonry was
employed by the royalifts for promoting the caufe- of
their fovereign, and that the ritual of the mafter’s de¬
gree feems to have been formed, or twifted from its ori¬
ginal inftitution, in order to found the political princi¬
ples
(n) Aftimole’s Diary, p. 15.
(p) Proofs of a Confpiracy, p. 22.
(o) Id. p. 66.
MAS [ 662
,'-t' . llle5: t-ae candidate (q^). The ftrained and fanciful
analogy by which this opinion is iupported, is perhaps
one of the moft linking inftances that could be adduced
to^ Ihovv, to what puerile arguments the moti learned
will refort, when engaged in the defence of a defperate
caufe. But though Dr Robifon maintains, that all who
witneffed the ceremonies of the mailer’s degree during
the civil wars, could not fail to Ihow, by their counte¬
nances, to what party they belonged, yet he obferves,
m another part of his work, that the fymbols of mafon’
iy feemed to be equally fufceptible of every interpreta¬
tion, and that none of theie were entitled to any de¬
cided preference (r). Such inconfiftencies as thefe it
is not eafy to explain.
xreema- 72. An opinion ot an oppofite nature, though equal-
nnf^TiUP'ly extravagant> been maintained by Pivati (s),
tome toy an<? the ^lthor of “ Free Mafonry Examined.” Thefe
have origi- writers aflert, that free mafonry originated in the time
nated in of the Englilh commonwealth; that Oliver Cromwell
the time of was its inventor ; that the level was the fymbol of re-
monwealth. Pl,b].ican eq™hty ; and that the other figns and cere¬
monies were merely arbitrary, and formed for concealing
Abfurdity their political deligns. It would be ridiculous to ente'r
uUi*13 °P1' blto.a Serious refutation of fuch opinions as thefe, which
are founded on the moll unpardonable ignorance. That
free mafonry exilled before the time of Cromwell is as
capable of demonflration, as that Cromwell himfelf ever
exilled. It is really entertaining to obferve, what in-
confiffent and oppoiite opinions are formed upon the
fame, fubjebl. According to one writer, free mafonry
was invented and employed by the adherents of the
king ; according to another, it w^as devifed by the
friends of the parliament. In the opinion of fome it
originated among the Jefuits, who ufed it for the pro¬
motion of their fpiritual tyranny and fuperftition ;
while others maintain, that it arole among a number of
unprincipled fceptics, who employed it for deftroying
the fpiritual tyranny and fuperftition of the Jefuits!
73. It was about this time, according to Dr Robi¬
fon, that free mafonry w^as introduced among the conti¬
nental kingdoms. After James II. of England had ab¬
dicated the throne, and taken refuge in France with
feveral of his adherents, it is probable that they would
communicate additional fpirit to the French lodges ;
but that the Englilh refugees were the firll wdio ex¬
ported mafonry from Britain, or that they employed it
for re-ellablilhing the Stuart family on the Englilh
throne, it is impoftible to prove. Such aflfertions Dr
Robifon has not only hazarded, but has employed them
alfo as the foundation of defamatory conclufions, with¬
out adducing a fingle proof in their fupport. Notwith-
ilanding the difficulty, how’ever, of determining the
precife period when the principles of free mafonry were
1
MAS
imported into France, it is manifeft, from the univerlal Mafonry.
conient of the continental lodges, that it was of Britiffi —“v—
origin ; and it is more than probable, that the French
received it from Scotland about the middle of the 16th
century, during the minority of Queen Mary. It is
well known, that there w^as at that time a freer inter-
couiiv, oetvyeen Scotland and France than at any other
period. Mary queen of Scots was then married to the
heir-apparent of France ; and Mary of Guife, filler to
the French king, was at the fame time regent of Scot¬
land. In confequence of this intimate conneaion be¬
tween, the two kingdoms, Jrench troops wTere lent to
the affiilance of the Scots, who, having relided many
years in the kingdom, and habituated to the manners
and cuftoms of their allies, would naturally carry alona-
with^ them into their native country, thofe cuftoms
w hich afforded them plealure ; and none we know could
be more congenial to the talle and difpofitions of
Frenchmen, than the ceremonial obfervances of free
mafonry. But it is not upon thefe conffderations mere¬
ly that our opinion depends. It receives ample confir-
mation from a fa6l, of which Dr Robifon feems to have
be?a tatalIy ignorant. In the year 1635, a particular
junfdiclion for mafons, called maponnerie, or mafonryf
was eftablifhed in France. All differences which re¬
lated to the art of building, w’ere decided by particular
judges who were called overfeers of the art of mafonry;
and feveral. counfellors were appointed for pleading the
caufes,. which were referred to their decifion ( r). This
institution has fuch a ftriking refemblance to the warden
courts which exifted in Scotland in the 16th centurv,
art. 65. that it mull have derived its origin from thefe.
In both of them, thofe caufes only w-ere decided which
related to mafonry, and overfeers were chofen in both
for bringing thefe caufes to a decilion (u). But as fi-
milar tribunals were held in no other part of the world,
and as. the warden courts were firft eftabliffied in Scot¬
land, it is almoft certain, that the French borrowed
from the Scots the idea of their mafonic tribunal, as
well as free mafonry itfelf, at that particular period
when there was fuch a free communication between the
two kingdoms. That the French received free mafon¬
ry from Scotland, may be prefumed alfo from the An¬
gular pre-eminence which was always given by foreign¬
ers to Scotiffi mafonry, and from the degree of Cheva-
her Mapon Ecq/Jbis, wffiich, as a mark of refpecl to
Scotland, the French had added to the three fymboli-
cal degrees of mafonry about the beginning of the 18th
century.. Had free mafonry not been introduced into
France till after the revolution in 168S, as Dr Robifon
affirms, it is wonderful how fuch a fadl ihould have
been fo quickly forgotten ; for it was unknown about
30 or 40 years afterwards, at what period the French
received
(0_) Proofs of Confpiracy, p. 21.
(R) Id. p. 99.
^S\ Fiberi Muratori auvero Francs Masons Venezia, quoted by Mr Clinch.
(r) Maqonnerm eft auffi le nom d’une jurisdiflion particuliere pour les masons : File fe tient au palais a Paris
et les appellations font portees au parlement: cette jurisdiction a ete etablie en 1645. Ceux qui 1’exercent font
appelles Generaux des Oeuvres de M^onnerie de France. Ils connoiffent de differends cmre les ceuvriers coni
cernant e fait des batimonts. La majonnene a des procureurs particulieres„differens de ceux de parlement, q..:
cependant peuvent y plaider. Diaionnaire de Trevoux vol. r p 2 2 ^ Q
(u) See Appendix, N° ii. ’ ^
2
MAS [ 663 ] MAS
Mafonry- received it from Britain ; and, if the exiled family had
—\r-—1 employed free mafonry, for overturning the Hanoverian
fucceffion, it is ftill more 11 range that fuch a circum-
ftance fhould be unknown in a country, where con¬
cealment was certainly unneceflary. When any new
cuftom is introduced into a nation, the time of its intro-
duftion may be remembered for 70 or 80 years by one
individual, without being committed to writing ; and,
though it be not of fufficient importance, tradition will
preferve it from oblivion for a much greater length of
time. If free mafonry, therefore, never exifted in
France till after the revolution in 1688, is it not ab-
furd to fuppofe, that the period when fuch a fingular in-
flitution was eftablilhed, thould be utterly forgotten at
the diftance of 30 or 40 years from its eftablilhment,
though, during that time, it was never perfecuted by
the French government ?
Innovation 74. But, at whatever period, and from whatever
upon free fource free mafonry was introduced into France, it af-
F11 ncey m ^ume<^ there a very remarkable form. The attachment
rai‘ of that people to innovation and external finery, pro¬
duced the moil unwarrantable alterations upon the prin¬
ciples and ceremonies of the order. A number of new
degrees were created } the office-bearers of the craft
were arrayed in the moft fplendid and coftly attire;
and the lodges were transformed into leiSluring rooms,
where the vvifer brethren fupported the moft extravagant
opinions, difeuffed the abftrufeft queftions in theology
and political economy, and broached opinions hoftile to
the interefts of true religion and found government. In
the other countries of the continent, fimilar innovations,
in a greater or lefs degree, prevailed, while the Britiih
lodges preferved the principles of the craft in their pri¬
mitive fimplicity and excellence. Such dangerous in¬
novations have not the final left connexion with the
principles of free mafonry. They are unnatural excref-
cences formed by a warm imagination, and foftered by
the interference of defigning men. Thofe who reprehend
free mafonry, therefore, for the changes which it under¬
went in the hands of foreigners, may throw equal blame
upon religion, becaufe it has been a cloak for licentiouf-
nefs and hypocrify 5 or, upon fcience, becaufe it has
been converted into an inftrument of iniquity. The
changes of which we have been treating, arofe altoge¬
ther from the political condition of the countries where
they were made. In France, and the other kingdoms
of Europe, where popery was the ecclefiaflical eftablifti-
ment, or where abfolute power was in the hands of
their monarchs, the moft flavifti reftraints were impofed
upon the condufl and converfation of the people. None
durft utter his own fentiments, or converfe upon fucb
metaphyfical fubie£ls as militated againft the theology
and politics of the times. Under fuch reftraints fpecu-
lative men, in particular, were highly diffati'sfied.
Thofe powers which heaven had beftowed, and on the
exercife of which ’ their happinefs depended, were fet¬
tered by human laws, and that liberty of fpeech re-
ftrained which tyranny had no right to controul. For
thefe reafons, the lodges were frequented by men of
philofophical habits, who eagerly embraced an oppor¬
tunity of publiihing their fentiments, and difeuffing the
favourite objedls of their ftudy, without dreading the
threats of government, or the tortures of the inquifition.
In this view, the lodges may be compared to little re¬
publics, enjoying the rational liberties of human nature,
in the midft of an extenfive empire, enftaved by defho-
tifm and fuperftition. In the courle of time, however, v
that liberty was abufed, and doftrines were propagated
in the French and German lodges, which it is the duty
and policy of every government to difeourage and fup*
prefs. But thefe corruptions had by no means a ne-
ceftary connection with free mafonry : they arofe whol¬
ly from the political condition of the continental king¬
doms. In Britain, where the order fubfifted much Caufesof
longer than in any other country, its hiftory is ftained
by no glaring corruptions or offenfive innovations \ ^ j0(prei>
more attention was paid to the intrinfic value of the
order, than to its external obfervances ; and the Brltilh
lodges had a greater refemblance to charitable meet¬
ings, than to pompous and fplendid aflemblies. Blefied
with a free conftitution, and the enjoyment of every liber¬
ty which does not approach to licentioufnefs, the Britifti
mafons wTere under no temptation to introduce into their
lodges religious and political difeuffions. The liberty
of the prefs enables them to give the wideft circulation
to their opinions, however new or extravagant 5 and
they are liable to no punifhment, by publicly attacking
the eftablithed religion of their country. The Britifti
lodges, therefore, have retained their primitive purity ;
they have been employed in no finifter caufe; they
have harboured in their bofem neither traitors, nor
atheifts, nor French philofophers.
75. While the French were bufily engaged in the
decoration of their lodges, and in the invention of new
degrees and trifling ceremonies, the mafons in England
were more wifely employed in extending the bounda¬
ries of the royal art. About the beginning of the 18th
century, during the reign of Queen Anne, free mafon¬
ry feems to have rapidly declined in the fouth of Eng¬
land. Four lodges only exifted in the fouth, and few
hopes could be entertained of revival, while the feat of
the grand lodge wTas at fuch a diftance as the city of
York. In fuch circumftances the four lodges met in
1717, and, in order to give vigour to their declining Inftitution
caufe, and advance the interefts of the fraternity in the01"
fouth, they ele£led themfelves into a grand lodge, and [jf Fnnlan'i*
chofe Anthony Sayer, Efq. for their firft grandmafter. in
Thus was inftituted the grand lodge of England, which
has now attained to fuch a pitch of profperily and
fplendour. The motive which fuggefted this inftitution,
was certainly laudable and ufeful ; but every perfon
muft be aware, that the four lodges were guilty of a
confiderable impropriety in omitting to requeft the
countenance of the grand lodge of York. Notwith-
ftanding this negligence, the greateft harmony fubfifted
between the two grand lodges till 1734 j and under
the aufpices of both, the order flourilhed in every part
of the kingdom, but particularly in the louth of Eng¬
land, where it had formerly been in fuch a languiihing
condition. In the year 1734, however, the grand
lodge of England having granted conftitutions to lodges
within the diftriS of York, without the confent of their
grand lodge, incurred to fuch a degree the difpleafure
of the York mafons, that the friendly intercourfe which
had formerly fubfifted between them, was completely
broken oft; and the profperity of the one was always
viewed by the other with a fufpicious eye. In 1739
alfo fome trifling innovations upon the ancient culloms
of the order, having been imprudently fanflioned by
the grand lodge of England, feveral of the old London
Mafonry.
Free ma¬
fonry intro¬
duced into
different
parts of the
world.
Into the
Eaft Indies,
America,
Germany
^Africa, See.
M AS [6
mafons were highly offended, and, after feceding from
~ the grand lodge, and pretending to a£l under the York
conffitution, they gave tbemfelves the appellation of
Slncievt Mafons, while they attached to thofe con nett¬
ed with the grand lodge the odious appellation of Mo¬
derns, who, in their opinion, never exifted till the
year 1717. The ancient mafons, after their fcceffion,
continued to hold their meetings, without acknowleging
a iuperior, till the year 1772, when they chofe for
their grandmafter the duke of Athol, who was then
grandmaffer elett for Scotland. Since that period both
the grand lodges of England have attained to a high
degree of profperity ; but fuch is their mutual antipa¬
thy, that the members of the one have no correfpon-
dence or communion with thofe of the other. The
Irifh and Scotilh mafons, however, who feem rather to
favour the ancients, hold communion with both the
grand lodges, and are allowed to be prefent at all their
meetings. It is much to be regretted, that fuch re-
fpettable bodies as the two grand lodges of England,
ffiould retard the progrefs of mafonry by their mutual
jealoufies and diflenfions. Schifras in focieties general¬
ly arife from mifcondutt on both fides, which was cer¬
tainly the cafe in the fchifm under confideration. The
moderns undoubtedly departed from their ufual caution
and propriety of condutt, by authorifing the flighted:
innovations upon the ceremonies of an ancient inflitu-
tion. But the ancients have been guilty of a greater
impropriety by being the attive promoters of the fchifm j
and ftill more, by holding up the moderns to the ridi¬
cule of the public. If thefe errors, however, were mu¬
tually acknowledged, and buried in oblivion, that breach
would foon be repaired which has fo long feparated the
two lodges, and which the Scotifh and Iriih mafons
have always regarded wbth pity and indignation.
76. After the inftitution of the grand lodge of Eng¬
land in 1717, free mafonry affirmed a bolder and a
more independent afpett. It was no longer confined to
the JBritiflr ifles, or to the capital of France, but was
deftined to irradiate every portion of the globe; and,
while the grand lodges of Scotland and England con¬
templated with pleafure the propagation of the royal
art, their diligence was fully rewarded by the gratitude
and liberality of the foreign lodges, for the gift which
they received.
77. In the year 1729 free mafonry was introduced
into the Eaft Indies ; and, in a fhort time after, a pro¬
vincial grandmafter was appointed to fuperintend the
lodges in that quarter. In 1730 the grand lodge of
Ireland was inftituted *, lodges were eretted in different
parts of America ; and a provincial deputation granted
to M. Thuanus, for the circle of Lower Saxony. A
patent was fent from England in 1731, to erett a lodge
at the Hague, in which Francis Stephen, duke of Lor-
rain, and afterwards emperor of Germany, was initiated
into the order ; and provincial grandmafters w^ere ap¬
pointed for Ruflia, and Andalufia in Spain. In 1736
lodges were eretted at Cape Coaft, in Africa, and at
Geneva ; and provincial deputations were granted for
Upper Saxony and the American iflands. In 1738, a
lodge wras inftituted at Brunfwick, under the patronage
of the grand lodge of Scotland, in which the late king
cf Pruffia was initiated when prince royal. His maje-
fty was fo pleafed with the maxims and ceremonies of
the order, that he, ever afterwards, was its moft zea-
2
64 1 MAS
lous partizan, and even requefted that a lodge ftiould Mafonry.
be eftabliihed in the capital of his own dominions. In *—v—
this lodge many of the German princes were initiated,
who afterwards filled the office of grandmafter, wrth
much honour to themfelves, and advantage to the fra-'
ternity.
78. But while free mafonry flourifhed in thefe diffe-^ree m:l-
rent parts of the world, and in many other places which fons perfe"
it would be tedious to enumerate, it was doomed to un-^f/^
dergo a variety of perfecutions from the unfounded jea- °IiaUa’
loufies of a few defpotic rulers, and the deep rooted fu-
perihtion of a few Catholic pnefts. 1 hefe perfecutions
took their rife in Holland in the year 1735. The
Spates General were alarmed at the rapid increaie of free
mafons, who held their meetings in every town under
their government ; and as they could not believe that
architetture and brotherly love wrere their only obuetts,
they refolved to difcountenance their proceedings. In
confequence of this determination, an edict was iffued
by govrrnfhent, ftating, that though they had difeover-
ed nothing in the prattices of the fraternity, either in¬
jurious to the interefts of the republic, or contrary to
the charatter of good citizens ; yet, in order to prevent
any bad confequences which might enfue from fuchaffb-
ciations, they deemed it prudent to abolifli the aflfem-
blies of free mafons. Notwithftanding this prohibition,
a refpettable lodge continued to mtet privately at Am-
fterdam ; but intelligence having been communicated
to the magiftrates, all the members were arreited and
brought before the court of juftice. At this tribunal,
in prefence of all the magiftrates of the city, the mafters
and wardens boldly defended themfelves ; and declared
upon oath, that they were loyal fubjetts, faithful to
their religion, and zealous for the interefts of their coun¬
try ; that free mafonry was an inftitution venerable in
itfelf, and ufeful to fociety ; and that though they could
not reveal the fecrets and ceremonies of their order
they could affure the judges that they were contrary to
the laws neither of God nor man, and that they would
w’illingly admit into their order any individual in whom
the magiffrates could confide, and from whom they
might receive fuch information as would fatisfy a rea-
fonable mind. In confequence of thefe declarations,
the brethren were difmiffed, and the town fecretary re¬
quefted to become a member of the fraternity. After
initiation he returned to the court of juftice, and gave
fuch a favourable account of the principles and prac¬
tice of the fociety, that all the magiftrates became
brethren of the order, and zealous patrons of free
mafonry.
79. After free mafonry had thus honourably triumph-Free ma-
ed over her perfecutors in Holland, (he had to contend fonry Pei**
in France with prejudices equally inveterate though pUted m
lefs infuperable. Although many perfons of diftinttion1™®**’
defended the fraternity, and expoftulated with the court
on the impropriety of fevere meafures, their aflemblies
were abolifhed in 1737? under the common pretext that
fome dre dtul defign was concealed beneath their in¬
violable fecrets, hoftile to religion, and dangerous to
the kingdom. But when thefe ebullitions of party fpirit
and private malice had fubfided, the prohibition of go¬
vernment wTas gradually forgotten, and the fraterni¬
ty in France recovered their former profperity and
fplendour.
80. In Germany too, the -tranquillity of the order And in
was Germany.
M A S r
M:.fonry. was dlfluibed by the Intrigues of fome ignorant females.
—v—^ Some German ladies, who poiTeffed more curiofity than
is common to their lex, were anxious to difcover the
fecrets of free mafonry. Having been baffled in all
their attempts on the ffcklenefs of their hufbands, and
the fondnefs of their admirers, they converted their cu¬
riofity into revenge, and attempted to inflame the mind
ef Maria Therefa the emprefs queen, againft the lodges
in Vienna. Their attempt was in fome meafure fuc-
cefsful, as they perfuaded her to iffue an order for fur-
prifing all the mafons in the city when aflembled in
their lodges. This plan, however, was fruftrated by
the intervention of the emperor Jofeph I. who being
himfelf a mafon, pledged himfelf for the good conduct
of his brethren, and (hewed the ladies and their triends,
that their charges againft the order wrere falfe and deh-
matory.
Tree mafons 81. When the flame of perfecution is once kindled,
perfecuted its devaftations are feldom confined to the fpot where it
in Italy originated. The example of one nation is urged as an
excufe for the condudt of another ; and like the itorm
on the fandy defert, its effedts are ruinous in proportion
to its progrefs. In Holland and trance the holtility of
the government againft free mafonry was foon difarmed.
But when the flame reached the eccleftaftical ftates of
Italy, its eft'edls were more baneful and its duration
more lengthened. In the year 1738, a formidable bull
was thundered from the conclave, not only againft free
mafons themfelves, but againft all thofe who counte¬
nanced a fet of men who, in the opinion of his holinefs,
were enemies to the tranquillity of the ftate, and hoftile
to the fpiritual interefts of fouls. This bull wTas follow¬
ed by an edict dated 14th January 1739, in which the
fervitude of the galleys, the tortures of the rack, and a
fine of 1000 crowns in gold, were threatened to perfons
of every defcription who breathed the infedlious air of
a mafonic affembly. A few weeks afterwards a decree
was iffucd by his holinefs condemning a French book,
entitled An Apology for the Society of Free Mafons,
and ordering it to be burnt by the tninifters of juftice,
in one of the bed frequented ftreets of Rome.
Hoi- 82. In confequence of thefe ena&ments at Rome,
the catholic clergymen in Holland attempted in 1740
to enforce obedience to the decrees of their fuperiors.
In examining the religious qualifications of thofe’who
required a certificate to receive the holy facrament, the
priefts took occafion to refufe the certificate to fuch as
were free mafons, and expelled them for ever from the
communion table. Having exerted their authority in
the expulfion of feveral refpe&able characters, the atten¬
tion of the public was roufed by fuch arbitrary proceed¬
ings, and after the publication of feveral pamphlets by
the adherents of both parties, the ftates general inter¬
fered, and prohibited the exercife of that fpiritual
power, which, inftead of fuppreffing immorality, had ex¬
cited divifions among their fellow fubjeCts.
83. In order to preferve the order from that ruin to
n-’Mon ot 'vvk'ich ^ feemed fall approaching, feveral free mafons of
the"mafons. diftinClion in Germany who were friendly to the church
of Rome, inftituted a new aftbciation formed on the
fame principles, and propoftng to itfelf the fame objeCI
as free mafonry. The members were denominated
mopfes, from the German word mops, fignifying a young
maftiff, which was deemed a proper emblem of the mu¬
tual fidelitv and attachment-of the brethren. But that-
VOL.XII. Part II.
And i
land.
Jnftitution
of the a (To¬
ri ation of
665 ] MAS
they might preferve the myfteries of free mafonry from Mafonry
fuch of the members as were not mafons, they rejeCled ~
from their ritual all the mafonic (igns and ceremonies;
and in order to efcape the vengeance of the church ot
Rome, they converted the oath of fecrecy into a (maple
promife, and admitted women into their new aftocia-
tion. The mopfes were patronifed by the mod iiluf-
trious characters in Germany, and feveral princes of tne
empire were grand matters of the order. The hoftiiity
of the Roman fee to the proteftants in Germany in¬
duced the mopfes to exclude them from their iraternity ;
but this was merely a pretence to deceive his holinefs,
for they afterwards admitted men of every religion and
of every country.
84. As the authority of the pope did not extend to
Switzerland, free mafonry ftourilhed in that republic till
1741, when the council of Berne iffued an edift pi'o-^
hibiting under the fevered penalties the aflemblies oi
free mafons. No reafon was affigned for this conduct,
and no charges advanced againft the order. I he coun¬
cil of Berne are terrified for fecret afifociations, and
therefore they muft opprefs and perfecute them. Not
fatisfied with abolfthing the lodges in the republic, they
decreed that every free mafon muft accufe himfelf be¬
fore the magiftrates of the diftridl, that he muft re¬
nounce his obligations to fecrecy, and fwear in the pre¬
fence of the Almighty, to trample upon thofe engage¬
ments, which before the fame Being they had fworn to
reverfe. Such an inftance of tyranny over the minds
and confciences of men, is a remarkable fa£l in the hif-
tory of a republic where the reformed religion had been.
pra£tifed from its infancy, and where free maions
had always conducted themielves with exemplary pro¬
priety.
85. The perfecutions which free malonry encounter-Free mafon-
ed were hitherto confined to the continent, ihe tide ry perfecu-
of religious frenzy, however, now rolled to the (bores
of Britain. In the year 1745, the Aflbciate Synod at¬
tempted to difturb the peace of the fraternity } and had
they been poffeffed of half the power of the church of
Rome or the council of Berne, their proceedings,
prompted by equal fanaticiim, would have been mark¬
ed with the fame feverity •, but, fortunately for the or¬
der, their power extended only to the fpiritual concerns
of thofe delinquents who were of the fame feift: with
themfelves. In the beginning of the year 1745, an
overture was laid before the fynod of Stirling, dating
that many improper things were performed at the initia¬
tion of mafons, and requefting that the fynod would con-
fider whether or not the members of that order were en¬
titled to partake in the ordinances of religion. The fy¬
nod remitted this overture to all the kirk-feflions under
their infpettion, allowing them to a£I as they thought
proper. In 1755, however, they appointed all their kirk-
ieflions to examine every perlon who was fufpe£Ied to
be a free mafon, and to demand an explicit anfwer to
any queftion which they might alk, concerning^the ad-
miniftration of the mafon oath. In the courfe of thefe
examinations, the kirk feflion difeovered, (for they feem
hitherto to have been ignorant of it) that men who were
not architeifts were admitted into the order. On this
account the fynod, in the year 17 i7» thought it necef-
fary to adopt ftricler meafures. They drew up a lift of
queftions, which thev appointed every kirk-feflion to
put to thefe under their charge. Thefe qtieftiphs re-
4 P lated
M A S
Mafonrv
Free Ma-
i'onry flou-
rifhes on
the conti¬
nent.
• lated to what they thought were the ceremonies of free
mafonry • and thofe who rcfufed to anfwer them were
debarred from religious ordinances. The objeft of
thefe proceedings was not, certainly, as is pretended, to
make the abettors of the Affociate Synod more holy
and upright, by detaching them from the fraternity.
This could have been effected without that fpecies of
examination which they anthorifed. The church of
Rome were contented with difperdng the fraternity, and
receiving its repentant members into their communion.
The council of Berne went no farther than abolilhing
the fociety, and compelling the brethren to renounce
, their engagements, left thefe thould be inconfiftent with
the duties of citizens. But a fynod of Scottifh diffen-
ters, who cannot imitate in thefe points the church of
Rome and the council of Berne, muft compel the free
mafons of their congregation to give them an account
of thofe myfteries and ceremonies, which they durft not
obtain by regular initiation.
86. Notwithftanding thefe perfecutions, free mafonry
flouriftied, and was in the higheft eftimation in Great
Britain, France, Germany, and feveral other kingdoms
of Europe. In 1743, it was exported from Scotland
to Denmark ; and the lodge which was then inftituted
is now the grand lodge of that kingdom. The fame
profperity has attended the firft lodge in Sweden, which
was ere&ed at Stockholm in 1754, under a patent from
Scotland. In 1765, a fplendid apartment was erefted
at Marfeilles, for the accommodation of the brethren.
It was adorned with the fineft paintings, reprefenting
the moft interefting fcenes that occur in the hiftorv of
the Old and New Teftament, and calculated to remind
the fpeddator of his various duties as a man, a fubieft,
and a Chriftian. The reprefentation of Jofeph and his
brethren, of the Samaritan and Jew, of Lot and the
Angels, muft have reminded every brother of the beau¬
ty of charity and forgivenefs, which are the firft prin¬
ciples of mafonry, as they are the firft duties of man.
The pidture of Peter and the Apoftles paying tribute
to Caefar, muft have recalled to every individual his
obligations^ as a citizen, to revere and fupport the con-
ftituted authorities. And the reprefentation of Job in
his misfortunes, lifting up his hands to heaven, muft have
forced upon the minds of the moft inconfiderate, this
important reflexion—that fortitude and refignation to
the will of God are the duties of all in diftrefs, and
that the divine blefting will ultimately attend thofe who
bear, without murmuring, the chaftifements of their fa¬
ther, and preferve, amidft the fevereft trials, their pa¬
tience and virtue unimpaired (x). Thefe obfervations,
apparently trifling, are important in one refpedf, as they
fhoiv that the French lodges had not at that time fofter-
ed in their bofom the votaries of fcepticifm and difloyal-
ty. 1 he other lodges in France were at this time nu¬
merous and magnificent. The grand lodge contained
about twenty offices, which were all filled by noblemen
of the higheft rank. They had provincial grand maf-
ters fimilar to thofe of Scotland, and the infignia and
jewels of ali thofe office-bearers, were as rich and fplen¬
did as the ledges where they aflembled.
87. In the year 1767, a lodge, under an Englifti
[ 666 ]
M A S
conftitution was eftabliffied at Berlin, under the appel- Mafonry.
lation of Le Royd/e York, in honour of the duke of 
\ ork, who was initiated into the fraternity by that
lodge while he was travelling on the continent. In
1768, the free mafons of Germany were authorifed to
hold their aiTernblifes, by a charter granted by the king
of Pruffia, the eleflor of Saxony, and the queen of
Hungary and Bohemia, and afterwards by the emoeror
of Germany himfelf. By another charter from Eng¬
land, in 1769, a lodge was erected at Brunfwick, which,
a Ihort time after, received a provincial deputation from
England, for fuperintending the lodges of Lower Saxony.
In the year 1773 a compaft was entered into between
the grand lodge of England, under Lord Petre, and
the grand lodge at Beilin, under the prince of Heife
Darmftadt, which had a few years before been duly
erefted into a grand lodge, at a meeting of the mafters
and wardens of twelve regular lodges. In this com¬
pact it was ftipulated, that the grand lodge of Berlin
thould be acknowledged as the grand lodge of the
whole empire of Germany, including the dominions of
his Pruffian majefty •, that it fliould exercife no mafonic
power out of the empire of Germany, or within the dif-
tri£l under the authority of the grand lodge of Brunf¬
wick •, that the ele&orate of Hanover thould be free to
both the grand lodges in Germany ; and that the
eontrafling parties thould unite their efforts to counter-
aft all innovations in mafonry, and particularly the pro¬
ceedings of a fet of mafons in Berlin, who, under the
denomination of Stricie Obfervantx, had annihilated
their former conftitutions, erefted themfelves into a
grand lodge, and fanftioned very improper innovations
upon the principles and ceremonies of the fraternity.
This compaft was highly approved of by the king of
Pruffia, who immediately erefted the grand lodge of
Berlin into a corporate body. In 1777, the king of
Pruffia was proteftor of all the mafbns in Germany.
Ferdinand, duke of Brunfwick and Lunenburgh, was
grand mafter of all the united lodges in Germany 5
and the other offices were filled by the moft able
and illuftrious princes of the empire. Under the auf-
pices of fuch diftinguiffied perfonages, and the jurif-
diftion of the grand lodges of Berlin and Brunfwick,
free mafonry has flouriftied to the prefent day in that ex-
tenfive empire.
88. In Germany, Denmark, and Sweden, charity-Charity
fchools were erefted by the lodges, for educating the^'000^ e-
children of free mafons, whofe poverty debarred them
from this advantage. In that which was formed at trv'e rnaic's®'
Brunfwick, they were inftrufted even in claffical learn¬
ing, and various branches of the mathematics ; and
were regularly examined by the duke of Bruniwick,
who rewarded the moft deferving with fuitable dona¬
tions. At Eifenach feveral feminaries of this kind
were eftabliffied. The teachers were endowed with fix¬
ed falaries j and, in a fhort time after their inftitution,
they had fent into the world 700 children, inilrufted
in the principles of fcience, and the doftrines of Chrift-
ianity. In 1771, an eftabliffiment of a fimilar kind
was formed at Caffel, in which the children were main¬
tained and educated till they could provide for them¬
felves.
(x) For a farther account of this building, fee Smith’s Ufe and Abufe of Free Mafonry, p. 165,
M
AS [ 667 ] M A S
united lodges of Drefden, Leip- fpiracy, are circumftances for which the ftiadow of a
“     ' ' proof has not yet been adduced. Dr Robifon indeed
ted in Por¬
tugal.
Mafonry. felves. In 1773 the _
1 v fick, and Gorlitz, erefted at Frederickiladt a feminary
of learning for children of every denomination in the
ele&orate of Saxony. The mafonic fubfcriptions were
fo numerous that the funds of the inftitution were fuf-
ficient for its maintenance ■, and in the fpace of five years,
above 1100 children received a liberal education. In
the fame year, an extenfive workhouie was erefled at
Prague in wThich the children were not only initiated
into the firft principles of learning, but into thoie
branches of the ufeful and fine arts which might qualify
them for commercial and agricultural fituations. It
deferves to be remarked, that the founders of thefe in-
Pdtutions, amid their anxiety for the public profperity,
never negle6!ed the fpiritual interelfs of the children.
They faw that early piety is the foundation of all that
is ufeful and honourable in life j and that without this,
fpeculative knowledge and praftical (kill are of littre
avail.—How inconfiftent are fuch fa£ls with thole fa¬
bulous accounts of the German lodges, which have been
publilhed in England by a few party-men. .
Free mafon- 89. While thefe things were going on in Germany,
perfecu- brethren in Portugal were expofed to the perfecu-
tf-H ,n For. t.on o£ jts bigotted rulers. Major Francis d’Alin-
court, a Frenchman, and Don Oyres de Ornellas Pra-
cao, a Portuguefe nobleman, were in 1766 imprifoned
by the governor of Madeira for their attachment to
their order. Being afterwards carried to Lilbcn, they
were confined for fourteen months, till they were re¬
leafed by the generous interceffion of the brethren in
that city. In the following year feveral free mafons
were confined at Naples, but loon liberated by the in¬
terceffion * of foreign princes, and the eloquence ol an
Italian advocate.
90. Notwithftanding the perfecutions which the fra¬
ternity experienced in Holland, free mafonry was
flouriftung in that republic in 1779* time a
compaft was entered into between the grand lodge of
Holland, held at the Hague, and that of England. In
this compact it w7as ftipulated that the grand lodge of
Holland Ihould be permitted to ereft lodges within her
territories, both at home and abroad, and to appoint
provincial grand mailers over each dillridl. In confe-
quence of this aceffion of power to the grand lodge of
Holland, free mafonry flourilhed, under its aufpices, in
the Dutch lettlements in India, Africa, and South
America.
91. Let us now direfl our attention to a new fecret
affociation which about this time, arofe in Germany,
the illumi- an(j which was imagined to have taken its rife from
free mafonry, and to have planned a diabolical con-
fpiracy againll every religious and political ellablilh-
ment in Europe. In 1775 the order of the i luminati
was founded by Doflor Adam Weilhaupt, profeilor of
canon law in the univerfity of Ingohladt. In this af¬
fociation fpeculative opinions were inculcated, which
were certainly mconfillent with the principles of found
religion and focial order. But that illuminifm origi¬
nated from free mafonry 5 that it brought about the
French revolution, or even planned any dangerous con-
Mafonry.
Origin and
hiftory of
exprefsly affirms, that illuminifm “ took its rife among
the free mafons, but was totally different from free ma¬
fonry and by a deceitful anachronifm, he reprefents
Weilhaupt as an aftive member in the German lodges,
before he acquaints his readers that he was the founder
of the iliuminati, for no other reafon than to make
them believe that Weiffiaupt was a free maion before he
planned his new affociation (f). Now 'the cale was
very different indeed. Barruel himfelf afferts, “ that
it is a fa£l demonftrated beyond a doubt, that Weiffiaupt
became a mafon in 1777 only ; and that two years be¬
fore this, when he ertablilhed illuminifm, he was to¬
tally unacquainted with the mylteries of free ma¬
fonry (g).” Here then is an important fa£l which
ft likes at the root of all Dr Robifon’s reafoning againll
free mafonry. Barruel maintains, that Weiffiaupt was
not a njafon till two years after the organization of his
new inftitution ; and Dr Robifon allows, that illummilm
was totally different from free mafonry. The two in-
ftitutions, therefore, were totally unconnected 5 lor the
members of the one were never admitted into the lodges
of the other, without being regularly initiated into the
myfteries of both. Upon thefe limple facts we would
arrelt the attention of every reader, and thofe in parti¬
cular who have been fwindled out of their fenles, by
the united exertions of a prielt and a philofopher.
92. After Weifhaupt had organized his inflitution,
he exerted every nerve to dilTeminate its principles.
For this purpofe he became a free mafon in 1777 >.and
by means of emiffaries, he attempted to circulate his
opinions among the French and German lodges. In
thefe attempts indeed, he was fometimes fuccefsful.
But it Ihould be recolleCted by thofe who, on this ac¬
count, calumniate free mafonry, that the fame objection
may be urged againlt Chriftianity, becaufe impottors
have fometimes gained profelytes, and perverted the
wavering minds of the multitude. Thefe doCtrines,
however, were not merely circulated by Weiihaupt in.
a few of the lodges, and taught at the affemblies of
the iliuminati. They were publifhed to the world in
the molt fafcinating form, by the French encyclope-
dilts 5 and were inculcated in all the eloquence, with
which fome of the molt celebrated philofophers on the
continent could adorn them. It can only be faid of
Weifliaupt, therefore, that he was not jult fuch a deter¬
mined infidel as Voltaire and his affociates.—Such is a
Ihort, and it is hoped, an impartial view of the origin
and progrefs of the illuminati. It may be now7 proper
to attend to the caufes from which this aflbeiation arofe,
and the advantages and difadvantages which it may
have engendered. . _ Caufes from
93. About the middle of the eighteenth century the wliichillu-
literati on the continent were divided into two great mhnfm
parties. The one may be confidered as ex-jefuits, or lc'e'
adherents to the catholic fuperflition, who were promot¬
ers of political and religious defpotifm, and inculcated
the dodlrines of non-reliitance and paffive obedience.
The other party w7as compofed of men who were friends
4 P 2 to
(F) P oofs of a Confpiracy, Introduftion, p. 15. and p. lot.
(g) Memoirs of Jacobinifm, Part iii. Preliminary Oblervations, p. 15. and p. 12.
mas [ 668
Mafonry. to the reformed religion, enemies of fuperflition and
_^'v ’ fanaticilrn, and fupporters of the abfurd doftrine of the
infinite perieflibility of the human mind. Xhey were
diflatified with that flavery which was impofed by the
defpotifm of the continental rulers, and the fuperllition
of the church of Rome ; and many of them entertained
opinions adverfe to the Chriftiamreligion, and to every
exifting form of government. Between thefe two
parties there was a perpetual druggie for poiver. The
ex-jefuits accufed their opponents as heretics and pro¬
moters of jacobinifm and infidelity ; while the others
were conftantly expofing the intrigues of priefts, and
the tyranny of defpots. To this latter clafs belonged
Wehhaupt and his affociates, who inftituted the order
of the illuminati for no other purpofe than to oppofe
thofe corrupted priefts, who would have degraded them
as Chriftians, and thofe tyrannical defpots who have
enftaved them as citizens. The collifion of thefe parties
was. certainly productive of the greateft advantages.
While the Jefuits reftrained the inclination of one part
of the community, to overrate the dignity of the hu¬
man mind, and anticipate ideal vifions of religious and
political perfeclion ; the illuminati counteracted thofe
gloomy opinions which debafe the dignity of our na¬
ture, which check the energies of the mind, and im-
pofe the moft galling yoke of religious and political
-fervitude.
94. After the French revolution, which, as Mounier
has. well fhowm, arofe from other caufes than thofe to
which Barruel and Robifon afcribe it, the plans of thefe
parties were not carried on in Germany fo fyftematical-
ly as before ; and notw'ithftanding the fabrications with
which Barruel has calumniated the lodges in that coun¬
try, free mafonry prevails to his day, refpedled by the
moft virtuous and fcientific members of the community,
and patronized by the moft diftinguiflied princes of the
empire.
95. In Germany the qualifications for a free mafon
are great and numerous* No perfon is initiated into
the order without the confent of every member of the
lodge ; and it frequently happens, that a German even
is excluded by a Angle diffenting voice. On this ac¬
count the lodges of that country are filled with perfons
of the firft rank and refpe&ability ; and every thing is
conducted with the greateft decorum and folemnity.
As mafonry is there held in the higheft eftimation, an
Englilhman will obtain an eafier introduction to the
chief nobility and literati of Germany in a mafon lodge
than in any other place ; and will never repent of ha¬
ving been initiated into the order in his native coun-
try(H).
96. After the publication of the works of Barruel
and Robifon, the progrefs of free mafonry in Britain
was retarded by an aft of parliament in 1799 for the
luppreflion of feditious focieties, by which the fraternity
were virtually prohibited from erefting new lodges in
the kingdom. But this aft was not prompted by the
calumnies of thefe.writers. It became neceffary from
the political condition of the kingdom ; and the excep¬
tions which it contained in favour of free mafons, com-
Refpeftabi
lity of free
mafons in
Germany.
] MAS
pletely prove that government never credited the re¬
ports .of thefe alarmifts, but placed the moft implicit
confidence in the loyalty and prudence of Britilh ma¬
fons.. The private charafters, indeed, as well as the
public fituations of thofe individuals who are now grand
mafters of the order, are a fufticient pledge to the le-
gi.flature and the uninitiated public, that free mafonry
will prtferve in thefe kingdoms its ancient purity and
fimplicity, and that it will ever continue to be the foe
of defpotifm and oppreffion, the enemy of fuperftition
and fanaticifm, the promoter of civilization and good
order, and the friend of true benevolence and unaffefted
piety.
MASORA, a term in the Jewifti theology, fignify-
ing a work on the Bible, performed by feveral learned
rabbins, to fecure it from any alterations which might
othervvife happen.
Their weak regards merely the letter of the Hebrew
text, in which they have, firft, fixed the true reading
by vow'els and accents : they have, fecondly, numbered
not only the chapters and feftions, but the verfes,
words, and letters of the text: and they find in the
Pentateuch 5245 verfes, and in the whole Bible 23,206.
The mafora is called, by the Jews, the hedge or fence of
the /aw, becaufe this enumeration of the verfes, &c.
is a means of preferving it from being corrupted and
altered. I hey have, thirdly, marked whatever irregu¬
larities occur in any of the letters of the Hebrew' text;
fuch. as the different fize of the letters, their various
pofitions and inverfions, &c. and they have been fruit¬
ful in. finding out reafons for thefe irregularities and
myfteries in them. They are, fourthly, fuppofed to
be the authors of the Keri and Chetibh, or the margi¬
nal correftions of the text in our Hebrew Bibles.
1 he text of the facred books, it is to be obferved,
was originally written without any breaks or divifions
into chapters or verfes, or even into words 5 fo that a
whole book, in the ancient manner, was but one con¬
tinued wmrd •, of this kind wre have ftill feveral ancient
manuferipts, both Greek and Batin, In regard, there¬
fore, the facred writings had undergone an infinite
number of alterations, w'hence various readings had
arifen, and the original was become much mangled
and difguifed,.the Jews had recourfe to a canon, which
they judged infallible, to fix and afeertain the reading
of the Hebrew text ; and this rule they call mafora,
“ tradition,” from 'nu, tredidit, as if this critique
W'ere nothing but a tradition which they had received
from their forefathers. Accordingly they fay, that
when God gave the law to Mofes at Mount Sinai, he
taught him, firft, the true reading of it; and, fecond¬
ly, its true interpretation ; and that both thefe were
handed down by oral tradition, from generation to ge¬
neration, till at length they were committed to writing.
The former of thefe, viz. the true reading, is the fub-
jeft of the mafora ; the latter, or true interpretation,
that of the miftrna and gemara.
According to Elias Levita, they were the Jews of
a famous fchool at 'Tiberias, about 500 years after
Chrift, who compofed, or at leaft began, the mafora j
whence
„ (H) -P1’ Rider’s 'lour through Germany, Introduction to vol. i. p. 30 and 33. Dr Render maintains, that
iiee mafonry has greatly improved the manners and difpofjtiou of the Germans. See vol. ii, p. 200 Note.
M A S [
Maiqtxc. whence they are called mafuntes, and maforelic doEtors.
Aben Ezra makes them the authors of the points and
accents in the Hebrew text, as we now find it 5 and
w7hich ferve for vowTels.
The age of the maforites has been much difputed.
Archbifliop Ulher places them before Jerome'-, Capel,
at the end of the fifth century j Father Morin, in the
tenth century. Bafnage fays, that they were not a fo-
ciety, but a fuccellfion of men and that the mafora is
the work of many grammarians, who, without afibci-
ating and communicating their notions, compofed- this
collection of criticifms on the Hebrew text. It is ur¬
ged that there were maforites from the time ol Ezra and
the men of the great fynagogue, to about the year of
Chrift 1030 : and that Ben Afiier and Ben Naphtali,
wdio w-ere the belt of the profeffibn, and who, according
to Bafnage, w-ere the inventors of the mafora, fiourilhed
at this time. Each of thefe publiflied a copy of the
whole Hebrew text, as corredf, fays Dr Prideaux, as
they could make it. The eaflern Jews have followed
that of Ben Naphtali, and the weftern that of Ben
Aiher ; and all that has been done fince is to copy
after them, without making any more corre&ions or
maforetical criticifms.
The Arabs have done the fame thing by their Ko¬
ran that the maforites have done by the Bible *, nor do
the Jews deny their having borrowed this expedient
from the Arabs, who firft put it in practice in the feventh
century.
There is a great and little Mafora printed at Venice
and at Bafil, with the Hebrew text in a different cha¬
racter. Bxutorf has written a maforetic commentary,
which he calls Tiberius.
MASQUE, or Mask, a cover for the face, con¬
trived with apertures for the eyes and mouth ; origi¬
nally worn chiefly by women of condition, either to
preferve their complexion from the weather, or out of
modefty to prevent their being known. Poppsea, wife
of Nero, is faid to be the firfi inventor of the mafque ;
which fhe did to guard her complexion from the fun
and weather, as being the moft delicate w'oman, with
regard to her perfon, that has been known.
Theatrical mafques were in common ufe both among
the Greeks and Romans : Suidas and Athenseas afcribe
the invention of them to the poet Choerilus, a contem¬
porary of Thefpis : Horace attributes them to ALfchy-
lus; hut Ariftotle informs us, that the real inventor,
and confequently the time of their firfi; introduction
and ufe, were unknown. Brantome obferves, that the
common ufe of modern mafques was not introduced
till towards the end of the fixteenth century.
Masque is alfo ufed to fignify any thing ufed to
cover the face, and prevent a perfon’s being known.
The penitents of Lyons and Avignon hide their faces
with large white veils, which ferve them for mafques.
The Iron Masque (Mafque de Fer), or Man with
the Iron Mafque, a remarkable perfonage fo denominat¬
ed, who exifted as a ftate prifoner in France during
the latter part of the 17th century. As the circum-
ftances of this perfon form a hifiorical problem which
has occafioned much inquiry, and given rife to ifiany
conjeftures, as well as of late, in confequence of the de-
firuCtion of the Bafiile, excited in a particular manner
the curiofity of the public, it fhall be endeavoured to
condenfe in this article the fubfiance of every thing
669 ] M A S
material that has been pubiifhed on the fubjeCL We
{hall firft relate fuch particulars concerning this extra¬
ordinary prifoner as appear to be well authenticated ;
and (hall afterwards mention the different opinions and
conjeClures that have been entertained with regard to
his real quality, and the caufes of his confinement.
I. The authenticated particulars concerning the Iron
Mafque are as follows : A few months after the death
of Cardinal Mazarine, there arrived at the ille of Sainte
Marguerite, in the fea of Provence, a young prifoner
whofe appearance w-as peculiarly attrading: his per¬
fon wras above the middle fize, and elegantly formed j
his mien and deportment wrere noble, and his manners
graceful; and even the found of his voice, it is faid,
had in it fomething uncommonly interefting. On the
road he conftantly wrore a mafque made with iron
fprings, to enable him to eat without taking it off. It
wras at firft believed that this mafque was made entire¬
ly with iron whence he acquired the name of “ the
Man with the iron mafk.” His attendants had receiv¬
ed orders to defpatch him if he attempted to take off
his mafque or difcover himfelf. He had been firft con¬
fined at Pignerol, under the care of the governor M. de
St Mars; and upon being fent from thence to Sainte
Marguerite, he was accompanied thither by the fame
perfon, who continued to have the charge of him. He
was always treated with the moft marked refpeft : he
was ferved conftantly in plate and the governor him¬
felf placed his difites on the table, retiring immediately
after and locking the door behind him. He tu-to''yoii
(thee’d and thou’d) the governor ; who, on the other
hand, behaved to him in the moft refpeflful manner,
and never wore his hat before him, nor fat down in
his prefence unlefs he was defired. The marquis de
Louvoifis, w'ho went to fee him at St Marguerite,
fpoke to him {landing, and with that kind of attention
which denotes high refpefl.
During his relidence here, he attempted twice, in
an indire6I manner, to make himfelf known. One
day he wrote fomething with his knife on a plate, and
threw it out of his window7 towards a boat that was
drawn on firore near the foot of the tower. A fither-
man picked it up and carried it to the governor. M.
de St Mars w7as alarmed at the fight 5 and alked the
man with great anxiety, whether he could read, and
whether any one elfe had feen the plate ? The man
anfvvered, that he could not read, that he had but juft
found the plate, and that no one elfe had fcen it. He
wras, however, confined till the governor was, well af¬
fined of the truth of his affections.—Another attempt
to difcover himfilf proved equally unfuccefsful. A
young man who lived in the ifle, one day perceived,
fomething floating under the prifoner’s window; and
on picking it up, he difcovered it to be a very fine
ftiirt w-ritten all over. He carried it immediately to
the governor; who, having looked at fome parts of
the writing, alked the lad, with force appearance of
anxiety, if he had not had the curiofity to read it?
He protefted repeatedly that he had not but two
days afterw-ards he w'as found dead in his bed.
The Mafque de Fer remained in this ifie till the year
1698, when M. St Mars being promoted to the go¬
vernment of the Baftile, conducted his prifoner to that
fortrefs. In his way thither, he fropt with him at his
eftate near Palteau. The Malque arrived there in a
litter.
M afqu
MAS [6
• litter, furrounded by a numerous guard on horfeback.
M, de St Mars ate at the fame table with him all the
tune they relided at Palteau j but the latter was always
placed with his back towards the windows 5 and the
pea fan ts, who came to pay their compliments to their
maiter, and whom curiohty kept conflantly on the
watch, obferved that M. de St Mars always fat op-
poiite to him with two piftols by the fide of his plate.
They were waited on by one fervant only, who brought
in and carried out the dilhes, always carefully (hutting
the door both in going out and returning. The pri-
ioner was always mafked, even when he paffed through
the court; but the people faw his teeth and lips, and
alio obferved that his hair was gray.—The governor
ftept in the fame room with him, in a fecond bed that
was placed in it on that occafion. In the courfe of
their journey, the Iron Mafic was, one day heard to
afk his keeper whether the king had any defign on
his life ? “ No, prince,” he replied ; “ provided that
you quietly allow yourfelf to be conduced, your life is
perfectly fecure.”
J he flranger was accommodated as well as it was
poffible to be in the Eaflile. An apartment had been
prepared for him by order of the governor before his
arrival, fitted up in the moft convenient fiyle ; and
every thing he exprelfed a defire for was inftantly pro¬
cured him. His table was the beft that could be pro¬
vided ; and he was ordered to be fupplied with as rich
Clothes as he defired : but his chief taffe in this Jaft
particular was for lace, and for linen remarkably fine.
It appears that he was allowed the ufe of fuch books
as he defired, and that he fpent much of his time in
reading. He alfo amufed himfelf with playing upon
the guitar. He had the liberty of going to mafs ;
but was then flridlly forbid to fpeak or uncover his
face: orders were even given to the foldiers to fire upon
him if he attempted either j and their pieces were al¬
ways pointed towards him as he paffed through the
court. When he had occafion to fee a furgeon or a
phyfician, he was obliged, under pain of death, con-
ilantly to wear his mafk. An old phyfician of the
Baftile, who had often attended him when he was in-
diipofed, faid, that he never fawr his face, though he
had frequently examined his tongue, and different parts
of his body ; that there was fomething uncommonly
interefting in the found of his voice - and that he ne¬
ver complained of his confinement, nor, let fall from
him any hint by which it might be gueffed who he was.
It is faid that he often paffed the night in walking up
and down his room.
This unfortunate prince died on the 19th of No-
vember 1703, after a fliort illnefs; and was interred
next day in the burying place of the parifii of St Paul.
The expence of his funeral amounted only to forty
livres. The name given him was Marchiali: and even
his age, as well as his real name, it feemed of import¬
ance to conceal 5 for in the register made of his fune-
lal, it was mentioned that he was about forty years
Old j though he had told his apothecary, lome time
before his death, that he thought he mud be fixty. 
It js a well-known faft, that immediately after the
pit loner’s death, his apparel, linen, clothes, mattreffes,
and in (hort every thing that had been ufed by him,
weie cumt j tnat the walls of his room were (craped,
the floor taken up, evidently from the apprehenfion
3
70 ] M A S
tnat he might have found means of writing any thing Mafque.
that would have difeovered who he was. Nay, fuch
was the (ear of his having left a letter or any mark
which might lead to a difeovery, that his plate was
melted down ; the glafs was taken out of the window
of his room and pounded to dull 5 the window-frame
and doors burnt ; and the ceiling of the room, and
the plafter of the infide of the chimney, taken down.
Several perfons have affirmed, that the body was bu¬
ried without a head ; and Monfieur de Saint Foix in¬
forms us % that “ a gentleman having bribed the fex-*inhis^:
ton, had the body taken up in the night, and found afais Hijta-
ftone inftead of the head.” riques.
i he refult of thefe extraordinary accounts is, that
the Iron Mafque was Jiot only a perfon of high birth,
but mud: have been of great confequence 5 and that
his being concealed was of the utmeft importance to
the. king and miniftry. We come now, therefore, to
notice,
II. The opinions and conjedlures that have been
formed concerning the real name and condition of this
remarkable perfonage. Some have pretended that he
was the duke of Beaufort j others, that he was the
count de Vermandois, natural fon to Louis XIV. by
the duchefs de la Valliere. Some maintain him to
have been the duke of Monmouth, natural fon of
Charles II. of England by Lucy Walters 5 and others
fay, that he was Gerolami Magni, minifter to the duke
of Modena.
Befides thefe conjedtures, none of which pofftffes
fufficient probability to entitle them to confideration,
a fifth has been advanced j namely, That the Iron
Mafque was a fon of Anne of Auflria, queen to
Louis XIII. and confequently that he was a brother of
Louis XIV. ; but whether a baftard brother, a bro¬
ther-german, or a half-brother, is a queftion that has
given rife to three feveral opinions, which we (hall
(late in the Older of time in which the refpedlive tranf-
adiions to which they allude happened.
I. I he firlt opinion is, that the queen proved with
child at a time when it was evident it could not have
been by her bufband, who, for fome months before,
had never been with her in private. The fuppefed
father of this child is faid by fome to have been the
duke of Buckingham, who came to France in May
1625, t(> condudt the Princefs Henrietta, wife of
Charles I. to England. The private letters and me¬
moirs of thole times (peak very luipicioufly of the
queen and Buckingham: his behaviour at Amiens,
whither the queen and queen mother accompanied the
princefs in her way to Boulogne, occajioned much whif-
pering: notwithflanding the pains that have been ta¬
ken by La Porte in his Aiemoires to excufe his miftrefs,
it appears that the king, on this occafion, was ex¬
tremely offended at her, and that it required all the
influence and addrefs of the queen mother to effedl a
reconciliation. It is faid, that this child was privately
brouglit up in the country 5 that when Mazarine be¬
came a favourite, he was intruded with the care of
him ; and that Louis XIV. having difedvered the
fecret on the death of the cardinal, thought it ne-
ceffary to confine him in the manner that has been re¬
lated.
But it may be obferved that this fecret could HtJ!. of the
fcarcely have efcaped the vigilance of the cardinal dtKaJtiie,
Richlieu in<: 6,P- 34d*
Malque.
M AS [ 6
RicVilieu ; and it is not improbable, that a minifter fo
little fcrupulous, if inclined to fave the honour of a
queen, would have removed a child, who, if he lived,
might have been made ufe of to difturb the tranquil¬
lity of the kingdom. After this fuppofed birth, the
queen had frequent quarrels with the king, and what
was more dangerous, with the cardinal 5 who even
ufed every means in his power to inquire into her moil
private tranfaftions. It was on a memorable occa-
lion of this kind, that her fervant La Porte was thrown
into the Baltile * and it can fc^rcely be imagined die
w’ou’d have had the firmnefs (lie then difplayed, w’hile
confcious of fo much guilt, and under the rilk of ha¬
ving it difcovered. Tne priloner with the maique ap¬
pears, by feveral accounts, to have been a youtn of
a handfome figure in the year 1661 ; and in X7°3»
when he died, to have been above fixty ; but had
he been a fon of Buckingham, he would have been
about thirty-fix in 1661, when he could not be faid to
have been a youth j and in November 1703, about
feventy-eight.
2. The fecond opinion is, that he was the twin bro¬
ther of Louis XIV. born fome hours after him. This
firft appeared in a fhort anonymous work publilhed
without date, and without the name of place or printer.
It is therein faid, “ Louis XIV was born at St Ger¬
mains en Laye, on the 5th of September 1638, about
noon ; and the illuftrious prifoner, known by the ap¬
pellation of the Iron Mafque, was born the fame day,
while Louis XIII. was at fupper. The king and the
cardinal, fearing that the pretenfions of a twin brother
might one day be employed to renew thofe civil wars
with which France had been fo often affii&ed, cauti-
oufly concealed his birth, and fent him away to be
brought up privately. Having but an imperfefl: know¬
ledge of the circumftances that, followed, I fiiall fay
nothing more, for fear of committing errors •, but I
firmly believe the faff I have mentioned ; and time
will probably prove to my reader, that I have ground
for what I have advanced.”
This opinion has been more noticed fince the publi¬
cation of a work called Memoires du Marechal Due de
Richlicu, written by the abbe Soulavie •, concerning
which it may be proper to premife, that the prefent
duke of Richlieu, fon of the marechal, difavows this
work, while the abbe Soulavie, who had been em¬
ployed by the marechal, infills on the authenticity of
his papers (a). Fie informs us, that the duke of Rich-
lieu was the lover of Mademoifelle de Valois, daughter
of the regent duke of Orleans, and afterwards duchefs
of Modena, who in return was paffionately fond of him ;
that the regent had fomething more than a paternal
afFefHon for his daughter; and that, though fhe held
his fentiments in abhorrence, the duke of Richlieu
made ufe of her influence with her father to difeover
the fecret of the prifoner with the mafque ; that the
regent, who had always obferved the moft profound
filence on this fubieft, was at laft perfit* ded to intruft
her writh a manufeript, which Ihe immediately fent to
her lover, who took a copy of it. This manufeript is
71 ] M A S
fuppofed to have been written by a gentleman on his Mafque.
deathbed, who had been the governor of the prifoner.
The following is an extract of it, from what the abbe
Soulavie has told us.
“ The birth of the prifoner happened in the evening
of the 5th of September 1638, in prefence of the chan¬
cellor, the bifltop of Meaux, the author of the manu¬
feript, a midwife named Peronete, and a fieur Honorat.
This circumftance greatly difturbed the king’s mind y.
he obferved, that the Salique law had made no provi-
fion for fuch a cafe ; and that it was even the opinion
of fome, that the lalt born was the firfl: conceived, and
therefore had a prior right to the other. By the ad¬
vice of Cardinal dc Richlieu, it was therefore refolved
to conceal his birth, but to preferve his lsre, in cafe by
the death of his brother it Ihould be neceffary to avow
him. A declaration was drawn up, and figned and
fworn to by all prefent, in which every circumftance
was mentioned, and feveral marks on his body deferib-
ed. This document being fealed by the chancellor
with the royal feal, was delivered to the king ', and all
were commanded and took an oath never to fpeak on
the fubjedt, not even in private and among themfelves.
The child was delivered to the care of Madame Pero¬
nete the midwife, to be under the direction of Cardinal
de Richlieu, at whofe death the charge devolved to
Cardinal de Mazarine. Mazarine appointed the author
of the manufevipt his governor, and intruded to him
the care of his education. But as the prifoner was
extremely attached to Madame Peroneie, and Ihe
equally fo to him, (lie remained with him till her death.
His governor carried him to his houfe in Burgundy,
where he paid the greateft attention to his education.
“ As the prifoner grew up, he became impatient to
difeover his birth, and often importuned his governor
on that fubject. His curiofity had been roufed by
obferving that meffengers from the court frequently
arrived at the houfe : and a box, containing letters
from the queen and the cardinal, having one day been
inadvertently left out, he opened it, and faw enough
to guefs at the fecret. From that time he became
thoughtful and melancholyj ‘ which (fays the author)
I could not then account for. He (hortly after alked
me to get him a portrait of the late and prefent king j
but I put him off by faying that I could not procure
any that were good. Fie then deftred me to let him
go to Dijon •, which I have known fince was with an
intention of feeing a portrait of the king there, and
of going fecretly to St John de Lus, where the court
then was on occafion of the marriage vyith the infanta.
He was beautiful 5 and love helped him to accompli'.h
his willies. He had captivated the affedtions of a
young houfekeeper, who procured him a portrait of
the king. It might have ferved for either of the bro¬
thers 5 and the difeovery put him into fo violent a paf-
fion, that he immediately came to me with the portrait
in his hand, faying, Voila manfrere, et voila quijefuis,
(bowing me at the fame time a letter of the cardinal de
Mazarine that he had taken out of the box.’ Upon this
difeovery his governor immediately lent an exprefs to
court
(a) A letter from the duke of Richlieu, and anfwer from the abb£ Soulavie, appeared in the Journal ds
Paris-
MAS [6
. ? court to communicate what had happened, and to defire
new inilructions ; the confequence of which was, that
the governor and the young prince under his care were
arretted and confined.”
This memoir, real or fiflitious, concludes with fay¬
ing, “ I have fuftered with him in our common prifon:
I am now fummoned to appear before my judge on high j
and for the peace of my foul I cannot but make this
declaration, which may point out to him the means of
freeing himfelf from his prefent ignominious iituation,
in cafe the king his brother Ihould die without children.
Can an extorted oath compel me to obferve fecrecy on
a thing fo incredible, but which ought to be left on re¬
cord to pofterity.”
3. The third opinion is, that he was a fon of the
queen by the cardinal de Mazarine, born about a year
after the death of her hufband Louis XIII. j that he
was brought up fecretly ; and that foon after the death
of the cardinal, which happened on the 9th of March
. „ 1661, he was lent to Pignerol. To this account Fa-
lav^rvfdc t^ler ^r^et * objedts, “ that it was needlefs to mafque
V Hi/loir el 3 ^ace t^at was unknown ; and therefore that this
p. jiSn. opinion does not merit difcuffiun.” But in anfwer it
has been obferved, 1 hat the pnfoner might flrongly
refemble Louis XIV. which would be a fufficient rea-
fon to have him maiked. This opinion is fuppofed to
have been that entertained by Voltaire, who afferts his
thorough knowledge of the fecret, though he declined
being altogether explicit. The abbe Soulavie, author
of Memoirs of the Marechal de RichHeu, fpeaking on
this fubjedt, fays, “ That he once obferved to the ma-
recha!, that he certainly had the means of being in¬
formed who the prifoner was •, that it even feemed that
he had told Voltaire, who durit not venture to publifh
the fecret; and that he at lafi: alked him, whether he
was not the elder brother of Louis XIV. born without
the knowledge of Louis XIII. ? That the marechal
feemed embarrafled, but afterwards laid, that he was
neither the baflard brother-of Louis XIV. nor the
duke of Monmouth, nor the count of Vermandois, nor
the duke of Beaufort, as different .authors had advan¬
ced 5 that their conjectures were nothing but reveries :
but added, that they however had related many cir-
cumflances that rvere true ; that in fa£t the order was
given to put the prifoner to death if he difcovered
himfelf •, and that he finilhed the converfation by fay¬
ing, All I can tell you on the fubjefl is, that the pri-
. foner was not of fuch confequence when he died at the
beginning of the prefent century as he had been at the
beginning of the reign of Louis XIV. and that he
was flvat up for important reafons of ftate.” The
abbe Soulavie tells us, that he wrote down what had
been faid, and gave it to the marechal to read, who
corre&ed fome expreffions. The abbe having pro-
pofed feme further queftions, he anfwered. “ Read
what Voltaire publilhed laft on the fubject of the pri¬
foner with the mafque, efpecially at the end, and refleft
on it.”—The Railage of Voltaire alluded to is as fol¬
lows :
“ The man with the mafque (fays he), is an enigma
of which every one would guefs the meaning. Some
have faid that it was the duke of Beaufort •, but the
duke of Beau'ort was killed by the Turks in the de¬
fence o Can y in 1669, and the prifoner with the
mafque was at Pignerol in 1661. Befides, how could
1
72 ] M A S
the duke of Beaufort have been arrefted in the midfi: Mafque.
of his army, and brought to France, without any one v*"“"
knowing it ? and wThy confine him ? and why that
mafque ?—Others have dreamed that he was the count
de Vermandois, natural fon of Louis XIV. who died
publicly at the army in 1683 of the fmallpox, and
was buried at the little town of Aire and-not Arras ;
in which Father Griffet was miftaken, but in which
to be fure there is no great harm. Others have ima¬
gined, that it was the duke of Monmouth, who was
beheaded publicly in London in the year 1685. But
for this he muff have rifen again from the dead, and
he muff have changed the order of time, and placed
the year 1662 in the room of the year 1685. King
James, who never forgave any one, and who on that
account deferved all that happened to him, muft have
pardoned the duke of Monmouth, and got another to
die in his Head, who perfectly refembled him. This
Sofia muft firft^ have been found, and then he muft:
have had the goodnefs to let his head be cut off in
public, to fave the duke of Monmouth. It was ne-
ceflary that all England ihould be miftaken $ and that
King James Ihould beg of Louis XIV. to be fo oblig¬
ing as to be his gaoler ; that Louis XIV. after having
ftiown this trifling piece of civility to King James
ftiould not have been wanting in the fame attention to
his friend King William and to Queen Anne (with
both of whom he was engaged in war), and to pleafe
them, retained the dignity of gaoler, with which James
had honoured him.
“ All theie illullons being diflzpated, it then remains
to know who this prifoner was, and at what age he
died. It is clear, that if he was not permitted to
crofs the court of the Baftile, or to fpeak to his phy-
fician, except covered with a mafque, it mult have been
from the apprehenfion that his features and counte¬
nance might have difcovered fome refemblance. Fie ^
could fttow his tongue, but not his face. He faid him¬
felf to the apothecary of the Baftile, a few days before
bis death, that he believed he was about 60. Mr Mar-
foban, ivho was fon-in-law to this apothecary, and fur-
geon to the marechal de Richlieu, and afterwards to
the regent duke of Orleans, told me this frequently.
Why give him an Italian name ?—They always call¬
ed him Marchiali. He who writes this article perhaps
knows more than Father Griffet, but he will fay no¬
thing farther.”
This opinion has been lately refumed, illuftrated,
and enforced, by M. de Saint Mihiel, in a work en¬
titled Le Veritabh Homme, &c. “ The real Man with
the Iron Mafque.” The author, in fupport of his
idea, attempts to prove that Anne of Auftria and Car¬
dinal Mazarine were married. This, fays he, the
duchefs of Orleans affures us of in three of her letters.
In the firft, dated Sept. 13. 1713, Hie expreffes her-
felf as follows: “ Old Beauvais, who was firft; lady of
the bedchamber to the queen dowager, was acquaint¬
ed with the iiperet of the ridiculous marriage ; this
rendered it neceffary for the queen to do every thing
that her confidant wilhed ; and this circumftance has
given rifen in this country to an extenfion of the rights
of firft ladies of the bedchamber.” In the fecond of
thefe letters, dated Nov. 2. 1717, Ihe fays, “ The queen-
mother, widow of Louis XIII. did worfe than love
Cardinal Mazarine ; (he married him, for fie was not
M. A S [ 67
Mafque. a pricft : lie was not even in orders ; and who could
have hindered her ? He was moft horribly tired of the
good queen-mother, and lived on very bad terms with
her, which is the reward that people deferve for enter¬
ing into fuch marriages.” In her third letter, dated
July 2. 1719, fpeaking of the queen, the duchefs fays,
“ She was perfe&ly eafy refpe£Hng Cardinal Mazarine*,
he was not a prieft, and therefore nothing could pre¬
vent their being married. The fecret paffage through
xvhich the cardinal went every evening to the queen’s
apartment is flill to be feen at the Palais Royal.” A-
mong other proofs befides the above, which M. de
St Mihiel brings to fubftantiate this marriage, he ob-
ferves, that Mazarine held all councils of Hate in his
apartment whilft he was (having or dreffing ; that he
never permitted any perfon to fit down in his prefence,
not even the chancellor nor marfhal de Villeroi ; and
that while they were deliberating with him on date
affairs, he would be often playing with bis monkey or
linnet. What man (continues the author) would have
fubjefled to fuch humiliations a chancellor, who holds
the fir ft office in the kingdom fince that of conrtable
has been fuppreffed, and a marfhal who was governor
to the king, had he not been in reality a fovereign
himfelf, in virtue of his being hufband to the queen-
regent ? Pie therefore concludes, that the man with the
iron mafque was fon to Anne of Auftria and Cardinal
• Mazarine *, and endeavours to juftify this aflertion by a
variety of conjectural proofs. Oi fome of thefe we
fhall give a ihort fketch :—
1. No prince, or perfon of any confideration, after
the year 1644, at which time the man with the iron
mafque was born, until the time when his exiftence
was known, difappeared in France. This perfonage,
therefore, was not a prince or great lord of France
known at that time.
2. The man with the iron mafque was not a fo¬
reigner *, for foreigners, even of the higheft diftin&ion,
did not at that period ftudy the French language in
fuch a manner as to attain fo great perfeClion in it
as to pafs for Frenchmen. If this prifoner had fpoken
with the leaft foreign accent, the officers, phyficians,
furgeons, apothecaries, confefibrs, and others employ¬
ed in the prifons where he was, and efpecially the pri-
foners with whom he converfed at St Margaret, would
not have failed to difeover it. From all this M. de
St Mihiel infers that he muft have been a Frenchman.
3. The exiftence of the man with the iron mafque
has been known for upwards of 90 years. Had any
perfon of high rank difappeared at an anterior period,
his friends, relations, or acquaintances, would not have
failed to claim him, or at leaft to fuppofe that he was
the man concealed by this mafijue. But no one difap¬
peared, nor was any one claimed : the man with the
iron mafque wras therefore a perfon unknown.
4. This man was - A torn away from fociety on ac¬
count of any criminal affion ; for when he was arreft-
ed, it was forefeen that he would caufe much embar-
raffment, and occafion great expences. He was there¬
fore not a criminal, elfe means would have been pur-
fued to get rid of him ; and confequently all the import¬
ance of his being concealed was attached folely to his
perfon.
r This flranver muft have been a perfon cf very
VOL. XII. Part II.
.Si MAS
high birth ; for the governor of the prifon, St Mars, Mafque.
behaved always to him with the greateft refpedh ——-y—
6. Louis XIII. played on the guitar; Louis XIV.
did the fame in a very mafterly manner ; and the man
with the iron mafque played alfo on that inftrument :
which gives us reafon to believe that bis education was
dire£ted by the fame perfons who had prefided over
that of Louis XIV. and who appear to have been the
particular choice of Anne of Auftria.
7. This ftranger died on the 19th of November
1703 ; and a few days before his death, he told the
apothecary of the Baftile, that he believed he was
about 60 years of age. Suppofing that he was then
59 and a half, he malt have been born towards the
end of May 1644; and if he was 60 wanting three
months, he muft have been born in the end of Auguft,
or the beginning of September, of the fame year;
a period when the royal authority was in the hands of
Anne of Auftria, but in reality exercifed more by
Mazarine than by her. “ I have already proved (con¬
tinues the author), that from the firft day of the re¬
gency of Anne of Auftria, the greateft friendfhip,
and even intimacy, fubfifted between this princefs and
the cardinal; that thefe fentiments were changed into
a mutual love ; and that they were afterwards united
by the bonds of marriage. They might, therefore,
well have a fon about the month of September 1644,
as Louis XIII. had been then dead more than 15
months, having died on the 15th of May the year
preceding. But nothing of what I have related, or
of what has been written, and acknowledged as fa£l,
refpedling the man with the iron mafque, can be ap¬
plied, except to a fon of Mazarine and Anne of Auf¬
tria. The man with the iron mafque was indebted,
therefore, for his exiftence to Cardinal Mazarine and
the regent widow of Louis XIII.”— To account for
the manaer in which the queen was able to conceal
her pregnancy and delivery, Madame de Motteville is
quoted ; who relates, under the year 1644, that Anne
of Auftria quitted the Louvre, becaufe her apartments
there difpleafed her : that ffie went to refide at the
Palais Royal, which Richlieu, when he died, bequeath¬
ed to the deceafed king : that when fhe firft occupied
this lodging,y2><? was dreadfully aflicled with the jaun¬
dice : that the phyficians aferibed this diforder to her
deje£Iion and application to bufinefs, which gave her
much embarraffment : but that being cured of her me¬
lancholy, as well as of her malady, ffie refolved to
think only of enjoying tranquillity ; which ffie did, by
communicating to her miniftcr the burden of public
affairs. On this quotation, M. de St Mihiel aiks, “ Is
it not very Angular, that the queen, who during the 29
years of her former wedded ftate, had always refided in
the Louvre, cfpecially from 1626, when Louis XIII.
ceafed to cohabit with her, until their reunion, which
took place in the beginning of December 1637, fhould
have quitted it precifely in 1644, bscaule ffi? was dif¬
pleafed with her apartments? How happened it that her
apartments difpleafe J her .this year, and neither fooner
nor later ? She might undoubtedly have had any kind
of furniture there which fire defired, and every altera¬
tion made according to her wiffies, as ffie was then ab-
folute miitrefs: but the caufe of her determination is
plain ; the apartments of the Palais Royal, which front
4 0,* a P
MAS [ 674 ] MAS
Mafque. a garden, were much more convenient for her to be de-
v livered in fecret.”
8. As it is neceflary that fome name (hould be given
to every man, in order to diftinguilh him from another,
that of Marchiali was given to the man with the iron
mafque : a name which evidently fhows, that it had
been invented by an Italian. [Cardinal Mazarine was
a native of Pifcina in the Abruzzo.J
9. Anne of Auftria was remarkably delicate refpe£l-
ing every thing that touched her peri’on. It was with
great difficulty that cambric could be found fine enough
to make ffiifts and Iheets for her. Cardinal Mazarine
once rallying her on this fubjefl, faid, That if /he
Jhouldbe damned, her punijhment in hell would be to Jlecp
in HollandJheets. The predominant tafte of the man
with the iron mafque, was to have lace and linen of
the moft extraordinary finenefs. “ Who ("fays the
author) does not perceive, in this fimilarity of taftes,
the maternal tendernefs of Anne of Auilria, who wmuld
have thought her fon a great fufferer had he not been
indulged with fine linen ?”
“ Louis XIII. (continues M. de St Mihiel) w7as a
huiband of a gloomy difpofition, and an enemy to plea-
fure : while the queen, on the contrary, was fond of
focial life j and introduced at the court of France, efpe-
cially after ihe became free, that eafe and politenefs
W’hich diftinguiihed it under Louis XIV. from all the
other courts of Europe. Louis XIII. had alfo a difa-
greeable countenance, and a breath fo offenfive, that it
w7as a puniffiment for Richlieu to remain near him. It
is clear, therefore, that ffie could not be much pleafed
with fuch a hufband. When fhe became regent of the
kingdom by the king’s death, which happened on the
14th of May 1643, as had not enjoyed that happi-
nefs which arifes from a clofe union of hearts, it wall
not appear extraordinary that flie {hould indulge the
affection (he entertained for Cardinal Mazarine, and that
(he {hould marry him. Every circumftance that could
tend to favour fuch a marriage will be found united in
her fituation. She w7as at a diftance from her family j
abfolute miftrefs of all her actions j and had, befides, a
heart formed for love. Mazarine, though a cardinal,
had never entered into orders $ he gave out that he was
defcended from a great family ; he was handfome and
well made; he was of a mild, infiniiating difpofition,
and remarkably engaging in converfation ; and his of¬
fice, as prime minifter, afforded him every opportunity
of viliting and converfing with the queen whenever he
thought proper. Is it, therefore, fo very aftonilhing,
that, w7ith fo many advantages he was able to capti¬
vate the queen fo far as to induce her to marry him ?
Such a marriage was not, indeed, according to the ufual
courfe of things. Yet it w7as not without many prece¬
dents, particularly among fovereigns of the other fex,
who had given their hands to perfons of inferior rank.
Thus Chriftian IV. of Denmark efpoufed Chrifiina
Monck 3 Frederick IV. efpoufed Mademoifelie Re-
wentlaw j James II. heir to the throne of England,
married the daughter of a counfellor , Peter the Great
raifed to the throne Catharine I. the daughter of a
poor villager, yet perhaps the mofl accompliffied woman
at that time between the Viilula and the Pole ; and
Louis XTV. efpoufed the widow of a poet, but a wo¬
man poffeffed of the moft extraordinary merit. As the
■women, however, are not forgiven fo readily as the men
for entering into fuch marriages, Anne of Auftria kept Mafque
hers a fecret from this motive, and becaufe {he would II
have been in danger of lofing the regency of the king- , ^a*S7
dom had it been known.” v—-
The reafoning of M. de St Mihiel is both ingeni¬
ous and plaufible 3 though the probability of the ac¬
count is fomewhat diminiffied by confidering what muft
have been the queen’s age at this period, after flie had
been Louis’s wife for 29 years before his death.—
The account immediately preceding, without this ob¬
jection, feems abundantly credible. But, whether, up¬
on the whole, either of them can be received as deci-
five, or wffiether the myftery of the iron mafque re¬
mains ftill to be unravelled, we muft leave to the reader
to determine.
Masque, in ArchiieElure, is applied to certain pieces
of fculpture, reprefenting fome hideous forms, grotefque,
or fatyrs faces, &c. ufed to fill up and adorn vacant
places, as in friezes, the pannels of doors, keys of arches,
&c. but particularly in grottos.
MASQUERADE, or Mascarade, an affembly of
perfons mafqued or difguifed, meeting to dance and di¬
vert themfelves. This was much in ufe with us, and
has been long a very common pradlice abroad, efpecially
in carnival time.
The w'ord comes from the Italian mafcarata, and
that from the Arabic mafcara, which fignifies “ rail¬
lery, buffoonery.” Granacci, -who died in 1543,
is faid to have been the firft inventor of mafque-
rades.
MASRAKITHA, a pneumatic inftrument of mu-
fic among the ancient Hebrews, compofed of pipes of
various fizes, fitted into a kind of wooden cheft, open
at the top, and flopped at the bottom with wood co¬
vered with a (kin. Wind was conveyed to it from the
lips, by means of a pipe fixed to the cheft : the pipes
■were of lengths mufically proportioned to each other,
and the melody was varied at pleafure, by flopping and
unftopping with the fingers the apertures at the upper
extremity. See Plate CCXCVIII.
MASS, in Mechanics, the matter of any body cohe¬
ring with it, i. e. moving and gravitating along with it.
In which (cnfe,mafs is diftinguiihed from bulk, or volume,
which is the expanlion of a body in length, breadth, and
thicknefs.
The mafs of any body is rightly eftimated by its
weight : and the maffes of two bodies of the fame
w7eight are in a reciprocal ratio of their bulks. x
Mass, Mijfa, in the church of Rome, the office or
prayers ufed at the celebration of the eucharift 3 or in
other w7ords confecrating the bread and wine into the
body and blood of Chrift, and offering them fo tranfub-
ftantiated as an expiatory facrifice for the quick and the
dead.
As the mafs is in general believed to be a reprefenta-
tion of the paffion of our bleflcd S - iour, fo every aiftion
of the prieft, and every particular part of the fervice, is
fuppofed to allude to the particular circumftances of his
paflion and death.
Nicod, after Baronius, obferves that the w7ord
comes from the Hebrew tnijjach (oblatum') ; or from
the Latin mijfa mijforum; becaufe in the former
times, the catechumens and excommunicated were fent
out of the church, when the deacons faid Ite, mijfa
ejl, after fermon and reading of the epiftie and gof-
Peli
MAS r 675 ] MAS
Maft, Pe^ 5 n°t being allowed to aflifl at the confecra-
Maffa. tion. Menage derives the word from mijjio, “ dif-
—"v  milling Others from “ miffing, fending j” be-
caufe in the mafs, the prayers of men on earth are fent
up to heaven.
The general divifion of maffes confifts in high and
low. The firft is that fung by the chorifters, and cele¬
brated with the affillance of a deacon and fub-deacon j
low maffes are thofe in which the prayers are barely re-
hearfed without fmging.
There are a great number of different or occalional
maffes in the Romiih church, many of which have
nothing peculiar but the name : fuch are the maffes of
the faints j that of St Mary of the fnow, celebrated
on the fifth of Auguft j that of St Margaret, patronefs
of lying-in-women j that of the feaft of St John the
Baptift, at which are faid three maffes; that of the
innocents, at tvhich the gloria in excelfis and the
hallelujah are omitted, and it being a day of mourn¬
ing, the altar is of a violet colour. As to ordinary
maffes, fome are faid for the dead, and, as is fuppofed,
contribute to fetch the foul out of purgatory : at thefe
maffes the altar is put in mourning, and the only de¬
corations are a crofs in the middle of fix yellow wax-
lights ; the drefs of the celebrant, and the very mafs-
book, are black j many parts of the office are omitted,
and the people are difmiffed without the benedi&ion.
If the mafs be faid for a perfon diftinguilhed by his
rank or virtues, it is followed with a funeral oration $
they ere£t a chapelle ardente, that is, a reprefentation
of the deceafed with branches and tapers of yellow
wax, either in the middle of the church, or near the
deceafed’s tomb, where the prieft pronounces a folemn
abfolution of the deceafed. There are likewife pri¬
vate maffes faid for ftolen or ftrayed goods or cattle,
for health, for travellers, &c. which go under the name
of votive majjes. There is Hill a further diftinflion of
maffes denominated from the countries in which they
were ufed j thus the Gothic mafs, or mi[fa mofarabum^ is
that ufed among the Goths when they were mafters of
Spain, and which is flill kept up at Toledo and Sala¬
manca $ the Ambrofian mafs is that compofed by St
Ambrofe, and ufed only at Milan, of which city he was
biffiop j the Gallic mafs, ufed by the ancient Gauls j
and the Roman mafs, ufed by almoft all the churches in
the Romifli communion.
Mass of the Prefan&ified (miffa prcefanBijicatorum'),
is a mafs peculiar to the Greek church, in which there
is no confecration of the elements \ but after fingirt^
fome hymns, they receive the bread and wine which
was before confecrated. This mafs is performed all
Lent, except on Saturdays, Sundays, and the annun¬
ciation. The prieft counts upon his fingers the days
of the enfuing week on which it is to be celebrated,
and cuts off asL.many pieces of bread at the altar as
he is to fay mafles ; and after having confecrated them,
fteeps them in wine, and then puts them in a box;
out of which, upon every occafion, he takes fome of
it with a fpoon, and putting it on a difti fcts it upon
the altar.
MASS A, a town of Italy, in the kingdom of Na¬
ples, and in the Terra di Lavoro, with a bilhop’s fee;
feated on a mountain near the fea, in E. Long. 10. o.
N. Lat. 43. j.
Massa, an ancient, populous, and handfome town of
Italy, and capital of a fmall territory of the fame name, MaffacLu.
with the title of a principality, and a ftrong caftle. It M
is famous for quarries of fine marble, and is fituated in , a aCie*
E. Long. 14. 23. N. Lat. 40. 40.
MASSACHUSETS colony, the principal fub-
divifion of New England, having Hamplhire on the
north, the Atlantic ocean on the eaft and fouth,
and Conne&icut and New York on the weft. It is
about 100 miles long, and 40 broad. See Neva Eng¬
land.
MASSACRE, a term ufed to fignify the Hidden
and promifcuous butchery of a multitude. The moft
atrocious example of this kind upon record is that call¬
ed the Pari/ian Massacrk, or Majfacre of St Bartho¬
lomew's Day. The Parifian maffacre was carried on
with fuch deteftable perfidy, and executed with fuch
a bloody cruelty, as would furpafs all belief, were it
not attefted by the moft undeniable evidence. In
the year 1572, in the reign of Charles IX. many of
the principal Proteftants wrere invited to Paris, under a
folemn oath of fafety, upon occafion of the marriage
of the king of Navarre with the French king’s lifter j
viz. the king of Navarre’s mother, Coligni admiral
of France, with other nobles. The queen-dowager
of Navarre, a zealous Proteftant, was poifoned by
a pair of gloves before the marriage was folemni-
zed ; and on the 24th of Auguft 1572, being Bar¬
tholomew’s day, about daybreak, upon the toll of the
bell of the church of St Germain, the butchery be¬
gan. The admiral was bafely murdered in his owm
houfe j and then thrown out of the wundow, to grati¬
fy the malice of the duke of Guife j his head was af¬
terwards cut off, and fent to the king and queen-mo¬
ther j and his body, after a thoufand indignities offer¬
ed to it, hung up by the feet on a gibbet. After this,
the murderers ravaged the wrhole city of Paris, and
butchered in three days above ten thoufand lords, gen¬
tlemen, prefidents, and people of all ranks. An hor¬
rible fcene of things, fays Thuanus, when the very
ftreets and paffages refounded with the noife of thofe
that met together for murder and plunder $ the groans
of thofe who were dying, and the ftirieks of fuch as
were juft going to be butchered, were everywhere
heard ; the bodies of the flain thrown out of the win¬
dows j the courts and chambers of the houfes filled
w’ith them j the dead bodies of others dragged through
the ftreets, their blood running down the channels in
fuch plenty, that torrents feemed to empty themielves
in the neighbouring river: and, in a word, an innume¬
rable multitude of men, women with child, maidens, and
children, w^ere all involved in one common deftru£Hon;
and the gates and entrances of the king’s palace all be-
fmeared with their blood.
From the city of Paris the maffacre fpread almoft
throughout the whole kingdom. In the city of Meaux
they threw above two hundred into jail; and after they
had ravilhed and killed a great number of women, and
plundered the houfes of the Proteftants, they executed
their fury on thofe they had imprifoned, and calling
them out one by one, they were killed, as Thuanus ex-
preffes, like ffieep in a market; the bodies of fome were
flung into ditches, and of others into the river Maine.
In Orleans they murdered above five hundred men,
women, and children, and enriched themfelves w’ith
their fpoil. The fame cruelties were pra&ifed at An-
4 QL ^ gers,
MAS [6
‘ lu gel?, Troyes, Rourges, La Charlie, and efpecially at
MaffaHans ,yo!ls’ w‘iere tll£7 inhumanly deftroyed above eight
' ilundred Proteftants; children hanging on their parents
necks *, parents embracing their children j putting ropes
about the necks of fome, dragging them through the
Itreets, and throwing them, mangled, torn, and half
dead, into the river.
It would be endlefs to mention the butcheries com¬
mitted at Valence, Romaine, Rouen, &c. We {hall,
therefore, only add, that, according to Thuanus, above
tunty thouland Proteftants were deftroyed in this maf-
facre, or as others with greater probability affirm, above
one hundred thoufand.
Thuanus himfelf calls this a moft deteftable villany ;
smd, in abhorrence of St Bartholomew’s day, ufed to
repeat thefe words of P. Statius, Silv. v. iii. ver. 88. &c.
Excidat ilia dies cevo, ne pojlera credant
Seen la. Eos certe taceamus, et obruta multa
Eocie tegi preprue patiamus enmina genlis.
In tne words of Job, chap. iii. ver. 3. &c. “ Let that
day perifti; and let it not be joined unto the days of
year- ■^‘e^ ^arknefs and the ffiadow of death ftain
it,’- &c. And yet, as though this had been the moft
heroic tranfadlion, and could have procured immortal
glory to the authors of it, medals were ftruck at Paris
in honour of it.
ljut how were the news of this butchery received at
Rome, that faithful city, that holy mother of churches!
How did the vicar of Chrift, the fucceffor of Peter
and the father of the Chriftian world, reliffi it l Let
Thuanus tell the horrid truth. When the news, fays
he, came to Rome, it was wonderful to iee .how they
exulted for joy. On the 6th of September, when the
letiCis of the pope’s legate were read in the aflembly
of the cardinals, by which he aflured the pope that
all was tranfa&ed by the exprefs will and command of
the king, it was immediately decreed that the pope
Should march with his cardinals to the church of St
Mark, and in the moft folemn manner give thanks
g to God for fo great a bleffing conferred on the fee of
Rome and the Chriftian world j and that on the
Monday after, folemn mafs fliould be celebrated in the
church of Minerva; at which the pope, Greg. XIII.
and cardinals were prefent; and. that a jubilee fhould
be published throughout the whole Chriftian world,
and the caufe of it declared to be, to return thanks
to God for the extirpation of the enemies of the
truth and'church in France. In the evening the can¬
non of St Angelo were fired, to teftify the public joy;
the whole city illuminated with bonfires; and no one
fign of rejoicing omitted that was ufually made for
the greateft vi&ories obtained in favour of the Roman
church.
MASSAGFCTiE, an ancient people about whofe
feat there is as much doubt as about that of the Ama¬
zons; 1 ibullus and Ammian place them near Albania,
beyond tne Araxes, which fometimes denotes the Oxus;
it is probable they dwelt to the eaft of Sogdiana, (Dio-
nyfius Periegetes, Herodotus, Arrian.)
MASSALIANS, afet of entbufiafts who fpran^ up
about the year 361, m the reign of the emperor Con-
ft anti us, who maintained that men have two foul® a ce-
leftial and a diabolical, and that the latter is driven out
by prayer.
76 1
M A S
MASSAXiELLO. See Hi/iory of Njplxs.
aIASSEILR in Anatomiu See there [Table of
the Mnfclesi) K
MASSICOT. See Masticot.
MASS EU, William, a learned French writer,
member of the Academy of Belles Lettres, and of the
French Academy, was born at Caen in Normandy in
i6o5> and completed his ftudies at Paris, when he
entered amongft the Jefuits ; but afterwards left them,
that he might follow his inclination to polite litera¬
ture with the greater freedom. In 1710 he was made
Greek profeffbr in the royal college ; and enjoyed that
poft till his death, which happened at Paris in 17*22.
He wrote, 1. Several curious differtations in the Me¬
moirs of the Academy of Infcriptions. 2. A hiftory
of the French poetry, in X2mo, &c.
MAS SI LI A, in Ancient Geography, a town of Gal¬
lia Narbonenfis, a colony of Phoceans, from Phocsea,
a city of Ionia, and in confederacy with the Romans ;
umverfally celebrated, not only for its port, commerce,
and ftrength, but efpecially for its politenefs of man¬
ners and for its learning. According to Strabo* it
was the fchool for the barbarians, who were excited by
its means to a fondnefs for Greek literature, fo that
even their public and private tranfadlions were all exe¬
cuted in that language. Strabo adds, “ At this day
the nobleft Romans repair thither for ftudy rather than
to Athens.” Now Alarfeilles. a city and nort town of
Provence.
MASSILLON, Jean Baptiste, fon of a notary at
Hieres in Px"ovence, was born in 1663, and entered in¬
to the congregation of the oratory in 1681. He gain¬
ed the afte&ions of every perfon in the towns to which
he was lent, by the charms of his genius, the livelinefs
of his chara&er, and by a fund of the moft delicate
and unaftodled politenefs. His firft attempts in the
art of eloquence were made at Vienne, while he was
profefibr of theology. His funeral oration on Henry
de Villars, archbiffiop of that city, received univerlal
approbation. This fuccefs induced Father de la Tour,
W’ho was at that time general of the congregation,
to call him to Paris. After he had been there for
fome time, he was alked what he thought of the
preachers who made a figure on that great theatre ?—
“ I find them poffeffed of great genius and abilities
(anfw-ered he) ; but if I preach, I will not preach like
them.” Fie in fa£t kept his word, and ftruck out a
new path in this great field of eloquence. P. Bourda-
loue was excepted from the number of thofe W'hom he
propofed not to imitate. If he did not take him for a
model in every thing, the reafon was, that his ge¬
nius led him to a different fpecies of eloquence. 
His manner of compoling, therefore,- was peculiar to
himfelf, and, in the opinion of men of tafte and judge¬
ment, was fuperior to that of Bourdaloue, The aftefl-
ing and natural fimplicity of the father of the oratory,
(faid a great man), appears fitter to bring home the
truths of Chriftianity to the heart than all the dialec¬
tics of the Jefmt. We muff feek for the logic of the
gofpel in our own breafts ; and the inoft powerful rea-
lonings on the indifpenfable duty of relieving the di-
ftrefled, will make no impreffion on that man who has
beheld without concern the fufferings of his brother.
If logic is neceffary, it is only in matters of opinion ;
and thefe are fitter for the prefs than for the pulpit,
yv;l,ngh.
MaiF niello
tl
MalTilloB.
MAS [ 677 ] M A S
a fill Jon. which ought not to be the theatre of learned difcuf-
1——y——> fions. The truth of thefe reflexions was clearly per¬
ceived when he appeared at court. Upon preaching
his firft iVdvent ferraon at Verfailles, he received this
eulogium from the mouth of Louis XIV. “ Father,
when I hear others preach, I am very well pieafed
with them ; but whenever I hear you, I am diffatif-
lied with rnyfelf. The firft time he preached his fa¬
mous fermon on the finall number of the eleB, the whole
audience were, at a certain place of it, feized with a
ludden and violent emotion, and almoft every perfon
half rofe from his feat by a kind of involuntary
movement. The murmur of acclamation and furprife
wTas fo great, that it threw the orator into confufion ;
but this only heightened the impreffion of that pathe¬
tic difeourfe. What was moft furpriflng in Maftillon,
were his deferiptions of the world, which were fo fub-
lime, fo delicate, and fo ftriking in the refemblance.
When he was afked, whence a man, like him, whofe
life was dedicated to retirement, could borrow them 5
he anfwered, “ From the human heart ; however lit¬
tle we examine it, we will find in it the feeds of every
paflion. When I compofe a fennon (added he), I
imagine myfelf confulted upon fome doubtful piece of
bufmefs. I give my whole application to determine
the perfon who has recourfe to me, to aX the good
and proper part. I exhort him, I urge him, and I
leave him not till he has yielded to my perfuaiions.”
His declamation did not fail to be accompanied with
luccefs. “ We think we fee him in our pulpits (fay
thofe who had the pleafure of hearing him), with
the fimple air, the modeft carriage, the downcait and
humble looks, the eafy gefture, the affeXing tone,
and the countenance of a man deeply penetrated with
his fubjeX, conveying the cleareft information to the
underftanding, and railing the moft tender emotions in
the heart.” Baron, the famous comedian, having met
him one day in a houfe which was open for the recep¬
tion of men of letters, paid him this compliment :
“ Continue to deliver as you do. Your manner is
peculiar to yourfelf; leave the obfervance of rules to
others.” When this famous aXor came from hearing
one of his fermons, truth drew from him the follow¬
ing confeflion, which is fo humiliating to his profef-
fion : “ Friend (faid he to one of his companions who
accompanied him), here is an orator; we are only
a Bor s'"1
In 1704 Maffillon made his feccnd appearance at
court, and difplayed ftill more eloquence than before.
Louis XIV. after exprefling his fatisfaXion to him,
added, in the moft gracious tone of voice, Et je veaux,
mon pere, vous entendre tons les deux ans. Thefe flat¬
tering encomiums did not lefien his modefty. When
one of his fellows was congratulating him upon his
preaching admirably, according to cuftom 5 Oh ! give
over, Father (replied he), the devil has told me fo al¬
ready, much more eloquently than you.” The duties
of his office did not prevent him from enjoying fociety j
and in the country he forgot that he vras a preacher,
but always without trefpaffing againft decency. One
day when he was at the houfe of M. de Crozat, the lat¬
ter faid to him, “ Father, your doXrine terrifies me,
but I am encouraged by your life.” He was chofen
on account of his philofophical and conciliatory difpo-
fftion of mind, to reconcile the cardinal de Noailles
with the Jefuits. All he gained by his attempts was Maffillon.
the difpleafure of both parties \ and he found that it  "v—-
was eafier to convert finners than to reconcile theolo¬
gians. In 17x7, the regent, perfonally acquainted
with his merit, appointed him to the biihopric of Cler¬
mont. The next year, being deitined to preach be¬
fore Louis XV. who was only nine years of age, he
compofed in fix weeks thofe difeourfes which are lo
well known by the name of Petit Carenie. Theie are
the chef d’ueuvre of this orator, and indeed of the
oratorical art. They ought continually to be read by
preachers as models for the formation of their talte,
and by princes as leffons of humanity.
Maftillon was admitted into the French academy a
year afterwards, in 1719. The abbacy of Savigny
becoming vacant, the cardinal du Bois, to whom he
had been weak enough to give an atteftation for be¬
ing a prieft, procured it for him. The funeral ora¬
tion of the duchefs of Orleans, in 1723, was the laft
difeourfe he pronounced in Paris. He never after¬
wards left his diocefe, where his gentlenefs, politenefs,
and kindnefs, had gained him the affeXion of all who
knew him. He reduced the exorbitant rights of the
epifcopal roll to moderate fums. In two years, he
caufed 20,000 livres to be privately conveyed to the
Hotel Dieu of Clermont. His peaceable difpofition was
never more difplayed than while he was a bifhop. He
took great plealure in coileXing the fathers of the
oratory and the Jefuits at his country houfe, and in
making them join in fome diverfion. He died on the
28th of September 1742, at the age of 79. His
name has become that of eloquence itfelf. Nobody
ever knew better how to touch the paflions. Prefer¬
ring fentiment to every thing elfe, he communicated
to the foul that lively and falutary emotion which ex¬
cites in us the love of virtue. What pathetic eloquence
did his difeourfes difplay ! what knowledge of the hu¬
man heart ! what conftant difclofing of a mind deeply
affeXed with his fubjeX ! what ftrain of truth, phiio-
fophy and humanity ! what imagination, at once the
moft lively, and guided by the foundeft judgement !
Juft and delicate thoughts fplendid and lofty ideas y.
elegant, well chofen, fublime, and harmonious exprel-
fions ; brilliant and natural images j true and lively
colouring ; a clear, neat, fwelling and copious ftyle,
equally fuited to the capacity of the multitude, and
fitted to pleafe the man of genius, the phiiofopher,.
and the courtier, form the charaXer of Maffillon’s elo¬
quence, efpecially in his Petit Careme. He could at
once think, deferibe, and feel. It has been juilly ob-
ferved concerning him, that he was to Bourdaloue
what Racine was to Corneille. To give the finilhing-
ftroke to his eulagium, Of all the French orators, he
is the moft efteemed by foreigners.
An excellent edition of Mufti lion’s works was pub-
blilhed'by his nephew at Paris in 1745 and 1746, in
14 vols large i2mo, and 12 vols of a fmall lize.-—
Among them we find, x. Complete fets of Sermons
for Advent and Lent. It is particularly in his moral
difeourfes, itsch as are almoft all thofe of his fermona-
far Advent and Lent, that Maflillon’s genius appears..
He excels, fays M. d’Alembert, in that fpecies of
eloquence, which alone may be preferred to all others,
which goes direXly to the heart, and which agitates
without wounding the foul. He fear.ches the inmolt-
receffes-
MAS [ 678 ] M A S
M.ifTillon, rece.{res of tlie heart, and lavs open the fecret wovk-
,’»'?p.flinger. jngS 0£ pafj~i0ns? f0 delicate and tender a
hand, that we are hurried along rather than overcome.
His diftion, which is always eafy, elegant, and pure,
everywhere partakes of that noble fimplicity, with¬
out which there can be neither good talle nor true e-
loquence *, and this fimplicity is, in Maflillon, joined
to the moft attra&ive and the fweeteft harmony, from
which it likewife. borrows new graces. In fhort, to
complete the charm produced by this enchanting ftyle,
we perceive that thefe beauties are perfectly natural j
that they flow eafily from this fource, and that they
have occafioned no labour to the compofer. There
even occur fometimes in the expreflions, in the turns,
or in the affeCting melody of his ftyle, inltapces of ne¬
gligence which may be called happy, becaufe they
1 completely remove every appearance of labour. By
thus abandoning himfelf to the natural current of
thought and expreflion, Maflillon gained as many friends
as hearers. He knew, that the more anxious an ora¬
tor appears to raife admiration, he will find thofe who
hear him the lefs difpofed to beftovv it. 2. Several
Funeral Orations, Difcourfes, and Panegyrics, which
had never been publifhed. 3. Ten difcourfes, known
by the name of Petit Careme. 4. The Conferen¬
ces Ecclefq/liques, which he delivered in the feminary
of St Magloire upon his arrival at Paris j thofe which
he delivered to the curates of his diocefe $ and the
difcourfes which he pronounced at the head of the
fynods which he afiembled every year. 5. Paraphrafes
on feveral of the Pfalms. The illuftrious author of
thefe excellent trafts wifhed that they had introduced
into France a pradice which prevails in England, of
reading fermons inftead of preaching them from me¬
mory $ a cuftom which is very convenient, but by
which all the warmth and fervour of eloquence are
loft. He, as well as two others of his brethren, had
ftopt fhort in the pulpit exactly on the fame day.—
They were all to preach at different hours on Good-
Friday, and they went to hear one another in fuccef-
fion. The memory of the firft failed ; which fo ter¬
rified the other two, that they experienced the fame
fate. When our illuftrious orator was afked, what
was his beft fermon ? he anfwered, “ That which I
am moft mafter of.” The fame reply is afcribed to
Bourdaloue. The celebrated P. la Rue was of the opi¬
nion of Maflillon, that getting by heart was a flavery
which deprived the pulpit of a great many orators, and
which w^as attended with many inconveniences to thofe
who dedicated themfelves to it. The abbe de la Porte
has colle&ed into one vol. 12mo the moft linking ideas,
and the moft fublime ftrokes, which occur in the works
of the celebrated bifhop of Clermont. This colle£lion,
which is made with great judgement, appeared at Paris
in 1748, i2mo, and forms the 15th volume of the large
edition in i2mo, and the 13th of the fmall in i2mo.
It is entitled, Penfecs fur differens fujets de morale et de
piete, tirees, &c.
MASSINGER, Philip, an Englifh dramatic poet,
was born at Salifbury about the y|ar 1581, and was
educated at Oxford. He left the univerfity without
taking any degree ; and wrent to London to improve
his poetical genius by polite converfation. There he
wrote many tragedies and comedies, which were recei-
yed with vaft applaufe j and were greatly admired for
* 2
the econ®my of the plots and the purity of the ftyle. Mafllye,
He was at the fame time a perfon of the moft; confum- Baffin*.
mate modefty ; which rendered him extremely beloved
by the poets of his time, particularly by Fletcher, Mid¬
dleton, Rowley, Field, and Decker, who thought it
an honour to write in conjunflion with him. He was
as remarkable for his abilities as his modefty. He died
fuddenly at his houfe on the Bank fide in Southwark,
near the playhoufe } and was interred in St Saviour’s
churchyard, in the fame grave with Mr Fletcher the
poet.
MASSIVE, among builders, an epithet given to
whatever is too heavy and folid : thus a maflive co¬
lumn is one too fhort and thick for the order whofe
capital it bears •, and a maflive wall is one whofe open¬
ings or lights are too fmall in proportion.
MASSON, Papirius, a French writer, was the
fon of a rich merchant, and born in the territory of
Forez, May 1544. After ftudying the belles iettres
and philofophy, and travelling to different places, he
came to Paris, where he was made librarian to the
chancellor of the duke of Anjou, in wdiich place he
continued ten years. In 1576, he was made an advo¬
cate of parliament j yet never pleaded but one caufe,
which, however, he gained with univerfal applaufe.—-
When the troubles of France were at an end, he mar¬
ried the After of a counfellor in parliament, with whom
he lived thirty-four years, but bad no iffue by her.—
The infirmities of age attacked him feme time before
his death, which happened Jan. 9. 1611. He wrrote
four books of French annals in Latin, firft printed at
Paris 11577, an£^ afterwards in 1598, 4to. The fe-
cond edition, more enlarged than the firft, deduces
things from Pharamond to Henry II. Maflon confi-
dered this as his principal performance ; yet he is now
chiefly known by his Elogia virorum clarijjimorum, al¬
though he publifhed feveral other works.
Masson, John, a reformed minifter in Holland
feme years ago. He w^as originally of France, but
fled into England, to enjoy that liberty in religion
which his country refufed him. He wrote, 1. Hifoire
critique de la republique des lettres, from 171 2 to 1717,
in 15 vols 12mo. 2. Vitce Horatii, Ovidii, et Plinii
juniorisf 3 vols fmall 8vo, and printed abroad, though
dedicated to Englifhmen of rank : the firfl at Leyden,
1708, to Lord Harvey *, the fecond at Amfterdam,
1708, to Sir Juftinian Ifham ; the third at Amfter¬
dam, 1709, to the bifhop of Worcefter. Thefe lives
are drawn up in a chronological order, very learnedly
and very critically ; and ferve to illuftrate the hiftory,
not only of thofe particular perfons, but of the times
alfo in which they lived. 3. Hijloire de Pierre Bayle et
desfes outrages; Amfterdam, 1716, in 1 2mo. This
at leaf! is fuppofed to be his, though at firfl; it was gi¬
ven to M. la Monnoye.
Masson, Antony, an eminent French engraver,
who flourifhed towards the conclufion of the lafl cen¬
tury, and refided chiefly at Paris. It appears that he
fometimes amufed himfelf with painting portraits from
the life, fome of which he alfo engraved. We have
no account of the life of this extraordinary artift $ nor
are we even informed from what mafter he learned the
principles of engraving. He worked entirely with
the graver, and handled that inftrument with aftonifh-
ing facility. He feems to have had no kind of rule
to
MAS [ 679 ] M A S
M&ffuah. to direct Kim with refpeft to the turning the
—^   ftrokes ; but twilled and twirled them about, without
the lead: regard to the different forms he intended to
exprefs, making them entirely fubfervient to his own
caprice. Yet the effe£t he has produced in this lingu¬
lar manner (Mr Strutt obferves), is not only far fu-
perior to what one could have fuppoled, but is often
very pi&urefque and beautiful. It was not in hiftori-
cal engraving that his greateft ffrength conlifled. He
could not draw the naked parts of the human figure
fo corredlly as w:as neceffary j but wdiere the fubject
required the figures to be clothed, he fucceeded in a
wonderful manner. Among the moft edeemed works
by this admirable artift, may be reckoned the follow¬
ing : The affumption of the Virgin, a large upright
plate from Rubens •, a holy family, a middling-fized
plate, lengthwife, from N. Mignard ; Chrift with the
pilgrims at Emaus, a large plate, lengthwdfe, from
Titian, the original pidlure <*f which is in the ca¬
binet of the king of France. This admirable print
is commonly known by the name of the table-cloth :
for the cloth, with which the table is covered, is exe¬
cuted in a very lingular ftyle. Alfo the following
portraits, among others : The Comte de Harcourt, a
large upright plate, reckoned a mafferpiece in this
clafs of fubjecls y Guillaume de Brifacier, fecretary to
the queen of France •, a middling-fized upright plate :
ufualiy known in England by the name of the Gray¬
headed Man, becaufe the hair in this print is fo finely
executed.
MASSUAH, a fmall ifland in the Red fea, near
the coaft of Abyfiinia, about three quarters of a mile
long, and half as broad, one-third of which is occu¬
pied by houfes, another by ciflerns for receiving rain¬
water, and one referred for a burial place. It has
an excellent harbour, with water fufficiently deep
for (hips of any fize to the very edge of the ifland j
and fo well fecured, that they may ride in fafety, let
the wind blow from w'hat quarter or w7ith what de¬
gree of firength it will. By the ancients it was call¬
ed Sebajlicum Os, and wras formerly a place of great
confequence on account of its harbour, from tvhence
a very e' ‘•enfive commerce was carried on, and pof-
feffed a fhare of the Indian trade in common with
•other ports of the Red fea near the Indian ocean.—
A very conil ierable quantity of valuable goods tvas
alfo brought thither from the tradl of mountainous
country behind it, which in all ages has been account¬
ed very unhofpitable, and almoft inacceffible to flran-
gers. The principal articles of exportation were gold,
ivory, elephants and buffaloes hides ; but above all,
Raves, who, on account of their perfonal qualifications,
were more efleemed than thofe from any other quarter.
Pearls of a confiderable fize, and of a fine water, are
likewife found along the coaft j from the abundance of
all which valuable commodities, the great defedft, a
want of water, was forgot, and the inhabitants cheer¬
fully fubmitted to fuch a great inconvenience. The
ifland of Maffuah fell under the power of the Turks in
the time of the emperor Selim, foon after the con-
queft of Arabia Felix by Sinan Bafha, and was for
fome time governed by an officer from Conftantinople.
From thence the conqueft of AbyfTmia was for fome
time attempted, but always without fuccefs. Hence
it began to loi'e its value as a garrifon for troops, as it
had done in the commercial way after the difeevery of Malluah.
the pafiage to India by the Cape of Good Hope.— v
Being thus deprived of its importance in every refpeft,
the Turks no longer thought it worth w'hile to fend a
baffiaw thither as formerly, but conferred the govern-
ment upon the chief of a tribe of Mahometans named
Belowie, who inhabit the coafts of the Red fea under
the mountains of Habab, in the latitude of about 140
north. On this officer they conferred the title of Naybe ;
and on the removal of the baihaw, he remained in fa£t
mafter of the place, though, to fave appearances, he
pretended to hold it from the Ottoman Porte, by a
firman from the Grand Signior for that purpofe, and
the payment of an annual tribute.
The Turks had originally put into the town of
Maffuah a garrifon of Janizaries $ wffio, being left there
on the withdrawung of the baflraw, and intermarrying
with the natives, foon became entirely fubjedled to
the naybe’s influence. The latter, finding himfelf at
a great diftance from his proteftors the Turks, whofe
garrifons were everywhere falling into decay, and
that in confequence of this he wTas entirely in the
power of the emperor of Abyffinia, began to think of
taking fome method of fecuring himfelf on that fide.
Accordingly it w7as agreed that one half of the cuftoms
ftiould be paid to the Abyffinian monarch j who in re¬
turn was to allow him to enjoy his government unmo-
lefted. Having thus fecured the friendlhip of the
emperor of Abyffinia, the naybe began gradually to
withdraw the tribute he had been accuftomed to pay
to the balhaw7 of Jidda, to w hofe government Maffuah
had been affigned j and at laft to pay as little regard
to the government of Abyffinia : and in this ftate of
independence he w7as when Mr Bruce arrived there in
1769 on his way to Abyffinia. This gentleman found
both the prince and his people extremely unhofpitable
and treacherous; fo that he underwent a variety of
dangers during his refidence there, nor was it without
great difficulty that he could get away from thence at
laft.
The ifland of Mafluah, as we have faid, is entirely
deftitute of wrater ; nor can it be fupplied wdth pro-
vifions of any kind but from the mountainous country
of Abyflinia on the continent. Arkeeko, a large
town in the bottom of the boy, has water, but is in
the fame predicament with regard to provifions j for
the adjacent traft of flat land, named Samhar, is a
perfect defert, inhabited only from the month of No¬
vember to April by fome wandering tribes, who carry
all their cattle to the Abyffinian fide of the mountains
W'hen the rains fall there. Being thus in the territo¬
ries of the Abyffinians, it is in the power of the em¬
peror of that country, or of his officer the baharnagafli,
to ftarve Maffuah and Arkeeko, by prohibiting the
paffage of any provifions from the Abyffinian fide of
the mountains.
The houfes of Maffuah are generally conftrufled of
long poles and bent grafs, as is ufual with other towns
of Arabia : only about 20 are of ftone, and fix or
eight of thefe two ftories high. The ftones with
which they are built have been drawn out of the fea j
and in them the bed of that curious mufcle found em¬
bodied in the folid rock at Mahon is frequently to be
feen. Thefe are called dattoli da mare, or fea dates :
but our author never faw any of the filh themfelves,,
though1
*
MAS [ 680 ] MAS
AlaFnali tbougli lie lias no doubt that they may be met with
(I in the rocky iflands of Maffuah, if they would take the
r " ” trouble of breaking the rocks for them. All the ne-
ceiTaries of life are very dear in this place; and their
quality is alfo very indifferent, owing to the diffance
from whence they mult be brought, and the danger
of carrying them through the defert of Samhar, as
well as to the extortions of the naybe himfelf, who,
under the name of cujloms, takes whatever part of the
goods he thinks proper \ fo the profit left to the mer¬
chant is femetimes little or nothing. All the money
here is valued by the Venetian fequin ; and it is owing
to the commercial intercourfe with the Arabian coaft,
. that any money at all is to be met with on this illand
or the eaftern coaft of Africa. Glafs beads of all
-kinds and colours, whether whole or broken, pafs for
frnall money.
Though Mafiuah has now' loft very much of its com¬
mercial importance, a confiderable trade is ftill carried
on from the place. From the Arabian fide are im¬
pelled blue cotton and other cloths ; feme of them
from India being very fin^. Other articles are Vene-
ti .n beads, cryftal, looking and drinking glaffes, wdth
cobcl or crude antimony. Thefe three laft articles
Come in great quantity from Cairo, fiift in the coffee
fish s to Jidda, and then in fmall barks to the port of
MaiTuah. Old copper is alfo a valuable article of com¬
merce. The Galla and all the various tribes to the
weftvard of Gondar wear bracelets of this metal,
which in feme parts of that barbarous country is faid
to fell for its weight of gold. Here is alfo a (hell, an
univalve of the fpecies of volutes, which fells at a
high price, and paffes for money among the various
tribes of Galia. The Banians were once the principal
merchants of Maffuah ; but their number is now redu¬
ced to fix, who are filverfmiths, and fubfift by making
ornaments for the women on the continent. They
likewife effay gold, but make a poor livelihood.
MdiSSUET, Rene, or Renatus, a very learned
Benedidyne of the congregation of St Maur, was
born at S. Owen de Macelles, in 1665. He is chief¬
ly known for the new edition of St Irenaeus, which he
publifhed in 1710. He confulted feveral manuferipts,
which had never been examined for that purpole,
and made newr notes and learned prefaces. He died in
1716, after having written and publilhed feveral other
works.
MAST, a long round piece of timber, elevated
perpendicularly upon the keel of a Ihip, to wdiich are
attached the yards, the fails, and the rigging. Amaft,
with regard to its length, is either formed of one fingle
piece, which is called a pole-maft, or compofed of fe¬
veral pieces joined together, each of which retains the
name of mart fenaratelv. The lowed of the!e is ac-
Plnte corcfingly named the lower tnajl, a fig. 1.; the next in
CCCXV.’ height is the top-maft, b, w'hich is ere£led at the head
of the former; and the higheft is the top-gallant-maft,
c. wdrich is prolonged from the upper end of the top-rnaft.
Thus the twro laft are no other than a continuation of the
firft upwards.
The lover-mad: is fixed in the fhip by an apparatus
defciibed in the articles FItii.jt and Sheers: the foot,
or heel of it refts in a block of timber called the
which is fixed upon the kelfon : and the top-maft is at-
jjached to the bead of it by the cap and the irejlle trees.
3
The latter of thefe are two ftrong bars of timber, fup-
ported by two prominences, which are as (boulders on ^
the oppoftte (ides of the mad, a little under its upper
end : athwart thefe bars are fixed the crofs-trees, upon
which the frame of the top is lupported. Between the
lower maft head and the foremoft of the crofs-trees, a
fquare fpace remains vacant, the fides of which are
bounded by the twro treftle-trees. Perpendicularly
above this is the foremoft hole in the cap, whole after
hole is folidly fixed on the head of the lower-maft. The
top-maft is ere&ed by a tackle, wbofe effort is commu¬
nicated from the head of the lower maft to the foot of
the top-maft ; and the upper end of the latter is ac¬
cordingly guided into and conveyed up through the
holes between the treftle-trees and the cap, as above
mentioned. The machinery by which it is elevated,
or, according to the fea pbrafe, fwayed up% is fixed in
the following manner : the top rope d, fig. 3. palling
through a block e, which is hooked on one fide of the
cap, and afterwards through a hole, furnifhed with a
{heave or pulley on the lowrer end of the top-malt,
is again brought upwards on the other fide of the maft,
where it is at length faftened to an eye-bolt in the cap
g, which is always on the fide oppoftte to the top-
block e. To the kmrer end of the top-rope is fixed
the top-tackle h, the effort of which being tranfmit-
ted to the top-rope </, and thence to the heel of the
top-maft f, neceffarily lifts the latter upwards, paral¬
lel to the lower-maft. When the top-maft is raifed to
its proper height, fig. 4. the lower end of it becomes
firmly wedged in the fquare hole above deferibed, be¬
tween the trettlertrees. A bar of w?ood or iron called
the jid, is then thruft through a hole i in the heel of
it, acrofs the treftle-trees, by which the whole weight
of the top-maft is fupported.
In the fame manner as the top maft is retained at the
head of the lowTer-maft, the top-gallant-maft is erefted,
and fixed at the head of the top maft.
Befides the parts already mentioned in the conftruc-
tion of mafts, with refpedl: to their length, the lower
mafts of the largeft (hips are compofed of feveral pieces
united into one body. As thefe are generally the moil
iubftantial parts of various trees, a maft, formed by
this affemblage, is juftly efteemed much ftronger than
one confifting of any fingle trunk, w'hofe internal fo-
lidity may be very uncertain. The feveral pieces are
formed and joined together, as reprefented in the fec-
tion of a lower maft of this fort, fig. 5. where a is
the (haft, or principal piece into which the reft are fix¬
ed, with their fides or faces clofe to each other. The
wdiole is fecured by feveral ftreng hoops of iron, driven
on the outfide of the maft, where they remain at proper
diftances.
The principal articles to be confidered in equip¬
ping a (hip with mafts are, ift, the number ; 2d, their
fituation in the veffel; and, 3d, their height above the
water.
The mafts being ufed to extend the fails by means
of their yards, it is evident, that if their number were
multiplied beyond what is neceffary, the yards muft:
be extremely fhort, that they may not entangle each
other in working the (hip, and by confequence their
fails will be very narrow’, and receive a (mall portion
of wind. If, on the contrary, there is not a fufficient
number of mafts in the veil’d, the yards w’jll be too
large
Mad,
VIA S T.
Plate C CC XY.
Mai*.
MAS r 6Si ] ‘ M
largft and heavy, fo as not to be managed without dif- cular movement of the maft
A S
ficulty. There is a mean between thefe extremes,
which experience and the general practice of the fea
have determined } by which it appears, that in large
fhips every advantage of failing is retained by three
mails and a bowfprit.
The moil advantageous pofition of the mails is un¬
doubtedly that from whence there refults an equilibri¬
um between the refiflance of the water on the body of
the {hip on the one part, and of the direction of their
effort on the other. By every other pofition this equi¬
librium is deftroyed, and the'greateft effort of the malls
will operate to turn the (hip horizontally about its di¬
rection j a circumfiance w'hich retards her velocity. It
is counterbalanced indeed by the helm j but the fame
inconvenience ftill continues *, for the force of the wind,
having the refiftance of the helm to overcome, is not
entirely employed to puff the veflel forward. The
axis of the refiftance of the water fhould then be previ-
oufly determined, to difcover the place of the tnain-mq/f,
in order to fufpend the efforts of the water equally, and
place the other mails fo as that their particular direc¬
tion will coincide with that of the main maft. The
whole of this would be capable of a folution, if the fi¬
gure of the veffel were regular, becaufe the point, about
w-hich the refiftance of the water would be in equilibrio,
might be difcovered by calculation.
But when the real figure of the ffip is confidered,
thefe flattering ideas will inftantly vanilh. This obfer-
vation induced M. Saverien to employ a mechanical
method to difcover the axis of refiftance of the water,
which he apprehended might be ufed with fuccefs in
the manner following :
When the veffel is launched, before the places of the
mafts are determined, extend a rope AB, fig. 6. from
the head to the ftern. To the extremities A and B
attach two other ropes, AD, EC, and apply to the
other ends of thefe ropes two mechanical powers, to
draw the ftiip according to the direction BC, parallel
to itfelf. The whole being thus difpofed, let a move-
able tube Z, fixed upon the rope AB, have another
rope ZR attached to it, whofe other end communi¬
cates with a mechanical power R, equal to the two
powers D and C. This laft being applied to the fame
veffel, in fuch manner as to take off the effedfts of the
two others by Aiding upon the rope AB, fo as to dif¬
cover fome point Z, by the parallelifm of the ropes,
AD, BC feebly extended with the rope ZR 5 the line
ZR will be the axis of the equilibrium of the water’s
refiftance, and by confequence the main-maft fliould be
planted in the point Z.
The figures E, E, E, are three windlaffes on the
Ihore, by which this experiment is applied.
With regard to the fituation of the other mafts, it is
neceffary, in the fame manner, to difcover two points ;
fo that the direffion of the twro mechanical powers ope¬
rating, will be parallel to the axis of refiftance RZ al¬
ready found.
The exadt height of the mafts, in proportion to the
form and fize of the ffip, remains yet a problem to be
determined. The more the mafts are elevated above
the centre of gravity, the greater will be the furface
of fail which they are enabled to prefent to the wind j
fo far an additional height feems to have been advan¬
tageous. But this advantage is diminiffed by the cir-
Vol. XII. Part II.
which operates to make Mafter.
the veffel ftoop to its effort; and this inclination is
increafed in proportion to the additional height of
the maft, an inconvenience which it is neceffary to
guard againft. Thus what is gained upon one hand
is loft upon the other. To reconcile thefe differences,
it is certain, that the height of the maft; ought to be
determined by the inclination of the veffel, and that
the point of her greateft inclination ftiould be the term
of this height above the centre of gravity. See the ar¬
ticle Trim.
With regard to the general pradlice of determining
the height of the mafts, according to the different rates
of the (hips in the royal navy, the reader is referred to
the article Sail.
In order to fecure the mafts, and counterbalance the
ftrain they receive from the effort of the fails impref-
fed by the wind, and the agitation of the ffip at fea,
they are fuftained by feveral ftrong ropes, extended
from their upper ends to the outfide of the veffel, call¬
ed Jljrouds, as reprefented in fig. 4. They are further
fupported by other ropes, ftretched from their heads
towards the fore part of the veffel.
The maft, which is placed at the middle of the
flap’s length, is called the main-mqft; that which is
placed in the fore part, the fore-majl ,• and that which
is towards the ftern, is termed the nii%en-majl.
. N. B. Mi%en is applied to this maft by all the na¬
tions of Europe, except die French, who alone call the
fore-maft mifaine.
MASTER, a title given to feveral officers and
perlons of authority and command $ particularly to
the chiefs of the orders of knighthood, &c.—Thus we
fay the grand mailer of Malta ; of St Lazarus ; of the
Golden Fleece ; of the Free Mafons, &c.
Master {Magifter), w7as a title frequent among the
Romans : they had their matter of the people, magi-
Jler populi, who was the didlator. Mafter of the ca¬
valry, magijler equitum, who held the fecond poft in an
army after the dictator. Under the later emperors there
were alfo matters of the infantry, magijlripeditum. A
mafter of the cenfus, magijler cenfus, who had nothing
of the charge of a cenfor, or fubcenfor, as the name feems
to intimate \ but was the fame with preepofitus fru-
tnentariorum.
Master of the Militia (magJler militia:'), was an of¬
ficer in the lower empire, created, as it is faid, by
Dioclefian, who had the infpeftion and government of
all the forces, with powmr to punith, &c. fomewhat
like a conftable of France. At firft there were two
of thefe officers inftituted, the one for the infantry,
and the other for the cavalry j but the two were united
into one under Conftantine. Afterwards, as their power
was increafed, fo ivas their number alfo 5 and there
was one appointed for the court, another for Thrace,
another for the Eaft, and another for Illyria. They
were afterwards called comites, counts, and clarijjimi.
'I heir power was only a branch of that of the pra-
fedlus preetoni, who by that means became a civil of¬
ficer.
Master of Arms (magifter armorum), was an officer
or comptroller under the mafter of the militia.
Master of the Offices (?nagjler qfficiorum), had the
fuperintendance of all the officers of the court; he was
alfo called tnagi/ler officii palatini, limply magijler ; and
4 R his
M AS [ 682 ] MAS
Mafter. liis port magi/leria.—This officer was the fame in the
TYeftern empire with the curopalates in the eailern.
Master at Mr?ns, among us, is an officer appointed
to teach the officers and crew of a fhip of war the
exercife of fmall arms; to confine and plant centi-
nels over the prifoners, and fuperintend whatever re¬
lates to them during their confinement. He is alfo
to obferve that the fire and lights are all extingulfhed
as foon as the evening gun is fired, except thofe which
are permitted by proper authority, or under the in-
fpeftion of centinels. It is likewife his duty to attend
the gangway when any boats arrive aboard, and fearch
them carefully, together with their rowers, that no
fpirituous liquors may be conveyed into the fhip unlefs
by permiffion of the commanding officers. In thefe fe-
veral duties he is affifted by proper attendants, called
his corporals, who alfo relieve the centinels and one ano¬
ther at certain periods.
Master of Arts, the firft degree taken up in foreign
univerllties, but the fecond in ours j candidates not
being admitted to it till they have ftudied in the uni-
verfity feven years.
Master-Attendant, is an officer in the royal dock¬
yards, appointed to haften and affift at the fitting out
or difmantling, removing, or fecuring veffels of war,
&c. at the port where he refides. He is particularly
to obferve, that his majefty’s fliips are fecurely moor¬
ed, and for this purpofe he is expefted frequently to
review the moorings which are funk in the harbour,
and obferve that they are kept in proper repair. It
is alfo his duty to vifit all the {hips in ordinary, and
fee that they are frequently cleaned and kept in or¬
der j and to attend at the general muders in the dock¬
yards, taking care that all the officers, artificers, and
labourers, regiftered in the navy-books, are prefent at
their duty.
Master of the Ceremonies, is an officer inflituted by
King James I. for the more folemn and honourable
reception of ambafladors, and llrangers of quality,
wffiom he introduces into the prefence.—The badge
of this office is a gold chain and medal, having on one
fide an emblem of peace, wTith King James’s motto j
' and on the reverfe the emblem of w’ar, with Dieu
et mon droit. He is always fuppofed to be a perfon of
good addrefs, and a mafler of languages, and has an
appointment of 300I. a-year : he is conftantly attend¬
ing at court, and hath under him an affiftant-mafter,,
or deputy, at 6s. 8d. a-day, who holds his place during
the king’s pleafure.
There is alfo a third officer, called marfhal of the ce¬
remonies, with 100I. a-year, whofe bufinefs is to receive
and dillribute the mailer’s orders, or the deputy’s, for
the fervice ; but wdthout their order he can do nothing.
This is the king’s gift.
Masters of Chancery are ufually chofen out of the
barriflers of the common law j and fit in chancery, or
at the rolls, as affiflants to the lord chancellor and
the mailer of the rolls. All thefe, fo late as the reign
of Queen Elizabeth, w7ere commonly doftors of the
civil law.—To them are alfo committed interlocutory
reports, examination of bills in chancery, Hating of
accounts, taxing cofls, &c. a id fometimes, by wTay of
reference, they are empowered to make a final determi¬
nation of caufes.
They have, time out of mind, had the honour to fit
in the houfe of lords, though they have neither writs nor M.
patent to empower them j but they are received as af-
filfants to the lord chancellor and mafler of the rolls.
'I hey had anciently the care of infpedling all writs of
fummons, which is now performed by the clerk of the
petty-bag. When any meffage is fent from the lords
to the commons, it is carried by the mailers of chan¬
cery. Before them alfo affidavits are made, and deeds
and recognizances acknowledged.
Befides theie, who may be called tnafers of chancery
ordinary, (being 12 in number, whereof the mailer of
the rolls is reputed the chief), there are alfo mailers of
chancery extraordinary, appointed to aft in the feveral
counties of England beyond 10 miles diftance from
London, by taking affidavits, recognizances, &c. for
the eafe of the fukors of the court.
Master of the Faculties, an officer under the arch-
bifhop of Canterbury, who grants licenfes and difpen-
fations : he is mentioned in the flatuie 22 and 23
Car. II. See Court of Faculties.
Master Gunner. See Gunner.
Master of the Horfe is reckoned the third great of¬
ficer of the court, and is an office of great honour and
antiquity, and always (wffien not put in commiffion),
filled by noblemen of the highefl rank and abilities.
He has the management and difpofal of all the king’s
flables and bred horfes. He has authority over the
equerries and pages, coachmen, footmen, grooms, ri¬
ders of the great horfe, farriers, and fmiths. He ap¬
points all the other tradefmen W'ho work for the king’s
Hables; and by his warrant to the avenor, makes them
give an oath to be true and faithful. In fhort, he is
intruded with all the lands and revenues appropriated
for the king’s breed of horfes, the expences of the
dable, and of the coaches, litters, &c. He alone has
the privilege of making ufe of any of the king’s horfes,
pages, footmen, &c. 5 and at any folemn cavalcade he
rides next the king, and leads a horfe of date. His
falary is 1276k 13s. qd. per annum. There is alfo a
mader of the horfe in the edablifiiment of her majedy’s
houfehold, with a falary of 800I. a-year.
Master of the Houfehold, is an officer under the trea-
furer of the houfehold, in the king’s gift : his bufi-
neis is to furvey the accounts of the houfebold.—He
has 661. 13s. qd. a-year wages, and 433k 6s. 8d. board
wages.
Master of the Mint, wras anciently the title of him
who is now called warden of the mint; wffiofe office is
to receive the filver and bullion which comes to the
mint to be coined, and to take care thereof. The
office of mader and worker is ncuv didinft : and this
officer is allowed for himfelf and three clerks 650].
a-year.
Master of the Ordnance. See Ordnance.
Master of the Revels, an officer w ith an appoint¬
ment of 1 col. a-year, whofe bufinefs is to order all
things relating to the performance of plays, mafques,
balls, &c. at court. Formerly he had alfo a jurif-
diftion of granting licenfes to all who travel to aft
plays, puppet diows, or the like diverfions ; neither
could any new play be afted at either of the two
lioufes till it had paffed his perufal and liccnfe j but
thefe powers were afterwards much abridged, not to
fay annihilated, by a flatute for regulating playhoufes,
till the licenfing plays by the lord chamberlain was
edablifhed.
Mailer.
MAS - [ 683 ] MAS
eilablitl'.ed. This officer has a yeoman with 46I. ils. 8d.
a-year.
Mas ter o f the Rolls, a patent officer for life j who
has the cutlody of the rolls and patents which pafs the
great feal, and of the records of the chancery.
In the abfence of the lord chancellor or keeper, he
alfo fits as judge in the court of chancery j and is by
Sir Edward Coke called his ajfijlant.
At other times he hears caufes in the rolls chapel,
and makes orders and decrees. He is alfo the firft of
the matters of chancery, and has their affiftance at the
roils : but all hearings before him are appealable to the
lord chancellor.
He has alfo his writ of fummons to parliament, and
fits next to the lord chief juttice of England on the fe-
cond woolpack. He has the keeping of the parliament
rolls, and has the rolls-houfe for his habitation 5 as al¬
fo the cuftody of all charters, patents, commiffions,
deeds, and recognifances, which being made of rolls of
parchment gave rife to the name. Anciently he was
called clerk of the rolls.
Concerning the authority of the matter of the rolls
to hear and determine caufes, and his general power
in the court of chancery, there were (not many years
lince) divers queftions and dilputes very warmly agi¬
tated •, to quiet which it was declared by ttat. 3.
Geo II. cap. 30. that all orders and decrees by him
made, except fuch as by the courfe of the court were
appropriated to the great feal alone, ftiould be deemed
to be valid ; fubjedt neverthelefs to be difeharged
or altered by the lord chancellor, and fo as they ffiall
not be enrolled till the fame are figned by his lord-
ttfip.
In his gift are the fix clerks in chancery, the exa¬
miners, three clerks of the petty bag, and the fix
clerks of the rolls chapel where the rolls are kept. See
Rolls, Clerk, Sec.
The matter of the rolls is always of the privy coun¬
cil •, and his office is of great profit, though much ftiort
of what it has been.
Master of a Ship, an officer to whom is commit¬
ted the direflion of a merchant veffel, who com¬
mands it in chief, and is charged with the merchan-
difes aboard.
In the Mediterranean the matter is frequently called
patron, and in long voyages captain.
It is the proprietor of the veffel that appoints the
matter •, and it is the matter who provides the equi¬
page, hires the pilots, failors, &c. The matter is
obliged to keep a regifter of the feamen and officers,
the terms of their contract, the receipts and payments,
and, in general, every thing relating to his com-
miffion.
Master of a Ship of War, is an officer appointed by
the commiffioners of the navy, to take charge of na¬
vigating a ttiip from port to port under the direction
of the captain. The management and difpofition of
the fails, the w’orking of a ttiip into her ftation in
the order of battle, and the direction of her move¬
ments in the time of action, and in other circum-
ttances #of danger, are alfo more particularly under his
infpeft ^r. It is likewife his duty to examine the
provifions, and accordingly to admit none into the ttiip
but fuch as are found, fweet, and wholefome. He
is moreover charged with the ftowage ; and for the
performance of thefe fervices he is allow'ed feVera! Mailer,
affiftants who are properly termed mates and quarter- w*“'>r“CT
mafers.
Master of the Temple. The founder of the order of
the templars, and all his fuccefiors, were called magni
templi magijlri; and ever fince the diffulution of
the order, the fpiritual guide and direftor of the
houfe is called by that name* See Temple and Tem¬
plar.
There were alfo feveral other officers under this
denomination, as matter of the wardrobe, with a fa-
lary of 2000I. a-year 5 matter of the harriers, with
2000I. a-year j matter of the ftaghounds, with 800I.
a-year ; matter of the iewel-office, &c. all now aba*
lithed.
Master and Servant; a relation founded in con¬
venience, whereby a man is directed to call in the af-
ttttance of others, wffiere his own Ikill and labour will
not be fufficient to anfwer the cares incumbent upon
him. For the feveral forts of fervants, and how that
charafter is created or deflroyed. fee the article Ser¬
vant. In the prefent article we ihall conlider, firft,
the effe£t of this relation with regard to the parties
themlelves ; and, fecondly, its effe&s with regard to
others*
1. The manner in which this relation affeitts either
the matter or fervant. And, firft, by hiring and fer-
vice for a year, or apprenticeftiip under indentures, a
perfon gains a fettlement in that parilh wherein he laft
ferved 40 days. In the next place, perfons ferving
feven years as apprentices to any trade have an ex-
clufive right to exercife that trade in any part of Eng¬
land. This lawr, with regard to the exclufive part of
it, has by turns been looked upon as a hard law, or
as a beneficial one, according to the prevailing hu¬
mour of the times: which has occafioned a great va¬
riety of refolutions in the courts of lawr concerning it ;
and attempts have been frequently made for its re¬
peal, though hitherto without fuccefs. At comm®n law
every man might ufe what trade he pleafed ; but this
ftatute reftrains that liberty to fuch as have ferved as
apprentices: the adverfaries to which provition fay,
that all reftrifliions (which tend to introduce monopo¬
lies) are pernicious to trade; the advocates for it al¬
lege, that unxkilfulnefs in trades is equally detrimen¬
tal to the public as monopolies. This reafon indeed
only extends to fuch trades, in the exercife whereof
Ikill is required : but another of their arguments goes
much farther ; viz. that apprenticeffiips are ufeful to
the commonwealth, by employing of youth, and learn¬
ing them to be early induftrious j but that no one
would be induced to undergo a feven years fervitude,
ii others, though equally Ikilful, were allowed the fame
advantages without having undergone the fame difeip-
line: and in this there feems to be much reafon.
How'ever, the refolutions of the courts have in gene¬
ral rather confined than extended the reftriffion. No
trades are held to be within the ftatute, but fuch as
were in being at the making of it: for trading in a
country village, apprenticeffiips are not requiftte, and
following the trade feven years is fufficient without any-
binding ; for the ftatute only fays, the perfon mutt
ferves as an apprentice, and does not require an adlual
apprenticelhip to have exifted.
A matter may by law correfl his apprentice for ne-
4 R 2 gligence
Kf after.
M A S
gligence or other milbehaviour,
moderation: though, if the maftcr or mafter’s wife
beats any other fervant of full age, it is good caufe of
departure. But if any fervant, workman, or labourer,
albmlts his mailer or dame, he lhall fuffer one year’s
imprifonment, and other open corporal punilhment, not
extending to life or limb.
By fervice all fervants and labourers, except appren¬
tices, become entitled to their wages ; according to
agreement, if menial fervants} or according to the ap¬
pointment of the Iheriff or feffions, if labourers or fer¬
vants in hulbandry $ for the ftatutes for regulation
of wages extend to fuch fervants only ; it being im-
poffible for any magiftrate to be a judge of the em¬
ployment of menial fervants, or of courfe to alTefs their
wages.
2. Let us now fee how Grangers may be affe61ed by
this relation of mailer and fervant; or how a mailer
may behave towards others on behalf of his fervant, and
what a fervant may do on behalf of his mailer.
And, fird, the mailer may maintain, that is, abet
and affill, his fervant in any action at law againft a
Granger: whereas, in general, it is an offence againlf
public jullice to encourage fuits and animofuies, by
helping to bear the expence of them, and is called in
law maintenance. A mailer alfo may bring an adlion
againll any man for beating or maiming his fervant :
but in fuch cafe he mull affign, as a fpecial reafon for
fo doing, his own damage by the lofs of his fervice j
and this lofs mull be proved upon the trial. A mailer
likewife may jultify an affault in defence of his fervant,
and a fervant in defence of his mailer : the mailer, be-
caufe he has an intereft in his fervant, not to be de¬
prived of his fervice ; the fervant, becaufe it is part of
his duty, for which he receives his wages, to Hand by
and defend his mailer. Alfo if any perfon do hire or
retain my fervant, being in my fervice, for which the
fervant departeth from me and goeth to ferve the other,
I may have an action for damages againll both the
new mailer and the fervant, or either of them *, but if
the new mailer did not know that he is my fervant, no
aftion lies ; unlefs he afterwards refufe to reltore him
upon information and demand. The reafon and foun¬
dation upon which all this doclrine is built, feem to be
the property that every man has in the fervice of his
domeltics; acquired by the contrafl of hiring, and
purchafed by giving them wages.
As for thofe things which a fervant may do on be¬
half of his mailer, they feem all to proceed upon this
principle, that the mailer is aniwerable for the acl of
his fervant, if done by his command, either exprefsly
given or implied : nam quifacit per alium,facit per fe.
Therefore, if the fervant commit a trefpafs by the
command or encouragement of his mailer, the mailer
lhall be guilty of it : not that the fervant is excufed,
for he is only to obey his mader in matters that are
honed and lawful. If an innkeeper’s fervants rob his
gueds, the mader is bound to reditution ; for as there
is a conlidence repofed in him, that he will take care
to provide honed fervants, his negligence is a kind of
implied confent to the robbery j nam qui n>n prokibet,
cum prohibere pojjit, jubet. So likewife if the drawer
at a tavern fells a man bad wine, •whereby his health is
injured, he may bring an aflion againd the mader j
:or although the mailer did not exprefsly order the fer-
[ 6S4 ] MAS
fo it be done with vant to fell it to that perfon in particular, yet his per¬
mitting him to draw and fell it at all is implied a ge¬
neral command.
In the fame manner, whatever a fervant is permitted
to do in the ufual courfe of his bufmefs, is equivalent
to a general command. If I pay money to a banker’s
fervant, the banker is anfwerable for it: If I pay it
to a clergyman’s or a phyfician’s fervant, whofe ufual
bufinefs it is not to receive money for his mader, and
he embezzles it, I mud pay it over again. If a deward
lets a leafe of a farm, without the owner’s knowledge,
the owner mud dand to the bargain : for this is the
steward’s bufinefs. A wife, a friend, a relation, that
ufe to tranfaft bufinefs for a man, are quoad hoc his fer¬
vants ; and the principal mud anfwer for their con-
ducl : for the law implies, that they a£l under a ge¬
neral command; and without fuch a do&rine as this
no mutual intercourfe between man and man could fub-
fid with any tolerable convenience. If I ufually deal
with a tradefman by myfelf, or condantly pay him
ready money, I am not anfwerable for what my fer¬
vant takes up upon truft : for here is no implied order
to the tradefman to trud my fervant: but if I ufually
fend him upon trud, or fometimes on trud and fome-
times with ready money, I am anfwerable for all he
takes up j for the tradefman cannot podibly didinguiih
when he comes by my order and when upon his own
authority.
If a fervant, ladly, by his negligence does any da¬
mage to a dranger, the mader diall anfwer for his ne-
gledl: if a fmith’s fervant lames a horfe while he is
flioeing him, an addion lies againd the mader, and not
againd the fervant. But in thefe cafes the damage
mud be done while he .is ailually employed in the
mader’s fervice j otherwife the fervant lhall anfwer for
his own milbehaviour. Upon this principle, by the
common law, if a fervant kept his mader’s fire negli¬
gently, fo that his neighbour’s houfe was burned down
thereby, an action lay againd the mader j becaufe this
negligence happened in his fervice : otherwife, if the
fervant, going along the ftreet with a torch, by ne¬
gligence fets fire to a houfe \ for there he is not in his
mader’s immediate fervice, and mud himfelf anfwer
the damage perfonally. But now the common law is,
in the former cafe, altered by datute 6 Ann. c. 3.
which ordains, that no action lhall be maintained
againd: any in whofe houfe or chamber any fire lhall
accidentally begin j for their own lofs is fufficient pu-
nilhment for their own or their fervant’s careleffnefs.
But if fuch fire happens through negligence of any
fervant (whofe lofs is commonly very little), fuch fer¬
vant lhall forfeit look to be didributed among the
fufferers j and, in default of payment, lhall be com¬
mitted to fome workhoufe, and there kept to hard la¬
bour for 18 months. A mader is, ladly, chargeable
if any of his family layeth or cadeth any thing out of
his houfe into the dreet or common highway, to the
damage of any individual, or the common nuifance of
his majedy’s liege people ; for the mader hath the fu-
perintendance of all his houfehold. And this alfo
agrees with the civil law ; which holds, that the pater
families, in this and fimilar cafes, oh a/terius culpam te~
netw\fveferm,Jive liberi.
We may obferve, that in all the cafes here put, the
mader may be frequently a lofer by the trud repofed
in
Mafter.
lifafter
It
MaftifF.
MAS [ 68s ] MAT
in Viis fervant, but never can be a gainer : he may
frequently be anfwerable for his fervant’s mi (behaviour,
but never can (belter himfelf from punifhment by lay¬
ing the blame on his agent. The reafon of this is (fill
uniform and the fame j that the wrong done by the
fervant is looked upon in law as the wrong of the
mailer himfelf; and it is a (landing maxim, that no
man (hall be allowed to make any advantage of his own
wrong.
Master Load^ in mining, a term ufed to exprefs the
larger vein of a metal, in places where there are feveral
veins in the fame mountain. Thus it happens, that
there are feven, fametimes five, but more ufually three
veins or loads, parallel to each other in the fame moun¬
tain. Of thefe the middle vein is the larged, and is
called the mqfter load.
Master Wort. See Imperatoria, Botany Index.
MASTICATION, the aftion of chewing, or of
agitating the falid parts of our food between the teeth,
by the motion of the jaws, the tongue, aud the lips,
whereby it is broken into fmall pieces, impregnated
with faliva, and fo fitted for deglutition and a more
eafy digedion. See Anatomy, N° 104.
MASTICH, a kind of refin exfuding from the len-
tifcus tree j and brought from Chio, in fmall yellowidi
tranfparent grains or tears of an agreeable fmell, efpe-
cially when heated or fet on fire. See Pistachia.
This refin is recommended in old coughs, dyfente-
ries, htemoptoes, weaknefs of the domach, and in ge¬
neral in all debilities and laxity of the fibres. Geof¬
frey directs an aqueous deco&ion of it to be ufed for
tlifefe purpofes : but water extrafts little or nothing
from this refin. Re&ified fpirit almod entirely dif-
folves it, and the folution is very warm and pungent.
Maflich is to be chofen in drops, clear, well feented,
and brittle.
We meet with a kind of cement fometimes kept in
the fnops under the name of madich. It is compofed
of this gum, and feveral other ingredients, and is
formed into cakes for ufe. This is intended for the
fervice of lapidaries, to fill up cracks in dones, &c.
but is by no means to be ufed for any medicinal pur¬
pofes.
MASTICOT, Massicot, orYELLow Lead, is the
calx or afhes of lead, gently calcined, by which it is
changed to yellow or lighter or deeper tint, according
to the degree of calcination. Madicot is fometimes
ufed by painters, and it ferves medicinally as a drier in
the compofition of ointments or pladers. The madi¬
cot which is ufed by the Dutch as the ground of their
glazing, is prepared by calcining a mixture of one
hundred weight of clean fand, forty-four pounds of foda
and barilla, and thirty pounds of pearl adies.
MASTIFF dog, or band dog, {canis villaticus or
catenarius), is a fpecies of great fize and drength, and
a very loud barker. Manwmod fays, that it derives its
name from mafe thefefe, being fuppofed to frighten
away robbers by its tremendous voice. Great Britain
was formerly fo noted for its madiffs, that the Roman
emperors appointed an officer in this ifiand, with the
title of Procurator Gynegii, whofe foie bufinefs was to
breed, and tranfmit from hence to the amphitheatre,
fuch as would prove equal to the combats of the place.
Strabo, lib. iv. tells us, that the madids of Britain were
trained for war, and ufed by the Gauls in their battles. Maftigd*-'
See Canis, Mammalia Index.
MASTIGADOUR, or Slabbering-bit, in the Mai!h.
manege, a fnaffle of iron, all fmooth, and of a piece, -y—
guarded with paternoders, and compofed of three ha.lfs
of great rings, made into demi-ovals, of unequal big-
nefs; the leffer being enclofed within the greater, which
ought to be about half a foot high.
MASULAPATAN, a populous town of Afia in
the Ead Indies, and on the coad of Coromandel, in
the dominions of the Great Mogul. It carried on a
great trade, and mod nations in Europe had faidories
here •, but the Englidi have now left it, and even the
Dutch themfelves have not above a dozen people here
to carry on the chintz trade. The inhabitants are
Gentoos, who will not feed on any thing that has life j
and they had a famous manufa£iure of chintz, which
is greatly decayed fince the Englidi left off buying.
The Great Mogul has a cudomhoufe here j and the
adjacent countries abound in corn, tobacco, and tim¬
ber for building. It is feated bn the wed fide of the
bay of Bengal, 200 miles north of Fort St George.
E. Long. 81. 25. N. Lat. 16. 30.
MATACA, or Mantaca, a commodious bay in
America, on the north coal! of the ifiand of Cuba.
Here the galleons ufually come to take in frelh water
in their return to Spain. It is 35 miles from the Ha-
vannah. W. Long. 85. 6. N. Lat. 25. O.
MATAMAN, a country of Africa, bounded by
Benguela on the north, by Monomotapa on the ead,
by Caffraria on the fouth, and by the Atlantic ocean
on the wed. There is no town in it, and the inhabi¬
tants live in miferable huts, it being a defert country,
and but little vifited by the Europeans.
MAT AN, or Mactan, an ifland of Afia in the
Ead Indian fea, and one of the Philippines. The
inhabitants have thrown off the yoke of Spain ; and
it was here that Magellan was killed in April 1521.
Ca[)e MATAPAN, the mod fouthern promontory
of the Morea, between the gulf of Coran and that
of Colo-China.
MAT ARAM, a large town of Afia, formerly the
capital of an empire of that name in the idand of Ja¬
va. It is drong by fituation, and is feated in a very
fertile, pleafant, and populous country, furrounded with
mountains. E. Long. 111. 25. S. Lat. 7. 55.
MATARO, a town of Spain, in Catalonia; feated
on the coad of the Mediterranean, 15 miles north-ead
of Barcelona, and 3 5; fouth wed of Gironne. It is a
fmall town, but indultrious and well peopled ; and the
environs abound in vineyards, which produce wine
much famed for its Oavour. It likewife contains feveral
manufaftories, and is confidered as one of the riched
and mod active towns in Catalonia. E^ Long. 2. 35. -
N. Lat. 41. 30.
MATCH, a kind of rope (lightly twided, and pre¬
pared to retain fire for the ufes of artillery, mines, fire¬
works, &c.
It is made of hempen-tow, fpun on the wheel like
cord, but very flack ; and is compofed of three twids,
which are afterwards again covered with tow, fo that
the twids do not appear : ladly, it is boiled in the lees
of old wunes. This, when once lighted at the end,-
burns, on gradually and regularly,, without ever going
out
MAT [68
Quick- out till the whole be confumed : the hardeft and dried;
Match match is generally the bed.
Mate. %uick-MjTcH. See ^uick Match.
—^ MATCHING, in the wine trade, the preparing
veffels to preferve wines and other liquors, without
their growing four or vapid. The method of doing it
is as follows : M It brimftone in an iron ladle, and
when thoroughly melted, dip into it flips of coarfe li¬
nen cloth ; take thefe out, and let them cool ; this the
wine-coopers call a match. Take one of thefe matches,
fet one end of it on .fire, and put it into the bung-
hole of a calk; flop it 1. ofely, and thus fufFer the match
to burn ne <r!_\ out ; then drive in the bung tight, and
fet the calk afide lor an hour to two. At the end of
this time examine the calk, and you will find that the
fulphur has communicated a violent pungent and fuf-
focating fcent to the calk, with a confiderable degree
of acidity, which is the gas and acid fpirit of the ful¬
phur. The calk may after this be filled with a fmall
wine which has fcarce done its fermentation; and
bunging it down tight, it will be kept good, and will
foon clarify : this is a common and very ufeful method;
for many poor wines could fcarce be kept potable even
a few months without it.
MATE of a Ship of Wax, an officer under the di-
reflion of the mailer, by whole choice he is generally
appointed, to affill him in the feveral branches of his
duty. Accordingly, he is to be particularly attentive
to the navigation in his watch, &c. to keep the log
regularly, and examine the line and glafles by which
6 ] MAT
the fliip’s courie is meafured, and to adjufl; the fails to
tlm wind in the fore part of the fiiip. He is to have
a diligent attention to the cables, feeing that they are
weL coded and kept clean when laid in the tier, and
fufiiciently ferved when employed to ride the Ihip. Fi¬
nally, he is to fuperintend and aililt at the flowage of
the hold, taking efpecial care that ail the ballalf and
provifions are properly flowed therein.
I'tJATe of a Merchant Ship, the officer who com¬
mands in the aolence cf the mailer thereof, and lhares
the duty with him at fea ; being charged with every
thing that regards the internal management of the Ihip,
the diretling her courfe, and the government of her
crew.
i he number of mates allowed to drips of war and
merchantmen is always in proportion to the fize of the
velfel. Fhus a firft-rate man of war has fix mates, and
an Eaft-Indiaman the fame number; a frigate of io
guns, and a fmall merchant drip, but only one mate in
each ; and the intermediate drips have a greater or
fmaller number, according to their feveral fizes, or to
the fervices on wh;ch thay are employed.
Dura andpia MA TER, the names given by anato-
mifts to the two membranes which furround the brain.
See Anatomy, N° 129, 130.
MATER A, a confiderable town of Italy, in the
kingdom of Naples, and in the Terra d’Otranto, with
a biflrop’s fee, feated on the river Canapro. E. Long.
16. 43. N. Lat. 40. 51.
Mat f
II
Matera.
MATERIA MEDICA and PHARMACY.
INTRODUCTION.
Definition ^l^HAT department of medical fcience which treats
of materia A 0f the nature, effe£ls, and ufes of thofe remedies
medica; that are employed for the prevention or removal of dif-
eafe is called Materia Medica. It comprifes the
natural hifory of the articles, or an account of thofe
circumflances by which they may be diftinguiflied, and
of the means of procuring and preferving them ; their
chemical hi/lory, or an account of the changes which
they undergo from the adlion of various reagents, the
mode of analyzing them, of feparating their moft ule-
ful principles, and of afeertaining their purity ; and
their medical hi/lory, or an account of their feniible ef-
fefts on the animal fyftem both in the healthy and
morbid ftate, with their application to the practice of
medicine.
and of art of colle&ing, and preferving the various
Pharmacy, fubftances employed in medicine, and of reducing them
to thofe forms that are belt fuited to the various pur-
pofes for which they are exhibited, is called Phar¬
macy. This art is praftifed by the trading chemift
and the apothecary ; and at lead the principles of it
form a neceffary part of education to every member of
the medical profeffion.
In the prefent edition of our Encyclopaedia, it is
propofed to treat of thefe two fubjefls together, fince
2
they are intimately connefted, and when conflder-
ed under the fame treatife, will occupy much lefs
room. ‘ ^
We (hall divide this article into four parts; in theAriaoqe-*'
firft of which we {hall briefly treat of thofe articles mcnt* >
that are employed to fupport life, or of diet ; in the
fecond we ffiafl treat of remedies in general, and {hall
arrange them into clalTes according to their action on
the animal economy ; in the third we fhall confider the
methods of preparing them for exhibition, or fliall lay
down the general principles of pharmacy ; and in the
fourth we {hall briefly notice each of the articles em¬
ployed in medicine, whether Ample or officinal, and
mention the mofl important circumftances neceffary to
be known refpedling them.
As the limits which have been affigned to this article
are extremely confined, it cannot be expe&ed that the
fubjea will be treated at any great length. Contrary
to ufual pradfice, we fliall dwell mofl on the general
circumflances of materia medica and pharmacy, and
{hall be as brief on the individual articles, as is confift-
ent with perfpicuity and praflical utility.
We Ilia u not at prefent enter on a hiftorica! account Writers on
of the writers on the materia medica and pharmacy. Ifthe mMcria
we find room for fuch an account, we fliall introducemedlca*
it at the end of this article, where we conceive it would
be moft properly placed. It will be expedled, how¬
ever, that we fhould mention fome of the moft ap¬
proved
IntrofTiic-
tior.
Cullen’s
treatife.
M A T E R I A
proved works cn tkefe fubjeds, and this we fliall here
do very briefly.
As one of the principal modern writers on the ma¬
teria inedica, it will be fufficient to mention the name
of Cullen. His work is ftill confidered asclafiical, and
is in the hands of every medical man. Whatever we
may think of the reafoning and hypothefis which it
contains, and however much we may be fatigued with
the prolixity of fome parts of the wrork, we fhall.al¬
ways fet a juft value on the ufeful fadls and pradHcal
remarks with which it abounds. It is to be regretted
that Dr Cullen did not prepare a fecond edition of his
materia medica before the infirmities of age had render¬
ed him lefs qualified for the work, as in many refpedls
the fir ft edition is preferable to the fecond.
There are three works which Dr Cullen warmly re-
comv'-ended, and which he thought lo excellent that
he wifhcd them to be in the hands of all bis read¬
ers. Thefe are Dr Lewis’s “ Experimental Hiftory of
Lewis’s ex¬
perimental
hiitery.
Murray’s
Apparatus
Medicami-
8
Cmelin’s
continua¬
tion.
9
Monro’s
Medical
and Pharr
maceutical
Chcnrlftry.
the Materia Medica,” as publilbed in 8vo by Dr
Aikin 5 Bergius’s “ Materia Medica e regno Vegeta-
bili j” and the “ Apparatus Medicaminum” of Pro-
feiTor Murray of Gottingen.
Soon after Dr Cullen publilhed the fecond edition of
his Materia Medica, a new edition of Levvis by
Aikin appeared, fuperior to the former chiefly in con¬
taining the improvements made by the London college
in their Pharmacopoeia in 1788. Dr Lewis’s wTovk is
ftill valuable for the faffs which it contains relative to
the natural hiftory of the fubftances, and the affion of
feveral chemical agents on them} but from the late
changes that have been made in chemical nomencla¬
ture, the language in which it is written has already
become obfolete.
Profefifor Murray bad publilhed but a Imall part of
his “ Apparatus Medicaminum,” when the laft edi¬
tion of Cullen’s Materia Medica appeared. He, how¬
ever, lived to complete that part of his work which
treats of vegetable fubftances, of which five volumes
were publilhed during his life, and a lixth after his
death, by Dr Althof." In this laft volume an account
is given of columba root, anguftura bark, myrrn, and fe¬
veral other medicines, which could not properly be in¬
troduced into the general arrangement, as the plants
from which they are procured were not certainly
known. .
A continuation of Murray’s Apparatus Medicami¬
num in two volumes, containing an account of mineral
fubftances, was publilhed by Profeffor Gmelin in
It is very good, but will fcarcely now be confulted
when the improved ftate of modem chemiftry has given
rife to the production of fo many excellent works on
the fame fubjeft.
In 1788 Dr Donald Monro publilhed a work on
chemiftry, pharmacy, and the materia medica, in
three volumes 8vo, under the title of “ Medical and
Pharmaceutical Chemiftry.” At the time of its pu¬
blication, it was the beft work of the kind in our lan¬
guage, and it is ftill very valuable, though the late
improvements in chemiflry have in fome mealure di-
minilhed the utility of the chemical part of the work.
About ten years ago was publilhed the firft volume
M E D I C A, &c.
of a fmall work entitled, A Pradical Synopfis of tne
Materia Alimentaria and Materia Medica, by an apo-,
nymous author, who had alio fome time before publifh- IO
ed the Thefaurus Medicaminum. After an interval of Practical
ten years this lynopfis is at length completed by the pu-iynopfi*
blication of the fecond part of the fecond volume j anc^f"urus jyje_
we confider it as one of the moft ufeful works on the^^-^.^
fubjefts on which it treats. Both it and the ¥hefaurus
abound with excellent praflical obfervations, but the
arrangement adopted will in lome refpefls be conhder-
ed as antiquated. Of this more hereafter. .As thefe
two xvorks are intimately conne&ed, it is to be vnlh-
ed, that in a fubfequent edition they fhould be united
into one, in which form they would make two moderate
8vo volumes. . IX
In 1804 Mr Murray, lecturer on chemiftry and ma- Murray’s
teria medica in Edinburgh, publilhed his Elements of Elements.
Materia Me.dica and Pharmacy, in two volumes, of
which the fecond is chiefly a tranllation of the new edi¬
tion of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, with lome ule-
ful remarks. In his firft volume, Mr Murray has
made fome ingenious obfervations on the general affion
of medicines, which, independently of the theory he
adopts, we confider among the moft valuable parts ci
his work. __ # r*
Few works have had a more extenfive circulation Duncan’s
than the Edinburgh New Difpenfatory, a work which N,LY.
was founded on the New Dilpenfatory of Dr Lewis >jCH
publilhed in 1753- Of this dilpenfatory leverai luc-
ceffive editions were publilhed under the direction of
Dr Webfter, Dr Duncan, and Dr Rotheram, till in
1803 a new work, under the fame title, xvas publilhed
by Dr Andrew Duncan, junior. Of this improved
Difpenfatory we need fay little j the rapid iale ol three
large editions, and the call which has been made for a
fourth, fufficiently evince the opinion which the public
has formed of its utility and execution. It is perhaps
the moft complete guide to the practical apothecary
which we have in any language. _ _
In 1805 vvas publilhed a fmall volume containing
a tabular view of the Materia Medica by Dr Kirby, tables..
This little work is intended as a manual to the young
practitioner, and comprehends all the articles of the ma¬
teria medica that are received into the Parmacopceias
of Edinburgh, London, and Dublin, arranged into
dalles j and the mode of preferibing them is illuftrated
by appropriate formulae. Owing to the indifferent ftate
of the author’s health when this volume was printed, it
is disfigured by numerous typographical errors j but
thefe are in general only literal j and fuch as might
millead the praClitioner are correCled in the table of
Errata. m _ 141
Among the beft foreign publications on. materia medi- Late fo-
ca and pharmacy we may enumerate ^0
Arnemann’s Therapeia Generalis ;
Mirabelli’s Apparatus Medicaminum ;
Bouillon Lagrange Manual de Pharmacien j
Swediaur’s Materia Medica ;
Sw'ediaur’s Pharmacopoeia ; and the foreign Pharmaco¬
poeias referred to in Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
PART
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
•68?
Dietetics.
Part I.
Dietetics*
PART I. DIETETICS.
.Dietetics. THE fubjeft of diet and regimen was much more
attended to by the ancient phyficians than it has been
by thofe of modern times. In the writings of Hippo¬
crates and Celfus we find fome excellent remarks both
.on diet in general and on the particular diet that is fuit-
ed to fick people, and for many centuries thefe authors
formed our only guides. Of late indeed, this necef-
fary branch of the healing art has^ been very fuccefsful-
ly cultivated, and feveral valuable works have been
publilhed on the fubjedh Of thefe we (hall here enu-
^ merate a few of the more refpeftable.
Writers on Cullen’s Materia Medica, vol. i.
diet. Plenk’s Bromatologia j
Synopfis of Materia Alimentaria and Materia Medica,
vol. i.
Fordyce on Digeftion j
Nifbet on Diet j
Halle’s Articles on Diet in Encyclopedic Methodique j
Didtionary of Medicine $
Beddoes’s Hygeia •,
Sir John Sinclair’s Code of Health and Longevity.
In the brief Iketch that we can here give of dietetics,
we (hall firft treat of food in general, and then mention
moft of the animal and vegetable Jubilances that have
been or may be employed to fupport life.
Of food in All food is either of an animal or vegetable origin,
general. The former is, no doubt, more allied to our nature,
and moft eafily aflimilated to its nouriftiment j the
latter, though digefted with more difficulty, is the
foundation of the former, as vegetables are the nou-
riffiment of animals, and all food is therefore properly
-derived from this fource. In many refpedts, how-ever,
vegetable and animal food differ; and this difference
it is proper to remark, according to the various effedls
it difplays on different parts of the human fyftem. In
the choice of vegetable food, a much nicer feledlion is
made by man than by any other animal j and his
choice is chiefly confined to thofe of a mild, bland na¬
ture, and of an agreeable tafte. When any other
Jubilances are felefled, it is entirely for the purpofe of
condiment or medicine. The firft difference to be ob-
lerved between animal and vegetable food, is with re-
fpedt to their effedls on the ftomach and bowels. In
the ftomach, vegetable food always difplays a tenden¬
cy to acefcency, while animal food, on the contrary,
tends towards putrefaction. Hence the former is apt
to produce fymptoms of uneafinefs, while the latter in
moderate quantity is almoft never felt. In the fame
way, facility of folution belongs to vegetable food j
while from greater firmnefs of texture, and vifcidity,
animal food is apt to opprefs. Nor does the latter,
from its oily texture, always mix eafily in the ftomach
with other matters \ while vegetables unite readily, but
frequently continue long on the ftomach for want of a
proper ftimulus. Similar effe£ls are produced in the
bowels by thefe different kinds of food, as well as in
tlje ftomach. The acefcency of vegetable food is at
all times apt to induce loofenefsj while the fame effedl
is never known to arife from animal food, except in a
3
very advanced ftate of putrefaction. On the contrary,
the body is generally kept by it in a regular ftate;
while vegetables, from the leffer portion of them going
into chyle, produce a larger proportion of feculent
matter, and lie longer in the bowels from their inac¬
tive nature before being expelled.
The hourifliment conveyed by both kinds of food is tf
much the fame $ but the animal produfl is in greater
quantity, and more eafily digefted, while the vegetable
retains its more watery nature, with a portion of unaf-
fimilating faline matter, which though introduced, is
again expelled by fome of the excretions. The animal
blood is then richer, more elaborated and ftimulating,
and excites a ftronger aftion of the fyftem than that
produced from vegetables. Both products, however,
equally take on an alkalefcent nature in the circula¬
tion j for the acefcency of the vegetable is confined en¬
tirely to its allion on the ftomach and bowels. Thus,
from animal food a greater fupply of nouriftiment is re¬
ceived for the w'ants of the fyftem, depending on its
greater quantity of oil, and its longer retention in the
body than vegetable food. Agreeably to thefe dif¬
ferent effedls of pnimal and vegetable food, it is far¬
ther to be obferved, that the latter is more quickly
perfpirable than the former. Hence the tendency to
obefity, which arifes from animal food j while part of
the vegetable aliment is very quickly carried off by
urine.
The combination of a vegetable and animal diet, is l9
certainly beft fuited to preferve a proper ftate of health
and ftrength. There are few who fubfift entirely upon
vegetables, and of thefe few, the conftitutions are ge¬
nerally feeble, fickly, and weak, and they are the con-
ftant vidlims to complaints of the ftomach and bowels.
Where this method of life is at all pradlifed, it is con¬
fined to hot climates, where vegetable diet may no
doubt be carried to a greater extent without injury.
Some nations alfo have gone to the other extreme, and
live entirely on animal food j and in a very cold at-
mofphere, this may be indulged beyond what would
otherwife be fafe for the health of the body, fo that a
mixture of vegetable and animal nouriffiment feems
beft fitted for the health of man. But the proportion
in which thefe ought to be ufed, is a point equally ne-
ceffary to be enquired into. The benefits that attend
animal food are clearly the giving a fuperior ftrength
and vigour ; but, in proportion as it carries this to ex-
cefs, it expofes the body to dangerous confequences,
and to the produdtion of various difeafes. Hence thofe
who exceed in the animal, or what we may term the
athletic diet, are foon worn out, and fall the viftims
of the over proportion of ftrength which fuch living
bellows.
The advantages again of vegetable food, are moftly
of the paffive kind, and though it is difficult of af-
fimilation, yet under certain circumftances, a tolerable
degree of ftrength and vigour may be acquired from it.
It is more favourable for the appetite than animal food,
and little injury can arife from too much repletion with
it. It has many advantages over animal food, as it in¬
troduces
Part I. MATERIA
Dietetic?, trodaces no improper acrimony into the fyftern, and
counteracts the ban fu < ffvCls of animal diet. It is to
this preference of vegetable rood that the French owe
their freedom from difeale in a greater degree than the
Englilh : and the beft rule to iecure health, p< rhaps, is
to confine infancy and youth moilly to a vegetable
diet ; manhood, and the decay ot life, to animal food ;
while near the end of life, the vegetable fyftem Ihould
again be returned to. But, whatever kind ot diet we
adopt, a variety in the form of our food, as well as the
nature of it, flrould be attended to it. Thus the con-
flant ufe of folid nourifhment, however wholefome and
nutritious, by giving the ftomach n ore* to do than is
neceffary, mult be attended with hurtful coniequences.
In the fame way a perfeverance in the liquid aliment,
however fit by its qualities for conveying chyle into the
fyftem, could not fail to prove an improper diet, by
depriving the ftomach of that neceffary ftimulus from
its form, which folid food conveys. A mixture, there¬
fore, of folid and fluid nourifhment is abfolutely necef-
fary, whatever the nature of that nourifhment may be,
and this proportion muff be regulated by the different
iituations of different individuals. A mai) who is fub-
jec'ced to much bodily exertion, requires certainly the
proportion of folid food to exceed, and likewife to be
taken in the moft permanent and nutritive ftate. A
man again accuftomed to little bodily labour, and fub-
jefled to the eafe and inaftivity of a fedentary life,
fhould reverfe this plan, and the proportion of liquid
fhould be increaled. In the ufe of the different kinds
of food, the fame regulations are proper. Where,
along wdth a fedentary life, the ftomach rejects much
vegetable food, and a tendency to acidity renders its
ufe improper, the bad confequences of an excefs of
animal diet muft be corre61ed by giving it in the moft
foluble and diluted form. Thus the ufe of foups and
broths becomes highly proper, as giving the fufhcient
flimulus of animal food to the ftomach, and at the fame
time prefenting it in a form by which a confiderable
part quickly paffes off, and the excefs of nourifhment
which conftant animal food would produce is greatly
counterafled. It is to this caufe that we may attribute
the little injury which animal food is known to produce
in Scotland, and alfo in France, where foups are much
ufed.
*i With refoefl to the quantity of food to be aftually
?roper taken, this muft be regulated much by the appetite and
quantity of ^ fUpply required. The appetite is the great indica
tion of health •, and where the ftomach is in a healthy
ftate, it relifhes almoft every kind of nourifhment that
is prefented. This being the cafe, we are entirely to
be regulated in the quantity taken in by the appetite.
Satiety is the natural confequence of repletion, and be¬
fore this takes place, the ftomach itfelf gives the
alarm.
Among popular writers it has been a common axiom
that a fmall quantity of food is moft eafily digefled, and
that we ftmuld rife from table with an appetite. This
idea proceeds entirely from the opinion that digeftion
is effeffed by the mufcular power.of the ftomach. But
it is a truth fufficiently eftablifhed that this is not the
cafe. It depends entirely on the fluid of the ftomach,
Or gaftric fecretion, alid is performed by the applica¬
tion of this fluid equally well out of the body as with¬
in the organ. Indeed we may fuppofe that a confider-
VOL. XII. Part II.
M E D I C A, &c. 689
able quantity of food, when taken, by producing a Dietetics,
greater ftimulus or irritation of the ftomach, will in-' '
creale the gaftric fluid, and thus accelerate the pro-
cefs of digeltion. A the fame time it muft be obferv-
ed that there is in infancy a proper foundation for this
reftribfion. The gaftric fluid in children is more
a£tive, and their ftamach yields more readily to diften-
tion ; the appetite, therefore, will continue longer be¬
fore the fenle of fatiety takes place : but even here, as
the diet is moitly of a diluted kind, and foon paffes off,
we believe that more has been attributed to the effedds of
repletion, as the caufe of difeafe in children, than what
it deferves. 23
The proper rule, in all cafes, is that the body fhould Body fliould
be fufficiently nourifned, whatever the nature or thebeiu®ci-
quantity of the nourifhment employed may be, and this^^j1011'*
is beft determined by the apparent flate of the body, "
and what is again loft by it, or the quantity of its dif¬
ferent difcharges. The body alfo, we may obferve, is
at all times under the influence of habit, and where it is
accuftomed to be cirrumfcribed, it is often amazing to
find what fmall quantities of nourifhment will fuffice,
and even health be preferved. Of this we have a
number of remarkable inftances brought forward by
medical writers. Nor is this confined folely to man ;
the interior animals fhow that their bodies can accom¬
modate themfelves to fimilar circumilances. This be¬
ing the cafe, the conftitution of man is limited in this
relpeft left, even in civilized life, than what has been
alleged. The chief point in health is to guard ag-ainft
extremes j for a uniform mode of life, even where er¬
rors are confpicuous, is always lefs dangerous than
fudden excefs, either of one kind or another.
The manner of taking food alfo requires attention. \Tanrer of
In all folid nourifhment a proper chewing ftiould take taking food,
place 5 this is a preparatory and neceflary ftep to the
aiftion of the fluid in the ftomach j but this chewing
fhould not be carried, as fome have advifed, too far.
Something ftiould be left for the ftomach to do, and
this organ will be found improved by exercife and by
increafing its aftive powers, as well as any other part
of the body. Hence fubftances rather of difficult
digeftion may be at times properly prefented to it.
In his choice of food man is not circumfcribed like
the other animals. Its refpeflive falubrity or perni-
cioufnefs he can in general judge of only by its tafte.
Hence, that his tafte may be as little deceived as pof-
fible, moft nouriftiing fu:.iftances, we obferve, are of a
bland, mild nature, and contain nothing offenfive to
this organ Hence too there is a certain pleafure con¬
joined with the gratification of appetite, which is
meant both as an incentive to our taking nourifh¬
ment, and alfo to diretft us in the fele61ion of it.
From the conftitution, however, of man, experience
fliows that any nouriihment, however unfit, may be af-
fimilated by habit, and that wholefome and unwhole-
fome are often merely relative terms, regulated by
the exifting circumftances in which individuals are
placed.
The defire for folid food is much feldomer carried
to excefs than that for fluids. Both, where they oc¬
cur, are not the eff £1 of a natural appetite, but rather
of that artificial one which is created by the ufe of fti-
mulants increafing the relifti of food to the palate, or
its ftimulant effedl on the ftomach. This excefs .be-
4 S comes
6e,o M A T £ R I A
; ^'etetics. comes incrcafcd by indulgeriCe •, and a habit, of courfe,
-' , comes to prevail, which didends the ftomach, relaxes
its tone, and deftroys its elafticity ; in confequence of
which diforders of this organ arife, and a general
fulnefs and corpulency in the whole fyftem take
place.
The manner of taking food, as well as the quantity
and quality, requires fome attention. All extremes in
taking food, Ihould be carefully avoided ; it fliould
pafs into the ftomach in a flow and regular manner,
blended by the procefs of chewing with a fufficient
quantity of faliva to promote its diflblution in the fto-
rnach. II hurried over without attention to this, the
difficulty of folution is increafed^ and the ftomach is
fuddenly diftended, and fatiety produced before it is
filled. The meal, therefore, becomes both deficient
in quantity, and the food, from the digeftive organs
having more to do, remains longer on the ftomach
*- See Nif- than is either neceffary or proper *.
on Diet. For more on this fubjecl, fee the articles Aliment,
Food, and Drink.
After thefe general obfervations on diet, we {hall
take a brief furvey of the principal articles employed as
food, under the general heads of Solid Food, Drink,
and Condiments.
A. SOLID FOOD.
I. FROM THE ANIMAL KINGDOM.
Class I. MAMMALIA. Order i. Primates.
24
Food deriv- I HERE are few animals of this order employed as
ed from food. In fome countries, however, feveral fpecies of
quadrupeds t;|le genus fimia or are eaten, particularly
5 «... ’
Apes.
25 Simia inuus, the Barbanj ape. S. Beelzebul, the
preacher monkeij. S. Paniicus, the four-Jingered mon-
key.
j5ats Some fpecies of the bat tribe are occafionally eaten
by the natives of warm climates, efpecially
Vefpertilio vampyrus, the vampyre bat.
26
Order 2. Eruta.
27
Ant-eater.
28
Armadillo.
29
Rhinoceros.
3°
Elephant.
3*
"Walrus*
Several tribes of this order afford nourilhment to un¬
civilized nations.
The great ant-eater (jnyrmecophaga jubala') is fre¬
quently eaten by the American Indians ; but its fleih
has a ftrong and difagreeable flavour.
Moft fpecies of dafypus or armadillo form an article
of diet among the Indians.
'Ihe flefti of the rhinoceros bicornis, or two-horned
rhinoceros, is eaten in Abyffinia j but its flefli is very
finewy.
The flefh of the elephant is often eaten, both by the
Abyflinians and Hottentots. See Elephant, Mam¬
malia Index.
Several fpecies of trichecus, or walrus, are eatable,
efpecially
Trichecus rofmarus, or arElic walrus..
Order 3. FeRjE.
From this order mankind have long derived part of
their nouriffiment, efpecially in the earlier periods of
3* fociety.
The ftefti of the common feal (phoca vitulina) was,
M E D I C A, &c. Part I.
a few centuries ago, ferved up at the tables of the great Dietetics,
in this country 5 and it ftill forms the principal fubfift- 1—-y—
ence of the Greenlanders, Icelanders, and Kamtfcha-
dales.
The brown or black bear (urfus arflos) is eaten by Bear'2 3 *'5
the common people in Norway, Ruflia, and Poland/' ‘
It js difficult of digeftion, and is generally failed and
dried before being ufed.
Of the dog tribe few fpecies have been employed foruo^.34
the food of man, though the common dog is greedi- °
ly eaten by the inhabitants of the South-fea iflands,
and is fometimes ufed as food in more civilized focieties.
See Dog, Mammalia Index.
Of the cat tribe, the fleih of the lion is confidered asp,.;^35
excellent food by feveral nations of Africa, and Kol-
ben prefers it to moft other animal food.
The common otter (lutra vulgaris) is eaten in feve-Otter,
ral Roman Catholic countries, and confidered as nearly-
allied to fiffi. See Otter, Mammalia Index.
Ihe young of the fea otter (Jutra marina) are faid
to be delicate eating, not eafily to be diftinguifhed from
lamb. ^
Several fpecies of didelphis or opoffum are confidered Opofl'uai.
by the natives of South America as equally good food
with the flefti of the hare or rabbit, efpecially
Didelphis Virginiana, the Virginian opojjiim.
The kanguroo (macropus major) forms a chief part Kangaroo,
of the animal food ufed by the natives of New Holland j
but the fleffi is very coarfe.
The common hedgehog (erinaceus europeeus) is oc-Hedg!ho<n
cafionally ufed as food ; and its flefti is faid to be ex- *
tremely delicate.
Order 4. Glires.
Ihe common porcupine {Jnystrix crijlata) is eaten in Porcupine*
Sicily and Malta, and is frequently introduced to the
politeft tables at the Cape of Good Hope. 41
Several fpecies of cavia are ufed as food in Guiana, Cavia.
Brazil, and other parts of South America, efpecially
Cavia cobaya, the Guinea pig. C. paca, the /potted
cavy. C. aguti, the long-nofed cavy, and C. aperea, the
rock cavy.
The flefti of the beaver (cajlor fiber) is employed as Reaver,
food in America, and is faid to be good eating. It is
preferved by drying it in the fmoke. ^
Ihe alpine marmot (arfiomys marmota) affords non-Marmot*,
riffiment to the poorer inhabitants of the Tyrol, Savoy,
and other parts of the Alps; and, befides this, three
other fpecies are eatable, viz.
Ardlomys monax, the Maryland marmot. A. bo-
bac, bobak ; and A. citellus, the cafian, or earlefis mar¬
mot.
Several fpecies of feiurus, or fiquirrel, may be eaten, Sqiurrel.
efpecially the common fquirrel (ficiurus vulgaris), which
is much ufed in Sweden and Norway, and its fleffi is
faid to refemble that of a barn-door fowl.
The common jerboa {dipus jaculus) is eaten by the jerbotu
Arabs, who efteem its fleffi among their greateft deli¬
cacies. .
Moft fpecies of lepus, or the hare tribe, are ufed as Hare and
common food* efpecially rabbit.
Lepus timidus, the common hare, and L. cuniculus,
the rabbit.
Of thefe the fleffi of the rabbit is fofter and more di-
geftible than that of the hare 5 but it is net fo nouriffi-
ing-
Part I.
Dietetics.
47
Camelus.
Elk.
48
49
Stag.
. 5°
Rein deer.
Si
Fallow
deer.
5*
Roe-buck.
53
Chamois.
54
Goat.
55
Sheep.
Ox.
MATEUIA
ing. Wild rabbits are both more digeftible and more
palatable than fuch as are domefticated.
Order 5. Pecora.
It is from this order that tbe principal part of animal
food, in civilized countries, is derived. Almoft all
tbe animals contained in this order form excellent
food.
Some fpecies of camelus, or tbe camel tribe, are eat¬
en, efpecially
Camelus dromedarius, the Arabian camel. C. gla-
ma, the glama, wbofe flefh is faid to referable mutton.
Of tbe genus cervus, the following fpecies are molt
ufed, viz.
Cervus alces, the elh, eaten in Norway, Lapland,
and Sweden, where its flefli is much efteemed. It is
very nourifhing, but lies long on tbe ftomach.
C. elaphus, the common Jlag. The fleflt of this ani¬
mal, when full grown, is well known under the name
of venifon, and is very digeftible, wholefome, and nou-
riftnng. The animal ftiould not be killed tib he is
above four years old, and the flefti is fatteft and beft
flavoured in the month of Auguft.
C. tarandus, the rein deer. The fleflt of this fpecies
forms the principal nouriftiment of the Laplanders *, the
tongues are excellent when halted and fmoked, and the
milk is fweet and nouriftiing.
C. dama, the fallow-deer. The flefti of this fpecies
is a variety of venifon, and nearly reiembles that of the
flag. The buck is preferred.
C. capreolus, the roebuck. The flefti of the roebuck
is confidered as inferior to that of the laft fpecies.
Of the genus antilope, almoft all the fpecies afford
excellent food ; but the following is moft generally em¬
ployed, viz.
Antilope rupicapra, the chamois.
The flefti of the young ibex [capra ibex) is faid to
be excellent food.
Of the common goat {capra hircus) only the young
are employed as food } and a roafted kid is a very com¬
mon difh in America and the Weft Indies. Of goat’s
milk we ftiall fpeak hereafter.
Ovis aries, the common fheep. IVIutton is well known
to be a highly ^nutritious and wholefome meat. It is
perhaps more univerfally ufed tnan any other animal
food. Tup-mutton has fuch a ftrong fmell and difagree-
able tafte, and is, befides, fo exceedingly tough and
difficult of digeftion, that it is never eaten but by thofe
who cannot afford to purchafe mutton of a better qua¬
lity. Ewe-mutton, if it be more than between two and
three years old, is likewife tough and coaife. W edaer-
mutton, or the flefti of the caftrated animal, is moft
efteemed, and is by far the fweeteft and moft digeftible.
Lamb being lefs heating and lefs denfe, is better fuited
to weak ftomachs ; but this applies only to the flefti of
lambs that have not been robbed of their blood by re¬
peated bleedings, or reared by the hand with milk
adulterated with chalk, in order to make the meat ap¬
pear white. Such pradlices to render the food pleafing
to the eye, at the expence of its alimentary properties,
cannot be too much reprobated.
Bos taurus, the common bull and cow. The flefli of
the bull has a ftrong difagreeable fmell, and is dry,
tough, and difficult of folution in the ftomach. Bull-
beef is rarely eaten. But the flefti of the ox, or caf-
M E DIC A, &c. . 691
trated animal, called ox-beef is a highly nouriftiing and Dietetic,!-,
wholefome food, readily digefted by healthy perfons,
and conftituting a principal part of the common diet of
the inhabitants of this and many otirer countries. It is
the moft {Lengthening ol all kinds of animal food.
Cow-beef is not fo tender nor fo nouriffiing, nor fo di¬
geftible as ox-beef. Veal is tender and nouriftiing •,
but not fo eafily digefted, nor fo well fuited to weak
ftomachs, as is commonly imagined. It is matter of
iuft complaint, that the fame injurious methods are
pradlifed in the rearing and management of calves, as
have been already noticed under toe articie Lamb.
By fuch treatment the quality of the flefti is much de¬
praved. What is called beef-tea, is prepared by put¬
ting a pound of the lean part of beef, cut mtoveiy thin
dices into a quart of water, and boiling it over a quick
fire about five minutes, taking off the feum. The li¬
quor is afterwards poured oft clear for uffi. this makes
a light and pleafant article of diet for weak and aeli-
cate*people. On fome occaflons fpices may be advan-
tageoufly added to it. Gravy foup is very nourifling,
but is heavy and heating. It is ufed as a clyftei, a *
well as taken into the ftomach. Calves-feet jelly is
highly nutritious and demulcent.
^Befides the common ox, the following fpecies are
employed as food, viz.
Bos americanus, the American bifon. B. mofenatu*1,
the mujk bull. B. bubalus, the buffalo. B. caffer, the
cape ox, and B. grunniens, the yak.
Order 6. BEELUiE.
The flefti of the horfe may be eaten, but is very Horfe.
coarfe. Mare’s milk is often ufed medicinally, but is
confidered as inferior to that of the afs.
Affes
machs. It „ j — t # . -
and Hoffman recommends it in gout, rheumati m,
jaundice, debility of the bow’els, dnorders 01 tue urina¬
ry paffages, and in fluor albus. . ..
" The fleffi of the tapir {tapir americanus) is much Tapir,
efteemed by the inhabitants of South America, but is
inferior to our beef. 60
The fleffi of the wild boar is denfe, but fufficiently Hog.
tender, very nouriftiing, and more favoury than uiat of
the domeftic hog. But as the general properties of
both are the fame, they will be here noticed to¬
gether. rIbe flefti of the wild boar is in feafon m
the month of Oaober. The head is efteemed the fin-
eft part. The flefti of the young animal is reckoned a
great delicacy. The common or domefiic boar. The
fow. The fleih of the fow is ftrong, and makes bad
bacon. It is the flefti of the caftrated animal that is in
common ufe, and that is known by the name A pork.
On account of the fat or lard with which it abounds,
it is not very eafily digefted. It is a very favoury food,
and affords a ftrong nouriftiment, fuited to perfons who
lead an aftive or laborious life. The too frequent and
long continued ufe of this meat favours obehty, produ¬
ces foulnefs of the ftomach and bowels, and occaftons
diforders of the {kin. The fleffi of the fucking pig is
reckoned a great delicacy, is very nouriftiing j but by
reafon of the thick and fiimy juice with which 1
abounds, it is not very readily diffolved in the ftomach,
and therefore is by no meafis a proper food for weak
and fickly perfons. Bacon is a coarfe and heavy, but
4. S 2 nutritive
.57
5S
;U as interior 10 uni- w me ma. ^fies milk,
milk is light, and well fuited to weak fto- ‘
It is commonly employed in confumptive caiesj
59
692 MATERIA
11 ^ '. nutritive food, only fit to be taken in confiderable quan¬
tity by robuft and labouring people. When it confti-
tutes a principal part of the daily diet, it brings on dif-
orders fimilar to thofe which arlfe from the immoderate
ufe of pork. In confequence of the fat or lard with
which it abounds, the fiefh of the fwine tribe is more
or lefs laxative. Upon the whole, it may be faid of
pprk, that the occaiional and fparing ufe of it is fuffi-
ciently famtary ; but that it cannot be made a principal
part of the daily diet, without producing dilbrder in
many conftitutions, and particularly in thofe who are
of a melancholic temperament, and lead a fedentary
life.
The flefh of the different fpecies of this genus is
edible, efpecially that of the /us tajqffu and S. babii-
ruj/a.
M E D I C A, &c. Part I.
F. porphyrio, the purple water- Dietetics.
61
Food from
birds.
62
Picae.
*3
Anferes.
64
Gralla:.
Class II. BIRDS. Order 2. Pica:,
Of this order only two fpecies are generally ufed as
food.
Corvus frugilegus, the rook. The youngof this bird
is very fimilar to the pigeon, but is rather inferior in
flavour and digeftibility.
P. viridis, the green woodpecker. The flefh of this
and fome other fpecies is palatable, but of difficult fo-
lution.
Order 3. Anseres.
Of this order the principal fpecies that are eaten be¬
long to the genus anas, of which all the fpecies may
be ufed for food ; but the following are moft generally
employed, viz. anas cygnus, the wildfwan. A. olor,
the tame fwan. A. anfer, the goofe. A. bernicla, the
brent goofe. A. mofchata, the Mufcovy duck. A. pe-
nelope, wigeon. A. ferina, pochard. A. crecca, teal.
A. bofchas, wild duck. A. domeftica, the tame or
common duck.
_ Aka arftica, puffin. A. tarda, the ra-zor-bill. A.
cirrhata, the tufted auk.
Pelicanus baffanus, the folandgoofe.
Larus marinus, the black-backed gull.
Of thefe the fwan, the goofe, the wigeon, the teal,
the wild and tame duck, are the moft digeftible •, the
barnacle, the puffin, the foland goofe, and the black-
backed gull, are very fat, heavy, and have generally a
fifhy tafte.
Order 4. Gralla:.
Of this order moft of the genera furniffi very good
and favoury food. The following are moft commonly
ufed, viz.
Scolopax ruflicola, the woodcock. S. gallinago, the
fnipe. S. g/dXmxdz, the jack fnipe. S. glottis, the great
plover, or green-fhank. S. tetanus, the /potted fnipe.
S. limofa, the/one plover. S. lapponica, the red god-
wit.
Tringa pugnax, the ruff and reeve. T. vanellus,
the lapwing or bafardplover. T. cinchus, the purre.
T. fquatarrha, the gray plover, ox fandpiper.
Charadrius marinellus, the dotterel. C. pluvialis, the
green plover. C. cedicnemus, the thick-kneed bujlard.
C. hemantopus, the long-legged plover.
Fulica fufca, the brown gallinule. F. chloropus, the
common water-hen.
hen.
Order 5. Gallin®.
This order furniffies the principal part of the food GalW'
which we derive from the clafs of birds. The follow-*
ing Ipecies afford excellent nouriffiment, viz.
Pavo Ciiftatus, the peacock.
Meleagris gallipavo, the turkey.
Penelope criftata, the quhan.
Crax aledlor, the crefed curaffow.
Phafianus gallus, the common fowl. Ph. colchicus
common pheafant.
Numida meleagris, the Guinea hen.
Tetrao urogallus, the wood groufe. T. tetrix, the
black cock or black game. T. lagopus, red game. T. per-p. rr 66
dix, the common partridge. T. coturnix, the quail. *
Order 6. Passeres.
The following fpecies of this order may be employed
as food, viz.
Columba domeftica, the common pigeon, and C. pa-
lumbus, the ring dove.
Alauda, the lark. All the fpecies.
Turdus vifcivorus, the miffel thruffi. T. pilaris, the
fieldfare. T. merula, the blackbird.
Loxia curviroflra, the fheldapple, or crofsbill. L. co-
cothrauftes, the grojbeak or hawfinch. L. chloris, the
green finch.
Emberiza nivalis, the /now bunting. E. miliaria, the
bunting. E. hortulana. E. citrinella, or yellow ham¬
mer.
Fringilla celebs, the chaffinch. F. montifringilla, the
brambling, or bramble-finch. F. domeftica, the houfe
fparrow. F. montana, the tree fparrow.
Motacilla modularis, the hedge fparrow. M. fice-
dula, the epicurean warbler. M. oenanthe, the wheat-
ear. M. rubitra, the whin chat. M. rubicula, the
fionechatter. M. phaenicurus, the redfiart. M. eri-
thalus, the redtail.
Hirundo efculenta, the efculent fwallow.
After this enumeration of birds, wTe muft fay fome-
thing refpe&ing the nutritious properties of eggs.
It is probable that the eggs of all the birds which we
have mentioned, and perhaps of moft others, might be &°S’
employed as food ; but cuftom and convenience have
given the preference to thofe of the common hen, the
guinea hen, and the duck. The fluid contents of an
egg confift of the white and the yolk. The former
very much refembles the lymph of the blood, or the
coagulable part ©f milk. The latter, viz. the yolk, is
an animal mucilage, compofed of oil, coagulable lymph
and water. It is mifcible with cold water, fo as to form
an emulfion. The oil is feparable from the yolk, boil- '
ed till it becomes hard, by means of preffure. *
The eggs of all granivorous birds, and efpecially of*^6/'^*"’
the domeftic fowl, yield a mild demulcent and ftrength-
ening aliment, well fuited to confumptive perfons, and
fuch as are exhaufted by immoderate evacuations. Raw
eggs are gently laxative, and are found to be fervice-
able in cafes of jaundice and obftru&ed liver. A nutri¬
tive reflora. :ve drink is prepared by rubbing the yolks
of two or three eggs, and a little white fugar, with a
pint
Part I.
M A T E R I A
Dietetics, pint or two of cold water, adding to it afterwards a
"""•v ' glafs of Rhenifh or any other light wine, and a little
lemon juice, to give it a flavour. This egg-emulfion
without the wine, is a good remedy in coughs, hoarfe-
neffes, fpittingof blood, coftivenefs, &c.
Both the white and yolk of eggs are very indigeftible
when boiled to hardnefs. Eggs fhould be fubjedted to
as little of the art of cookery as poflible. The lighted:
as well as the fimpleft mode of preparing them for the
table, is to boil them only as long as is neceffary to
coagulate (lightly the greated part of the white, with¬
out depriving the yolk of its fluidity. This is what is
called poaching them •, and in this way they lit well
upon mod domachs.
M E D I C A, &c.
Mullus barbatus, the red fur mullet.
tus, the friped'furmullet.
Trigla lyra, the piper.
69s
M. furmulle- Dietetics.
 V~»
74
68
Food from
reptiles.
69
From fer-
pents.
70
Food from
fillies.
7i
Apodes.
72
Jugulares.
73 .
Thoracici.
Class III. AMPHIBIA. Order 1. Reptiles.
This clafs furnilhes but fewr articles of food, and of
thefe the following are the mod ufually employed, viz,
Tefludo mydas, the green turtle. T. ferox. T. grce-
ca, the land turtle.
Rana efculenta, the edible frog, or green water-frog.
Lacerta agilis, common green li%ard. L. fcincus,
fcink.
Order 2. Serpents.
Coluber viper, the viper. C. perus, the adder.
Of thefe the turtle is well known as a mod nourifli-
ing and palatable food. The efculent frog, though
not very nutritious, tafles much like chicken ^ the viper
and adder are chiefly ufed in foups, which are confider-
ed as great redoratives.
Class IV. FISHES.
It is probable that almod all the different fpecies of
fi(h might be employed as food, but the following are
chiefly eaten, viz.
Order 1. Apodes.
Muraena anguilla, the common eel. M. conger, the
conger eel.. Ammodytes tobianus, the fand launce^ or
fund eel.
Order 2. Jugulares.
Callyonimus lyra, -the gemmous dragonct. C. dra-
cunculus, the fordid dragonet.
Trachinus draco, the weever.
Gadus aeglefinus, the haddock. G. catlarias, thetot'fk,
G, morrhua, the cod-fifh. G. barbatus, the pont. G-.
merlangus, the whiting. G. pollachius, the pollack,
G. molva, the ling. G. lota, the burbot.
Order 3. Thoracici.
Zeus faber, the dory.
Pleuroneftes hippogloffus, the holibut. P. plateffa,
the plaife. P. flefus, the founder. P. limanda, the dab.
P. folea, the foie. P. maximus, the turbot.
Chaetodon roflratus, the jaculator. C. imperator, the
emperor of Japan.
Sparus msena,
Perea fluviatilis, the perch.
Scomber, the mackerel.
Abdomi*
nalcs.
Order 4. AbdominaleS.
Cobitis barbetula, the loach, or groundling.
Salmo falar, the falmon. S. trutta, the fea trout. S.
fario, the trout. S. alpinus, the charr. S. falvelinus,
the falmon trout. S. umbla. S. eperlanus, the fmelt.
S. albula, the whiting. S. thymallus, the grayling.
Efox lucius, the pike.
Mugil cephalus, the mullet.
Clupea harengus, the herring. C. fprattus, tliefprai.
C. alofa, theJhad. C. encraficolus, the anchovy.
Cyprinus barbus, the barbel. C. carpio, the carp.
C. gobio, the gudgeon. C. tinea, the tench. C. cepha¬
lus, the chub. C. leucifcus, the dace. C. rutilus, ^ckmdrop-
roach. C. erythrophthalmus, the rud. C. a 1 bur
the bleak, and C. brama, the bream.
Order 6. Chondropterygii.
Accipenfer flurio, the furgeon. A. ruthenus, the far-
let. A hufo, the ifnglafsfjh.
Raia batis, thefkate. ^ -
Petromyzon marinus, the lamprey. P fluviatilis, L^Of filhin
leffer lamprey. P. branchialis, the lampern, or pride, general.
The wdiolefomenefs of fidi in diet has been much
difputed. According to fome, it is the mod delicious
food of any •, and according to others, it is without
drength or (ubdance. It is certainly not adapted to be
the foie diet of the laborious clafs, but it makes an ex¬
cellent addition to vegetable food ; tor indance, with
potatoes, or other roots, what can be more acceptable
than a faked or fmoked herring, to give a relilh to fuch
infipid diet ? It is faid, indeed, that one barrel of faked
herrings will, in this way, go as far as three barrels of
faked beef. Frefh filh is certainly well calculated for
fedentary people, and thofe w'ho refide in towns -, and
at all events, it is fortunate to have fuch a refource for
food in a populous country, to be made ufe of when any
exigency requires fuch aid.
The texture of hlh, in general, is more tender than
that of flefli. They have nothing of a fibrous flruc-
ture, like flefli; of courfe, they are more eafiiy digeiled
than meat, efpecially fuch as are not of a vifeid nature.
It is a lingular circumdance regarding filh, that,
though wre require vegetables with our meat, wm hard¬
ly ever take them with filh. Cullen fays, that by way
of experiment he has taken apples along wdth fifh, but
found them to diilutb digeflion.
The objections to filh, however, are numerous. The
nourilhment derived from them it is faid, is incom¬
plete ; not fo Aimidating, nor fo congenial to the na¬
ture of man, as either birds or quadrupeds ; fome
claffes of them alfo, as fhell-filh, fdmon, &c. are more ,
indigeftible than meat; and fill, in general, has a
ftronger tendency to putrefaction than meat. But the
faults of filh are fonsewhat corrected by the manner in
which they are commonly eaten. In a frelh itate,
fauces and pickles of an acid nature are employed wdth
them, and when dried, the adtion of the ftomach is
promoted by fait and fpices. Filh, compared with
flefli, is lets nourilhing; and the more vifeid forts hard-
694- MATERIA
Dietetics, er or digeftion. Hence many are under the necefflty,
J after falraon, &c. to have recourfe to a dram of fame
^ fpirit or other to carry them oif *.
Class V. INSECTS.
Of infefts properly fo called, none are ufed in fub-
ftance as food, except various fpecies of cancer, viz.
Cancer mamas, the common crab. C. pagurus, the
black-clawed crab. C, gammarus, the lobjler. C. afle-
cus, the craw fijh. C. ferrates, the prawn. C. cran-
gon, the Jhrimp, and C. fqualla, the white fhrimp.
Under this clafs we may rank honey, the produce of
the bee, which in its general elementary properties
agrees with iugar, to be afterwards noticed. It is,
however, rather more heating, and will not agree with
many flomachs. It is bed eaten from the comb, as the
wax feems to correft its unpleafant effects.
Code of
Health an
Longevity.
vol. i. p.
4°7-
Food from
infects.
Feod^from ^LASS VI. VERPvIES. Order 2. MoLLUSCA.
w orms.
I\\t fepia fepiola, and the echinus efculentus, are the
only edible genera of this order of worms, and even
thefe are a coarfe and by no means a nouriihing food.
Order 3. Test ace a. \
Cardium edule, the common cockle.
Otlrea edulis, the common oyjler.
Mytilus edulis, the eatable mufcle.
Helix pomatia, the common fnail.
Of thefe, the oyfter and the fnail are the mod whole-
fome and digedible.
As occupying a middle rank between animal and ve¬
getable food, we dial! here notice milk and its various
produ&s.
Milk is the proper and natural food of the young of
all animals of the mammalia clafs j and cows milk
makes a principal part of the daily diet of a great pro¬
portion of the human race, both in the infant and adult
llate. On account of the abundance of oily and cheefy
matter which it contains, cow’s milk is to infants by-
no means fo well fuited as human milk \ but as the
mode of living in civilized fociety often depraves the
quality of woman’s milk, or prevents its fecretion, cows
milk in too many indances becomes a necefiary fubdi*
tute. On fuch occafions, as it is too heavy to be
given alone, it fliould be diluted with water : and as it
is difpofed to become more acefcent than human milk,
and from that caufe to produce gripings and other dif-
orders of the bowels in young children, it will often
be ufeful to mix with it deco&ions of animal fubdances,
fuch as chicken or veal broth, or decodlion of hartf-
horn diavings ; of which lad two ounces diould be
boiled in a quart of water, over a gentle fire, till the
whole is reduced to a pint 5 when, after it is become
cold, it will be of the confidence of a light jelly.
This, mixed with about twice its quantity of cows milk,
with the addition of a little fugar, forms for young fub-
jecls a proper aliment, approaching nearly to the nature
of human milk.
Milk is ufed medicinally in ‘confumptions, efpecially
in their early dage ; in gouty affeaions, after the pa-
roxyfm is gone off, in fmallpox, diluted with water, as
the common drink ; in meafles, efpecially the malig-
jfiajkt kind, diluted in the fame manner j in gonorrhoea,
3
ME DIG A, &c.
lues venerea, and during a mercurial falivation in can¬
cerous adedtions j in cafes where mineral and animal
poifons, have been fwallowed 5 in cafes of ftrangury
and dytury from the abforption of cantharides, &ce. j
in fluor albus; in many fpafmodic and nervous dif-
oiders.
Part I.
Dietetics.
When milk is ufed medicinally, it is often fervice-
able to dilute it with Pyrmont, Seltzer, or fome other
proper mineral water j and to prevent acidity, and make
it fit eafier on the llomach, limewater, and fome of
the diddled aromatic waters, are occafionally mixed
with it. To obviate codivenef?, which milk is apt to
induce, it is often proper to mix brown fugar, or mag-
nefia with it, to boil it with oatmeal, veal broth, &c.
In general, milk is improper in indammatory fevers,
unattended with pudulous eruptions j in bilious fevers j
in fcrophulous cafes; and in rickets.
The following are the principal produdb and prepa¬
rations of milk in dietetic and medicinal ufe; cream
and butter are well known ; nor can it be neceffary to
notice how much they diforder the domach and bowels
when taken too freely.
Curds taken in confiderable quantity, are highly op-
predive to the domach, and not unfrequently prove the
caufe of obdruftions and indammations of the bowels. go
Cheefe varies according to the kind of milk froracheefe.
which it is prepared, according to the quantity of oil
and whey which the coagulable matter contains, and
ladJy according to its age. In general, it is an aliment
fu.ited only to drong ftomachs, and to fuch perfons as
Lie great and conftant exercife. In the higher orders
of fociety, it is ufed chiedy as a condiment. Toaded
cheefe is not eafily digeded by weak domachs j and for... „
thofe who can be hurt by indigedion, or heated by
heavy fupper, it is a very improper diet *.
Butter-milk is milk which has been deprived of its-guttg^
oily matter by churning or agitation. It is nouridung, milk *
cooling, and diluent. It is ufed in cachexies, atrophies,
confumptions, &c.
Whey is the watery, faccharine part of milk, freed
in a great meafure from the butyraceous and cafeous
matter. It is lightly nutritive, diluent, aperient, and
diuretic. It is given in confumptions, dyfenteries,
jaundice, &c. alone, or mixed with mineral waters,
and fometimes impregnated with the juices of medici¬
nal herbs. Wine whey, tartar whey, mudard whey,
will be particularly noticed in their proper places.
Sugar of milk is a faline fubdance, obtained from the
whey by evaporation. It has been properly called the
effential fait of milk. It has been much extolled by
fome writers as a remedy in confumptions 5 but as it is
contained in whey, it it evident that preparation muff
poffefs all its virtues, and therefore that the trouble of
obtaining it feparate mud be unneceffary f.
me ?it •
II. FROM THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. and Med.
vol. i.
Vegetable food is more ancient than any other. As Sa
forming the food of animals, it is the foundation of allOfvege-
our nouridiment, for by it thofe animals are nourilhed,!^*6 ^°01*
which in turn afford fudenance to man. Indeed there1*
are no circumdances under which a diet of animal food
fhould be folely employed. This has been confirmed
by every experiment made ; and the confinement of a
perfon only for a few days to this mode of living, has
induced
Fart L
Dietetics.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c. 695
induced fuch fymptoms as obliged him to deiift. Bc-
fides this, by Simulating to an extreme degree, the
fprings of life are by animal diet urged on too fall ; and
preternatural, and of courfe weakening exertions of the
fyftem enfue, which induce, from their excefs, an ear¬
ly decay. Thus childhood is prematurely ulhered by
it into manhood •, and the powers of manhood, foon ex-
haufted, difplay the infirmities and progrefs of age, at
a period when vigour and ftrength Ihould Hill be in per¬
fection. A diet of vegetable food is, on the contrary,
conducive to long life. It neither accelerates the vital
energy, nor ripens the fruit before its time, but with a
flow and regular ftep brings forwards the different
ftages in their due feafon, and with all the advantages
which their proper maturity ought to confer on them.
At the fame time, while we thus pomt out the good
effeCls of a vegetable diet, in arreliing the progrefs of
life, and giving a greater permanence to exiftence, we
by no means approve of it as a diet to be entirely truft-
ed to.
Declaimers on the exclufive ufe of vegetable diet
have not taken into view the various and new circum-
flances of fituation in which man is now placed. He
is no longer the child of nature, nor the pafiive inha¬
bitant of one genial fpot, as when he was firft formed.
He is now a citizen of the world at large j exertion
and toil are his conftant attendants, and he requires a
more ready and aflimilated nourilhment than vegetable
food can convey. In many fituations alfo, the vigour
of his fyftem is wxakened by extremes of temperature,
W'hich demand, to counteract them, the mcft ftimulant
and invigorating food he is capable of acquiring. The
excellence of vegetable food ufed alone is therefore
confined to a mild temperature and a paftive ftate, and
there it certainly deferves that preference which hu¬
manity and philofophy have beftowed upon it. Con-
fidering vegetable food as conveying a nouriftmient in-
fufficient for our prefent civilized fituation, we fhall
next flate the inconveniences that attend its being ufed
in excefs. The firft: inconvenience of vegetable food
already noticed, is its conftant tendency to acefcency j
but this is hurtful only when it takes place to a morbid
degree. If a natural tendency to acefcency prevails
in the ftomach, as a ftep towards aftimilation, it can¬
not fail to be noxioufly increafed by the foie ufe ot ve¬
getables } and the counteracting of this ftate, or check¬
ing the tendency to fermentation, muft be the great
fecret in the regulation of vegetable diet. I his fecret
no doubt depends on the preventing, by our choice of
vegetables, excefs in the proportion of fermentable or
faccharine matter, and in exciting the aCtion of the fto-
mach, fo that the vegetable food may not be too long
retained upon it.
The next inconvenience alleged againft vegetable
diet is its difficulty of affimilation. That vegetable ali¬
ment is more difficult in being reduced to nouriiLment,
feems generally admitted, and in the end it produces
a greater quantity of faeces. When received into the
ftomach it is like wife fpecifically lighter than the gaf-
tric fluids. Hence it floats near the top of the ftomacb,
and caufes irritations. This uneaftnels is not felt for
fome time after its reception, but afterwards it begins
to operate on the upper orifice of the ftomach. The
difficulty, however, of affimilation that attends vege¬
table food, may be got the better of by a proper fe-
leftion of it 5 and it will alfo be chiefiy felt in weak Dietetics,
ftomachs, and will by no means affeCt the vigorous and' * “
robuft.
A third inconvenience of vegetable food is its extri¬
cation of a confiderable quantity of air, by which the
ftomach becomes diftended, often to an enormous de¬
gree, and much uneafinefs is produced in the adjacent
organs. This extrication of air is common to all
vegetables; it varies, however, extremely in differ¬
ent kinds of them j and it is from this circumftance
that the flatulence and torpor is experienced, which-
fucceeds a full meal of them. Hence all vegetables--
that contain much of it fhould undergo a previous pre¬
paration before being ufed as food.
Thefe, then, are the chief inconveniences attending,,
a vegetable regimen ; while on the contrary, to counter¬
balance them, this fpecies of diet is always found to pro¬
mote or fharpen the appetite, and to keep the ftomach
in an aftive ftate. Neither are any conftitutional diU
orders the confequence of it, as happens from animal
food, for whatever morbid fyraptoms arife under its ufe
are confined almoft entirely to the ftomach and bowels*.,
and feldom carry any hurtful effe£ls to the fyftem at
large. Neither do any evils arife from occafional ex-
ceffes in its ufe j and the miichiefs of repletion or over-
fulnefs are avoided by it, unlefs in cafes of extreme in¬
dolence, or where a continued courfe of intemperance
is purfued as to the quantity taken. By its moderate
ftimulus it counteracts the difpofition to an inflammato¬
ry ftate, and in many cafes proves highly ferviceable,
in checking the violence, and arrefting the progrefs of
many conftitutional difeafes. Independently of its na¬
ture, it is of great importance to the ftomach, by giving
that proper diftention which this organ requires in order
to its healthy action.
The wifdom of nature has provided that the extent
of vegetable food fnould be much greater than that of
animal food, as the former is the- foundation of nourifh-
ment for all the animated creation., Hence we find
that there is fcarcely any vegetable that dees not afford
nourifhment to fome animal; and there are many
which, though naturally of a deleterious quality, can,
by proper preparation, be converted into nouriftiment
to man. Man, more than any other animal, is di~
ffinguiftied as to the choice of food which he makes $
and in this fele&ion he is generally determined by his
tafte, between which and the ftomach nature has efta-
blifhed fuch a fympathy, that what is difagreeable to
the one, is feldom very digcftible by the other. Hence
inclination is to be particularly ftudied in every cafe of
weaknefs of the ftomach.
Among the other properties of vegetable food, it
has been efpeeially confidered by all authors' as having
moft influence on the powers of the mind, and in pre-
ferving a delicacy of feeling, a livelinefs of imagina¬
tion, and an a£livenefs-of judgement 5 but in propor¬
tion to thefe luperior qualities, it muft be obfervtd, this
ftate of body is equally the attendant of timidity, fluc¬
tuation, and doubt. Animal food, in the other ex¬
treme, gives a ftrong vigour and firmnefs of purpofe,
fitted for the moft affive exertions of life. By a mix¬
ture of diet thefe two extremes come to be counter¬
acted ; the body poffeffes a proper (hare of vigour ; and,
correfpondent to it, the mind difplays a finnnefs and
capacity fuited to every valuable purpofe. The diet,
6g6 MATERIA MED
^Dietetics, then, producing this (late may be properly called tem-
'r* perance, without limiting the individual to an exa£l
portion of either kind of food, or tying him up by the
abfurd and fickly fyftem oc Cornaro •, and this ftate will
be properly regulated by the experience and feelmgs of
each individual, both in regard to the quantity and qua¬
lity of his nourithment.
In the ufe of vegetable food, as well as animal, at¬
tention mull be paid both to the proportion of it taken,
•and alfo to the date in which it is ufed. The firft of
thefe mull be regulated by the three circumflances of
■ feafon, way of life, and climate. With refpedl to the
fird—in fummer the quantity of vegetable food fhould
be always increa!ed, whatever our habits may be *,
the propriety of this is evidently pointed out by nature,
from its abundance at this period. This increafe of
vegetable food is alfo the more neceflary if the ap¬
petite is na'urallv keen and healthy, as a more ftrong-
ly nourilhing aliment would at this time expofe to
all the elb. £ls putrefcency, which the increafe of
the vegetable diet will, on the contrary, counteraft.
1 he way of li,re mull alfo regulate a good deal the
proportion of vegetable nourifhment. An effential cir-
cumftance in the ufe of all diet, as we formerly remark¬
ed, is the produdfion of fuch a diftention of the ftomach
and bowels as may enable them to add nroperly on their
contents. In the fedative and inadtive, it is particular¬
ly' defirable that this diftention ftiould be produced by
food of a lefs nouriftiing kind, and that no more nou¬
rifhment be received than what the wants of the fyflem
require. Hence in thefe cales, a vegetable diet is to be
preferred, while, in the adlive and laborious, the plan
Ihould be reverfed.
It is a fad! fufficiently eftablifhed, that the proportion
of vegetable food ftiould be in a great meafure regulated
by the climate, as there is no doubt that the mortality
of warm climates is aggravated by the ufe of too much
animal food ; and that a diet of a vegetable and acef-
cent nature with a large proportion of condiment, fuch
as we find ufed by the inhabitants of thofe countries,
is beft fuited to the prefervation of health ; for by this
excefs of condiment, the morbid effedls on the ftomach
and bowels, natural to vegetable £ood, are counteradl-
ed, and the chyle formed from them paftes into the cir¬
culation in a proper ftate for fupporting t1^ bodv in
fuch a fituation On the other hand, in a colder region,
a permanence of nourifhment is required, which animal
food particularly conveys; and as this nourifhment is
lefs apt to diforder the ftomach or bowels, no great por¬
tion of condiment is neceflary, either as a ftimulus
to the organ, or in order to avoid anv hurtful con-
fequences that may arife. The proportion, there¬
fore, of vegetable food is clearly pointed out to be
fma;!, and chiefly of the farinaceous or leaf! acefcent
kind.
i he ftate in which vegetable food is ufed is of equal
importance rvith the proportion of it taken. Thus ve¬
getable food particularly requires to be uled in a frefli
s ftate-, for, by being kept, many kinds of vegetables lofe
their peculiar flavour, their tafte and fmell, and in con-
fequence of this become indigeftible 5 this is particular-
*See V'77 /1y }he. cafe Wlth the Pu]fes> with herbs, and with
e>jz Diet *rU'iS' *
To thefe general remarks we fnallfubjoin a catalogue
of efculent plants from Bryant’s Flora Dietetic^, diftri-
C A, &c. Fait I.
buted according to ti e method of that author, into Dietetics,
roots, (hoots, ftalks, leaves, flowers, berries, (tone fiuit, ““ v ,'—J
apples, legumens, grain, nuts, and fungufes.
83
I. ESCULENT ROOTS. rf-uent
roots.
Seel. 1. Roots now or formerly made ufe of as
Bread.
Arum colocafia, Egyptian arum. A. efculentum,
eata ie arum. A. peregrinum, eciders.
Cafla paluftris, water dragons.
Convoh ulus batatas, Spaaijb potatoes.
Diofcorea fativa. D. alata. D. bulbifera, Indian
yams.
Jatropha maniot, Indian bread.
Nymphaea lotus, Egyptian lotus.
Sagittaria fagittifolia, common arrowhead.
Solanum twoerofum, common potatoes.
Yucca glorioia, Adam's needle.
Polygonum djvancatum, eajlern buckwheat.
Se£f. 2. Roots occafionally eaten as Condiments, or
for other family purpofes.
Araomum zingiber, common ginger.
AUium cepa, common onion. A. afcalonicum, (hallotc
-A. fcordooralum, rokambole.
Apium petro>'elinum, common parjley.
Bunium bulbocaftanum, earth nut or pig-nut.
Beta rubra, red beet.
Braffica x-apa, common turnip. B. rapa punicea, pur¬
ple-rooted turnip. B. rapa flavefeens, yellow-rooted tur¬
nip. B. rapa oblonga, long rooted turnip.
-Campanula rapunculus, rampton.
Cochlearia armoracia, horfe radifh.
Carum carui, caraway.
Cyperus efculcntus, rujh nut.
Daucus carota, carrot.
Eryngium maritimum,/e<7 body, or eryngo rtot.
Guiiandina maringa, Ceylon guilandina.
Helianthus tuberofus, Jerujalem artichoke.
chuwnfe, /potted ixia. I. bulbifera, bulb-bear¬
ing ixia.
Lathyrus tuberofus, peas earth nut.
Orobus tuberofus, heath peas.
Orchis mafcula, male orchis.
Paltinaca fativa, the par/mp.
Rapbanus fativus, the radifh.
Scorzonera hifpanica, viper's grafs.
Slum fifarum,/HrreAr.
Lilium martagan, mdrtagan lily.
Tulipa gefneriana, common tulip.
Tragopogon •prAtexiie. yellow goat's-heard. T. porri-
folium, purple goat's beard
II. ESCULENT SHOOTS, STALKS, SPROUTS,Efcu?e4nt
AND PITHS.
Sedl. 1. Shoots and Stalks.
flioots,
ftalks, See.
Afparagus officinalis, a/paragus.
Anethum azoricum,y%yee/ ozo'ian fennel.
Angelica archangelica, angelica.
Artflium lappa, bordock.
Afclepias fyriaca, greater Syrian dogsbane.
Apium graveolens, fmaliage. A. dulce,
celery.
r irden
Campanula
Part I. MATERIA
Dietetics. Campanula pentagoma, Thracian bell-Jlower.
Cynara cardunculus, rardoon, or chardoon.
Carduus marianus, rnilh thijile.
Cnicus cernuus, Siberian nodding emeus.
Chcnopod,:um bonus henricus, Englijh mercury.
Convolvulus loldanella, fea bindweed.
Cucubalus hzhtn,/palling poppy.
Epilobium anguitifolium, rojebay nvilloxv herb.
Hamulus lupulus, wi/d hops.
Onoperdum acanthium, cotton thiJUe.
Rheum rhaponticum, rhapontic rhubarb.
Smyrnium olufatrum, common alexanders. S. perfo-
liatum, round-leaved alexanders.
Saccharum officinarum,yi/§7JC-r/7/i?.
Sonchus alpinus, mountain fozv-thijlle.
Tamus communis, black briony.
Tragopogon pratenfe, yetloiv goafs-beard. T. porn-
folium, purple goads-leard.
85
Efculent
leaves.
Seft. 2. Sprouts and Piths.
Areca oler cea, cabhage-tree.
Arundo bambos, bamboo-cane.
Braflica oleracea, common cabbage. B. O. viridis,
green favoy cabbage. B. O. fabauda, white favoy cab¬
bage. B. botrytis, cauliflower. B. B. alba, white cau¬
liflower. B. B. nigra, black cauliflowep. B. fabellica,
Siberian br coli. B. prsecox, early batterfea cabbage.
B. rapa, common turn/p.
Cyperus papyrus, paper rufh.
Cyrcas circinalis, fa go palm tree.
Portulaca oleracea, purjlane. P. latifolia, broad¬
leaved garden purjlane.
Smilax afpera, red berry, rough pine-weed.
III. ESCULENT LEAVES.
*
Sefl. 1. Cold Salads.
Apium petrofelinum, parfley. A. crifpum, curled¬
leaved parjley.
Allium cepa, common onion. A. fchsenoprafum, cives.
A. oleraceum, wild garlic.
Artemifia dracunculus, taragon.
Alfine media, common chick-weed.
Borago officinalis, borage.
Cacalia ficoides, jfg marigold-leaved caca/ia.
Cichorium endivia, endive. C. endivia crifpa, curled¬
leaved endive.
Cochlearia officinalis, feurvy grafs.
Eryfimum alliaria, 'Jack by the hedge. E. barbarea,
winter crefs or rocket.
Fuqus faccharinus, yirA?/ fucus or fea belts. F. pal-
vcwXws, handed fucus. F. digitatus, fingered fucus. F.
efculentus, edible fucus.
Hypochaeris maculata,/bo/W hawk-weed.
Lafluca fativa, lettuce.
Leontodon taraxacum, dandelion.
Lepidium fativum, L. virginicum, Vir¬
ginian fciatic crefs.
Mentha fativa, curled mint. M. viridis, fpearmint.
Oxalis acetofella, woodforrel.
Poterium fanguiforba, garden burnet.
Primula veris, common cowflips, or paiglcs.
Rumex feutatus, round leaved forrel. R. acetofa,
common forrel.
Salicornia europea, jointedglafswort, oxfaltwcrt.
Vol. XII. Part II./
M E D I C A, &c. 697
Scandix cerefolium, common chervil. S. odoiata,yit’Pif/ Dietetics.
cicely, * v
Sedum reflexum, yellow flonecrop. S. rupeflve, St
Vincent's rock flonecrop.
Sifymbrium nafturtium, water-crefs.
Sinapis alba, white muflard.
Tanacetum balfamita, coflmary.
Valeriana locufta, lamb's lettuce.
Veronica beccabunga, krooklime.
Ulva lafluca, green laver.
Seff. 2. Boiling Salads.
Amaranthus oleraceus, efculent amaranth.
Arum efculentum, Indian kale.
Atriplex hortenfis, garden orach. A. Hortenfis nigri¬
cans, fen o/w/L A. hortenfis rubra, red
garden orach.
Anethum foeniculum, common fennel. A. dulce,yit'eel
fennel.
Braflica oleracea, cabbages. B. napus, colewort.
Chenopodium bonus henricus, v. s.
Cnicus oleraceus, round-leaved meadow tkiflle.
Corchorus olitorius, common Jews mallow.
Crambe maritima, fea colewort.
Jatropha maniot, coffava.
Malva rotundifolia, dwarf mallow.
Mentha viridis,y^)fnrm/nL See Se£t i.'
Phytolacca decandra, American nightfhade.
Ranunculus ficaria, pilewort.
Raphanus fativus, common radifh.
Salvia fclarea, garden clary.
Spinacia oleracea, common fpinach. S. O. glabra,
fmooth fpinach.
Thea bohea, bohea tea. T. viridis, green tea.
Urtica dioica, common flinging nettle.
A. petrofelinum, par-
Sedl. 3. Pot Herbs.
Apium graveolens, celery.
Allium porrum, leeks.
Braffica oleracea, cabbages.
Beta vulgaris alba, white beet.
Crithmum maritimum, rock famphire.
HylTopus officinalis, common hyfflop.
Oxalis acetofella, woodforrel.
Ozymum bafilicurn, fweet feented bajil.
Origanum marjorana, common marjoram.
j or an a tenui folia, fine-leaved fweet marjoram.
racleoticum, winter fweet marjoram. O. onites, pot
marjoram.
Picris echioides, common ox-tongue.
Rofmarinus officinalis, common rofemary. R. hor¬
tenfis, garden rofemary.
Salvia officinalis, green and red fage. S. minor, tea
Me' . ' :
Satureja hortenfis,y«//z/«er favory. S. montana, win¬
ter favory.
Scandix cerefolium, common chervil. S. odorata,
fwcet cicely.
Sonchus oleraceus, common fow thiflle.
Thymus vulgaris, common thyme. T, maflichinus,
maflic thyme.
IV. ESCULENT FLOWERS.
%6
Pet herbsv
O. mar-
O. he-
Calendula pfRcinalis, common marigold.
4X
S7
Efculent
flowers.
Caltha
698
Dietetics.
88
Efcuknt
berries.
M ATERI A M
Caltka paluftris, tnat'Pj marigo/J.
Capparis fpinofa, caper bu/h.
Carthamus tin&orius, fajfiower.
Carlina acaulis, dwarf carline thi/lle.
Cynara cardunculus, cardoon.
Cynara fcolymu', green or French artichoke. C. hor-
teniis, globe artichoke.
Ccrcis llliquail rum, common 'Judas-tree.
Helianthus annuus, annualfunjlower.
Onopordum acanthium, cotton thijlle.
Tropaeolum majus, Indian crefs. T. minus, fmaller
Indian crefs.
V. ESCULENT BERRIES.
Se&. 2. Indigenous or Native Berries.
Aroutus uva urfi, bear-berry. A. alpina, mountain
frawberry. A. unedo, common frawberry.
Berberis vulgaris, common barberry.
Crataegus aira, white beam tree. C. terminalis, maple-
leavedfervice or forb.
Fragaria vefca vel fylvefiris, ’wood frawberry. F.
northumbrienfis, Northumberland frawberry. F. im-
perialis, royal wood frawberry. F. granulofa, minion
wood frawberry. F. pratenfis, Swedifb green fraw¬
berry. F. mofchata, hautboy frawberry. F. mofcha-
ta rubra, red bloffomed frawberry. F. mofchata her-
inaphrodita, royal hautboy. F. chinenfis, Chinefe flraw-
berry. F. rirginiana, Virginian fear let frawberry.
F. V. coccinea, Virginian fcarlet-bloffomed frawberry.
F. V. campeltris, wild Virginian frawberry. F. chi-
loenfis, Chili frawberry. F. C. devanenlis, Devonfnre
frawberry.
Juniperus communis, common or Englifh juniper. J.
arbor, Swedi/h juniper.
Rioes rubrum et album, red and white currants.
R. nigrum, black currants. R. groffularia, goofeber-
ries.
Rofa canina, dog's rofe, or hep bufh.
Rubus idaeus, rafpberry. R. I. albus, white rafp-
berry. R. \. \ze\\s, fnoothfalked rafpberry. R. cae-
fius, dewberry. R. fruticofus, common bramble. R.
chamaemorus, cloudberry. R. ar&icus, Jhrubby fraw¬
berry.
Vaccinium myrtillus, blaciworts, or bilberry. V.
vitis idaea, redworts. V. oxycoccos, cranberry.
Se&. 2. Foreign Berries, often raifed in gardens
and ftoves. ,
Annona muricata, four fop.
apple. A. fquamofa, fweet fop.
Bromelia ananas, pine apple.
to frudlu, fugar loaf pine-apple,
guin.
Ca&us opuntia, prickly pear,
prickly pear.
Capficum annuum, annual Guinea pepper.
tefeens, perennial Guinea pepper.
Carica papaya, the papaw or popo. C. pofopofa, ^^ar-
fhaped papaw.
Cui-yiophyllum caineto, far apple. C. glabrum,>-
padillo, or Mexican medlar.
Citrus medica, common citron. C. limon, common
lemon. C. americana, the lime tree. C. aurantium,
common orange, C. ducumanus, faddock orange.
E D I C A, &c.
Crateva marmelos, Bengal quince.
Diofpyros lotus, Indian date plum. D. virginiana,
pifhamin plum.
Ficus carica, common fig. F. humilis, dwarf fig.
F. caprincus, hermaphrodite fruited fig. F. fru&u fuico,
brown fruited fig. F. Fructu violaceo, purple-fruited
fg. F. fycomorus, fycamore, or Pharaoh's fig.
Garcinia mangollana, mangofeen.
Morus nigra, black’fruited mulberry. M. rubra, rea-
fruited mulberry. M. alba, white fruited mulberry.
IVTufa paradifaica, plantain tree. M. fapientum, ba¬
nana, or fmallfruited plantain.
Mefpilus germanica, medlar.
Mammea americana, the mammee.
Malpighia glabra, fmooth-leaved Barbadoes cherry.
M. punicifolia, pomegranate-leaved malpighia.
Pa'diflora mahiormis, applefihaped granadilla. P.
laurifolia, bay-leavedpaffonfewer.
Pudium pyriferum, pear guava, or bay plum. P.
pomiferum, apple guava,
Solanum lycoperficum, love apple. S. melongena,
mad apple. S. fandium, Palefine nightf jade.
Sorbus domellica, true fervice tree.
irophis americana, red fruited bucephalon.
Vitis vinifera, common grapes. V. apyrena, Corin¬
thian currants.
Part I.
Dietetics.
A. reticulata, cufard
B. ananas pyramida-
B. karatas, the pen-
C. triangularis, true
C. fru-
VI. ESCULENT STONE FRUIT.
Se£l. 1. Stone Fruit of Europe.
Amygdalus perfica, the peach. A. nuciperfica, the
ne&arine.
Cornus mafcula, male cornel, or cornelian cherry.
Olea Europea, nianured olive, O. lylveftris, wild
olive.
Prunus armeniaca, the apricot. P. cerafus, wild red
cherry. P. domeftica, the plum tree. P. infititia, the
bullace tree.
Rhamnus zizyphus, common jujube.
Sedl. 2. Stone Fruit exotic.
Chryfobalanus icaco, cocoa plum.
Coccoloba uvifera, fea-fde grape.
Cordiamyxa, clufered febefen, or fffyrian plum.
C. febeftena, rough-leaved febefen.
Corypha umbraculifera, umbrella palm.
Elais guineenfis, oil palm.
Eugenia jambos, Malabar plum.
Grias cauliflora, anchovy pear.
Laurus perfea, avigato pear.
Mangifera indica, mango tree.
Phoenix dactylifera, common date.
Rhamnus jujuba, Indian jujube.
Spondias lutea, yellow Jamaica plum.
VII. ESCULENT APPLES.
Sedt. 1. Apples of Herbaceous Plants.
Cucumis melo, mufk melon. C. melo albus, Spanijb
white melon. C. IVI, laevis, fmooth green-fiefihed me¬
lon. C. M. flavus, yellow winter melon. C. M. par¬
vus, fmall Portugal mufk melon. C. M. pilofus, hairy-
finned melon. C. M. reticulatus, netted finned melon.
C. M. ftriatus, late fmall frioted melon. C. M. tube-
rofus,
89
Efculent
ftone-fruit.
90
Efculent
apples.
Pat't I.
Dietetics.
MATERIA MEDIC A. &c.
rofus, ivarted cantaloupe. C. M. turbinatus, top-Jhaped
melon. C. M. virens, green-rinded melon.
Cucumis chale, Egyptian melon. C. fativus, common
prickly cucumber. C. fativas albus, white prickly cu¬
cumber. C. S. longus, long prickly cucumber. C.
flexuofus, green Turkey cucumber.
Cucurbita lagenaria, bottle gourd. C. cxtrullus, wa¬
ter melon. C. pepo, common pompion. C. P. oblon-
gus, long pompion. C. verrucofa, warted gourd. C.
melopepo, Spanijh melon.
Melothria pendula,yw<s// creeping cucumber.
/
Seft. 2. Apples of Trees.
Achras fapota, oval-fruitedfapota.
Averrhoa carambola, go a apple. A. bilimbi, bilim-
bia.
Nympheea nelumbo, Egyptian bean.
Oryza fativa, rice.
Panicum miliaceum, common millet. P. Italicum,
Italian millet.
Phalaris canarienfis, canary graft, or canary feea.
Polygomim fagopyrum, buck wheat.
Quercus efculus, cut-leaved Italian oak. Q. phellos,
carolinean willow-leaved oak.
Seiamum orientale, eajlern fefamum. S. Indicum,
Indian fefamum.
Sinapis nigra, black muflard. S. arvenfis, wild muf-
tard or charlock.
Zea mays, Maize, or Indian wheat.
Zezanea aquatica, water %e%ania.
X. ESCULENT NUTS.
Punica granatum, pomegranate tree.
Pyrus communis, pear-tree. P. malus, the crab-
tree. P. cydonia, quince-tree.
Legumin¬
ous plants.
VIII. LEGUMINOUS PLANTS.
Se£l. i. Pods and Seeds of Herbaceous Plants.
Arrachis bypogsea, American ground nut.
Cicer arietinum, the chick pea.
Dolichos fqja, Eafl India kidney bean.
Ervum lenS, lentil.
Lotus edulis, incurved podded bird's-foot trefoil. L.
tetragonolobus, fquare podded crimfon pea.
Lupinus albus, white flowering lupine.
Phafeolus vulgaris, common kidney bean. P. V. coc-
cineus, fcarlctflowering kidney bean. P. albus, white-
flowering kidney bean.
Pifum fativum, common garden pea. P. umbella-
tum, crown pea. P. quadratum, angularflalked pea.
P. maritimum, flea pea.
Vicia faba, common garden bean.
Seft. 2. Pods and Seeds of Trees.
Caflia fiftula, flweet cafflia, or pudding pipe tree.
Ceratonia fill qua, carob, or St John's bread.
Coffea Arabica, Arabian coffee. C. occidentalis,
American C.
Cytilus cajan, pigeon pea.
Epidendrum vanilla, flweetflcentcd vanilla.
Hymenaea courbaril, baflard locufl tree.
Tamarindus indica, the tamarind.
92
Efculent
grains .md
feeds.
IX. ESCULENT GRAINS AND SEEDS.
Triticum ■3t?C\u\xxo, flummer or flpring wheat. T. by-
bermim, winter or common wheat. T. turgidum,y£<9r/
thick jpiked wheat. T. polcnicum, Poland wheat. T.
fpelta, German or flpelt wheat. T. monococcum, St
Peter's 'corn.
Avena fativa, manured black oat. A. nuda, naked
oat.
Hordeum vulgare, common barley. H. difiichon,
long-eared larky. H. hexailichon,y^fl/-e, Z>dr/<?y, H.
zeocriton, battledore os flprat bat ley.
Secale cercalc. Common rye.
Coix laebryma jobi. Job's tears.
Cvnofia us cerocanus, Indian cock's foot grafls.
Fefiuca iluitans, Jlote fefleue grafs.
Holcus forgbum, Guinea corn, or Indian millet.
Amygdalus communis, flweet and bitter almond. Efculent
Anacardium occidentale, caflhew nut. m'ts-
Avicenna tomentofa, eaflern anacardium, or Malac¬
ca bean.
Corylus avellana, hazel nut.
Cocos nucifera, cocoa nut.
Fagus caftanea, common chefnut.
Juglans regia, common walnut. J. nigra, black Vir¬
ginian walnut.
Jatropha curcas, Indian plyflc nut. J. multifida,
Trench phyfic nut.
Pinus pinea,y?o«e or manured pine.
Piftacia vera, piflachia nut. P. narbonenfis, trifoli¬
ate-leaved turpentine tree.
Theobroma cacao, chocolate nut.
Trapa natans, Jefuit's nut.
XL ESCULENT FUNGUSES.
Agaricus campeftris, common mufljroom. A. praten- 94
fis, the champignion. A. chantarellus, chantarelle ago- f:fculent
ric. A. deliciofus, orange agaric. A. cinnamomeus, UnSU e*’
brown mujhroom. A. violaceus, violet mujhroom.
Lycoperdon tuber, the truffle.
Phallus efeulentus, the morel.
For the botanical arrangement and chara&ers of
tbefe plants, fee the article Botany. For a particular
account of the individuals as articles of diet, we muft
refer our readers to Bryant’s Flora Dietetica, Cullen’s
Materia Medica, vol. i. the fynopfis of Materia Ali-
mentaria and Materia Medica, and Sir John Sinclair’s
Code of Health and Longevity, vol. i. The prepa¬
ration and ufe of bread have already been treated of at
confiderable length under that article. The ufe
and beft methods of preparing potatoes are given under
Agriculture, N° 288, &.c.
B. DRINK. . . 9%
TDrink.
Drinks may be divided into common water, vege¬
table infufions or deco&ions, fermented liquors, animal
fluids, and animal infufions or deco£Hons. The two
lafl: have been already fpoken of, and water will be
confidered hereafter. We lhall here only make a few
obfervations on the fecond and third heads.
J he vegetables employed for infufions or decoflions
ufed as drink, are chiefly tea, coffee, and choco¬
late. p#
All the various kinds of tea imported into this coun-
4 T 2 try,,
M A T E K I A M E D I C A,
try, come under the denominations of bohea and green;
ar.d even thefe are fuppo'ed to be the produce of the
lam; Ipecies of plant ; though Linnaeus has defcribed
them as fpecifically different, founding the didin^an
on the number of their petals. Others have obferved a
difference in the leaves. Still, however, it is uncertain
whether thefe are not merely accidental differences, oc-
calioned by diverfity of foil, lituation, and culture.
While the preient narrow and jealous policy of the Chi-
nele continues, many interellihg particulars refpecling
the natural hillory of this plant muff remain unknown
to Europeans.
It had been well for the inhabitants of Great Bri¬
tain, it the tea-leaf had never found its way to this
country ; they would not then have been tormented, as
thoufands of them now are, with an ihcurable train
of nervous fymptorns, with ftomachic and bowel com¬
plaints, with head-ach, &c. 7 o the abufe of tea¬
drinking may be afcribed, in a great meafure, the in-
•creafed frerjuency of confumptions ; and many of the
diforders cf children, and efpecially hydrocephalus,
tabes mefenterica, rickets, &c. may be traced to the
fame fource.
I he tea-leaf, when frclh from the tree, is evidently
poifonous. It is true that it lofes feme of its acrimony
by drying : but even in the ftate in which it is fent to
this country, it retains much of its narcotic nature.
What fericus mifehief, then, are they bringing upon
tbemfelves, who, as is the cafe with too many of the
lower clafs of Jociety, make it a principal part of their
daily fubfiftence ! 1 he money which ffiould go to pur-
chafe wholelome and fubftantial food, is fquandered
away in procuring what of itfelf affords no nourilnment
at all ; for wdiatever nourifhment is derived from the
infuhon of tea, is owing to the fugar and milk which
are added to it; and were it not for thefe additions, its
deleterious effects would be much fooner and much
more powerfully felt.
7 he time, it is to be hoped, is not far difiant, when
the poor fnall be enlightened upon this important point.
The next generation will hardly believe that their pre-
deceffors lavilhed away fo much money, and took fuch
extraordinary delight in defrauding their bodies of
their proper and natural aliment, and in bringing upon
themfelves infirmity and difeafe. Let the rich and the
intemperate indulge, if they choofe, in the narcotic
draught; to their heated and oppreffed ffcmachs it
may not do harm ; it may even afford momentary re¬
lief. But let the poor abffain from it. They are not
lurcharged with high-feafoned food. They have no
feverifn thirff, no feveriffi heat to allay, after their
noon day repaff. To them it is totally unneceffary as a
help to digeftion, and as an article of fuffenance it is
worthlefs and improper. They would, therefore, be
better, infinitely better, without it.
Befides its narcotic quality, there is another proper¬
ty of the tea-leaf which renders its continued ufe inju¬
rious to the conllitution; we mean its artringency. Add
to thefe the warm water, and we have, in this unna-
Fart T.
tural beverage, the infufion of tea, three different powers Dietetics.
concurring to diforder fir ft the organs of digeftioa,  '
and ultimately the whole fyftem.
It it be alked, what are they who have been lono-
accuftomed to tea to fubffitute in' its place ; we an fiver
milk, milk porridge, gruel, broth, cocoa, or the like
for breakfaff ; and in the aftfcrnoon, milk and water,
orgeat, or lemonade in the fummer, and coffee in the
winter.
It fhould be underflood, that the preceding remarks
apply to the general abate of tea as an article of iulte-
nance; for ics oecafional employment in a dietetical
and medicinal way in fome kinds of ikknefs, is often of
ufe. Thus, the limple infufion, without fugar or milk,
is a good diluent and fedative in ardent fevers ; and as
it promotes perfpiration and urine, it is frequently
drunk with advantage in colds, catarrhs, rheuinatifm,
headacb, &c. It is alfo ferviceable in cafes of furfeit *Synnpfn
and indigeftion *. cf Materia
For the ufe and abufe of coffee, fee the article CcF- Aljme!tta-
FEE. ria'
Chocolate is more nourilhing and lefs heatjng than Chocolate,
coffee. It is commonly made too thick, but when of a
proper degree of ftrengtb, it is a very palatable and
wholefome beverage, though on account of its oily
quality it proves opprefiive and cloying to fome fto-
machs. See Chocoeate. ^
Cocoa is in fadl only a wreak chocolate; and beingCccoa.
lefs pure than the former, weak chocolate might pro¬
perly be fubftituted for it.
Oi fermented liquors we (hall mention only malt li¬
quors, wine, and ardent fpirits.
Well fermented malt liquors, whether from barley Malt
or other grain, provided they be not too ftrong, are liquors,
wholefome, refrelhing, and lirengthening drinks. As
thefe liquors are very nutritious, they are chiefly fuited
to perfons who lead a bufy and active life. With fe-
dentary and bilious perfons they do not agree fo well;
and they are improper for the corpulent and afthmatic,
and thole who are liable to giddinefs or other complaints
of the head. They are better when of a middle age,
than when kept very long. Beer made from the infu¬
fion of malted groats, or malted rye, is lighter and
more diuretic than the common barley beer. Soruce
beer is a powerful diuretic and antifcorbutic; it is,
hov vever too cold for (bme conftltutions. Bottled-beer
is, on account of the fixed air which it contains, more
refrelhmg than the barrelled. It is frequently preferib-
ed as au antifeptic and reftcrative in low fevers and
convalefcencies ; but care muff be taken, during the
ufe of it, that it do not operate too freely by ffool.
London porter, with the common properties of malt-
liquor, poffeffes fuch ftomachic and diuretic qualities, as
give it a preference over common beer and ale, in many
cafes. Being ftrongly impregnated with bitters of a
narcotic kind, it is apt to induce drowfinefs, and con-
fequently is improper wherever there is a tendency
to cephalagia, apoplexy, or other affedlions of the
head (a).
(a) We cannot pretend to decide whether the prejudices that have for fome time prevailed againft the wdrole-
fomenefs of London porter are well founded or not; bufi if its compofition be (uch as given under the article
BrEvVINGj we are decidedly of opinion that it is a liquor quite unfit for ccnftaut drink.
Part I.
1 Dietetics.
100
Wine.
ioi
Perry and
cyder.
ios
Ardent
tpirita.
* Pracli-
M A T E R I A
A tcraperste ufc of wine is conducive to the health.
All the functions, both of body and mind, are rouled
and facilitated by it. It has a powerful efrcft upon the
organs of digeftion, upon the circulation, and upon the
nervous fyllem, promoting digeltion, ftrengthening the
affion of the heart and arteries, and railing the ipirits.
Such is its beneficial operation, when taken fparingly.
In exceflive quantities it has oppofite eflfefts, deftroying
the ftomach, inducing emaciation and debility, and oc-
cafioning inflammation and obflruilion in the liver,
lungs, &c. whence gout, palfy, droply, confumptious,
diabetes, &c.
In a dietetical view, wines are to be confidered as
they are, either acid or fvveet, loft or auftere. I n.e
acid wines, of which the Rhenifli and Hock are the molt
noted, are the leart heating, and the molt diuretic.
The fweet, fuch as the Frontiniac, Malaga, Tent,
Cape, are heating and fudorific, rlhe foft, or acido-
dulcefcent wines, fuch as Champagne, Claret, Burgun¬
dy, Madeira, See. are lels Itiniulating than the Iweet,
and more cordial than the acid wines. Of the auitere
and altringent, that which is moit ufed in this country
is the red* Port, which, when it has not been mixed
with too large a proportion of brandy, is a generous
and ftornachic wine, well faked to the generality ot
Britilh coxdtstations.
Perry and cyder hold a middle place between wine
and malt liquor. ’1 hey are lels nutritious than the
latter, and lefs cordial than the former.
In final 1 quantities ardent fpivits are a powerful cor¬
dial and corroborant, raifing the pulfe, ftrengthening
the ftomach, promoting digeftion, and preventing fla¬
tulence. Taken fparingly, and diluted with water,
they fupply the place of wine, and with iome conftitu-
tions agree better, as they are not like wine, difpoied
to create acidity. The abule of them is productive of
the fame pernicious effefts as thofe which arife from an
exceflive indulgence in wine, but in a greater degree.
French brandy is the molt bracing and ftomachic 5 gin
and rum the moft diuretic and fudorific. Arrak, which
is diftilied from rice, is more heating than the two laft.
Whilky is confidered as a lighter fpirit than any of the
former, from its containing lefs eiTential oil, and it
therefore agrees better with moft; ftomachs. The qua¬
lities of all thefe feveral forts of Ipirits are improved by
Sywc/yb long keeping
of the Mr
teria Ale-
mentaria.
103
Condi-
dents.
On the general fubject of drinks,
Drink.
C. CONDIMENTS.
fee the article
104
Salt.
CONDIMENTS are thofe fubftances which are taken
with our food, to promote digeflion, or to coireft
fome hurtful property in the food taken. They are
ufually divided into faline, faccharine, aromatic, and
oleaginous
Of the faline condiments, the principal are common
fait and vinegar.
Common fait, by its ftimulant aflion on the throat,
gullet, and ftomach, fee-ms to promote the fecretion of
faliva and of the gaftric juice, and thereby facilitates
digeftion. It alfo appears, when taken in fmali quan¬
tity, to increafe the folubility of moft foods, but when
taken too plentifully, it renders the food hard and drf-
IOS
'Tneaai.
M E D I C A, &c. 701
ficult of fblution. Salted meats and full are unwhole- Dietetics.^
fome when made a conftant article of diet.
Vinegar in fmali quantities is a grateful and falutary y
ftimulus to the ftomach, correfling the putrefcency of
animal food, and the flatulency of vegetable. Its ufe
is improper in many valetudinary cafes, efpecially for
calculous and gouty perfons \ in confumption and chlo-
rofis ; to rickety patients and young children.
Pickles may be confidered as merely receptacles for
vinegar, except in as far as the vegetables of which
they are compofed are in their nature warm and aro¬
matic, as the onion. 106
Sugar is nutritious, antifeptic and laxative, and is Sugar,
coniidered as promoting the lolution of fat in the fto¬
mach 5 but as it is very fermentable, it is apt, in many
conftitutions, to produce flatulence, heat, and tbirft.
Its unlimited ufe feems to be one caufe of the increafed
and increafing frequency of bilious and hypochondria¬
cal diforders. Chlorotic girls, rickety children, hyl-
terical women, and all who are troubled with acidity
in the ftomach and bowels, fhould ahtiain from it \ and-
thofe who are anxious to preferve their teeth white and
found, fhould not make free with it. To thefe obfer"
vations, however, there aie fome conftitutions which
furnifh exceptions. Thus we are told, that one of the
dukes of Beaufort took, for the fpace of 40 years,
nearly a pound of fugar every day j yet it neither dif-
ordered any of the vilcera, nor injured the teeth, and he
lived to attain the age of 70.
The aromatic condiments conflft chiefly of the fo- Spices,
reign fpices, as pepper, Cayenne pepper, cinnamon,
nutmeg, cloves, ginger, and of a few garden roots and
feeds, fuch as gurlick, leek, onion, horfe-radifh, and
muftard. Of thefe we fhall take notice under their
proper heads in the Materia Medica.
The oleaginous condiments confift merely of olive
oil and butter. 108
Oil when ufed as a feafoning to raw vegetables, Oil.
checks their fermentation in the ftomach, and thereby
prevents them from proving too flatulent. Ufed in
this manner, in fmali quantities, it proves a help to di¬
geftion ; but when taken in confiderable quantities, it
has an oppofite eftefl, and lays the foundation . for bi¬
lious complaints. I09
The moderate ufe of melted butter with boiled vege-,MeIted-
tables, is, in general, by no means un whole fame ; but
it frequently difagrees with bilious and hypochondriacal
peonle.
The proper method of preparing food, conftitutes
the art of cookery, on which we {hall prefent our
readers with the following general remarks, taken
from Sir John Sinclair’s Code of Health and Longe¬
vity. _ no
Fhe primeval inhabitants of the earth certainly ate Cookery.
107
, butter,-
both their vegetable and animal food raw j and to this
day fome of the African nations, the Efquimaux In¬
dians. the Patagonians and Samoeides, devour raw fleih
and fiih, and drink the blood of the animals. Raw
flefti produces great bod’dy vigour, ferocity of mind,
and love of liberty.
In general, however, animal food undergoes fome
preparation- before it is confumed. It is hardly to be
credited the fhifts which fome tribes have been put to,
in order to obtain that objefl, as putting heated ftones
in
/
7'02
Dietetics.
lit
Sirapie
cookery.
1X2
R-Oafting.
MATERIA
sn the bellies of pigs to roafl them, or burning the
ftraw m order to parch the grain. From thefe
numble^ attempts, the great refinements of cookery,
which is properly a branch of chemifiry originated.
It is certain that cookery is an ufeful art. By it
many articles are rendered wholefome, which could
not otherwife have been eaten ; but by it, at the fame
time, it muft be acknowledged, that fome articles are
rendered unwholefome, which would otherwife have
produced nouriihing food.
By cookery, our foods are rendered more palatable
and digefiible, and when prepared in a fimple manner,
more conducive to health.
Cookery may be confidered under two general heads,
the fimple, and the refined or compound.
The firft, though apparently ealy, requires a con-
fiderable degree of attention and experience ; and the
fecond is an art of fo diverfified and extenfive a nature,
that it is rarely carried to any confiderable degree of
perfe&ion, and it would have been no lofs to human
nature if it had never been invented.
Simple cookery includes the following modes of dref-
fing meat : I. Roafling. 2. Boiling. 3. Stewing.
4. Broiling. 5. Frying. 6. Baking j and 7. Digeft-
ing.
I. Roq/iing was certainly the firft mode invented to
prepare animal food ; for boiling was a more compli¬
cated procefs, and required the art of manufa£luring
yeflels that could withftand the effeft of heat. Roaft-
ing, it is well known, requires a greater proportion of
heat than boiling, and more Ikill in the preparation.
By the application of fire, a confiderable proportion of
watery fubftance is exhaled from the meat. In order
tx> be done properly, the roafting Ihould be conduced
in a gradual manner, and the heat moderately, but
fteadily applied, otherwife exficcation rather than roafi-
ing, takes place. Roafted meat is certainly the beft
means of confuming the flefii and tailing the natural
juices of the meat. It is alfo peculiarly calculated for
birds of every fort, and for young and tender meat,
taking off its vifcidity, and giving it a firmnefs and dry-
nefs that othenviie it would not polfefs.
Roaffed meat, at lead of the larger kinds, as beef,
mutton, and venifon, is preferred in England, and boil¬
ed or baked meat in France. The meat of England
has not, perhaps, the fame flavour as that of France,
but it is larger, richer, and fatter, and appears to more
-advantage in a roalled (late. Befides, coal fires are bet¬
ter adapted for that procefs of cookery than wood or
peat. It is found, indeed, that meat, roafled by a file of
peat or turf, is more fodden than when coal is employed
for that purpofe.
Our meat in England (Cadogan afierts) is generally
over-done, and particularly over-roafled. In regard to
over roafling, the aftion of fire, if continued too long,
has a tendency to change mild animal flefli into fome-
thing of another quality 5 the fat, in particular, be¬
comes bitter and rancid. The lefs, therefore, that all
flefli meat undergoes the power of the fire, the milder
and wholefomer it is. This do£lrine, however, is de¬
nied by Falconer. He admits, that meat little done is
the moft foluble, but at the fame time contends, that it
is exceedingly alkalefcent, and runs quickly into putre-
fadlion. Hence the French, who live in a warm cli¬
mate, find it necelfary not only to eat a great quantity
MED I C A, &c.
Part I.
of bread, to prevent the putrefying effeft of animal Dietetic.
rood, but alio to have their meat thoroughly bofied   v—
and roafled.
2. Boiling is alfo an excellent mode of preparing ani Bo^W
mal rood, rendering it more foluble, without deftroyinn-
if properly done, its nutritious qualities, and being
peculiarly ca’culated for weak ftomachs. But however
uleful moderate boiling may be in thefe refpecis, yet,
when carried to an extreme, every thing foluble is ex-
trailed, the nutritious parts are conveyed to the liquor
and the meat kfelfis left behind infipid, denfe, and unfit
for nounftitnent.
Young and vifcid food, as veal, chickens, partridges,
&c. are more wholefome when roafted than boiled, and
eafier digefted ; but beef and mutton are eafier di gelled
w hen boiled than roafled ; confequently boiling fuch
meat is better calculated for w^eak ftomachs. Boiling
is particularly applicable to vegetables, rendering them
more (oluble in the ftomach, and depriving them of
a confiderable quantity of air, fo injurious to weak
flomachs.
fhe ufual mode of preparing fifti for the table is by
boiling, roafting rendering them more indigeftible.
It is proper to obferve, that thofe who are trained
to athletic exercifes, have their meat roafted or broil¬
ed, and not boiled ; as it is fuppofed, that, when boil¬
ed, a great part of the nutritive juices of the meat is
loll in the water.
3. Stewing is reckoned the mode by which the great Stewing,
ek quantity of nouriihment is derived from the meat.
By this plan the texture of the meat is rendered more
tender, its foluble parts are not fully extraded, and it
is left in a Hate abundantly fapid and nouriihing, while
th„ .oup alfo, or fluid, contains a fufficient proportion
or the animal extrad.
4. Broiling, confifts in expofing meat to the near ap- Bro”* ;
plication of a naked fire, by which means its outer fur-
face immediately^hardens, before the heat has penetra¬
ted the whole. This prevents any excefs of exhalation ;
and the meat, when done, is" rendered fufficiently
tender. It is peculiarly fuited for fteaks, which are,
comparatively fpeaking, eaten in a juicy and almoft in
a raw' Hate.
5; Fnjing is a procefs that renders meat more inch'- Frying,
geftible than any other, and indeed, might be included
under the head of compound cookery. It is performed
by cutting meat into thin fiices, and putting it into a
velfel over the naked fire. As the lower furface of the
meat would thus be burnt or hardened, fome fluid mat¬
ter, generally of an oily nature, is introduced, which ac¬
quires, from the heat, a burnt or empyreumatic tafte, and
becomes hardly mifcible with the fluids in the ftomach.
It requires, therefore, the addition of ftimulants to en¬
able the ftomach to digeft it.
6. Baking confifts in the application of heat in a dry Baknl
form, but in a veffel covered with a pafte inftead of its
bei; g expofed to the open air. Any confiderable ex¬
halation is thus prevented, and the meat, by the reten¬
tion of all its juices, is rendered more fapid and tender.
But baked meat fits heavy on fome flomachs, from the
greater retention of its oils, which are in a burnt ftate.
It requires, therefore, the additional ftimulus of fpices
and aromatics, to render it lighter, and to increafe the
power of tve ftomach to digeft it. tl3
7* is ■the laft difeovered procefs of firapl$ Bigcfting,
cookery.
Part I.
Dietetics.
119
ItliiCfi.
MATERIA
cookery. It is performed in a clofe veffel, and refem-
bles boiiinu, being conduiied in a very high tempe¬
rature, while, from the clofenefs of the velTel, the ad¬
vantages of Hewing are procured. It is net, however,
much in ufe.
Befides thefe various Ample modes of preparing ani¬
mal food, there is another, which it may here be pro¬
per to take notice of, namely, when animal food is dif-
folved in wrater, and formed into a gelatinous lolution
and
120
Compound
Cookery.
*Code of
Health a?id
Longevity,
vol. 1.
121
Diet of
fick and
•onvalef-
eent per¬
sons.
or jelly. This fubftance is of a vifeid nature,
though it contains much nourilhment, yet is difficult of
digefiion, and of courfe lefs calculated for diieafed or
weak flomaclis than is commonly imagined. Nor are
thofe jellies, which are the mucilaginous extrafls of
certain parts of animals, as hartffiorn, very digeftible j
indeed, a too liberal ufe of them has often proved inju¬
rious. They can only be recommended for the frek, ac¬
companied with a quantity of Hale bread. To thofe wffio
require an article of that fort, more efpecially if their
fiomachs are weak, Ample beef tea, properly prepa¬
red, is the moil nutritive balfam that can be admini-
fieYed.
It may alfo be proper to obferve, that even after pro-
vifions have been dreiTed in the kitchen, they have of¬
ten to undergo fome operations of cookery at the table \
this is principally by the addition of fome of the various
forts of feafoning or condiments.
One would imagine, that all the various modes of
preparing food above enumerated, might fatisfy the moft
luxurious appetite ; but, inflead thereof, the ingenuity
of man has been exerted to difeover a number of other
preparations. Hence, a fyftem of reAnrd or compound
cookery has been invented, more flattering to the palate
than favourable to the health.
If would be improper to touch upon procefies which
it is impoflible for any writer on dietetics to mention
with any degree of approbation. Some diflies may be
prepared, varioufly compounded, which may occaflonally
be tafled, and plain fauces may be a ufeful addition to
Alb and vegetables*, but the generality of ragouts,
made diffies, and the like, are of a poifonous quality,
and cannot be too anxioufly avoided by thefe wffio
entertain any anxiety for the prefervation of their
health *.
The foregoing obfervations on diet are adapted chief¬
ly to perfons in health ; but it is of great importance
for a medical man to know what is the moft proper diet
for the iick and for convalefcents. To treat this fub-
jecl properly would occupy more room than w-e can al¬
lot to it, we {hall, therefore, only infert here the fol¬
lowing remarks by the late Dr Heberden, with which
we (hall conclude this part of the article.
“ Many phyftcians appear to be too ilrifl and par¬
ticular in the rules of diet and regimen, which they
deliver as proper to be obferved by all who are felicit¬
ous either to preferve or recover their health. The
common experience of mankind will fufficiently ac¬
quaint any one with the forts of food which are whole-
fume to the generality of men \ and his own experience
will teach him which of thefe agrees heft with his par¬
ticular conllitution. Scarcely any other direftions be-
Ades thefc are wanted, except that, as variety of food
at the fame meal, and poignant fauces, will tempt moft;
pei fens to eat more than they can well digeft } they ought
therefore to be. avoided by all who are aftii&ed with
M E D I C A, &c. 703
any chronical diforders, or w*ifh to keep from them. Dietetics.
But whether meat ihould be boiled or roafted, or dref- “ v ‘
fed in any other plain way, and what fort of vegetables
Ihould be eaten with it, we never yet met with any per-
fon of common fenfe who did not appear Alter to ebufe
for himfelf than we could direct him. Small beer, where
it agrees, or water alone, are the propereft liquors at
meals. Wine or fpirits mixed with water have gradu¬
ally led on feveral to be fots, and have ruined more con-
ftitutions than ever were hurt by Imall beer from Its Arft
invention.
“ In fevers a little more reftraint is neceflary, but
not fo much as is often enjoined. The ftronger forts
of meat and Afli are moft ufually loathed by the Ack
themfelves, nor could they be eaten without offending
the flomach, and increaAng the diftemper, while it is
at all conAderable \ but in its decline the Ack are often
deurous of fome of the milder forts of meat, and no
harm follows from indulging their defire. The Eng¬
lish are faid to eat more meat when they are well than
moft: other nations ; but were remarkable, fo long ago
as the time of Erafmus, for avoiding it more fcrupuloul-
ly when they are Ack than any other people. How
high foever the fever be, the Ack may be fafeiy nourifh-
ed with weak broths and jellies, and with any vegeta¬
ble fubftances, if we except the acid and aromatic, or
with the infuAons or decoftions prepared from them *,
and we know no reafon for prefering any of thefe to
the reft. Eggs and milk have been, we know not by1
what autkor’.ry, forbidden in all fevers *, but as far as
our experience goes, they both afford innocent food in
the worft, where they are grateful to the patients.
“ The feverifh third is beff allayed by pure water,
which may be drunk either warm or cold, at the option
of the Ack perfon, and he may drink as much as he
pleafes ; but we fee no advantage in perfuading him to
gorge himfelf with liquids, as is often done, againft his
inclination and ftomach. If water be deemed too inA-
pid, currant jelly, and a variety of fyrups, may be dif-
folved in it; or apples fliced or roafted, tamarinds, fage,
or baum, or toafted bread, may be infufed in it *, or
deco&ions may be made of oatmeal, barley, or rice;
or the water may be made into an emulAon with the
oily feeds ; all which, with a variety of Amilar fubftan¬
ces, merely correft its inftpidnefs, but in other refpecls
leave it juft what it wasw
“ There is fcarcely any diftemper, in every ftage of
which it may not be fafeiy left to the patient’s own
choice, if he be perfedly in his fenfes, whether he will
At up, or keep his bed. His ftrength and his eafe are
chiefly to be attended to in fettling this point; and who
can tell fo well as himfelf, what his eafe requires, and
what his ftrength will bear ?
“ Doubts are often raifed about the propriety of
changing the linen in Acknefs, juft as there have been
about changing the foul air of the Ack chamber by any
of the means which could purify and refrelh it. There
can be very little-reafon to fear any mifehief from the
cold which the Ack may feel while their clean linen is
putting on ; for their attendants, with common care,
will do this as fafeiy as many other things which mull
neceffarily be done for them. But fome have a ftrange
opinion of barm from the fmell of the foap perceivable
in linen after it has been w-alhed, and therefore allow
not their patients} when they change their linen, ever
to
7°4
1 her a pr u- to put on
tics.
MATERIA MEDIC A, &c. Part II.
ach only as has been worn, or remarkably unhealthy, which is contrary to experience j Therapeu-
‘refii, but
lain in, by other pertons. Ey this contrivance indeed
the fmell of the leap might be taken off j but' few
cleanly people would think they gained any advantage
by the change. Now, if a faint fmell of foap were
noxious, then foap-makers and laundry fervants mull be
tics.
nor is it lefs lo, that the lick are injured by the clean-
nefs of what they wear ; on the' contrary, the removing
of their foul things has often diffufed over them a ienfe
of eafe and comfort, which has loon lulled them into a
quiet and refreihing deep *#<?£
PART II. OF THE GENERAL ACTION OF REMEDIES, AND THEIR
CLASSIFICATION.
den's Com¬
mentaries.
■T Tl
Action of WE lhall not attempt any new or original difquili-
emedies. tion on the action of remedies, but diall merely Hate
the moll generally received opinions on the fubjedl.
We fhall begin with the dcdlrine of the difciples of
Cullen, which has been vrell exprefled by Dr Percival
123 in the following proportions.
SJe.-cines t. Medicines may a& an the human body by an imme-
irwre'id’te ^iate artd peculiar imprefjion of the flomach and bowels,
and pecii- either in their proper form, in a fate of dtcompoftian, or
liar impref- o change in the arrangement of their parts —'The fym-
fion on the pathy of the llomach with the whole animated fyilem is
rsnal t r" 0^v!0us °,ir daily experience, that it cannot re¬
quire much illudration. After falling and fatigue, we
feel that a moderate quant fly of wine inffantly exhila¬
rates the fpirits, and gives energy to all the mufcular
fibres of the body. It has been known even to pro¬
duce a fudden and large augmentation of weight, after
much depletion, by roufing the abforbent fyftem to vi¬
gorous aflion. Such power is peculiar to living me-
chanifm •, and is properly denominated by phyficians, '
the ’uis medicatriX naturee. But apparent as is the fym-
pathy of t’ne llomach, the laws by which it is governed
are very infufficiently underflood ; and we have hitherto
learned only from a Joofe induflion of fadts, that the
nerves of this delicate organ feem to be endorved with
diverfified fenfibilities j that impreffiens made by the
fame or different fubltances, have their appropriate in¬
fluence on different and dillant parts ; and that the flo¬
mach itfelf undergoes frequent variations in its Hates of
irritability. A few grains offulphate of copper, taken
internally, excite initantly the moil violent contraclions
of the abdominal, and other mufcles concerned in vo¬
miting. A dofe of ipecacuanha, as foon as it produces
naufea, abates both the force and velocity of the heart,
in its vital motion 5 and affefls the whole feries of blood
veilels, from their origin to their minuteil ramifications,
as is evident by the palenefs of the fkin under fuch cir-
cumflances, and by the efficacy of emetics in Hopping
haemorrhages. The head, when difordered with ver¬
tigo, fometimes derives Hidden relief from a tea fpoon-
ful of ether, adminiflered in a glafs of water. An in-
ceffant cough has been known to attack the lungs, in
cowfequcnce of the Himulus of a pin, which had been
unwanly fwallowed. Of the aflion of medicines on the
fiomach, under decompofition or recompofition, we
have an example familiar to every one, in carbonate of
mayrufia. For this earth by neutralizing the acid in the
primal vice, acquires a purgative quality, and at the
fame time yields a gas of great falubrity, as an anti-
emetic, tonic, and antifeptic.
2. Modi ewes may pafs into the courfe of circulation in
9-ne cr other of thief ales above defer ibed, and being convey-
3
edto different anddfant parts, may thiere produce certain Medlines
appropriate effects.—Chemiitry furnifhes us with nura-Protlu-e ef-
berlefs cafes in which fubltances undergo changes, and fe<as 0R ^
take new forms more remarkable than can be effected
by digeilion, retaining Hill the materia prima, and be-thecircu-
ing capable of refuming the original arrangement oflation.
their particles, and confequently their original qualities.
Now, a body altered in its texture by digeftion, and
carried into the fyflem with aliment, may acquire fpe-
ciiic powers of afling on particular found or difeafed
parts. Thus, if we fuppefe cantharides to be changed
in form and texture, when mixed with the chyle, the
lymph, or the blood, they may Hill, in that form and
texture, be peculiarly adapted to excite Hrangury in
the urinary paffages, or, we may conceive that this
new modification of their particles may again be alter¬
ed, and their original compofftion relieved by a fubfe-
quent chemical change in the kidneys. The fenfible
qualities of any body are no certain marks of its medi¬
cinal a£licn. Peruvian bark does not owe its efficacy
in fevers to its bitternefs, for flronger bitters are not pof-
feffed of its febrifuge powers. Antimony, though infi-
pid, produces a violent aflion on the nerves of the flo¬
mach, and yet if applied to the eye, an organ equally
fenfible, it is altogether inert. To what perceptible
property in opium are we to aferibe its narcotic powers ?
or is there in the fweet tafle of acetate of lead, any in¬
dication of a deadly poifon ? Numberlefs inilances may¬
be adduced to prove the uncertainty of reafoning other-
wile than from obfervation, concerning the aflion of
medicines, and the peculiar fenfibility of different parts
of our fjffem to their impreffion. Following experience,
therefore, as our guide, let us notice a few fafls that
may elucidate the fubjecl before us. It is well known
that madder root, when taken by an animal, carries its
tinging quality to the bones, affefting neither the fli.in^
the mufcles, the ligaments, nor the fat. Confequently
this tinging quality is left unchanged by digeffion ; or
perhaps it is again recovered, when arrived at the
bones, by fome new arrangement of parts produced by
the chemiflry of nature. Extrafl of logwood, taken
internally, fometimes gives a bloody hue to the urine.
But the aflringency of it does not feem to accompany
its colouring matter. We recollefl no inflance where¬
in the milk eidler of a nurfe, or of an animal, was
tinged with madder or logwood. This affords fome
prefumption, that the pigment does not fublifl in its
proper form, in the blood ; but that it is recovered by
a lubfequent change in the difpolition of its conflituent
particles. And if one fubfiance ffain the bones, by
being carried into contafl with them, another may, in
an analogous manner, produce in them fragility or dif-
folution.
Part II. MATERIA
Therapeu- folutxon. In the dlfeafe termed by the French ergot,
, tICS- and which, with feme probability is aferibed to the ufe
v of a fpecies of unfound corn, the bones lofe the earthy
matter that enters into their texture *, the gums become
foft, and are eafily broken. This effect is gradual, and
probably arifes from feme unknown quality in the corn,
which is either not taken away by digeftion, or is re¬
fumed in the juices that circulate through the offeous
veffels. A change in the procefs of vegetation may
communicate a folvent power to an efculent feed. Mu-
ftard acquires this by its natural growth, and is capa¬
ble of rendering even ivory foft and fragile. How
far it would produce fuch an ef^eft on the bones of a
living body, if ufed as the chief article of diet, we have
no experience on which to ground any fatisfadlory con-
clufion.
Sulphur, whether externally or internally ufed, pro¬
duces a cure in the itch. In each way, therefore, w7e
may prefume its operation to be limilar. But when ta¬
ken into the ftomach, there can be no doubt that it un¬
dergoes a change in the modification of its parts, and
that it does not circulate through the blood veffels ei¬
ther in the form or with the properties of fulphur.
Yet when conveyed to the lurface of the body, it evi¬
dently appears to recover its original powers, communi¬
cating its peculiar odour to the perfpiration, tinging
filver, and curing cutaneous defoedations. The lame
holds true of the lulphuric acid, when adminiftered in
large dofes. It feems to lofe oxygen in the animal bo¬
dy, and to pafs off by the pores, as hepatic air, or as
volatilized fulphur. Even when given to nurfes, it
proves an eftedlual remedy for the itch, both in them
and the children whom they fuckle. Mercury com¬
bined with fulphur into the black liilphuret, has fre¬
quently been regarded as inert. Inftances, however,
have occurred in which, under this form, though accu¬
rately prepared, it has produced falivation 5 an evident
proof, according to Dr Percival, of a chemical change
in the fulphuret, by which the mercury was reftored to
its original powers. That mercury is capable of being
reduced to the metallic form, and of colledling in con-
ffderable quantity in the human body, is proved by the
concurrent teftimony of many authors, who inform us
that fluid mercury has been found in the carious bones of
venereal patients. A falivation is fometimes produced
by antimony. Dr James affured Sir George Baker,
that he knew fix inftances of its being produced by his
febrile powder, though he had left mercury out of its
compofition long before they occurred. Indeed, as the
patients thus affedled had neither their teeth loofened,
nor their breath rendered offenfive, there is no reafon
to fuppofe that the falivation was owing to a mixture of
mercury in the powder.
Molt perfons have experienced the effects of afpara-
gus on the urine. This takes place very fpeedily and
ftrongly, though only a fmall quantity has been eaten.
The fmell is much more difagreeable than afparagus it-
felf; and as the odorous particles conveyed to the kid¬
neys muft be greatly diluted in their paffage, it is pro¬
bable that a new combination of particles takes place in
the urinary organs ; and that the odorous part of the
fecretion differs in its form and quality, from what fub-
fifted both in the chyle and in the blood.
There are certain medicines which, when fwallowed,
quickly manifeft themfelves in the difeharges, with
Vol. XII. Part II.
M E I) I C A, &e. -705
fome of their original qualities. A ftrong folution of Therapeu-
potaftg when taken in confiderable quantities, renders , t!<~s~
the urine alkaline and lithontriptic, and the fame ex¬
cretion becomes impregnated with carbonic acid, if
water impregnated with that acid be drunk freely. Dr
Percival fpeaks of a patient to whom fix grains of bal-
fam of Tolu ivere given thrice a day, and whofe urine
was ftrongly feented by this fmall quantity. Garlick
affedls the breath, though it be applied only about the
wrifts ; and the milk of a nurfe is eafily tainted with it.
A purgative given to a woman that fuckles will fome¬
times produce no effect on her bowels, but will operate
ftrongly on thofe of her infant. A ftill more convin¬
cing proof that there may be a renovation of the origi¬
nal qualities of a body, after it has undergone the pro¬
cefs ol digeftion, and other fubfequent changes, is de-
ducible from thefe fafls ; that butter is often impregna¬
ted with the tafte and fmell of certain vegetables on
which the cows have paftured ; that the milk of fuch
cows difeovers no difagreeable flavour, any more than
the w'hey or cheefe prepared from it. Now, butter is
formed, firft by a fpontaneous feparation of cream, and
fecondly, by a fermentation of it; that is, by a twofold
and lucceflive new arrangement of its elementary parts.
By thefe changes, the originally offenfive materials in
the food of the cow feem to reaffume their proper form
and nature.
After venefe&ion the ferum of the blood has fome¬
times appeared as white as milk, wfinlft the craffamen-
tum retained its natural colour. This whitenefs has
bew {hewn to arife from oleaginous particles floating in
the circulating fluids, and may ferve to explain a faff
recorded by a writer of good authority, on the natural
hiftory of Aleppo, that in certain feafons, when oil is
plentifully taken, the people become difpofed to fevers,
and infar£lions of the lungs, which fymptoms wear off
by retrenching this indulgence. Some years ago cod-
liver oil was annually difpenfed amongft the fick of the
Manchefter hofpital, to the amount of 50 or 60 gal¬
lons. The tafte and fmell are extremely naufeous, and
it leaves upon the palate a favour like that of putrid
fifti. This remedy is more falutary when it operates
by perfpiration ; and the fweat of thofe to whom it is
adminiftcred, always becomes ftrongly tainted wdth it.
An oil of the fame kind forms no inconfiderable part of
the food of many northern nations j and it is faid to
penetrate and imbue the deepeft receffes of the body.
Dr Wright relates an experiment to prove that cha-
lybeates do not enter the blood. He forced a dog
that had fafted 66 hours, to fwallow a pound of bread
and milk, with which had been mixed an ounce and a
half of fulphate of iron. An hour afterwards he open¬
ed the dog, and collected from the thoracic du£t about
half an ounce of chyle, which affumed no change of
colour when tinflure of galls w7as dropped into it,
though it acquired from the fame tindture a deep pur¬
ple, w7hen a quarter of a grain of fulphate of iron was
diffolved in it. This experiment is ufually deemed de-
cifive in fupport of the opinion that chalybeates exert
their operation folely on the ftomach, and that the vi¬
gour they communicate to the fyftem arifes exclufively
from their tonic powers on the alimentary canal, and
from the fympathy of the ftomach with various other
parts of the body. Dr Percival was of opinion, that
the tonic adlion and fympathy above mentioned, did
4 U not
706
MATERIA M
Therapeu- not preclude the Iramediate agency of the fteel on the
i. tl^s' , remote parts of the human frame, as this remedy, in
other forms capable of being introduced into the
circulation, may exert conuderable energy as a llimu-
lant or aftringent •, and, in his opinion, the experiment
adduced proves that the iron did not exift in the chyle,
in the ftate of a fait capable of ftriking a black colour
with galls. Neither does the oxide of iron, nor the
glafs of iron, poflfefs this power, yet, though changed,
they are both capable of being reltored to the metallic
Hate. Perhaps with equal reafon it might be prefumed
by one ignorant of chemiftry, that the fulphate of iron
contains no iron, becaufe it is not added on by the mag¬
net.
With the foregoing experiments of Dr Wright, Dr
Percival contrails thofe made by the celebrated Dr
Mufgrave, who injecled into the jejunum of a dog that
had, for a day before, but little meat, about x 2 ounces
of a folut ion of indigo in fountain water, and, alter
three hours, opening the dog a fecond time, he obfer-
ved feveral of the lafleals of a bluilh colour, which, on
ftretching the mefentery, did feveral times difappear,
but was moll eafily difeerned when the mefentery lay
loofe ; an argument that the bluilh liquor was not pro¬
perly of the veffels, but of the liquors contained in it.
A few days after this, repeating the experiment in an¬
other company, with a folution of Hone blue in foun¬
tain water, and on a dog that had been kept falling
36 hours, he faw feveral of the ladleals become of a
perfect blue colour, within very few minutes after the
injedlion. For they appeared before he could few up
the gut.
About the beginning of March following, having
« kept a fpaniel falling 36 hours, and then fyringing a
pint of deep decodlion of Hone blue with common wa¬
ter, into one of the fmall guts j and after three hours,
opening the dog again, he law many of the ladeals of
a deep blue colour : feveral of them were cut, and af¬
forded a blue liquor, fome of the deco£lion running
forth on the mefentery. After this he examined the
duBus thoracicus, and faw the receptaculum chyli, and
that du61us, of a bluilh colour 5 not fo blue indeed as
the ladteals, from the folution mixing,' in or near the
receptaculum, with lympha, but much bluer than the
duElus ufed to be, or than the lymphatics under the li¬
ver were, with which he compared it.
Stone blue is a preparation of cobalt, potalh, and
white lead, which being converted into glafs, is ground
into fine powder. If fuch a fubflance can pervade
the la<!ileals, we may conclude that they are permeable
to other bodies, belides thofe defigned for nutrition,
and capable of affimilation with the blood. This argu¬
ment from analogy, receives great additional force from
the known faff that mercury, and various other adlive
remedies, may be conveyed into the body through the
abforbents of the ikin, a fyllem of veffels fimilar to
thofe above mentioned, in their llruflure, ufec, and
termination. In a cafe of hydrocephalus intemus, on
which Dr Percival was confulted, a child under one year
of age received, by fucceflive fri&ions, 4 ounces 6
drams and 2 fcruples of flrong mercurial ointment be¬
tween the 8th of February and the 7th of April 1786.
One fcruple was adminillered each time ; the operation
took up more than half an hour, and the part to which
the ointment was applied, was always previoully bathed
E D I C A, &c. Part II,
with warm water ; precautions wdiich feemed to fecure Therapeu-
the full abforption of the mercury. T e child reco- dxs.
vered without any fymptoms of falivation, and conti- v "J
nued perfe&ly well. The do&or repeatedly obferved,
that very large quantities of mercurial ointment may
be ufed in infancy and childhood, without affe&ing the
gums, notwithftanding the predifpofition to a flux of fa-
liva, at a period oS life incident to dentition.
Whence is it that a medicine fo irritating as mercury,
can be conveyed into the courfe of circulation, when
even milk, or the mildeft liquors, if transfufed into the
blood veffels, have been found to produce convullions
and death ? Is it that what paffes by the lymphatic and
lafteaD is carried into the thoracic duff, and there
mixed with a large portion of the chyle and lymph, by
which its acrimony is (beathed and diluted, or its che¬
mical properties changed, before it enters the mafs of
blood r For the ablbrbents of the Ikin, and of the in-
teflines, feem to require a capacity to bear the ftimulus
of thefe extraneous bodies to wdnch, in both fituations,
they are expofed.
3. Medicine* introduced into the cottrfe of circulation MgJicLcs
nwy the general confilution of the fluids ; produce act on flit-
changes in their particular qualities ; fuptradd new ones; ids.
or counteraB the morbific matter with which they may
be occaflonally charged.—By obfervations on the hae¬
morrhages which have been fuftained without deftruc-
tion to life; from experiments made on animals, by
drawing forth all their blood j and by a computation
ol the bulk ©1 the arteries and veins, the mafs of circu¬
lating fluids has been eftimated at 50 pounds in a mid-
dle-fized man, of which 28 pounds are fuppofed to be
red blood. Fluids bearing fo large a proportion to the
weight of the whole body, have alTuredly very import¬
ant oflices in the animal economy. Endued with the
common properties of other fluids, they are iubjeff to
mechanical laws; being varioufly compounded, they
are incident to chemical changes j and, as they are
contained in a living vafcular fyflem, their motions be¬
come fubjefl to the influence of nervous energy *. * per
The followers of Dr Brown explain the operation of rival's Ef-
mcdicines on the principle of their all a fling as ftimu-./«J’-f, vol.ii.
lants in a greater or lefs degree. This doffrine, wflth
fome modification, is thus detailed by Mr Murray. I2f.
“ Medicines, in general, operate by flimulating the Murray’s
living.fibre, or exciting it to motion. This propofition account of
has even been Hated as univerfal, and w'as received as ^ ^I011
an axiom, in a fyflem fuperior, perhaps, to any, in con-
veying jufl and precife ideas on the nature of life, and S*
the afteffions to which it is fubjeff. Medicines, in
common with all external agents, are, according to this
lyflem, incapable of direflly altering the Hate of the
vital power : they can only excite the parts pofieffed of
that powrer to aflion 5 and however diverfified their ef-
fefls may appear to be, fuch diverlities are to be re¬
ferred merely to_ the different degrees of force in
which they exert the general flimulant power they
poffefs.
“ This propofition cannot, however, be received in
an unlimited fenfe. From the exhibition of different
medicines, very different effeffs are produced, which
cannot be fatisfaflorily explained from the caufe aflign-
ed,—the difference in the degree of flimulant operation.
They differ in kind fo far, that even in the greater num¬
ber of cafes, one remedy cannot by any management of
dole
Part II.
M A T E R I A M E D I C A, &c.
707
Therapeu- dofe or adminiftration, be made to produce the effe&s
^cs- which refult from the action of another.
“ It is therefore neceflary to admit of fome modifi¬
cations of the general principles above dated, and the
following are perhaps fufficient to afford grounds for
explaining the operation of remedies, and for eftabliih-
ing a clafiificatkm of them fufficiently juft and compre-
henfive.
“ 1. Stimulants are not to be regarded as differing
merely in the degree of the ftimulant operation which
they exert. An important diftimftion exifts between
them, as they are more or lefs diffufible and permanent
in their aftion. A ftimulus is termed diffufible, which,
whenever it i* applied, or at leaft in a very ftiort time
after, extends its adtion over the wThole fyftem, and
ouickly produces its full exciting effedf. A diffufible
ftimuius is generally alfo tranfient in its adlion ; in o-
ther w;ords,.the effedl, though foon produced, quickly
ceafes. There are others, on the contrary, which,
though equally powerful ftimulants, are flow and per¬
manent. Thefe varieties, which are fufticiently efla-
bkthed, ferve to explain the differences in the power of a
number of the moft important medicines 5 and they lay
the foundation for the dirtindlion of two great claffes,
narcotics and tonics, wdth their fubordinate divifions of
antiipafmodics and aftringents, both confifting of power¬
ful ftimulants ; the one diffufible and tranfient, the other
flow and permanent in their operations.
“ There is a difference between ftimulants, in their
r tHons being diredfed to particular parts. Some, when
received into the ftomach, quickly adf upon the general
fyftem : others have their action confined to the fto¬
mach itfelf, or at leaft, any farther ftimulant effedt they
may occafion is flow and inconfiderable •, wdfile a third
clafs confilts of thofe which operate on one part, often
without producing any fenfible effedt on the ftomach or
general fyftem. Some thus act on the inteftinal canal,
others on the kidneys, bladder, veffels of the fkin, and
other parts 5 the affedtion they excite in tbefe, being
the confequence, not of any ftimulant operation equally
extended over every part, but of one more particular¬
ly determined. This difference in the adtion of ftimuli
is the ^principal foundation of the diftindtions of medi¬
cines into particular claffes. Cathartics, for inftance,
are thofe medicines which, as ftimuli, adt peculiarly on
the inteftinal canal •, diuretics, thofe which aff on the
fecreting veffels of the kidneys •, emmenagogues-, thofe
which adl on the uterine fyftem; diaphoretics, thofe
which e>eert a ftimulant adlion on the veffels of the fkin.
With thefe operations, medicines, at the fame time, adl
more or lefs as general ftimulants, by which each indi¬
vidual belonging to any clafs is thus rendered capable
of producing peculiar effedts ; and many of them, by a
peculiarity of conftitution in the patient, or from the
mode in which they are adminiftered, frequently adt on
more than one part of the fyftem, by which their effedts
are ftill farther diverfified. Medicines, when thus de¬
termined to particular paits, are fometimes conveyed to
thofe parts in the ccurfe of the circulation ; more gene¬
rally their adtion is extended from the ftomach, or part
to which they are applied, by the medium of the ner-
* Elements vous fyftem
Whatever medical fyftem we may adopt, it is obvi-
Phar. vol. i.ous t^lat n-edicines car> adt on the human fyftem only in
p. 95. two general modes j either as it is compofed of inert
matter, or as it forms a living organifed fyftem. In the Therapeu-
firft mode, medicines may adt either mechanically or ^7'
chemically ; in the iecond, they adt entirely through the
medium of the vital principle. I2y
The order in which the feveral fubjedts of the mate-Arrange-
ria medica have been conlidered, is very different inmenf °f rc«
different writers; and which is the moft proper, basnie^ieJ*
been difputed about, while many are of opinion that it
is of little confequence which of tnem is followed. It
has been generally thought proper to follow a plan, in
wftiich the fubjedts are, according to a certain affinity,
brought together, fo that a number of them might be,
for the purpofe of medicines, confidered under the fame
view. Thus, Dr Boerhaave confidered them in the
order of the botanical fyftem be had formed, and Lin¬
naeus in the order of his own fyftem, in which he is fol¬
lowed by Bergius. I25
It has been thought proper to follow the botanical Botanical
affinities, in fo far only as they can be thrown into na- arrange-
tural orders ; and this, therefore, has been attemptedment'
by the learned Profeffor Murray of Gottingen: but from
the imperfedlion of the botanical affinities in pointing
out a fimilarity of medicinal virtues, this plan will not
always unite fubjects in the latter point of view ; and
wffien we confider that there are yet many plants whicli
do not enter into any natural order, thefe muft be dif-
pofed of in an arbitrary manner, and probably in an un-
connedled ftate. It muft be owned, however, that
though the fcheme of botanical affinities does not en¬
tirely anfwer the purpofe, yet it will ftill go a certain
length, and ought not to be neglefted in the fubdivifion
of any general plan that may be affumed. ll9
It has been fuppofed by fome to be a more eligible Arrange-
plan to unite the feveral fubftances, as they happen tomen^ ac-
be related by their fenfible qualities; this method Car-^p^ to
theufer and Gleditfch have attempted. This certainlyquapt-es>
may have its ufe ; but from what is faid above refpedt-
ing the imperfedlion of this febeme for inveftigatir.g vir¬
tues, it will appear that it will not always unite fubjedts
that ought to be united under the fame view ; and it
will be found, that in the authors mentioned, who have
executed it in the beft mariner poffible, the defired effedt
is by no means produced. i ^
From the difficulty of rendering any of tbofe plans Alphabeti-
tolerably exadt and perfedt, fome writers have deferted cal arrange-
all of them, and thought it beft to throw the feveral ar-ment*
tides into an alphabetical order, as Newmann and
Lewis have done. If, however, there can be any ad¬
vantage from bringing fubjedts of fome affinity toge¬
ther, this alphabetical order is the moft unfit for the
purpofe, as by feparating fimilar fubftances, it muft be
perpetually diftradting to the ftudent. It can therefore
have no advantage but that of a didtionary, in referring-
readily to any particular fubjedt that may be enquired
after; but this advantage can be obtained in every
plan by means of an index, which cannot be faved
even in an alphabetical work, as the different names
under which the fame fubftances are known necef-
farily requires an index coiuprehending all thofe diffe¬
rent names.
Similar to thofe of the alphabetical order, are thofe
plans which, after arranging the feveral articles of the
materia medica according to the part of the plant em¬
ployed, as roots, leaves, &c. have thrown thefe again
into an alphabetical order, as Alfton and Vogel have
4 U 2 done 5
708
Therapeu
tics.
131
Arrange¬
ment ac¬
cording to
aiedical
effefts.
Cullen’s an
rangetnent
MATERIA
done; but it is obvious that this eftablifhes no con-
j nexion between the fubje&s that follow one another,
and can have no advantage over the alphabetical order.
Further, by feparating the confideration of the feveral
parts of vegetables, it will both feparate fubje&s that
ought to be confidered together, and will occafion unne-
ceffary repetition.
Dr Cullen was of opinion that, as the ftudy of the
materia medica is truly the ftudy of the medicinal vir¬
tues,^ fo the plan that arranges the feveral fubftances ac¬
cording to their agreeing in fome general virtues, will
be the beft adapted to acquiring the knowledge of
thefe, and will moft readily inform the praftitioner
what different means he can employ for his general pur-
pofe. It wil alfo inform him how far the feveral fimi-
lar fabftances may differ in their degree of power, or
how far, from the particular qualities affigned to each, he
may be directed or limited in his choice.
As it feems proper that every pra&itioner ought, as
far as poflible, to praftife upon general indications $ fo
it is evident that his ftudy of the materia medica is e-
fpecially to know the feveral means that can anfwer
thefe. Such a plan, therefore, muft be the moft pro¬
per for giving a ftudent inftrudiion ; and if, while me¬
dicines are arranged according as they anfwer general
indications, the particulars be likewife thrown together
as far as poflible according to their fenfible qualities and
botanical affinities, this plan will have the advantage
of any other that has been propofed for prefenting toge¬
ther the fubjedls that ought to be conlidered at one and
the fame time, and give the beft means of recolledting
every thing that relates to them.
Dr Cullen’s plan of arrangement is as follows.
He firft divides all the fubftances contained in the
materia medica into two general heads, the firft com-
prifing alimentary fubftances, or meats, drinks, and con¬
diments ; the fecond compriling medicines properly fo
called. Thefe latter he confiders as they adt on the fo-
lids or the fluids. Thofe which adt on the folids he di-
ftinguifhes into fuch as adl on the Ample lolids, under
which he ranks aftringents, tonics, emollients, and e-
fcharotics ; and thofe which adb on the living folids, un¬
der which he claffes ftimulants, fedatives, including
narcotics, refrigerants, and antifpafmodics. Of thofe
medicines which ad! on the fluids, he conceives that
fome operate by producing a change on their fluidity,
as attenuants and infpiffants; or, on the mixture of their
component parts, by corredling acrimony, either in
general,, as demulcents, or in particular as antacids,
antalkalines, and antifeptics. Others he fuppofes to
ad! by producing an evacuation of fuperabundant fluids
and under this head he includes errhines, fialagogues,
expedlorants, emetics, cathartics, diuretics, diaphoretics,
and emmenagogues.
In his general claffification, Dr Cullen has been fol¬
lowed by feveral writers on the materia medica and the¬
rapeutics. Some of the titles of his claffes have indeed
become obfolete, and his order has been almoft totally
changed by fucceeding wrriters.
Of thofe who have copied Dr Cullen’s arrangement
with feme modification, there is perhaps none that de-
feryes more attention than the anonymous author of the
** Thefaurus Medicaminum,” and a “ Pradfical fynopfis of
the materia alimentaria and materia medica.” This au-
MEDICA, &c. part jp
thor diftributes the articles of the materia medica into Therapeu-
12 claffes j 1. Evacuants, comprifing errhines, fiala- ^cs-
gogues, expedlorants, emetics, cathartics, diuretics, dia- '
phoretics, emmenagogues; 2. Emollients, comprifingArranee-
diluents and emulcents ; 3. Abforbents ; 4. Refrige-ment of the
rants; 5. Antifeptics; 6. Aftringents; 7. Tonics; 8.Pra<aicalfy-
Stimulants; 9. Antilpafmodics; 10. Narcotics; u.
nopfis.
Anthelmintics; and 12. Heteroclites ; this laft being
formed to include thofe articles that could not properly
be reduced under the former heads.
On this claffification we may remark, that the gene¬
ral term of evacuants might have been omitted, and
its fubdivifions might have properly been made diftindt
claffes, as the articles they contain frequently ad! a more
important part, than merely producing an evacuation of
fluids. The clafs of abforbents includes thofe wffiich
Cullen calls antacids, and perhaps this latter term is to
be preferred, as it is more explicit and better under-
ftood. The clafs antifeptics might alfo have been omit¬
ted, and the fubftances it contains might more properly
have been arranged under other heads.
Mr Murray’s arrangement, which is very ingenious,Mr
is founded principally on the dodirine of univerfal ftimu-ray’s ar-~
lus, and he thus explains the principles on which it israngemenk
eftabiilhed.
“ Thofe ftimulants, which exert a general adlion on
the fyftem, may firft be confidered. Of thefe there are
two well-marked fubdivifions, the diffufible and the per¬
manent ; the former correfponding to the ufual claffes
ot narcotics and antifpafmodics ; the latter, including
hkewife two claffes, tonics and aftringents. In thefe
there is a gradual tranfition paffing into the one from
the other, from the moft diftufible and leaft durable
ftimulus, to the moft flow and permanent in its ac¬
tion.
“ The next general divifion is that comprifing local fti¬
mulants ; fuch are the claffes of emetics, cathartics, ex¬
pedlorants, fialagogues, errhines, and epifpaftics. Thefe
all occafion evacuation of one kind or other, and their
effedls are in general to be aferibed, not to any operation
exerted on the whole fyftem, but to changes’ of adlion
induced in particular parts.
“ After thefe, thofe few medicines may be confidered
whofe adlion is merely mechanical or chemical. To
the former belong diluents, demulcents, and emollients.
Anthelmintics may perhaps be referred with propriety
to the fame divifion. To the latter, or thofe which
ad! chemically, belong antacids or abforbents, lithon-
triptics, efcharotics, and perhaps refrigerants.
“ Under thefe claffes may be comprehended all thofe
fubftances capable of producing falutary changes in the
human fyftem. Several ciafles are indeed excluded
which have fometimes been admitted ; but thefe have
been rejedled, either as not being fufficiently precife or
comprehenfive, or as being .eftabliffied only on erroneous
theory.
“ f he fubdivifions of thefe claffes may fometimes be
eftabliffied on the natural affinities exilling among the
fubftances arranged under each ; on their chemical com-
pofition ; their refemblance in fenfible qualities; or,
laftly, on diftindfions in their medicinal virtues, more
minute than thole which form the charadlers of the
clafs. In different claffes one of thefe methods will fre¬
quently be found preferable to any of the others.”
Mr
Vart II. MATE
Mr Murray’s arrangement will beft be
from his own table.
A. General Stimulants.
7°9
calcareous Therapeu¬
tics.
a% Diffufible.
B. Local Stimulants.
♦ Murray's
Elements.
135
Darwin’s
y Narcotics.
£ Antifpafmodics.
b. Permanent.T°.nlCS'
^ Aitnngents.
Emetics.
Cathartics.
Emmenagogues,
Diuretics.
Diaphoretics.
Expeflorants.
Sialagogues.
Errhines.
Epifpaftics.
Refrigerants.
Antacids.
Lithontriptics.
Efcharotics.
D. Mechanical Remedies. Anthelmintics.
Demulcents.
Diluents.
Emollients.*
C. Chemical Remedies.
arrange¬
ment,
It would be improper here to omit the clarification
of the ingenious Dr Darwin, which was publifhed in
his Zoonomia. He diilributes the articles of the mate¬
ria medica under feven heads, according to his opinion
of their mode of operation. They are as follows.
1. Nutrientia, or thofe things which preferve in their
natural Hate the due exertions of all the irritative mo¬
tions.
2. Incitantia, or thofe things which increafe the ex¬
ertions of all the irritative motions.
q. Secernentia, or thofe things which increafe the ir¬
ritative motions which conftitute fecretion.
4. Sorbentia, or thofe things which increafe the irri¬
tative motions which conftitute abforption.
5. Invertentia, or thofe things which invert the na¬
tural order of the fucceflive irritative motions.
6. Revertentia, or thofe things which reftore the na¬
tural order of the inverted irritative motions.
7. Torpentia, thofe things which diminilh the exer¬
ts tions of all the irritative motions.
Nutrientia. The nutrientia he thus enumerates according to what
he conceives to be their degree of nourilhing pow-er.
1. 1. Venifon, beef, mutton, hare, goofe, duck,
woodcock, fnipe, moor-game.
2. Oyfters, lobfters, crabs, fhrimps, muftirooms, eel,
tench, barbolt, fmelt, turbot, foie, turtle.
3. Lamb, veal, fucking-pig.
4. Turkey, partridge, pheafant, fowd, eggs.
5. Pike, perch, gudgeon, trout, grayling.
II. Milk, cream, butter, butter-milk, whey, cheefe.
III. Wheat, barley, oats, peafe, potatoes, turnips,
carrots, cabbage, afparagus, artichoke, fpinach, beet,
apple, pear, plum, apricot, nectarine, peach, ftraw-
berrv, grape, orange, melon, cucumber, dried figs,
raifins, fugar, honey. With a great variety of other
roots, feeds, leaves, and fruits.
III A MEDICA, &c.
underftood IV. Water, river-water, fpring-water
earth.  
V. Air, oxygen, azote, carbonic acid gas. v
VI. Nutritive baths and clyfters, transfufioa of
blood.
VII. Condiments.
Under incitantia (or ftimulants) he ranks the follow¬
ing articles.
I. Papaver fomniferum, poppy, opium. Incitantia,
Alcohol, wine, beer, cyder.
Prunus lauro-cerafus, laurel; diftilled water from the
leaves.
Prunus cerafus, black cherry; diftilled water from the
kernels.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco ? the effential oil, decoc¬
tion of the leaf.
Atropa belladonna, deadly nightjhade ; the berries.
Datura ftramonium, thorn apple ; the fruit boiled in
milk.
Hyofcyamus reticulatus, henbane; the feeds and
leaves.
Cynogloffum, hounds-tongue.
Menifpermum, cocculus, Indian berry.
Amygdalus amarus, bitter almond.
Cicuta, hemlock. Conium maculatum ?
Strychnos nux vomica ?
Delphinum ftaphifagria ?
II. Externally, heat, eledlricity.
III. Ether, effential oils.
IV. Oxygen gas.
V. Paflions of love, joy, anger.
VI. Labour, play, agitation, friiflion.
138
The fecernentia he diftinguifhes into diaphoretics, fia- Secernen-
lagogues, mild diuretics, mild cathartics, mild er-tla‘
rhines, which, as they will be enumerated prefently, it
is unneceffary to mention here \ and befides thefe, he
enumerates the following circumftances acting on the
other fecretions.
Secretion of mucus of the re&tim is increafed by can-
tharides, by fpirit of turpentine.
Secretion of fubcutaneous mucus is increafed by
blftiters of cantharides, by application of a thin dice
of the frefh root of white briony, by finapifms, by
root of horfe-radilh, cochlearia armoracia, volatile al¬
kali.
Secretion of tears is increafed by vapour of fliced
onion, of volatile alkali. By pity, or ideas of hopelefs
diftrefs.
Secretion of fenforial power in the brain is probably
increafed by opium, by wine, and perhaps by oxygen
gas added to the common air in refpiration. Sorbentia.
The forbentia he divides into thofe which affeift: the
Ikin, as fulphuric or muriatic acids, various acid fruits,
and opium ; and the oxides of lead, zinc, and mercury,
applied externally.
II. Such as affcft the mucous membranes, as the juice
of floes and crab-apples, cinchona, and opium, internal¬
ly 5 and externally the fulphate of copper.
III. 1. Such as affeft the cellular membrane, as Pe¬
ruvian bark} wrormwood, artemifta maritima, artemijia
abfynthiiim ; viOTm-fezd, artemijia fantonicum ; chamo¬
mile, anthemis nobilis; tanfey, tanacetum ; bogbean, me-
nyanthes trijoliatacentaury, gentiana centaurum; gen-:
tian, 9
?io - MATERIA
Therapeu- tian, genhana lutea; artichoke leaves, cynara [columns;
^ hop, humulus lupulus.
1. Orange peel, cinnamon, nutmegs, mace.
3. Vomits, fquill, digitalis, tobacco.
4. Bath of warm air, of fleam.
IV. Such as affeft the veins, as water-crefs,
bnum naflurtium aquaticum ; rnuftard, Jinapis ; fcurvy-
grafs, cochlearia hortenjis; horfe-radiih, cochlearia ar-
moracia; cuckoo-flower, cardamine; dog’s-grafsj dande¬
lion, leontodon taraxacon; cellery, opium; cabbage, braf-
Jica. Chalybeates, bitters, opium, after fufficient eva¬
cuation } and externally vinegar, fri&ion and eledlri-
city.
V. Such as affeil the Inteftines, including feveral
aftringents, and of the antacid, earths.
VI. Such as aflfe£l the liver, ftomacb, and other vif-
cera, as oxide of iron, filings of iron, fulphate of
iron, fulphate of copper, fulphate of zinc, calomel, tar¬
trate of antimony and potafli, acetate of lead, and white
arfenic.
VII. Such as affe6l venereal ulcers, including various
preparations of mercury.
VIII. Such as aflfedl the w'hole fyftem, as evacua¬
tions by venefetlion and cathartics, followed by the ex¬
hibition of opium.
IX. External forbentia, as folutions of mercury,
zinc, lead, copper, iron, arfenic, or metallic oxides ap¬
plied in dry powder. Bitter vegetables in decoctions
and in dry powders, applied externally ; as Peruvian
bark, oak bark, leaves of wormwood, of tanfey, cha¬
momile flowers or leaves. Electric fparks or (hocks.
X. Bandage fpread w'ith emplajlrum e minio, or
with carpenter’s glue mixed wuth one-twentieth part of
honey.
XI. Portland’s powxler, and the ufe of hops in beer,
140 of which, when continued, are pernicious.
Invertentia. Under the clafs of invertentia Dr Darwin ranks the
ordinary emetics, violent cathartics, violent errhines and
fialagogues ; violent diuretics, and cold fudorifics, fuch
as poifons, fear, and approaching death.
His catalogue of revertentia, is as follows.
Inverted motions which attend the hyfleric difeafe,
are reclaimed, 1. By mulk, caltor. 2. By afafcetida,
galbanum, fagapenum, ammoniacum, valerian. 3. Ef-
fential oils of cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, infufion of
pennyroyal, mentha pulegium, peppermint, mentha pi¬
perita, ether, camphor. 4. Spirit of hartftiorn, oleum
animate, fponge burnt to charcoal, black fnuflfs of
candles, which confift principally of animal charcoal,
wood-foot, oil of amber. 1 he incitantia, as opium,
alcohol, vinegar. 6. Externally the fmoke of burnt
feathers, oil of amber, volatile fait applied to the nof-
trils, blifters, linapifms.
II. Inverted motions of the ftomach are reclaimed
by opium, alcohol, blifters, crude mercury, finapifm,
camphor and opium externally, clyfters with afafoe-
tida.
III. Inverted motions of the inteftinal lymphatics
are reclaimed by mucilaginous diluents, and by intefti¬
nal forbenlia, as rhubarb, logwood, calcined hartf-
hora, Armenian bole 5 and, laftly, by incitantia, as
opium.
IV. Inverted motions of the urinary lymphatics are
reclaimed by cantharides, turpentine, rofin, the forben-
M E D I c A, &c.
141
Reverten
tia.
Part II.
tia, and opium, with calcareous earth, and earth of Tho;apeu-
alum, by oil externally, warm bath. tics.
y • Inverted motions of the inteftinal canal are re- *" v
claimed by calomel, aloe, crude mercury, blifters, warm
bath,.clyfters with afafoetida, clyfters of ice water i1 or
of fpring water further cooled by fait diflblved in water
contained in an exterior veffel ? Where there exifts an
introfufception of the bowel in children, could the pa¬
tient be held up for a time with lus head downwards,
and crude mercury be injeaed as a clyfter to the quan¬
tity of two or three pounds ? T
t -bhe torpeniia he divides into 13 general heads. i.Torpentia.
Venefedion and arteriotomy ; 2. Cold water, cold air,
and the refpiration of air with a dimmiftied proportion
ol. oxygen 5 3^ Vegetable mucilages 5 4. Vegetable
acids *, 5. Animal mucus, hartftiorn jelly, veal and
chicken broth, and perhaps oil, fat and cream ? 6. Mi¬
neral acids; 7. Silence and darknefs; 8. Invertentia
in final! dofes, as nitre, emetic tartar, and ipecacuanha,
given fo as to induce naufea; 9. Antacids, as foap,
alkalies, and earths ; 10. Medicines preventive of fer¬
mentation, .as fulphuric add ; n. Anthelmintics ; 12.
Lithontriptics ; and, 13. Various external remedies, as
the warm bath, poultices, oil, fat, wax, plafters, oiled
filk, and carbonic acid gas on cancers and other ul¬
cers.
W e were for fome time at a lofs what arrangement
we ftiould follow in the prefent article. It was evidently
neceffary to adopt one that ftiould, as much as poflible,
prevent repetition ; and it therefore appeared improper
to treat^particularly of the articles of the materia medica
under the ufual claffes. The alphabetical order would
prevent repetition ; but it feemed little adapted to the
plan of .a fyftematic treatife. On the whole, w>e have
judged it beft to arrange the individual articles in two
methods ; ift, Into claffes according to their fuppofed
operation on the fyftem ; and in this view confider their
general ufes ; and, 2dly, To treat of them more parti¬
cularly under an arrangement fimilar to that of Lin¬
naeus, In the remainder of this part of the article, we
(hall therefore confider the general aflion and ufe of the
various claffes of remedies, adopting, with the exclu-
fion of emmenagogues, the arrangement followed in Dr
Kirby’s Tables of the Materia Medica ; and in a fuc-
ceeding part we (hall confider the individual articles
under the four heads of animal, vegetable, mineral, and
gafeous fubftances.
Class I. EMETICS.
. Emetics are fuch medicines as are calculated to ex- Definition
cite vomiting, and thus difcharge the contents of the of emetics,
ftomach.
Table of Emetics. Tabiet)f
I. Animal Products. tmetlcs.
Murias ammonite, muriate of ammonia.
Aqua carbonatis ammonite, water of carbonate of
ammonia.
II. Vegetable Products.
Anthemis nobilis, chamomile flowers,
Afarum europeum, afarabacca.
Centaurea benedida, holy thiflle.
Cephaclis
Part II.
Therapeu¬
tics
Cerhaelis ipecacuanlia, ipecacuanha.
Vmum iptcacuanhae, ipecacuanha wine.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco in c/ysters,
.Oiea europea, olive oil.
Scilla maritima, fqinll.
Acetum iciihe maritime, vinegar offquills.
Sinapis alba, mujlard.
III. Mineral Products.
Sulphas cupri, fulphate of copper.
Sulphuretum antimonii, fulphuret of antimony.
Oxidum antimonii cum fulphure vitrificatum, vitri-
fed oxide of antimony with fulphur.
Vmum antimonii, antirnomal wine^ L.
Tartris antimonii, tartrite of antimony.
Vinum tartritis antimonii, wine of tartarifed anti¬
mony.
Sulphas zinci, fulphate of ‘zinc.
Effedh?and The general effe&s produced by emetics are, a fen-
ilfes of eme-fation of uneafinefs in the ffomach, followed by fick-
tics. nef3j retching and vomiting. During the naulea, the
pulfe is feeble, quick, and fometimes irregular, and the
countenance is pale *, but when the vomiting comes on,
the pulfe grows quicker, and the face flulhed. After
the vomiting has ceafed, the ficknefs or naufea com¬
monly goes off entirely, though it fometimes remains in
a dill re'Ting degree. The patient feels languid, heavy,
and difpofed to' lleep. The Ikin ufually feels moift, and
the pulfe continues weak for fome time, but gradually
grows fuller and (lower.
To conlider emetics merely as evacuants ©f the fto-
mach, would be to take a very contrafted and imper-
fe&.view of their effeds ; for if traced through the
whole of their operation in the various difeafes in which
they are employed, their influence over the human bo¬
dy appears fo manifold and extenfive, that they may be
juftly reckoned amongft the mod powerful inftruments
W'hich the Materia Medica affords. Hence, befides
their ufe as cleanfers of the alimentary canal, they ferve
to induce fweating in fevers ; to favour expedoration in
diforders of the lungs ) to promote abforption in cafes
of dropfy *, and to remove certain obftruded conditions
of the vifcera, fuch as jaundice and fuppreflion of the
menfes j alfo in cafes of glandular and lymphatic ob-
flrudions, and in fome cafes of pulmonary confump-
tion. By means of their peculiar adion on the ner¬
vous and vafcular fyftem, they allay the fpafms in
aflhma, and check the difcharge of blood in haemor¬
rhages from the lungs and uterus. In the firft of thefe,
viz. in fpitting of blood, they have been given with
advantage by Dr Robinfon, and dill more lately by
Dr Stoll of Vienna 5 who fays, that in fuch cafes ipe¬
cacuanha fometimes ads like a charm, feeming to clofe
the open veffels of the lungs fooner and more effedual-
ly than any other remedy. In the other, viz. in uter¬
ine hemorrhagy, fmall dofes only of thefe medicines,
fo as to excite ficknefs, but not vomiting, are found to
to anfwer bed. But in both thefe indances they (hould
be adminidered with caution, fince it fometimes hap¬
pens that they do more harm than good. Dr Cullen
once met with an accident of this kind, in which the
vomiting increafed the hemorrhagy to a great and dan¬
gerous degree.
M A T E R I A MEDICA, &e.
Dyfentery is to be added to the number of difeafes
in which emetics have a peculiarly benericial effed.
When there is much vilceral inflammation j where
there are fymptoms of great accumulation in the vefiels
of the head ; in the advanced flages ot pregnancy, and
in cafes of intedinal hernia, medicines of this clals are
to be avoided. And, in general, perlons who have
weak and delicate domachs ihould be cautious of em¬
ploying them too freely, (ince, as Dr Cullen has re¬
marked, frequent vomiting renders the domach lefs fit
to retain what is thrown into it, and even weakens us
powers of digedion. *
Class II. EXPECTORANTS.
Thofe medicines are called expedorants, that are
employed to promote the excretion of pus or mucus
from the wand pipe and lungs. In general they are
emetics given in (mailer dofes, though there are feveral
medicines, efpecially fome of the gum refins, that are
coniidered to ad in this way, without any tendency to
excite vomiting.
The following articles are ufually employed in this
country as expedorants.
I. Vegetable Products.
Cephaelis ipecacuanha, ipecacuanha.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco.
Scilla maritima, fqmll.
Acetum fcillse rnaritimae, vinegar of [quill.
Syrupus fcillas maritimse, fyrup offquills.-
Oxymel fcillae, oxymel of [quill.
Tindura fcillae, tinBure offquill.
Pilulae fcilliticae, fqmll pills.
Conferva fcillae, conferve of fqUill.
Allium fativum, garlic.
Syrupus allii, fjrup of garlic.
Ammoniacum, gum ammoniac.
Lac ammoniaci, milk of ammoniac.
Arum maculatum, wake-robin.
Conferva ari, conferve of arum.
Colchicum autumnale, meadow faffron.
Syrupus colchici autumnalis, fynup of colchi¬
cum.
Oxymel colchici, oxymel of colchicum.
Ferula afafcetida, afafcetida.
Lac afafcetidae, milk of afafoetida.
Hyffopus officinalis, hyjfop.
Marrubium vulgare, horehound..
Myrrha, myrrh.
Pimpinella anifum, anifefeed.
Oleum volatile pimpinellae anifi, oil of anifefeed.-
Polygala fenega, feneka root.
Decodum polygalae fenegae, decoflion of feneka.
Styrax benzoin, benjamin.
Acidum benzoicum, benzoic acid.
Tindura benzoes compofita, compound tinBure of
benjamin.
Alcohol, fpirit of wine.
/Ether fulphuricus, fulphuric cether.
* Thefau-
rus JMedi-
caminum,
3d edition,
P 32-
146
Definition
of expecto¬
rants.
147
Table of
expecto¬
rants. '
II. Mineral Products.
Sulphuretum antimanii, fulphuret of antimony.
Tartris
148
MATERIA
Tartris antimonii, tartrite of antimony.
Vinum tartritis antimonii, wine of tartrite of anti¬
mony.
Sulphuretum antimonii precipitatum, precipitated
fulphuret of antimony.
Sulphur fublimatum, flowers of fulphur.
Sulphur fublimatum lotum, wafhedflowers of ful¬
phur.
Oleum fulphur at ed oil.
Petroleum fulphuratum, fulphuratedpetroleum.
Trochifci fulphuris, fulphur lo%enges.
III. Gaseous Products.
Gas hydrogenium, hydrogen gas.
Gas hydrogenium carbonatum, carbonated hydro¬
gen gas. . _ _ , . .
Vaporis aquae calidae inhalatio, inhaling the fleams
of warm water.
an<^ The mode in which expe£lorants promote the excre-
pedorauts tlon Pus or niucuS frora t^e lungs, does not appear
to be well underftood. Some fuppole that thofe which
are properly emetic, operate by the fympathy that ex-
ifts between the ftomach and lungs, and that the reft
operate by fome fpecific aftion. Mr Murray fuppofes
that there are various modes of operation by which cer¬
tain remedies will appear to promote expe&oration, and
which will give them a claim to the title of expe&o-
rants.
Thus, in certain difeafes the exhalant veffels in the
the lungs feem to be in that ftate, by w’hich the exha¬
lation of fluid is leffened, or nearly flopped, and in
fuch cafes expe&oration muft be diminifhed. Any me¬
dicine capable of removing that conftridted ftate, will
appear to promote expedtoration, and will at leaft re¬
lieve fome of the fymptoms of the difeafe. It is appa¬
rently by fuch a mode of operation, that antimony, ipe¬
cacuanha, fquill, and fome others, promote expedora-
tion in pneumonia, catarrh, and afthma, the principal
difeafes in which expeftorants are employed.
There is a cafe of an oppofite kind, that in which
there is a redundance of mucus in the lungs, as occurs
in humoral afthma, and catarrhus fenilis. In thefe af¬
fections, certain expedtorants are fuppofed to prove ufe-
ful. If they do fo, it is probably by being determined
more particularly in their adtion to the pulmonary vef¬
fels, and by their moderate ftimulus diminiftiing the
fecretion, or increafing the abforptiop, thus leffening
the quantity of fluid, and thereby rendering the expec¬
toration of the remainder more eafy. The determina¬
tion of thefe fubftances to the lungs is often perceptible
by their odour in the air expired. A fimilar diminu¬
tion of fluid in the lungs may be effedted by determin¬
ing to the furface of the body ; and thofe expedtorants
which belong to the clafs of diaphoretics probably adl
in this manner.
Expedtorants, then, are to be regarded, not as me¬
dicines which diredtly aflift the rejedtion pf a fluid
already fecreted, but rather as either increafing the na¬
tural exhalation where it is deficient, or diminiftiing the
quantity of fluid where it is too copious, either by fti-
^Etementf1 mu^at'ng t^ie pulmonary veffels, or by determining to
'<x>\A.n S’ the furface. In both cafes expedloration will appear to
f.\z6. be promoted or facilitated. *
M E D I C A, &c. Part II.
The definition of thefe remedies points out the cafes Therapeu-
to which they are applicable, viz. thofe in which an tlcs’ f
accumulation of pus or mucus takes place in the bron¬
chial cells, as catarrh, pneumonia in its fuppurative
ftage, peripneumonia no'tha, afthma, and phthifis pul-
monalis or confumption.
Class III. DIAPHORETICS. T49
Definition
Diaphoretics are thofe remedies that are intended to0f diaphore-
promote, keep up, or reftore the excretion of perfpir- tics,
able matter from the fkin j and of thefe fame adt but
feebly, and only mcreafe the infenlible perfpiration,
while others adt more powerfully, and under favourable
circumftances, excite fweating. Hence we may divide
them into two orders.
tS®
A. THE MILDER DIAPHORETICS. JhoreUcs.1’
I. Animal Products.
Murias ammoniae.
Aqua carbonatis ammoniae.
Carbonas ammonfae, carbonate of ammonia.
Alcohol ammoniatum, ammoniated alcohol.
II. Vegetable Products.
Anthemis nobilis, chamomile tea.
Centaurea benedidta, holy thiflle tea.
Myrrha.
Allium fativum.
Acidum acetofum, acetous acid or vinegar.
Acidum acetum deftillatum, diflilled vinegar.
Aqua acetitis ammoniae, water of acetated am-
mania.
Ardtium lappa, burdock decoBion?
Artemifia abrotanum, fouthern-wood tea.
Ariftolochia ferpentaria, fnake-root.
Tindtura ariftolochiae ferpentariae, tinBure of fnake-
root.
Daphne mezereum, mezereum.
Decodtum daphnes mezerei, decoBion of mezereum.
Dorftenia contrayerva, contrayerva.
Pulvis contrayervae compofitus, compound powder
of contrayerva.
Fumaria officinalis, fumitory.
Laurus faffafras, faffafras tea.
Salvia officinalis, fage tea.
Sambucus nigra, elder.
Succus bacci fambuci fpiffatus, infpiffated juice of
elder.
Smilax farfaparilla, farfapanlla.
Decodtum fmilacis farfaparillae, decoBion of far¬
faparilla.
Solanum dulcamara, bitter fweet decoBion.
Supertartras ^oX.sSad^fupertartrate of potajh, or cream
of tartar.
B. STRONGER DIAPHORETICS, OR SU-
DOR1FICS.
I. Animal Products.
Mofchus mofehiferus, mush.
Miftura mofehata, musk mixture.
II. Vegetable
3
Part IT.
MATERIA
The rape u-
tics. IT. Vegetable Products.
Aconitura necmontanum, aconite.
Succus fpiiiatus aconiti napeili, infpijjaled juice of
aconite.
Guaiacum officinale, guaiacum wood and refn.
Decoftum guaiaci officinalis compoffimn, com¬
pound deco Elion of guaiacum.
Tmctura guaiaci officinalis, tinElure of guaia¬
cum.
Tinflura guaiaci araraoniata, ammoniated tinElure
of guaiacum.
Laurus camphora, camphor. .
Miftura camjffiorata, camphorated mixture.
Emuliio camphorata, camphorated emuljion.
Papaver fomniferum, opium.
Tmclura opii, tinElure of opium.
Tindlura opii camphorata, camphorated tinElure
of opium.
Tinflura opii ammoniata, ammoniated tinElure of
opium.
Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opii, powder of ipecacuan
and opium.
Rhododendron chryfanthum, yellow-flowered rhodo¬
dendron.
tics.
ME DIG A, &c. 7i3
creafe the aftion of the abforbents, and thus remove Therapeu-
the fpafmodic conllridlion of the fubcutaneous veffels.
Ihe cafes to which diaphoretic medicines are beft
adapted, are inflammatory fevers, rheumatifm, afthma,
dyipepfia, obiiinate diarrhoea, and protradled dyfentery.
1 hey are injurious in typhus fever, efpecially towards
its commencement.
\\ here the force of the circulation is very great,
it is proper, before the exhibition of diaphoretics, to
premife the ule of fome other evacuation, as bleeding or
purging.
Class IV. DIURETICS.
I >2
Thefe are fuch medicines as promote or increafe the Definition
excretion of urine. ot diuretics.
The principal diuretics are thefe.
I. Animal Products.
Lytta veficatoria, cantharides.
Pindlura melees veficatorii, tinElure of cantharides.
Onifcus afellus, millepedes, or wood-lice.
II. Vegetable Products.
153
Table of
diuretics.
III. Mineral Products.
Sulphuretum antimonii, fulphuret of antimony.
Tartris antimonii, in finall dofes.
Vinum tartritis antimonii.
Sulphuretum antimonii praeparatum.
Sulphur flibii fufeum, brown fulphuret of anti¬
mony.
Oxidum antimonii cum phofphate calcis, oxide of
antimony with phofphate of lime, or James's powder.
Antimonium calcinatum, white oxide of anti¬
mony.
Calx ftibii praeclpitatum. D. Precipitated oxide
of antimony, 01 powder of Algaroth.
Sulphur fublimaium, flowers of fulphur.
Sulphur fublimatum lotum.
Sulphur praecipitatum, precipitatedfulphur, or milk
of fulphur.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Hydrargyrum purificatum, purified mercury.
Submurias hydrargyri, vel calomelas, fubmuriate
of mercury, or calomel.
Balneum calidum, hot bath.
Balneum vaporis, vapour bath.
Effedhand Diaphoretics a£t in one of two ways; fome bv ex-
ufes ofdia- citing an increafed a&ion of the exhalant veiTels of the
phoretics. fkin immediately, or by fympathy with other parts, as
the application of heat, the warm bath, fridion, &c.
while others promote perfpiration, by increafing the ge¬
neral force of the circulating fyftem, and thus ading on
the exhalant veffels of the Ikin.
The adion of diaphoretics is affiiled by moderate
warmth and by tepid diluent liquors frequently taken.
The immediate effeds of thele medicines are partly
a diminution of the quantity of fluids in the body, but
principally a change of the determination of blood
from other parts to the furface. They perhaps alfo in-
Vol. XII. Part II.
Afarum curopaeum, afarabacca.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco.
Scilla marirjma, fquill.
Tindura fcillse, tinElure of fquill.
Colchicum autumnale, meadow fafron.
Syrupus colchici, fyrup of colchicum.
Oxymel colchici, oxymel of colchicum.
Acetum colchici, vinegar of colchicum.
Polygala fenega, fenika root.
Decodum polygalae lenegse, decoElion of feneha.
Acetum acetofum, acetous acid.
Acetas potalfae, acetate of potafh.
Daphne mezereum, mes&ereum.
Decodum daphnes mezerei, decoElioti of me%sreum,
Smilax farfaparilla, farfaparilla.
Decodum farfaparillae compofitum, compound de¬
co Elion of Jarfaparilla.
Solanum dulcamara, bitterfweet.
Supertartras potaffee, fupertartrate of 'potafh.
Allium cepa, onion.
Cdiampelos pareira, pareira brava.
Cochlearia armoracia, horfe-radifh.
Conaireia officinalis, laljam of Copaiba.
Cyrura fcolymus, a< tichoke.
Digitalis purpurea, foxglove.
Juniperus communis juniper.
Spirit us juniperi communis compofitus, compound
fpint of juniper.
Oleum juniperi communis, oil of jumper.
Juniperus lycia, olibanum
Leontodon taraxacum, dandelion.
Pinus iylveitrxs, common turpenlii e.
Oleum volatile pini puriffimum, purified oil of
turpentine.
Pinus larix, Venice turpentine.
Spartium fcopanum, green broom.
Ulmus campeilris, elm bark.
Decodum ulmi, decoElion of elm bark.
4 X
III.
7'4
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c. Part II.
Therapeu¬
tics.
III. Mineral Products.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Murias hydragyri, corrojtve muriate of mer¬
cury.
Nitras potafise, nitrate of potafi.
Nitrum puniicatum, purified nitre.
Acidum nitrofum, nitrous acid.
Sciiitus a;theris nitrofi, fpirit of nitrous aiJier.
*54 ....
Effects and The operation of diuretics is greatly promoted by
uies of diu- plent|fui dilution, which fliould by no means be with¬
held from dropfical patients, though for many years
paft, the contrary method has too much prevailed.
The medical world is much indebted to Sir F. Mil-
man, for the pains he has taken to fhew the propriety
of indulging fuch patients in the free ufe of liquids.
In confirmation of the propriety of this method, the
obfervation of the late Dr Cullen may be added. He
has remarked that he always thought it abfurd in phy-
ficians to employ diuretics while they enjoined an ab-
flinence from drink, which is almoft the only means of
conveying thefe diuretics to the kidneys. Whenever,
therefore, he employed diuretics, he at the fame time
advifed drinking freely 5 and he was perfuaded that
drinking largely often contributed to the cures he
made.
It is obvious, fays Mr Murray, that diuretic effeft
will be produced by any fubftance capable of ftimulat-
ing the fecretlug vefiels of the kidneys. All the faline
diuretics feem to a cl in this manner. They are receiv¬
ed into the circulation, and paffing off with the urine,
flimulate the veffels, and increafe the quantity fecreted.
There are other diuretics, the effect of which ap¬
pears to arife from direct application, but from an
action excited in the ffomach, and propagated by nerv¬
ous communication to the fecreting urinary veffels. The
diuretic operation of fquiil, and of feveral other vege¬
tables, appears to be of this kind.
There is Hill, perhaps, another mode in which cer¬
tain fubltances produce a diuretic effedt, that is, by pro¬
moting abforption. When a large quantity of watery
fluid is introduced into the circulating mafs, it ftimu-
ktes the fecreting veffels of the kidneys, and is carried
off by the urine. If, therefore, abfsrption be promot¬
ed, and if a portion of ferous fluid, perhaps previoufly
tffufed, be taken up, the quantity of fluid fecreted by
the kidneys will be increafed. In this way digitalis
feems to acf. Its diuretic effe£l, it has been faid, is
greater when exhibited in dropfy, than it is in health.
On the fame principle may probably be explained
the utility of mercury in promoting the a£lion of feve¬
ral diuretics.
The action of thefe remedies is promoted by drink¬
ing freely of mild diluents. It is alio influenced by
the tfate of the furface of the body. If external heat
be applied, diurefis is frequently prevented, and dia-
phorefis produced. Hence the dofes of them fhould be
given in the courfe of the day, and the patient, if pof-
lible, be kept out of bed.
The direft effedls of diuretics are futficiently evident.
They difeharge the watery part of the blood, and by
* Murray's that difeharge they indirectly promote abforption over
Elements, the whole fyftem *.
Diuretics are now feldom employed, except in cafes Therapeu-
of dropfy, and here they not unfrequently fail of fuc-
cefs. They are, however, occailonally ufed in calculous v
or gravelly complaints, in gonorrhoea, to diminiih ple¬
thora, or check profufe perfpiration.
Class V. CATHARTICS.
Cathartics are thofe medicines which promote or in-Definition
creafe the evacuation of excrementitious matter, or of or otuhar-
ferous fluids, from the bowels. txs*
There are two principal objects which modern phy-
ficians have in view in the adminiftration of cathartics j
one is, merely to empty the bowels, and bring off the
excrementitious matter contained in them, which is al¬
ready out of the courfe of circulation the other, to
ffimulate the exhalant vtffels of the bowels, and thus
promote an increafed feerction of ferous fluids which
they pour into the alimentary canal •, in this w*ay
diminifhing the general mafs of fluids in the body.
Hence thefe medicines are naturally divided into laxa¬
tives and purgatives, the latter of which are often term¬
ed draftic purgatives. It is true that thefe orders of
cathartics differ only in degree of power, as fuch a quan¬
tity of a laxative may be given as to induce purging,
while the dofe of a purgative may be fo diminifhed as
to prove only gently laxative. As, however, the di-
vifion is ufeful in fome refpeefs, wre fhall heie preserve
it, and fhall diftribute our lift of cathartics into laxatives
and purgatives.
A. Laxatives.
I. Animal Products.
Mel, honey.
Mel delpumatum, darifedhoney.
II. Vegetable Products.
156
Table of
cathartics.
Anthemis nobiiis, clysters of chamomile decoBion.
Olea europaea, olive oil.
Supertartras potauhe, fupertartrate of pot afh.
Tartras potaffae, tartrate of potafa.
Tartras pot a Hie et fodte, tartrate of potafh and
foda, or Rochelle fait.
Caffia fiftula.
Fle&uarium cafliae, eleBuary of caffia.
Caftia fenna, fenna.
Pulvis fennse compofttus, compound powder of
fenna.
F.leftuarium caffue fennse, eleBuary of fenna.
Infufum fennte Jimple infufon of fenna.
Infufum femme tartarifatum, tartar fed infufon of
fenna.
Infufum tamarind’, cum fenna, infufon of tama¬
rinds with fenna.
Tinfftura fen me compofita, compound tinBure of
fenna.
Ficus carica, fgs.
Fraxinus ornus, manna.
Syrupus manna;, fyrup of manna.
Prunus domeftica, prune.
Rofa damafeena, damafk rofe.
Syrupus rofae centifoliae, fyrup of damafk rofes.
Saccharum officinarum, brown fugar.
Tamarindus
Part IT. MATERIA
Tamarincius indica, tamarinds.
Viola odorata, fweet violet.
Syrupus violte odoratae, fyrup of violets.
III. Mineral Products.
Sulphur fubiimatum, jlawers of fulphur.
Sulphur fubiimatum lotum.
x Sapo hifpanus, Ccjlilefoap.
B. Purgatives.
I. Animal Products.
Cerrus elapkus, hart for n.
Phofphas fodce, phofphate of foda.
II. Vegetable Products.
Nicotiana tabacum, clysters of tobacco, or of tobac¬
co fmoke.
Sambucus nigra, elder.
x l s’ | clysters of turpentine.
Aloe perfoliata, aloes.
Pulvis aloes cum canella, powder of aloes with
cane lla.
Pslulae aloeticae, aloetic pills.
Pilulse aloes cum colocynthide, pills of aloes with
coiocynth.
Vinum aloes foccotrinae, aloes wine.
Tindtura aloes foccotrinae, tindure of foccotrine
aloes.
Bryonia alba, bryony.
Convolvulus jalapa,ytf/tf/>.
Pulvis jalapae compoiltus, compound powder of
%jalup.
Extradlum jalapae, extraSl of jalap.
Tindlura convolvuli jalapse, tincture of jalap.
Convolvulus fcammonia, fcamrnony.
Pulvis fcammonii compofitus, compound powder
offcammony.
Pulvis fcammonii cum aloe, powder of fcammony
with aloes.
E'ectuarium fcammonii, elcBuary of fcammouy.
Cucumis colocynthis, coiocynth, or bitter apple.
Extradlum colocynthidis compolitum, compound
extraS of colocyntb.
Gratiola oibcinalis, hedge hyffop.
Helleborus niger, black hellebore.
Extraclum hellebori nigri, extrafl of Hack helle¬
bore.
Helleborus foetidus,finling hellebore.
Iris pfeudacorus, common fag.
JLinum catharticum, purging fax.
Momordica elaterium, wild cucumber.
Succus fpiffatus momordici elaterii, elaterium.
Rhamnus catharticus, buckthorn.
Syrupus rhamni cathartic!, yyr///) of buckthorn.
Rheum palmatum, rhubarb.
Infufum rhei palmati, infufon of rhubarb.
Vinum rhei palmati, rhubarb wine.
Tindtura rhei palmati, tinBure of rhubarb.
Tindtura rhabarbari compofita, compound tinblure
of rhubarb.
Tindlura rhei et aloes, tinBure of rhubarb and
aloes.
MEDIC A, &c. 715
Tindtura rhei et gentianae, tinBure of rhubarb Theraptu-
j ■ 0 tics.
ana gentian.
Ricinus communis, caflor oil.
Stalagmitis cambogioides, gamboge.
III. Mineral Products.
Sulphuretum antimonii, fulphuret of antimony.
Tartris antimonii, in very fmall dofes.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Submurias hydrargyri, fubmuriate of mercury.
Submurias hydrargyri prsecipitatus, precipitated
fubmuriate of mercury.
Pilulae hydraxgyri, mercurial pills.
Nitras potaflce.
Sulphas fu/phate of potafh.
Murias {oaw,fea fait.
Sulphas fodte, fulpkate of foda, or Glauber's
fit.
Sulphas magnefise, fulphate of magncfia, or Ebfom
fait.
157
The operation, of a purgative medicine on the intef- Effects and
tinal canal, may be confidered as threefold. Firft, it''!;^^a“
llinmlates the mufcular fibres of the inteilines, quickens
their adiion, and thus increafes the natural periftaltic
motion of the bowels, in confequence of which their
contents are more quickly difeharged. Secondly, the
exhalant veffels are ilimulated by it, which terminate in
the inner coat of the inteftines, and it excites them to
pour forth a greater difeharge of fluids, as well as the
mouths of the excretory dudls of the mucous glands, by
which the natural mucus of the inteftines is greatly aug¬
mented j and hence the evacuations by ftool are not
only quicker, but the excrementitious matter is thinner
and more copious. Thirdly, the ftools are rendered
ftill more abundant, by an additional portion of the
fluids furnifhed by the neighbouring vifeera, the liver,
pancreas, &c. to which the ftimulus of a purgative, of
the more a&ive fort in particular, extends. It is proba¬
ble that thefe effedts are communicated to the whole
range of the inteftinal canal, from the upper orifice of
the ftomach to the lower extremity of the redtum, cr
anus.
From the view we have now taken of the pri¬
mary effedls of cathartics on the bowels, we may eafi-
ly underftand how far they may prove uleful in fome
difeafes, and injurious in others •, and how we may vary
the degree of their adlivity under different circum-
ftances.
When wTe confider the great length of the alimenta¬
ry canal, with the numerous veffels and mucous folli¬
cles, as well as the hepatic and pancreatic dudls, which
open on its internal furface, it will be evident that pur¬
gatives, even though they be not very ftimulant, may
occafion a great general evacuation, and confequent di¬
minution of the mafs of fluids, by opening at once all
thofe outlets. From this it appears, that next to blood¬
letting, purging will form one of the moft adlive reme¬
dies in acute inflammatory difeafes, where w e wifti to
avoid an over diftenfion of the veffels, and reftrain the.
preternatural increafe of the powers of the circulating
fyftem. Accordingly, purging conflitutes a principal
part of W’hat is termed the cooling regimen. In thefe
cafes the more draftic purgatives are to be avoided, as
A X 2 thek
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c. Part IT
eu" their ufe would be attended with fo much flimulating
effect on the fydem in general, as to counterbalance
the advantage we Ihould derive from their diminuhing
the mais of Huids. Again, the change in the diftribu-
tion of the blood from other parts of the fyftem to the
bowels, is another circumftance attending the ufe of
purgatives, which renders them of conliderable impor¬
tance in feveral difeafes. It feems to follow, that if an
evacuation be made from one fet of velTels, the afflux
of fluids to thefe will be increafed in order to fupply it,
and, confequently, the afflux to other parts of the fyf-
tem will be diminiffled. Upon this principle, Dr Cul¬
len explains the utility of purgatives in diforders of the
head, which originate from over-iulnefs or over activity,
and in mental affedlions, mania, phrenfy, headach, &c.
The afflux ot fluids in the veffels of the abdomen, which
fupply the inteftines, being increafed by purging, the
afflux will be proportionally diminilhed in the veflels
which carry blood to the head, and both the quantity
and impetus of the blood in the head will thus be lef-
fened.
The good effedls of cathartics in the fmall pox, and
fome other inflammatory affedlions of the Ikin, are
probably to be attributed chiefly to their removing local
irritation, and producing a confiderable depletion, and
thus diminiihing the general fever that ufually attends
thofe difeafes.
When the contents of the bowels are morbidly retain¬
ed, either in confequence of their periftaltic motion be¬
ing unufually flow from a torpid ftate of the mufcular
fibres, or from a relaxed Hate of the bowels, favouring
an accumulation of faeces, from a deficiency of bile, or
from habitual neglect, the ufe of cathartics is indicated,
to prevent more Serious complaints that may be the con¬
fequence of this cottivenefs. The kind of cathartics to
be employed depends on the nature of the caufe produ
cing the covfflipation, or particular circumftances at¬
tending it. if, for example, the coftivenefs be attend¬
ed with a debilitated habit, with fymptoms of great
nervous mobility, flatulence, or other figns of a debili¬
tated ftate of the alimentary canal, fome of the warmer
aromatic cathartics wall be proper, as aloes, rhubarb, or
fuch preparations of thefe as contain an aromatic in
their compofition. If the coftivenefs feems to arife from
a deficiency of bile, the aloetic and mercurial purgatives
are indicated.
In cafes where the coftivenefs has arifen from fome
accidental caufe, as in colic, dyfentery, enteritis, it
will be neceflary to vary the cathartics according to the
nature of the a Heft ion, or the caufe by which it has been
produced. See Colic, Dysentery, and Enteritis,
Mi DTCINE Index.
Cathartics exert a particular aftion on the abfor-
bent veffels, by which thefe are enabled to take up a
greater quantity of fluid than in their natural ftate.
Hence the ufe of draftic purgatives in dropfy. The ac¬
tion of cathartics in this way does not appear to be well
underftood. Dr Cullen, treating of this fubjedt, obferves
that, as in every cavity of the body there is an inhala¬
tion and exhalation conftantly going on, it is prefumed
that there is fome balance conftantly preferved between
the fecretory and abforbent powers ; fo that if the for¬
mer are increafed, the latter will be alfo 5 and, there¬
fore, that when the fecretions are, upon occafion, much
increafed, the adtion of the abforbents may be parti- Therapeiu
cularly excited. This explains why purging often ex- tlCS
cites the adiion of the abforbents, to take up more co- ^ J
pioufly the fluids that were otherwife ftagnant in the a-
dipole membrane, or other cavities of the body, and
thereby often proves a cure of dropfy. This explana¬
tion is perhaps little more than an implicit ftatement of
the fadf. It is certain, however, that afcites, or dropfy
of the abdomen, has been often affedted by means of
acrid draftic purgatives, ft - h ajs gamboge, fcammony,
&c. when diuretic remedies have failed. But it is ob¬
vious that thefe remedies can only be adminiftered to
thofe who retain confiderable ftrength of conftitution, de¬
bilitated neither by inveterate intemperance, old age,
nor a long difeafe.
The attention of pradlitioners has been lately particu¬
larly diredted to the ufe of purgatives in feveral difeafes,
in which they were formerly either not employed at all,
or not ufed to any extent, in confequence of a valuable
publication by Dr James Hamilton, fenior phyfician of
the Edinburgh infirmary. Dr Hamilton having ob-
ferved that in feveral Ipafmodic difeafes, efpecially in
choria, or St Vitus’s dance, there was commonly a con¬
fiderable colledtion of black offenfive faeces in the
bowels, was led to conceive that this mult prove a very
powerful irritating caufe in protradting thefe difeafes 5
and as in common with other pradlitioners, he had ex¬
perienced great want of fucceis from the ufual admini-
ftration of tonic medicines in thefe affedlions, he was
led to try the effedt of purgatives given to fuch an ex¬
tent as to produce complete evacuation of the bowels.
The plan fucceeded entirely to his fatisfadlion, and by
this treatment he finds choria is fpeedily cured, general¬
ly in 10 days or a fortnight. Befides choria, Dr Ha¬
milton has been very fuccefsful in the adminiitration of
purgatives in cafes of typhus, fcarlatina, fever, maraf-
mus, chlorofis, hematefmus, hyfteria, tetanus, and feve¬
ral other chronic affedlions. He was originally in¬
duced to purfue his new method of treating typhus, by.
obferving that the antimonials, which were formerly fo
largely employed in this difeafe, appeared to be moft
ferviceable when they operated upon the bowels. This
led him to fufpedl, that any purgative medicine might
be fubftituted in their place, and that the debilitating
effedt of vomiting and fweating might thus be avoided.
Experience has fully confirmed thefe conjedtures, and
after a trial of fome years he is thoroughly perfuaded,
that the full and regular evacuation of the bowels re¬
lieves the oppreffion of the ftomach, and mitigates the
other fymptoms of fever. He has accordingly almoft
entirely given up the adminiftration of other remedies,
and trufts to the exhibition of frequent and copious pur¬
gatives. It might have been apprehended, that this
plan of treatment would have aggravated the debility,
which conftitutes a itriking fymptom of typhus ; but
ample experience has proved that this is not the cafe.
The purgatives which Dr Hamilton * has employed in * See ^
fever are calomel, calomel and jalap, jalap and cry^hmiitonon
of tartar, aloes, folutions of mild neutral falts, infufion oiPurgative
fenna, and fometimes the two laft medicines conjoined. Medicines,
Cathartics are among the moft efficacious remedies
that are employed with a view to promote or reftore
the menftrual evacuation •, and accordingly they form
the chief part of thofe remedies that are commonly call¬
ed
Part IT. MATERIA MEDIC A, &c. 717
Therapeu- ed emmenagogues. With this view the draftic purga-
tics. tives are chiefly given, as aloes, bryony, black hellebore,
and fome of the preparations of mercury.
There is another ufe of cathartics that may be
referred to a mechanical operation, viz. their expel¬
ling worms from the bowels. See Anthelmintics.
that our errhines may have been of ufe in preventing Therapeu.
apoplexy and palfy •, which at leaft is to be attended , tlLS' ,
to fo far, that whenever any approach to thefe difeafes * Cullen'i
is fufpedfed, the drying up of the mucous difcharge Materik
fliould be attended to, and if poflible reftored. *. Medica,
vol. ii.
Class VII. SIALAGOGUES. 35’
Class VI. ERRHINES.
t>efimtion Thofe medicines are termed errhines that are employ-
of errhines. ed to promote an increafed diicharge of mucus from
the noftrils. The principal errhines are the following.
TaWe9of I. VEGETABLE PRODUCTS,
ermines. Afarum europaeum, afarabacca.
Pulvis afari europsei compofltus, compound pow¬
der of afarabacca.
Cephalic fuff.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco.
The ordinary fnuffs.
Iris florentina, Florentine orris.
Lavandula fpica, lavender fowers.
Origanum majorana,/^’^/ marjoram.
Rofmarinus officinalis, rofcmary.
Teucrium marum, mafich.
Veratrum album, white hellebore.
LI. Mineral Products,
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Subfulphas hydrargyri flavus, yellow fubfulphate
of mercury, or turbeth mineral.
EffeclTand The evacuation produced by the aftion of errhines
ufesof is fometimes procured without any Ineezing, but fre-
errhmes. quently attended with it. This, however, implies no
difference, but merely that of ftronger or weaker fti-
mulus in the medicine employed. I he fneezing that
occurs may have particular effe6ts by the concuffion it
occafions j but is does not vary the evacuation induced
by the medicine, excepting that with fneezing there is
commonly a larger evacuation produced.
This evacuation often goes no further than to reflore
the natural evacuation when interrupted •, but it com¬
monly goes farther, and increafes the evacuation be¬
yond its ufual meafure ; and that not only for fome
time after the medicine has been applied, but alfo for
fome following days.
This evacuation not only empties, but alfo produces
a larger excretion from the mucous follicles of the
fchneiderian membrane ; but, agreeably to the laws of
the circulation, this muff produce an afflux of fluids
from the neighbouring veffels, and in fome meafure em¬
pty thefe. Ky this it often removes rheumatic conge-
ftions in the neighbouring veffels, and particularly thofe
in which the toothach often confifts.
But not only the more nearly adjoining veffels are
thus relieved, but the effedf may extend further to the
whole of the branches of the external carotid j and we
have known inftances of headachs, pains of the ear,
and ophthalmias, cured or relieved by the ufe of er¬
rhines. How far their effefls may extend, cannot be
exadlly determined •, but it is probable that they may
operate more or lefs on the whole veffels of the head,
as even a branch of the infernal carotid paffes into the
nofe) and independent of this, it is not improbable
Thefe are employed either to promote an increaftd
flow of faliva, or to produce fuch an aftion on the gums, 0fgaia^
as fflall indicate their having been received in fufficient gogues.
quantity into the circulation. Under the former divifion
are ranked feveral vegetable fubftances ■, under the latter
are included only mercury and its preparations.
I. Vegetable Products. Table of
Daphne mezereum, mezereum. fialagogues,
Amomum zingiber, ginger.
Anthemis py rethrum, pelhlory of Spam,
Piilacia lentifcus, mafich.
II. Mineral Products.
Hydragyrum, mercury.
Hydrargyum purificatum, purified mercury.
Submurias hy d targy il, jubmuriate of mercury.
Murias hydrargyri, muriate of mercury.
Submurias hydrargyri pnecipitatus, precipitated
fubmuriate.
Piluloe hydrargyrse, mercurial pills.
Oxidum hydrargyri cinereum, cinereous oxide of
mercury.
Uuguentum hydrargyum, mercurial ointment.
Hvdrargyrus calcinatus, red oxide of mercury.
Acetis hydrargyri, acetate of mercury.
Hydrargyrus fulphuratus ruber, redfulphurate of
mercury.
Sulphuretum hydrargyri nigrum, black fulphuret
of mercury. ^
The vegetable lialagogues are commonly called ma-Ufesoffia-
fticatories, becaufe they produce their effedl by being ^a&°gue3.
cheived in the mouth. They are employed in fimilar
cafes with the errhines, more efpecially in toothach.
The ufe of the mercurial fialagogues will be explained
hereafter in our account of mercury.
Class VIII. EMOLLIENTS.
164
The medicines commonly called emollients confift ei- Definition
ther of diluting liquors, formed of Ample water, or cer- °/ em°l'
tain vegetable infuflons, or mucilaginous and oily mat- *‘eilts’
ters that have the mechanical property of defending the
parts to which they are applied, from the adtion of ac-
crimonious fubftances that pafs over them ; or of foften-
ing and relaxing the fkin and other external parts. The
firft of thefe are commonly called diluents, the fecond
demulcents, and the third Amply emollients. We fflall
enumerate them together under the general term of
emollients, referving an account of their particular ufes
for the individual articles.
I. Animal Products.
Accipenfer hufo, fturio, &c, ifinglafs.
Ovis aiies, mutton fuel.
Phyleter macrocephal\xi,fpermaccti.
Sus fcrofa, hogs-lard,
LiffimentuEQ
165,
Table of
emollients.
M A T E R I A
Linimentuni liniment.
Unguentum fimp 1 ex, Jimple ointment.
Unguentum adipis fuillse, ointment of hogs-lard.
Unguentum fpermatis ctx\,fpermaceti ointment.
Unguentum cerae, wax ointment.
Ceratum fi mplex, _/?«/>/£ cerate.
Ceratum i'permatls c&ti,fpcnnaccti cerate.
II. Vegetable Products.
Cera alba et flava, xvhite and yellow wax.
Olea Europaea.
Althea officinalis, marjhmallow.
Decoftum altheie officinalis, dcco&ion of marfh-
mallow.
Syrupus althea;, fjrup of marjlunallow.
Amygdalus communis, almonds and oil of almonds.
Emulfio amygdali communis, almond emu If on.
Oleum amygdali communis, oil of almonds.
Aftragalus tragacantha, gum tragacanth.
Mucilago aftragali tragacanthi, mucilage of tra-
ga can th.
Pulvis tragacanthi compofitus, compound powder
of tragacanlh.
A vena fativa, oat meal.
Cocos butyracea,yW?« oil.
Eryngium maritimum, eryngo root.
Glycyrrhiza glabra, liquorice root, and ex trail.
Trochifci glycyrrhizae, liquorice lozenges.
Hordeum diftichon, barley.
Decoddum hordei diftichi, barley xvatcr.
Decoclum hordei compofitum, compound decoclion
of barley.
Lilium candidum, while lily root.
Linum ufitatiffimum, lintfeed.
Oleum lini ufitatiffimi, lintfeed oil.
Malva fylveftris, common mallow.
-Decoflum pro enemate, decodlion for defers,
Melifla officinalis, balm.
Mimofa nilotica, arable.
Mucilago mimofte niloticae, mucilage of gum arable.
Emulfio mimofae niloticoe, common emulfon.
Trochifci gummofi, gum lozenges.
Penaea farcocolla, farcocolla.
Pyrus cydonia, quince feed.
Mucilago feminis cydonii mali, mucilage of quince
feeJ-
Triticum hibernum, wheat andfarch.
Mucilago amyli, mucilage offarch.
Trochifci -umyXi,farch lozenges.
Vitis vinifera, raifns.
Diluents are chiefly employed to abate thirft: in fe¬
ver and inflammatory aft'edlions, or to promote the ac¬
tion of other remedies, particularly diaphoretics and
diuretics. Demulcents are chiefly ufed in catarrh,
pneumonia, dyfentery, diarrhoea, gonorrhoea 5 and exter¬
nal emollients are employed chiefly in cafe of fprains and
bruifes, or to defend the furface of ulcers from the dref-
fings and bandages.
Class IX. REFRIGERANTS.
Definition Under this term are comprehended thofe remedies
of refrige- which are employed with a view to diminifh the pre¬
rants. ternaturally increafed heat that takes place in the body
during fevers and feveral inflammatory affiedliuns.
166
Ufes of
emollients.
MEDIC A, Sec. Part II.
The following are the principal refrigerants enume- Therapeu-
rated by the various writers on the mateiia medica. tics.
I. Vegetable Products.
Acidum acetofum, acetous acid.
Acetis potaffie, acetate of potafh.
, Aqua acetitis ammoniac, water of acetate of am¬
monia.
Supertartras potaflae, f/per tartrate of potafh.
Tamarindus indica, tamarinds.
Berberis vulgaris, barberry.
Citrus medica, lemon.
_ Syrupus citri medica.', fyru'p of lemon juice.
Citrus aurantia, orange.
Cochlearia officinalis,jiv/rpy grafs.
Succus cochlearia compoiitus, compound juice of
fcurvy grafs.
Moms nigra, mulberry.
. Syrupus fruclus mox\, fyrup of mulberry juice.
Oxalis acetofella, woodforrel.
Conferva acetofella, conferva of forrel.
Ribes nigrum, black currants.
Succus fpifiatus ribis nigri, infpiffatedjuice of black
currants.
Syrupus fucci ribis nigri, fyrup of black currant
juice.
Ribes rubrum, red currants.
Rofa canina, dog roje or hips.
Conferva rofa canina, conferve of kins.
Rubus idaus, rafpberry.
Syrupus frudlus rubi iddi, fyrup of rafpberry juice.
Rumex acetola, common forrel.
Veronica beccabunga, brooklime.
II. Mineral Products.
Sulphas zinci, fulpliate of zinc.
Nitras potafla, nitrate of potajb.
Acidum nitrofum, nitrous acid.
Spiritus atheris nitrofi, fpirit of nitrous ether.
Trochifci nitratis potafla, nitre lozenges.
Marias foda, muriate of fuda.
Acidum muriaticum, muriatic acid.
Acidum fulphuricum Julphnric acid.
Acidum fulphuricum dilutum, diluted fulphurie ’
acid.
Plumbum, lead.
Superacetas p\wx\Xi\,fuperacctate or jiigar of lead.
Aqua lithargyri acetati, water of acetatedlitharge,
or Goulard's extract.
Aqua lithargyri acetati compofita, compound wa¬
ter of acetated litharge.
Unguentum acetitis plumbi, ointment of acetate
of lead.
Ceratum lithargyri acetati compofitum, compound
feratc of acetated litharge.
Affulion of cold water.
Refrigerants appear to aft chemically, but in what Effeafand
prsjciie manner they diminilh the heat of the human bo-ufesofrel
dy, is not well underflood. On this fubjedl Mr Mur-frigerants,
ray exprefles himfelf in the following manner.
“ Keeping in view the very inconfiderable aftion of
thefe remedies, it may perhaps be poffibie, from the
confideration of the mode in which animal temperature
/
Part II.
Therapeu- js generated, to point out how their trivial refrigerant
s tlcs' , efFsfls may be produced.
r y “ It has been fufiiciently eftablidred, tlrtt the con-
fumotion of oxygen in the lungs is materially influenced
by the nature of the ingefta received into the flomach $
that it is increafed by animal food and fpirituous liquors,
and in general by whatever fubftances contain a fmall
quantity of oxygen in their compofition. But the tem¬
perature of animals is derived from the confumption of
oxygen by refpirafion. An increafe of that muft occa-
flon a great evolution of caloric in the fyflem, and in¬
creafe of temperature, while a diminution in the con¬
fumption of oxygen mufl: have an oppofite efie£f. If,
therefore, when the temperature of the body is mor¬
bidly increafed, fubftances be introduced into the fto-
mach containing a large proportion of oxygen, efpecial-
ly in a ftate of loofe combination, and capable of being
aflimilated by the digeftive powers, the nutritious mat¬
ter received into the blood mufl: contain a larger por¬
tion of oxygen than ufual 5 lefs of that principle will
be confumed in the lungs, by which means lefs caloric
being evolved, the temperature of the body muft: be re¬
duced ; and this operating as a reduftion of ftimulus,
will diminifh the number and force of the contraftions
of the heart.
“ It might be fuppofed that any effedt of this kind
mufl: be trivial, and it actually is fo. It is, as Cullen
has remarked, not very evident to our fenfes, nor eafily
fubje&ed to experiment, and is found only in confe-
* Murray's quence of frequent repetitions
Elements. Refrigerants are conftdered by Mr Murray as adling
chemically, but we are not certain how far this opinion
is corredl. That fome of them do operate in cooling the
human body, merely as chemical agents, cannot be de¬
nied ; but feveral feem to produce this effedt by fome
particular adlion on the nervous fyftem, that is not well
underftood.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Tindfura mimofte catechu, tincture cf catechu.
Fdedtuarium catechu, electuary of catechu.
Polygonum biftorta, bijiort.
Potentilla reptans, potentilla.
Prunus fpinofp,y7oe.
Co.’ferv’t pruni fylvelbis, conferee offloes.
Pterocarpus draco, dragon's blood.
Punica granatuin, pomegranate, balatflines.
Quercus cerris, ga t nut.
Ouercus robur, common oah.
Rofa gallica, red rofe.
Infuium rofoe gallicae, infujion of rofes.
Conferva rofaj gallicae, conferve of red rofes.
Syrupus rofae gallicae, of red rofes.
Mel rofae, honey of rofes.
Tormentilla eredla, tormenlil root.
Vitis vinifera, red Port wine.
II. Mineral Products.
Acidum fulphuricum,yh^>/W<V acid.
Acidum muriaticum, muriatic acid.
Ferruin, iron.
Tindtura muriatis ferri, tincture of niurialed iron.
Plumbum, lead.
Superacetas plumbi, fuperacetate of lead.
Sulphas cw^x\, fulphale of copper.
Solutio fulphatis cupri, folation of fulphate of cop-
'Per- .
Liquor cupri ammoniati, liquor of ammoniated cop¬
per.
Sulphas zmci, fulphate of %inc.
Aqua zinci vitriolati cum camphora, water of
vitriolated t&inc with camphor.
Solutio acetitis zmc\,folution of acetate of zinc.
Superfulphas aluminae et ^ouS’ee,fuperfulphate of alu¬
mina andpotafh, or alum.
Sulphas aluminae exftccatus, dried fulphate of alu-
Class X. ASTRINGENTS.
Definition Aftringents are defined by Dr Cullen to be fuch fub-
ofaftrin- fiances as when applied to the human body produce a
gents. condenfation and contradlion of the foft folids, and
thereby increafe their denfity and force of cohefion. If
they are applied to longitudinal fibres, the contradlion
is made in the length of thefe j but if applied to circu¬
lar fibres, the diameters of the veffels, or the cavities
which thefe furround, are diminilhed.
The principal fubftances that adt in this way are
taken from vegetables, and confift: of the barks of fe¬
veral trees, certain roots and infpiftated juices; but a
few of them are derived from minerals, efpecially the
ftronger mineral acids, a few metallic and earthy falls,
and according to fome writers, alcohol. We {hall enu-
merate the following.
,I,7r I. Vegetable Products.
Table of
aftringents. Flaematoxylum campechianum, logwood.
Extradlum ligni hasmatoxyli campechiani, extraEl
of logwood.
Juglans regia, walnut.
Eucalyptus refinifera, kino.
Tindlura kino, tinBure of kino.
Mimofa catechu, catechu, or Japan eart\.
Infufum miigofae catechu, infufon of catechu.
intna.
Pulvis fulphatis alumime compofitus, compound pow¬
der of fulphate of alumina.
Aqua aluminis compofita, compound alum water.
Cataplafma aluminis, cataplafm of alum.
It is of fome confequence that the precife meaning of
the term aftringent, ufed as a medicine, fhould be un¬
derftood. r^3
The ufual method of detedfing aftringency is, by the Nature of
corrugating of the tongue, and the peculiar rough and aftringents.
harih fenfation communicated to the palate by the touch
of an aftringent fubftance > and in general, all bodies
may be called aftringents, that have the property of
communicating thefe fenfations. Moft of the vegetable
aftringents have befides the property of ftriking a black
colour when mixed with a folution of fulphate of iron,.
and this property has been conftantly confidered as one
of the furefi: lefts of aftringency in vegetable fubftances.
Now modern chemiftry has (hewn, that this property is
owing to a peculiar acid, viz. the gallic, and not to
tannin or the aftringent principle properly fo called..
It fo happens that in moil vegetable aftringents the gal¬
lic acid and tannin are found united; but in a few, efpe¬
cially catechu, the aftringent principle exifts without the
gallic acid, and confequently no black colour is pro¬
duced when a folution of catechu is mixed with a folu¬
tion of iron. Hence the pharmaceutic chemift fhould.
be-.:
j
Tiierapeu
ti( s,
U"""'V——
173
Ejects and
gfcs.
MATERIA
■ be aware thaUbe above property is not a fare teft of
vegetable aftringency. A more certain cliemical teft is
animal jelly ; for, when a folution of this is added to a
o ution of vegetable aftringent, a copious precipitate is
produced, which in fadf is leather.
Aftringents appear to adl nearly in a fimilar manner
on the dead animal fibre as on the living folid, in both
cams thickening and hardening : when applied to the
living folid, they produce increafe of tone and ftrengtb,
reftvain inordinate a&ions, and check exceflive dif-
charges from any of the veffels or cavities j and to
the dead fibre occafion denfity, toughnefs, imperviouf-
ne,sgo water in a greater or lefs degree, and infufcep-
tibihty to the common caufes of putrefaction. See
Tanning.
, ^hnngents are largely employed in medicine, and
tneir me is attended with conliderable advantage. The
cafes in which they are moft beneficial, and m which
tneir effedt feems moft unequivocally owing to the
aftringent principle, are diarrhoeas, leucorhoea, and
gleets. I hey have alfo been employed with fuccefs
for reftraining profufe evacuations where they could
not be immediately applied to the affeded part, as
in the above cafes; for example, in hemoptifis and
epiftaxis; but here their operation feems to be lefs
attributable to their aftringency than to their tonic
MEDI C A, &c.
Extradlum cinchonas officinalis, txtratt
chona.
Cinchona caribaea, Caribenti cinchona.
Colomba, co 'omba root.
I incftura colombte, tm&ure of colomba.
Croton eleutheria, cafe arilia bark.
1 indtura cafcaribae, tincture of cafcarilla.
Extradtum cafcarillae, extratl of cafcarilla.
Gmtiana Xv&z-a., gentian root.
Infufum gentianae compofitum, compound infufion
of gentian.
Tindtura gentianas compofita, compound tinBure
if gentian.
Vmum gentianae compofitum, compound wine of
gentian.
Extra dlum gentianae, extraEl of gentian.
Menyanthes trifoliata, marjh trefoil.
(^uaffia excelfa, quajfa.
£)uaffia iimaruba, /imarouba.
S.ilix fragilis, fragile willow bark.
Salix alba, white willow bark.
Swietenia mahagoni, mahogany tree bark.
Swietenia febrifuga, febrifuge fwietenia,
Tanacetum vulgare, common tanfey.
I. Mineral Products.
Part II.
of cin- Therapeu¬
tics.
power.
Such aftringents as are employed externally to check
hemoirhage from divided veffels, are ufually called
ftyptics.
Class IX. TONICS.
definition Pomes are thofe medicines which are fuited to coun-
t>i tonics, teradl debility, or to give ftrength and energy to the
moving fibres. They are taken partly from vegetables,
and partly from minerals.
*75
Table of E VEGETABLE PRODUCTS.
Anthemis nobilis, chamomile flowers,
Centaurea benedidla, holy thiftle.
Marrubium vulgare, horehound.
Myrrha, myrrh.
Pulvis myirhae compofitus, compound powder of
myrrh.
Dorftenia contrajerva, contrayerva.
Pulvis contrayervse compoiitus, compound powder
of contrayerva.
Vitis vinifera.
Vinum rubrum lufitanum, red port wine.
iEfculus hippocaftanum, horfe-chefnut bark.
Anguftura, angufura bark.
Chironea centaureum, lefflr centaury.
Cinchona officinalis, Peruvian bark.
Infufum cinchonae officinalis, infufion of cin¬
chona.
1 Decodlum cinchonse officinalis, decoflion of cin¬
chona.
■f mdtura cinchonae officinalis, tinblure of cin¬
chona. J
Tindlura cinchonse compofita, compound tinblure
of cinchona.'
Tiiidfura cinchonae ammoniata, ammoniated tinc¬
ture of cinchona.
Sulphas cupri, fulphate of copper.
Ammoniaretum cupri, animoniaret of copper.
Pilulas ammoniareti cupri, pills of ammoniaret of
copper.
Zmcum, %inc.
Sulphas zinci, fulphate of zinc.
Solutio fulphatis zinci, folution of fulphate of
zinc.
Oxidum zinci, oxide orflowers of zinc.
Nitras potaflae, nitrate of potafh.
Acidum nitrofum, nitrous acid.
Ferium, iron.
Carbonas ferri, carbonate of iron.
Carbonas ferri prsecipitatus, precipitated carbonate
of iron.
Aqua ferri aerati, water of aerated iron.
Sulphas ferri, fulphatc of iron.
Yinum ferri, wine of iron.
Tindlura muriatis ferri, tinclure of muriate of
iron.
Sulphas ferri exficcatus, dried fulphate of iron.
Oxidum ferri xubrum, red oxide of iron.
Emplaftrum oxidi fern tuhny ptafler of red oxide
ef iron.
Ferri limaturae purificatae, purified, filings of
iron.
Oxidum ferri nigrum purificatum, purified black
oxide of iron,
Murias ammoniae et ferri, muriate of ammonia
and iron.
Tindlura ferri ammoniacalis, tinclure of amtno-
niacal iron.
Tartras fern et potaflae, tartrate of iron and
potajh.
Tindlura ferri acetati, tinclure of acetated iron.
Acidum fulphuricum, fulphuric acid.
Acidum fulphuricum dilutum, • diluted fulphuric
acid.
I
Acidum
Part II. MATERIA M
.Acidum fulpliuricum aromaticum, aromatic ful-
, piiuric acid.
Argentum^ filver.
Nitras argenti, nitrate of fiver, or lunar caufic.
Arfenicum, arfenic.
Carborias barytse, carbonate of baryta.
Carbonas caleis. carbonate of lime or chalk.
Solutio muriatis calcis, folution of muriate of
lime.
Sulphas barytae, fulphate of banjta.
Murias barytae, muriate of baryta.
Solutio muriatis barytas, folution of muriate of
baryta.
Aquae minerales ferrum continentes, chalybeate mi¬
neral waters.
176
Effects and
ufes of to-
III. Gaseous Products.
Gas oxigetiium, oxygen gas.
Balneum frigidum, cold bath.
Equltatio, riding on horfeback%
Mofl: tonics aft immediately on thue ftomach, and
hence on the fyftem at large. They increafe the appe¬
tite, quicken dlgeflion, and add vigour to the body.
Hence they are ufeful in molt cafes of debility ; but
when ufed improperly or for too long a time, they
predifpofe to apopleftie and paralytic diforders.
E D I c A, &c. 721
Carbonas ammonise-, carbonate of ammonia. Therapeu-
Aqua carbonatis ammonite, water of carbonate of tlcs'
ammonia.
Oleum ammoniatum, ammoniated oil.
Linimenturn ammonite, liniment of ammonia.
Linimentum volatile, volatile liniment.
Alcohol ammoniatum aromaticum, aromatic am¬
moniated alcohol.
Spiritus ammonite fuccinatus, fuccinated fpirit of
ammonia.
Mofchus mofchiferus, musk.
Miftura mofchata, musk mixture.
Cervus elaphus, bartfhorn.
Liquor volatilis cornu cervi, volatile liquor of
hartjhorn.
Sal cornu cervi, fait of hartfhorn.
Lytta velicatoria, cantharides.
Tinftura meloes velicatorii, tinflure of cantha¬
rides.
Unguentum infuli meloes veficatorii, ointment of
infufon of cantharides.
Unguentum pulveris meloes veficatorii, ointment
of powder of cantharides.
Ceratum cantharidis, cerate of cantharides.
Emplaftrum meloes veficatorii, plafcr of cantha¬
rides.
II. Vegetable Products.
Definition
a»d efFe<fls
of ftimu-
iants.
* Synopfis
o f Materia
Me (lira,
vol. ii.
P- 154-
178
Table of
ftimulants.
Class XII. STIMULANTS.
Mofl of the articles of the Materia Medma might,
in an extended fenfe, be called fimulants; but this
term is, by the general confent of phylicians, reftric-
tively applied to thofe medicines which poffefs the
power'of fuftaining ©r increafing the vital energies—of
raifing and invigorating the aftion of the heart and ar¬
teries—and of reftoring to the mufcular fibre, when af-
fefted with torpor, its loft fenfibility and power of mo¬
tion. Hence the ufe, under proper regulations, of the
various articles belonging to this clafs in cafes of gout,
palfy, and malignant typhoid fever : but let it be re¬
peated, under proper regulations 5 for we cannot but
remark that medicines which give additional aftivity to
the circulation, and which augment the heat and fenfi¬
bility of the fyftem throughout, are often abufively em¬
ployed, being adminiftered too early, as well as too
freely in the above-mentioned and feme other fimilar
diforders. In the beginning of typhous fever, in particu¬
lar, it cannot be doubted that a hafty and lavifh exhi¬
bition of fuch medicines has, in numerous mftances, ag¬
gravated every fymptom, and brought the patient, who
would otherwife have had the difeafe in its mildeft
form, into confiderable danger *.
The clafs of ftimulants is exceedingly numerous, and
might, perhaps, with advantage, be fubdivided into
feftions ; but as this fubdivifion would admit of much
difpute from the different acceptation of the term fi-
mulant, we fhall here only give a table of flimulants
diftributed as ufual into animal, vegetable, and mineral
produfts.
I. Animal Products.
Murias ammonia, muriate of ammonia.
Aqua ammonias, water of ammonia.
Alcohol ammoniatum, ammoniated alcohol
Voh. XII. Part II.
Sinapis alba, mufardfeed.
Cataplafma fmapios, mufard cataplafm.
Allium fativum, garlic.
Arum maculatum, wake-robin.
Conferva ari, conferve of arum.
Pimpinella anifum, anifefeed.
Oleum volatile pimpinelhe anifi, volatile oil of
a nife feed.
Sty rax benzoin, benjamin.
Acidum benzoicum, benzoic acid.
Tinftura benzoes compofita, compound tinBure
of benjamin.
Alcohol.
AZther fulphuricus, fulphuric cether.
iEther fulphuricus cum alcohole, fulphuric ae¬
ther with alcohol.
Aither fulphuricus cum alcohole compofitus, com¬
poundfulphuric aether with alcohol.
Oleum vini, oil of wine.
Acidum acetofum, vinegar.
Acidum acetofum forte, frong acetous acid.
Acidum acetofum camphoratum, camphorated ace¬
tous acid.
Acetum aromaticum, aromatic vinegar.
Ariftolochia ferpentaria, fiake-root.
Tinftura ariftolochbe ferpentariae, tinBure offnake-
root.
Daphne mezereum, mc%ercum.
Decoftum daphnes mezerei, decoBion of mezer¬
eum.
Guaiacum officinale, guaiacum.
Decoftum guaiaci officinalis, decoBion of gua¬
iacum..
‘ inftura guaiaci officinalis, tinBure of guaiacum.
T iftura guaiaci ammonia, ammoniated tinBure
ofguaiacum.
Papaver fomnifemm, opium in frail dofes.
4 V Tinftujra
722
Therapeu-
M A T E II I A M E D I C A, &c.
Part II.
Tinftura opii, tinclure of opium.
Tinflura opii camphorata, camphorated tinSlure
of opium.
Tinctura opii ammoniata, ammoniated tinciure of
opium.
Confe<£Ho opiata, opiate confeFlwn.
Cochlearia armoracia, horfe radifh.
Copaifera officinalis, balfam of copaiba.
Pinus fylveftris, 1 . ^ , r
/ . 7 !- turpentine ana rofin.
Pinus lanx, j
Oleum volatile pini puriffimum, purified oil of
turpentine.
Unguentum refmi flavi, ointment of yellow ro-
fm.
Ceratum refini flavi, cerate of yellow rofin.
Emplaftrum certe, wax plafier.
Unguentum picis, pitch plafier.
Unguentum picis burgundicae, ointment of bur¬
gundy pitch.
Arnica montana, leopard's bane.
Bubon galbanum, galbanum.
Pilules galbani compofitse, compound pills of gal¬
banum.
Emplaftrum galbani compofitum, compound plafier
of galbanum.
Juniperus fabina, favine.
' Oleum juniperi fabinae, oil of favine.
Juniperus Lycia, olibanum.
Paflinaca opoponax, opoponax.
Veratrum album, white hellebore.
Unguentum hellebori albi, ointment of white helle¬
bore.
Deco£tum hellebori albi, dccoBion of white hel¬
lebore.
Acorus calamus, calamus aromaticus, or fweet
fog.
Amomum zingiber, ginger.
Syrupus amomi zingiberis,y^r?//> of ginger.
Tin&ura amomi zingiberis, tinclure of ginger.
Amomum repens, leffiei' cardamom feeds.
Tindfura amomi repentis, tindlure of carda¬
mom.
Tindlura cardamom! compofita, compound tinc¬
ture of cardamom.
Amyris gileadenfis, balm of gilead.
Amyris elemifera, gum elemi.
Unguentum elemi, elemi ointment.
' Anethum foeniculum, fweet fennel feed.
Oleum volatile foeniculi dulcis, oil of fennel.
Aqua foeniculi dulcis, fennel water.
Anethum graveolens, dillfeed.
Aqua anethi, dill water.
Angelica archangelica, angelica.
Apium petrofelinum, par/ley root andfeed.
Arbutus uva urli, whortle berry.
Arinrffia maritima, fca wormwood.
Conferva abfmthii maritimi, confeiwe of fea worm¬
wood.
Decodlum pro fomento, decodlion for fomenta¬
tion.
Canelia alba, white canella.
Capficum annuum, capficumi Cayenne pepper.
Carum carvi, caraway feeds.
Oleum carvi, oil of caraway.
Spiritus cari carvi, fpirit of carrcnvay,
Cillus creticus, ladanum.
Emplaftrum ladani, ladanum plafier.
Citrus aurantium, Seville orange peel.
Oleum volatile citri aurantii, ejfence of orange-
peel.
Aqua citri aurantii, orange peel water.
Tindlura aurantii corticis, tindlure of orange-
peel.
Syrupus citri aurantii, fiyrup of orange-peel.
Conferva citri aurantii, conferve of orange-peel.
Coriandrum fativum, coriander feed.
Crocus fativus, fiaffron.
Syrupus croci, fiyrup of faffron.
Tinctura croci, lindlure of faff 'ron.
Cuminum cyminum, cummin feed.
Cataplafma cumini, cummin cataplafm.
Emplaftrum cumini, cummin plafier.
Curcuma longa, turmeric.
Daucus carota, wild carrot feed, carrot root.
Dianthus caryophyllus, clove Julyfiower.
Syrupus caryophylli rubri, fiyrup of cloves.
Eugenia caryophyllata, cloves.
Oleum volatile caryophylli aromatic!, oil of
cloves.
Hypericum perforatum, St John's wort.
Inula helenium, elecampane root.
Koempferia rotunda, %edoary.
Lavandula fpica, lavender Jiowers.
Oleum volatile lavandulse fpicse, oil of laven¬
der.
Spiritus lavandulae fpicse, fpirit of lavender.
Spiritus lavandulie compofitus, compound fpirit of
lavender.
Laurus cinnamomum, cinnamon.
Oleum volatile iauri cinnamomi, oil of cinna¬
mon.
Aqua lauri cinnamomi, cinnamon water
Spiritus lauri cinnamomi, of cinnamon.
Tindftura lauri cinnamomi, tindiure of cinna¬
mon.
Tinctura cinnamomi compolita, compound tinc¬
ture of cinnamon.
Pulvis aromaticus, aromatic powder.
Eledtuarium aromaticum, aromatic eleEluary.
Laurus caffia, caffia bark.
Aqua lauri caftiae, caffia water.
Laurus nobilis, bay tree.
Lobelia fyphitilica, blue cardinalflower.
Melaleuca leucadendron, cajeput oil,
Mentha viridis, fpearmint.
Oleum menthae fativae, oil of mint.
Aqua menthae fativaj, jmnt water.
Spiritus menthte iativae, fpirit of mint.
Mentha piperita, peppermint.
Oleum volatile menthas piperitae, oil of pepper¬
mint.
Aqua menthae piperitae, peppermint water.
Spiritus mentbae piperitae, jpirit of peppermint.
Mentha pulegium, pennyroyal.
Oleum volatile menthae pulegii, oil of penny¬
royal.
Aqua menthae pulegii, pennyroyal water.
Spiritus menthae pulegii, fpirit of pennyroyal.
Myriftica .
Therapeu¬
tics.
Part II.
Therapeu¬
tics.
MATERIA
Myrifiica mofchata, nutmeg.
Spiritus myrifticse mofchatGe,^?^/ of nutmeg.
Myroxylon Peruiferum, half am of Peru.
Tinftura balfami Peruviani, tinBure of baJfam
of Peru.
Myrtus pimenta, pimento, or 'Jamaica pepper.
Oleum volatile myrti pimentae, oil of pimento.
Aqua myrti pimentaj, pimento water.
Spiritus myrti pimentse, fpint of pimento.
Origanum vulgare, origanum.
Oleum origani, oil of origanum.
Panax quinquefolium, ginfeng.
Parietaria officinalis, pellitory of the wall,
Pinus balfamea, balfam of Canada.
Piper nigrum, black pepper.
Piper cubeba, cubebs.
Piper longum, long pepper.
Piftaciaterebinthus, Chio turpentine.
Rhus toxicodendron,oak.
Styrax officinale, forax.
Styrax purificata, framed forax.
Tolu iter a balfamum, balfam oj Tolu.
Tinftura toluiferte balfami, tinBure of balfam
of To tie.
Syrupus toluiferse balfami, fyrup of balfarn of
Tom.
Trigonella foenum graecum, fxnugreek feed.
Urtica dioica, finging nettle.
Wintera aromatica, winter's bark.
M E D I C A, &c. . 723
Therapeu-
IV. Gaseous Products. > ■
Gas oxygenium, oxygen gas.
Gas oxidum azotii, gafeous oxide of azote.
Eleclrifatio et galvanifatio, eleBricity andgalvanifn.
Balneum calidum, the hot bath.
The fubftances enumerated in the above table have
been varioufly denominated, according to their real or
fuppofed medical virtues. Of the internal ftimulants,
moil have been called cordials, from the effe61 they
have in raifing the fpirits; fome have been termed car¬
minatives, (fee carminatives'), under which head rank
molt of the aromatic herbs, roots, and feeds. Of the
external ftimulants many are called rubefacients, from
the effecl they have in irritating and confequently red¬
dening the fkin; and of thefe the principal are muftard,
cantharides, and the flinging nettle.
Class XIII. ANTISPASMODICS.
Definition
Thofe medicines which have been found by experi-of ar.tifpaf-
ence to put a flop to convullive motions, or fpafmodic modlcs*
contraftions of the mufcular fibres, are called antifpaf
modics. Moil of them are ftimulants, fome narcotics,
and fome are conftdered as fpecific antiipafmodics.
Table of Axtispasmodics.
III. Mineral Products.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Unguentum oxidi hydrargyri rubri, ointment of
red oxide oj mercury.
Unguentum nitratis hydrargyri, ointment of ni¬
trate of mercury.
Unguentum nitratis hydrargyri mitius, milder oint¬
ment of nitrate of mercury.
Nitras potaffae, nitrate of potafa.
Acidum nitrofum, nitrous acta.
Acidum nitricum, nitric acid.
Unguentum acidi nitrofi, ointment of nitrous a-
cid.
Sapo Hifpanus, Cafile foap.
Tin£tura faponis, tinBure of foap.
Tinflura faponis et opii, tinBure of foap and
opium.
Ceratum faponis,cerate.
Emplaftrum {adonis,foappInfer.
Murias fodse, muriate offoda.
Murias fodae exficcatus, dried muriate of foda.
Acidum fulphuricum, fulphunc acid.
Acidum arfeniofum, arfenious acid.
Bitumen petroleum, petroleum.
Oleum petrolei, oil of petroleum.
Subboras fubborate of foda, or borax.
Subacetas cupri, fubacetate of copper, or verdigrife.
Oxymel aeruginis, oxymel of verdigrife.
Unguentum acetitis cupri, ointment of fubacetate
of copper.
Calx, quicklime.
Linimentum aquse calcis, liniment of lime wa¬
rn
I. Animal Products.
Murias ammonise, muriate
Stimulants.
Mofchus mofchiferus, mujh.
Miftura mofchata, musk mixture.
Cervus elaphus.
Oleum animale, animal oil.
Caftor fiber, cafor.
Tinflura caftorei, tinBure of cafor.
Tinftura caftorei compofita, compound tinBure of
cafor.
II. Vegetable Products.
Cephaelis ipecacuanha, ipecacuanha.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco fmoke.
Ferula afafoetida, afafetida.
Alcohol ammoniatum fcetidum, fetid ammoniated
alcohoi.
Pilulae afafoetidse compontae, compound pills of
afafetida.
Emplaflrum afafoetidae, afafetidaplafer.
Alcohol.
iEther fulphuricus, fulphuric cether.
Laurus camphora, camphor.
Emullio camphorata, camphorated emulfon.
Miftura camphorata, camphorated mixture.
Tinftura camphorae, tinBure of camphor.
Linimentum camphorae compofitum, compound
liniment of camphor.
Papaver fomniferurn, opium.
Timftura opii, tinBure of opium.
Tinflura opii camphorata, camphorated tinBure
of opium.
4 Y 2 Tin£lura
i8$
Table of
of ammonia. See table of
medics.
MATERIA
Tinctura opil atameniata, ammonia ted tinEiure of
dum. •
EleSuariam opiatum, opiate ele&uary.
Pilulae opii, opium pills.
.Bubon galbanum, galbanum.
Tinftura galbani, tm&ure of galbanum.
Piluloe galbani compolitse, compound pills of gal¬
banum.
Vitis vinifera.
Vinum rubrum lufitanum, red Port wine.
Citrus aurantium, orange leaves.
Artcmifia abfynthium, common wormwood.
Sub carbonas potaffae impurus, impure fubcarbonate
ofpotafb.
Aqua potafise, water of potafh, or foap ley.
Cardamine pratenfis, ladies fmock.
Conium maculatum, hemlock.
Succus fpilFatus conii maculati, infpijfatcd juice
of hemlock.
Fuligo ligni combufti, woodfoot.
Hyofcyamus niger, henbane.
Succus fpiffatus byofcyami nigri, infpijfated juice
of henbane.
Valeriana officinalis, valerian.
Tin Sura valerianse, tinBure of valerian.
TinSura valcrianoe ammoniata, ammoniated tinc¬
ture of valerian.
Extraftum valerianae fylveftris rerinofum, ref nous
cxtraB cf wild valerian.
M E D I C A, &c.
Part II.
as are _ bell adapted to the particular form of fpafm Therapeu-
which it is our bulmefs to cure. tics.
III. Mineral Products.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
For mqfl preparations of mercury, fee table of Sialo-
gogues.
^Bitumen petroleum,/Wro/raOT.
Oleum petrolei, oil of petroleum.
Succinum, amber.
Oleum fuccini, oil of amber.
Oleum /ucchii puriffimum, purifed oil of am¬
ber.
Sal fuccini,yfr// of amber.
Spiritus ammonite fuccinatus, ficcinatcdfpirit of
ammonia.
All thofe fubftances which, whether introduced into
1S1
Effeifts and , . r ’ —  
ufes of anti- Vc body or apphed to its furface, have been found by
fpafmodics. experience to put a flop to convulfive movements or
rigid contraftions of the mufcular fibres, are termed
antifpafm Sics. Of thefe fubftances there are many
which differ from each other very widely, both in re-
fpeS of fenfible qualities and chemical compofition *,
which indeed is not furprifing, when it is confidered
that fpafmodic affeSions occur in various and even op-
pofite ftates of the body *, a circumftance which calls
for nice diferimination on the part of the pra&itioner
in the ufe of thefe remedies. Some of them being con-
fiderably ftimulant in their operation, aggravate rather
than alleviate fpafm, when affociated with plethora or
obftruftion. It is therefore of great importance to at¬
tend carefully to die ftate of the patient’s body, previ-
oufty to the exhibition of thefe medicines; to premife
and accompany their ufe in epilepfy, chorea, and hy-
fteria, by proper evacuations ; and to fele<ft from the
great variety of articles which this clafs contains, fuch
Class XIV, NARCOTICS.
1S2
This term has been ufually applied to thofe remedies ^efii.icion
which are calculated to relieve pain and procure fleep. ofnarcotics-
They have alfo been termed anodynes and hypnotics*
and moft of them were formerly ranked in the clafs of
ledatives.
Tjble of Narcotics.
I. Vegetable Products.
1 S3
Table of
narcotics.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco.
Vinum nicotianae tabaci, tobacco wine.
Aconitum neomontanum, aconite.
Succus ipiffatus aconiti napelli, infpijfated juice
of aconite.
Papaver fomniferum, opium ; white poppy heads.
Tinctura opii, tinBure of opium.
Tinctura opii camphorata, camphorated tinBure
of opium.
Syrupus ojii, fyn/p of opium.
Extraum papaveris fomniferi, extraB of white
poppy heads.
Pul vis opiatus, opiate powder.
Eledtuarium opiatum, opiate eleBuary,
Pilulse opii, opium pills.
Rhododendron chryfanthum, yellow-flowered rhoda
dendron.
Digitalis purpurea, foxglove.
I indtura digitalis purpurete, tinBure of foxglove.
Arnica montana, leopard's bane.
Rhus toxicodendron,/wy'o// oak.
Conium maculatum, hemlock.
Succus fpi'l.ttus conii inaculati, infpijfated juice
of hemlock.
Hyofcyamus niger, henbane.
^ Succus fpiffatus hyofeyami nigri, infpijfated juice
of nenbane.
1 indtura hyolcyami nigri, tinBure of henbane,
Atropa belladonna, deadly nightjljade.
Datura ftramonium, thorn-apple.
Humulus lupulus, hop.
Ladtuca virofa, wild lettuce.
Papaver rheeas, wild poppy.
Syrupus papaveris erratici, fyrup of wild pop.
PH- % j
Sium nodiflorum, creeping skerrit.
There is no clafs of medicines in the adminiftration
of which more judgement and diferimination are requi-As of tmr-
Ikc than in the admimftration of thofe which are termed cot.es.
narcotics. When given in full dofes, much good or
much mifehief is fure to follow, according as they are
prudently or miftakingly preferibed. What a common
pradtice it is to give them whenever a patient complains
of pain, without duly inveftigating the caufe of that
pain ; whether it be the confequence of high inflam¬
matory adhon, of a plethoric condition, or of a fuppref-
fion of fome periodical or habitual difeharge ! In thefe
cafes to preferibe any of the medicines belonging to this
clafs.
Part II. M A T E R I A
Therapeu- clafs, in a full or confiderable dofe, before the remedies
tie*. fuited to remove indammation, plethora? and obftrutfion
l^’ "'v """ had been reforted to, would only ferve to aggravate the
difeafe. And even where there is no condition of the
body which contraindicates the ufe of narcotics, it is of
great importance to adapt the dofes not only to the age
and conftitution of the patients, but likevvife to the par¬
ticular form of the difeafe. For inltance, in tetanus,
hemicrania, and colica piftonum, opium, and other
. narcotic medicines, may be given in large dofes with
excellent effecl ; but in phthifis pulmonalis, typhus fe¬
ver, and fome other dates of debility, fmall dofes, re¬
peated at proper intervals, are found to anfwer bed.
In the adminidration of narcotics, it is moreover pro¬
per to condder whether in the particular cafe in which
they appear to be indicated, they thould be prelcribed
alone, or in combination with other medicines ■, and if
in the manner lad mentioned, with what fort of ad¬
juncts. Thus, in cafes of fynochus, acute rheumatifm,
and the early dage of dyfentery, they fhould be given
in combination with calomel and antimonials ; in cafes
of adhma and phthifis pulmonalis, with ammoniacum,
fquill, and other expeftorants ; in cafes of cholera, with
diluents and demulcents ; in cafes of diarrhoea, with
adringents and aromatics; in hemorrhagic cafes, with
fulph'ate of zinc and other dyptics •, in hyderia, with
the volatile alkali, ether, and foetids ; in convulfive af¬
fections, efpecially fuch as occur in children, with mag-
* Synopjts nefia and other antacids *.
of Materia
yoUi™’ Class xv- ANTHELMINTICS.
^ 185 Thofe medicines which are employed rvith a view to
Definition expel wTorms from the bow7els, are called anthelmin¬
tics.
of anthel¬
mintics,
Table of Anthelmintics.
I. Animal Products.
. Murias ammonite, muriate of ammonia.
antheln in- Aqua carbonatis ammonias, water of carbonate
tics. <f ammonia.
II. Vegetable Products.
Anthemis nobilis, chamomile flowers.
ExtraCtum anthemidis nobilis, extraEl of chamo¬
mile.
Nicotiana tabacum, tobacco in clyders.
Olea europsea, olive oil in clyders.
Allium fativum, garlic.
Ferula afafoetida, afafetida in clyders.
Convolvulus jalapa, jalap.
Convolvulus fcammonia, fcatnmotuj.
Pulvis fcammonii compoiltus, compound powder
rffcammony.
Helleborus feetidus, fl'inhing hellebore.
Rheum palmatum, rhubarb in fmall dofes.
Ricinus communis, caflor oil.
Stalagmitis cambogioides,
Ruta graveolens, rue.
Oleum volatile rutte, oil of rue.
Juglans regia, walnut rind.
Tanacetum vulgare, tanfeij.
Valeriana officinalis, valerian.
At tend fia. fantouic a, worm-feed.
M E D I C A, Ac.
Dolichos pruriens, cowhage.
Geoffrosa inermis, cabbage-tree barb.
Polypodium filix mas, male jern root.
Spigelia marilandica, Carolina pink.
725
Therapeu¬
tics.
III. Mineral Products.
Hydrargyrum, mercury.
Submurias hydragyri, fubmuriaie of mercury.
Murias fodte, muriate of foda.
Ferrum, iron.
Carbonas ferri, carbonate of iron.
Sulphas ferri, fulphate of iron.
Ferri limaturae purificatee, purified iron filings.
Tartris ferri et potaffae, tartrate oj iron and
potafh.
Calx, lime.
Aqua calcis, lime water ia clyders.
Stannum, tin.
Stanni pulvis, powder of tin.
Of the medicines which belong to this clafs, fome EfF ds an<f~
dedroy the different fpecies of worms which breed inufesofan-
the alimentary canal, by their chemical, others by theirthelmmtiCi
mechanical aftion upon thofe animals ; but by far the
greater number of anthelmintic or vermifuge medi¬
cines operate in no other manner than as dradic purges,
bringing away the morbid accumulation of dime trom
the intedines, and with the dime, the worms which
were lodged in it. A fter the worms have been brought
away by tbefe remedies, the bowels Oiould be drength-
ened by bitters and other tonic medicines; and the ufe
of green vegetables, or much garden duff of any kind,
and of malt liquor, ffiould be forbidden.
Class XVI. CHEMICAL REMEDIES.
Several of the fubdances that have been enumerated fjiernp al
in the foregoing tables, a<T alfo on the animal fyilem reaitdies.
merely as chemical re-agents, either by countera6Iing
acidity, diffolving calculous concretions, dedroying fun¬
gous excrefcences, &c. We ffiall here enumerate all
the fubdances that may be confidered as chemical reme¬
dies, and diall afterwards clafs them according to their
particular atlion.
Table of Chemical Remedies.
I. Animal Products.
Murias ammonite, muriate of ammonia. Tablet-
Aqua ammonite, water of ammonia. chemical
Carbonas ammonite, carbonate of ammonia. remedies;
Aqua carbonatis ammonite, water of carbonate
of ammonia.
Sal cornu cervi, fait of hartfhorn.
Cervus elaphus, hartfhorn.
Phofphas calcis, phofphate of lime.
Cornu cervi ultum prteparatum, burnt hartfhorn.
Cancer adacus, crabs eyes.
Cancer pagum , crabs claws.
Chelae cancrorum prseparatee, prepared crabs
claws.
Pulvis e chelis cancrorum compofitus, compound
powder of crabs claws.
Gorgonia nooilis, red coral.
Corallium rubrum prseparatum, prepared red co¬
ral.
\ Odteai
>20
Therapeu¬
tics.
MATERIA
Oflrea edulis, ayster Jhetts.
leOae oftreae praeparatse, prepared oyster Jhells.
Spongia officinalis, fponge.
Spongia ufta, burnt fpongc.
M E D I C A, &c. part H.
Of the fubfiances above enutnerateJ, fome a61 as ant- Therapeu-
acids, correfting morbid anticidity in the ftomach and
bowels^ as moft of the preparations of ammonia, burnt
tics.
II. Vegetable Products.
•Carbonas potaffoe, carbonate of polafh.
Aqua potaffte, water of potafh, or caufic ley.
Potafla, potafh.
Potaffa cum calce, potafh veith lime.
Carbonas potaffie, carbonate of potafh.
, Carbonas potaflae puriffimus, purified carbonate
t>f potafh.
Aqua carbonatis potaffae, water of carbonate of
potafh.
Aqua fupercarbonatis potaffise, water of carbo¬
nate ofpotajio.
III. Mineral Products.
Sulphas cupri, fulphate of copper.
Sulphuretum antimonii, fulphuret of antimony.
Murias antimonii, muriate of antimony.
Sulphur fublimatum, flowers of fulphur.
Sulphuretum potaflae, fulphuret of potafh.
_ Hydrofulphuretum ammoniae, hydr ofulphuret of am¬
monia.
Nitras potaffae, nitrate of potafh.
Acidum nitrofum, nitrous acid.
Acidum nitricum, nitric acid.
Sapo hifpanus, Caflile foap.
Murias fodae, muriate of foda.
Acidum muriaticum, muriatic acid.
Sulphas magnefiae, fulphate of magnefia.
Carbonas magnefiae, carbonate of magnefia.
Magnefia, magnefia.
Trochifci magnefiae, lozenges of magnefia.
Acidum fulphurkum, fulphuric acid.
Acidum fulphuricum dilutum, diluted fulphuric
acid.
Superfulphas alumiriae et potaffae, ftperfulphate of alu¬
mina and potafh, or alum.
Sulphas aluminas exficcatus, driedfulphate of alum.
Argentum, filver.
Nitras argenti, nitrate of filver.
Oxidum arfeniofum, arfenious acid.
Calx, quicklime.
Aqua calcis, lime water.
Bolus gallicus, Trench bole.
Carbonas calcis, carbonate of lime, chalk.
Carbonas calcis praeparatus, prepared carbonate
of lime.
Pulvis carbonatis calcis compofitus, compound
powder of carbonate of lime.
Trochifci carbonatis calcis, lozenges of carbo¬
nate of lime.
Potio carbonatis calcis, potion of carbonate of
lime.
Aqua aeris fixi, water of fixed air.
Carbonas fodae impurus, impure carbonate of foda.
Carbonas fodae, carbonate of foda.
Aqua fuper-carbonatis fodae, water of fupercar-
fonate offoaa.
hart (horn, crabs eyes and claws, coral,
carbonates of potafh and foda with their
magnefia, lime, and carbonate of lime,
been often called abforbents.
Several of the chemical remedies act in
e£>S fhells, ufes 0f ohg
preparations, mical reme-
Thefe liave^'165*
191
Antacids.
. .  — a greater or I92
lefs degree as lithontriptics, or fuch medicines as are Lithontrip-
capable of difiblving urinary calculi. The principal li-tics.
thontriptics are? folutions of cauftic potafh, foap, ful¬
phuric and muriatic acids, and carbonate of foda.
“ From the exhibition of alkaline remedies,” fays
Mr Murray, “ the fymptoms arifing from a done in the
bladder are very generally alleviated ; and they can be
given to fuch an extent, that the urine becomes fenfi-
bly alkaline, and is even capable of exerting a folvent
power on thefe concretions. Their adminiftration can¬
not, however, be continued to this extent for any con-
fiderable length of time, from the flrong irritation they
produce on the ftomach and urinary organs. The ufe,
therefore, of the alkalies as folvents, or lithontriptics, is
now fcarcely ever attempted •, they are employed mere¬
ly to prevent the increafe of the concretion, and to pal¬
liate the painful fymptoms, which they do, apparently
by preventing the generation of lithic acid, or the fe-
paration of it by the kidneys ; the urine is thus render¬
ed lefs irritating, and the furface of the calculus is al¬
lowed to become fmooth,
“ When the alkalies are employed with this view,
they are generally given faturated, or even fuper-fatu-
rated with carbonic acid. This renders them much lefs
irritating. It at the fame time diminifhes, indeed, their
fclvent power; for the alkaline carbonates exert no ac¬
tion on the urinary calculi; but they are flifl equally
capable of corredling that acidity in the primee vice,
which is the caufe of the depofition of lithic acid from
the urine, and therefore ferve equally to palliate the
difeafe. And when their acrimony is thus leffened,
their ufe can be continued for any length of time * Murray's
from the inconfiderable adlion wffiich moft of the li- 'Elements,
thontriptics can with fafety be made to exert, when gi- v°b f
ven* by the mouth, it was fome years ago propofed toP'^^S*
apply them direftly to the calculus, by injedling them
through the'urethra into the bladder, f In this way it is Succefsful
evident that their adlion muft be much greater, and Practice of
when the fubftances are ufed in a ftate of fufficient di- So¬
lution, the pradlice is faid to be perfedlly fafe.
Several of the chemical remedies are employed exter- Efcharotics.
nally as cauftics or efcharotics, to deftroy fungous or
callous parts of the body ; to open an ulcer, or to
change the difeafed furface of a fore. The principal
efcharotics are, fulphuric and muriatic acid when con¬
centrated ; pure potaffi, nitrate of filver, muriate of an¬
timony, fulphate and fubacetate of copper, corrofive
muriate of mercury, and arfenious acid.
A few are employed both externally and internally,
to check putrefadlion, or to correct the unpleafant fmell
of particular fecretions, or of ulcers. The principal of
thefe are charcoal, and carbonic acid, though the mi¬
neral acids have alfo this effeft.
PART
3
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Part HI.
Principles of
Pharmacy.
PART. III. PRINCIPLES OF PHARMACY.
727
Principlesof
Pharmacy.
Chap. I. General Operations of Pharmacy.
THE operations of pharmacy are either mechanical
or chemical. By the firft the various articles employed
in medicine are reduced to a proper Hate for exhibition,
by cutting, rafping, grinding, pounding, &.c. ; and by
the fecond they are fubje&ed to various complex opera¬
tions, which produce certain chemical changes in tueir
nature and properties.
To the firft of thefe heads we may. refer the collec¬
tion and prefervation of fimples. 1 his chiefly refers, to
thefe articles that are of a vegetable nature, and which
. are either ufed freflr, or in a dried ftate.
Collection Vegetables fliould be gathered chiefly from thofe foils
and prefer- in which they naturally delight, or in which they are
vation of founj commonly to rife fpontaneoufly for though
fimples. jnany Gf them may be raifed, and made to grow with
vigour in very different foils, their virtue generally buf¬
fers by the change. A variation of feafon.s occafions
alfo differences confiderable enough to require often an
allowance to be made in the quantity $ plants in gene¬
ral proving weaker, though more luxuriant, in rainy
than in dry feafons. Herbs and flowers are to be ga¬
thered in a clear dry day, after the morning dew is gone
off from them. Leaves, for the moft part, are m their
greateft perfetfion, when come to their full growth,
]uft before the flowers appear : flowers, when moderate¬
ly expanded 5 feeds, when they begin to grow dry, be¬
fore they fall fpontaneoufly j woods and barks, as is
fuppofed, in the winter j annual roots, before the ftalks
begin to rife •, biennial roots, in the autumn of the fiift
vear •, perennial roots, in the autumn alter the leaves
have fallen, or early in the fpring before they begin to
vegetate. . . .
Of the vegetables which lofe their virtue m being
dried, the greater number, perhaps all, may be pretei-
ved for a confiderable length of time, by impeding the
exhalation of their natural moifture } for fo long as they
retain this, they feem to retain alfo their medical afti-
vity Thus, roots have their virtue preferved by being
buried in fand, which ftiould be dry, that they may not
venetate j leaves and flowers, of a more corruptible na¬
ture than roots, by being beaten with about thrice their
weight of fine fugar to prevent their corruption, and
kept in a clofe veffel.
Plants which bear drying, are commonly, hung m a
warm airy place, defended from the .un. 1 he colours
of herbs and flowers are for the moft part changed or
deftroyed in drying, by the fun’s beams } but that their
medicinal virtue fuffers a like diminution, does not ap¬
pear. This much is certain, that the heat of a culinary
fire, equal to that of the fun in fummer, does them no
injury in either refpecl ; and that both flowers and
leaves, when thus haftily dried by fire, preferve the
livelinefs of their colour, and their fmell and tafte, more
perfeflly than by flow drying. The leaves of mode¬
rately juicy plants are reduced, by drying, to about
©ne-fcutth of their original weight.
Some roots, and fome other parts of vegetables, ho.w
thoroughly foever they have been dried, are liable, in
keeping, to grow mouldy and carious. This inconve¬
nience might probably be obviated by dipping them,
when dried, in boiling fpirit of wine, or expofing them
to its vapour in a clofe veffel. It is faid, that fome of
the oriental fpices are made lefs periihable, by being
dipt in a mixture of lime and water *. * Lewis's
The drawers in which vegetable drugs are kept, Materia
fhould be made of fuch materials as are not likely to Medica.
impart to them any unpleafant tafte or fmell; and the
better to avoid this, they fhould be lined with paper.
Such matters as are volatile, or which are likely to fuf-
fer from expofure to the air, or from infefts, fhould be
kept in glafs veffels well flopped. Such fruits and oily
feeds as are liable to become rancid, by being too
warm, fhould be preferved in a dry cool place.
As moft vegetable fubftances lofe much of their fen-
fible properties by long keeping, or acquire others wrhich
render them lefs proper for being ufed as internal medi¬
cines, they fhould be frequently replaced. . I9S
One of the moft common operations to which dry pulveriza*-'
drugs are fubjefled, is that of being reduced to pow-tion.
der, by which they are rendered more efficacious, and
are more conveniently exhibited. The pulverization
of thefe matters is ufually performed by means of peftles
and mortars. Thefe fhould be made of fuch materials
as are not likely to impart to the powdered fubftance
any noxious properties, and fhould at the fame time be
fufficiently hard, not to be broken or worn away during
the operation. For the powdering of barks, roots, and
fimilar fubftances, caft-iron mortars are the raoft conve¬
nient *, and for fuch articles as are of a more brittle na¬
ture, mortars of glafs or marble are commonly employ¬
ed. All thofe made of copper, or any of its alloys,
fhould be carefully avoided, as when the fubftance is
very hard, or of fuch a nature as to a£t chemically on
the metal, fome portion of copper may be mixed with
the medicine, and render it a virulent poifon. For ma¬
ny purpofes mortars made of common ftoneware anfwer
very well 5 but the belt mortars of this kind are thofe
made of well-baked clay, commonly called Wedgewood',s
monars. The bottom of all thefe mortars fhould be
hollow on the infide, and flat on the outfide, and their
fides fhould be moderately inclined. Thofe which are
employed for reducing to powder fuch fubftances as pro¬
duce much duft, fhould be provided with covers, both
to prevent the lighter parts of the powder from being
loft, and to defend the operator from being injured by
fuch fubilances as are of-a corrofive or poifonous nature.
In general, wooden covers that have a rim to prevent
their Aiding off, and a hole fufficiently large to admit
of the introduftion of the peftle, anfwer very well ; but
where it is of confequence that no part of the article
fhould efcape, it is better to tie round the mouth of the
mortar, and round the peftle, a piece of pliable leather,
fufficiently large to admit of the free motion of the lat¬
ter. Where this is not done, it will be proper for the
operator to cover his mouth and nofe with a handker¬
chief
728 MATERIA MEDIC A, &c. Part III.
Principles of chief or wet cloth, and to ftand in fuch a fituation as
Pharmacy. t^at a current of air fhall direft.the acrid powder from
To avoid lofing much of thefe light dry powders, a
little fpirit df wine, or oil, is fometimes put into the
mortar, to prevent the lighter parts of the powder from
rifing. Care (hould, however, be taken, that the fub-
itance is of fuch a nature as not to be diffolved by the
fpirit, nor injured by the rancidity that the oil is likely
to acquire ; and in every cafe, as little as poflible of ei¬
ther fltould be employed.
It is obvious that in reducing drugs to powder, too
much of the article Ihould not be put at once into the
.mortar
Several fubftances require previous preparation before
powdering •, barks, woods, roots, (hould be perfeftly
dry, and {hould be either fliced or rafped before put¬
ting into the mortar •, and fuch roots as are covered
with a very fibrous bark, {hould be fiiaved after this
has been removed, to take away fuch hairy filaments as
are ufually found between the bark and -b; wood.
Gummy refinous fubllances, fuch a? myrrh, wdiich are
liable to become foft w’hen heated, {hould be powdered
in very cold weather j and it is better, firft to reduce
them to a coarfe powder, and expofe this to the air for
a day or two, before completing the pulverization,
which will then be more eafily effe&ed. Some, fubflan-
ces cannot be reduced to powder without the addition
of fome other matter; thus, camphor requires a little
alcohol or oil; the emulfive feeds require the addition
of fome dry powder, and for aromatic oily fubifances,
the addition of a little fugar is proper.
sif,^ In order to feparate ijic finer powTder from the reft
of the fubftance, apothecaries employ fieves of various
forms. For fuch articles as require to be kept clofe,
the fieve is compofed of three parts ; a middle part,
w hich is properly the fieve for feparating the finer part of
the powder, a bottom for receiving the powder, and a
top for preventing the efcape of the finer duft.
When as much of the powder as is fufficiently fine,
has paffed through the fieve, the reft is to be returned
into the mortar, and the pulverization continued and
repeated, till as much as poflible has palled the fieve.
All the parcels of powTder are then to be intimately
mixed together, by rubbing them for a confiderable
time in the ’mortar.
197 Trituration confifts in rubbing dry fubftances that are
Trituration. aireaciy pretty fmall in order to reduce them to a very
fine powder, or to mix them intimately together. In
the fmall way it is performed in the ufual mortars; in
the large wray by means of a roller moved by w'ater or
by horfes.
.198 When it is required to reduce dry fubftances to a
viga ion. vej.y or w}jat ;s called an impalpable powder, re-
courfe is had to the operation called levigation, which
is nothing more than rubbing the fubftance for a long
time in a broad flat mortar, or upon a hard ftone, wTith
a muller, adding from time to time a little water or al¬
cohol, fo as to reduce the fubftance operated on to a
kind of pafte. This pafte is rubbed till it is as fmooth
as poflible, and is then fpread on a ftone or flat cake of
chalk, till it is fufficiently dried. Sometimes levigated
pow7ders are made up into little conical lumps, and
xlried in that form. The fubftances on which leviga-
tion is performed are chiefly earths and metallic PHncipiesof'
oxides. Pharmacy.
For the purpofe of reducing metals into minute par-
tides, they are either filed or granulated. It w ould Granufa-
not be improper that apothecaries ffiould always prepare tion.
their owm iron filings, as thofe procured from a fmith’s
{hop are generally vwy impure. The granulation of
metals is effe&ed by mdting the metal, and either ftir-
ring it briikly with an iron rod till it is cold, or pour¬
ing it into Water and ftirring it as before ; or laftly, by
pouring it into a covered box, having its infide well
rubbed with chalk, in wdiich it is well ihaken till cold,
when the adhering chalk is to be waihed awray.
Another mode of procuring the fineft particles ofjmutriati0n.
fuch fubftances as are not foluble in water, is by what
is termed elutriation, which is performed by diffufing
in water the powder or pafte to which they have been
reduced by pulverization or levigation, and after the
coarfer parti: las have fubfided, pouring off the water
that holds in fufpenfion the finer parts. The- operation
of levigation and fubfequent diffufion is repeated, till
as much as is required of the fine powder is obtained.
This is afterwards to be feparated from the water, ei¬
ther by decantation or filtration.
When the powder is fo heavy as readily to fall to the Gecanta-
bottom of the veffel, it is moft conveniently feparated tian.
by decanting off the water, either by pouring it gently
off as long as it comes over clear, or by means of a
crooked glafs fyphon fixed in a board that goes over
the mouth of the veffel to keep it Heady, as reprefent-
ed at fig. , 2o2
When the powder does not readily fubfide, it is beft Filtration,
feparated by filtration, which is performed by means of
a cone of common blotting paper, inferted into a fun¬
nel, or by means of a cloth or flannel bag. After all
the fluid has paffed through the filter, the powder that
remains on the paper is to be carefully dried.
Decantation and filtration are more commonly em¬
ployed to obtain any liquor clear from the pow’dery or
other matters with which it is mixed.
For obtaining the juices of vegetables or fruits, or ExprdTion.
the oils of feeds, &c. recourfe is had to exprejjion.
The plants or fruits are put into bags or wrappers made
of haircloth, and fubjefted to ftrong preffure by means
of a fcrew prefs, the plates of which ffiould be made of
wood or tin, and by no means of lead. The preffure
employed ffiould at firft be gentle, and ffiould be in-
creafed gradually. The oily feeds or .nuts are preffed
between iron plates, which are ufually warmed; but
when ufed cold, the oil is milder -and not fo liable to
become rancid.
Befides the mortars mentioned above, there are feve-
ral other inftruments employed in the operations of
pharmacy, on which it is proper to make a few re-
marks.
Funnels ought'to be made of tinned iron, or of glafs; Funnels,
or of the fame fort of baked earth or clay as the mor¬
tars, or of filver or of block tin.
Veffels ufed for preparing infufions, or for evaporat- xnfuring
ing liquors, or for putting deco<ftions or other liquors veffels.
into, to cool, ought to be made either of porcelain, or
of ftoneware, or of baked clay, or of earth fuch as
the mortars are made of, or of glafs; or fuch veffels as
are not a£ted upon either by acid 01 alkaline liquors.
Part HI. MATERIA
Principles of For the fame reafons, meafures of all forts, from the
Pharmacy, dram to the quart, ought to be made of tinned iron, or
of ftonevvare, or of the baked earth or clay, or of
glafs ; filver might be employed for the fmaller mea¬
fures of drams and ounces, and if taken care of, would
in the end prove cheaper than the others: if other me¬
tallic veffels are ufed, the metal ought to be of fuch a
fort as not to be aflfefted by acid or alkaline, or other
liquors; and they ought at all times fo be kept ex¬
tremely clean.
In diftilling, in melting, and in calcining different
bodies, no veffels ought to be employed which may be
afted upon by, and give a noxious quality to, the fub-
ftances to be prepared.
Moft colleges of phyficians in Europe formerly di-
refted, that both weights and meafures fhould be em¬
ployed for difpenfmg medicines, ordering folid fubftan-
ces to be prepared by weight, fluid by meafure ; and
they gave tables of the weights and meafures they wifli-
ed fhould be ufed, in the beginning of their different
difpenfatories : but it having been found that the pro-
mifcuous ufe of weights and meafures gave fometimes oc-
cafion to miftakes, the colleges of Edinburgh and of
Stockholm have, in the laft edition of their pharmaco¬
poeias, rejedted entirely the ufe of meafures, and order¬
ed both fluid and folid fubftances to be prepared by
weight. It is to be wifhed that all the.colleges In Eu-
rope would follow their example.
Meafures Meafures made to contain a certain determined
and weights weight of water are certainly very ufeful in pharmacy *,
but if fuch are allowed they ought to be employed only
for meafuring watery liquors, as thefpecific gravities of
other fluids differ fo much from one another.
In every country, all weights and meafures ufed for the
preparation of medicines ought to be made according to
the diredfions of the college of phyficians ; ftandards of
them ought to be kept in proper places, and all thofe
ought to be flamped, to {hewT that they were made ac¬
cording to the ftandard. ^
• The principal chemical operations of pharmacy may be
arranged under the following heads.
1. The infufmg certain fubftances in cold or in hot
w7ater, or in wine, to extradl their faline or light gum¬
my parts, together with fome of their fine volatile prin¬
ciples, which are mifcible with water.
2. The boiling them in wrater to extradf the fame
principles, together wnth others that are more fixed, or
which are capable of being diffolved by heat, and after¬
wards of being kept fuipended by the gummy and
mucilaginous parts which have been diffolved in the
water j thus a certain proportion of refin is found to be
fufpended in decodlions of the bark, of opium, and of
other drugs.
3. The evaporating watery infufions and decodlions,
and the expreffed juices of many vegetables, to obtain
their fixed parts which have been diffolved in a w7atery
menftruum. In this manner jellies, robs, and extradls,
are prepared.
4. The infufing or digefting certain vegetable fub¬
ftances in pure vinous fpirit to extradl their fine volatile
oils and their refinous parts 5 or in fpirit mixed with
water, called proof-fpirit, to extradl along with thofe
principles, fome of their gummy parts.
5. The evaporating of fuch tindlures to obtain their
refinous and more fixed parts j in which way refincus
Vol. XII. Part II.
207
’Infufing.
2©S
Boiling.
■209
Evapora¬
tion.
210
Digefting.
M E D 1 C A, &c. 729
extradls are got from bark, jalap, from opium, and Principles of
from other fubftances. _ Pha.m.icy.
6. The diftilling fragrant vegetable fubftances with
water, in order to procure their fine volatile principles,
w-hich come over with the water into the veffels placed
to receive it. In this manner the fimple diftilled waters
(as they are called), which have the flavour andtafte of
the fubftances from which they are diftilled, are pre¬
pared ; and the fine effential oils of the plants which
have been diftilled are found either floating on the top
of the water, or funk to the bottom of it, according
as they are fpecifically lighter or heavier than w ater.
7. The diftilling of the fame fubftances in vinous
fpirit to obtain the fame fragrant volatile parts, inti¬
mately united with the fpirit; in which manner are made
the fpirituous liquors improperly called fpirituous wa¬
ters.
In diftiiling, care ought to be taken to make the
vapours which arife condenfe properly in the veffels fet
to receive them wdten they have affumed the form of a
liquor ; which is to be effected, 1. By regulating the
fire, and never raifing the degree of heat beyond what
is neceffary; and, 2. P>y making the vapours pafs
through fuch a cool medium, as will condenfe them in¬
to a liquid.
1. The degree of heat is regulated by the figure of
the furnace in v.Thich the fire is placed, and by the
quantity of w;ood or of coal that is ufed. Where a
great degree of heat is wanted, the veffels are put in
an open fire, placed in a reverberatory furnace. Where
a lefs degree of heat is fufhcient, they are put into fand
contained in an iron pot, below which the fire is light¬
ed in a common furnace. Where a ftill fmalier degree is
required, the veffel is put into a pot with fand, and a
lamp in place of coals fixed below it. At other times
the retort, or veffel with the liquor to be diftilled, is
put into a veffel full of water or other liquor, fet over
a fire, fo that it cannot be heated beyond a certain de¬
gree.
2. The condenfation of vapours arifing from fub¬
ftances fubjedled to diftillation is effedled, as before
obferved, by making the vapour pafs through fuch a
cool medium, as wdll condenfe it into a liquor before it
reaches the bottom of the veffels fet to receive it.
In diftilling medicated waters or fpirits, the herbs or
other-vegetable fubftances, and the W'ater or the fpirit,
are put into a ftill placed in a proper furnace, on which
is fixed a large head, with a long crane-necked or cur¬
ved tube coming from the top of it, which after defend¬
ing and going off a little to one fide, enters into the
upper end of a long fpiral pipe, called a worm, which
is fixed in a large calk, called the w7orm-tub or re¬
frigeratory, with its two ends piercing the calk ; and to
its lower end is fixed a proper veffel for receiving the
diftilled liquor. The w7orm-tub, which has a cock at
the lower part of it for letting out water occafionally,
is filled with cold w’ater before the diftillation begins,
and is renewed in the courfe of the diftillation if it be¬
gins to heat, by drawing it off by means of the cock,
and pouring frelh cold water into the worm-tub. After
every thing is fitted, the fire is lighted, and the diftil¬
lation is continued fo long as the water comes over fuf-
ficiently impregnated with the vegetable fubftances put
into the ftill.
In the diftillation of vegetable or animal fubftances
A Z with
730 MATERIA M
Prir ciplesofwith Water, or with fpirit, it ought to be obferved,
Pharmacy, j t|jere ought to be put into the ftill fuch an ad-
v’ ditional quantity of water as will prevent the folid fub-
ftances which are fubjeft to the diitillation from being
burnt, as this additional xvater does not at all weaken
the produce ; for the moft volatile parts of the fubjeft
rife firft, and impregnate the liquor which firft comes
over, and the water remains behind in the ftill. 2. That
a gentle fire, fuch as is juft capable of keeping the li¬
quor boiling, is preferable to -a itrong>fire, particularly
towards the end of the procefs. 3. That the diftilla-
tion is to be continued fo long as the liquor comes over
fully impregnated wuth the volatile parts of the vege¬
table fubflances which are the fubjefts of the diftilla-
tion 5 but is to be put ah end to, fo foon as it is perceiv¬
ed to become weak, which is known by tafting from
time to time the -liquor which comes over.
8. The diftilling of vegetable or animal fubftances in
retorts without water, in order to make them rife, and
bring over by the force of fire, their watery parts, an
acid, or volatile alkaline fait, according to what nature
the fubftances are of, and an empyreumatic oil, into the
receiver ; and to get the more fixed, earthy, and oily
parts, which are left behind in the retort.
In diftilling fubftances which require a greater de¬
gree o‘f heat to raife their volatile parts, than the li¬
quors above mentioned, or which are of fuch a nature
rrs to a£l: upon, and corrode the veffels employed in
thefe procefles juft mentioned, it is neceffary to ufe the
veflels made of glafs or of earth, which have been call¬
ed retorts, from their neck being bent on one fide.
Such retorts are employed in pharmacy for diftilling
the mineral and the vegetable acids, and the prepara¬
tions made from them j in diftilling animal and vege¬
table fubftances by themfelves to procure their watery,
faline, or oily parts j for purifying quickfilver, and pre¬
paring the muriate of antimony, &c. and they may be
ufed as fubliming glaffes for making mercurial and
other preparations.
In diftilling with retorts, the matter to be diftilled is
put into the retort, which is commonly placed in fand,
contained in an iron pot, fixed above a furnace, into
which the fire is put ; but on fome particular occafions,
where only a fmall degree of heat, not exceeding that
of boiling wrater, is wanted, the retort is placed in a
water-bath.
After the retort containing the matter to be diftilled
is fixed, the end of it is either put immediately into the
mouth of another long-necked veffel called a receiver
(from its being placed to receive the diftilled liquor), and
the two veffels are luted together by means of a proper
cement •, or it is firft put into the end of a long glafs
tube called an adopter, which is luted to it, and the
other end of the tube is put into the mouth of the re¬
ceiver, and fixed to it by means of a cement.
The receivers are either made round like a decanter,
without any other opening than the mouth \ or they are
made with a tube coming out from their bottom, or
from the fide near it, to which another receiver may be
fixed, and when they are thus made they are called
tubulated receivers, and are very convenient for per¬
forming proceffes where the matter put into the retort
yields produfls of different kinds, as in the diftillation
of fpirit with the mineral acids; for the receiver or
bottle fixed to the tube may be changed as the differ-
E D I C A, &c. Part III,
ent produfls come over, fo that each of them may be^ii'C.pkscf
obtained feparately. And in ciiftilhng fubftances which Pharmacy.
yield very volatile products, one tubulated retort may v
be put after another fo as to enlarge the fpace for the
condenficn of vapours j and in diftilling thefe very vola¬
tile fubftances it is fometimes neceffary to make admail
punflure into the lutes between the retort and the re¬
ceiver, to allow fome of the vapour to efcape to prevent
its burfting the veffels.
The ufe of- the long intervening tube called an
adopter, which is put often between the retort and the
receiver, is to increafethe diftance from the retort (that
is immediately expofed to heat) to the receiver \ fo that
the receiver may be in lefs danger of being heated,,
and that the vapour may be cooled in its paffage
through this tube, and condenfe more readily in the re¬
ceiver. It is likewife of another ufe, which is to give
us an opportunity of feeing the vapour in its paffage
from the retort to the receiver, fo that we may know
how- the diftillation is going forward, and when it is
proper to change the receivers, when the different li¬
quors come over from materials which yield produdhs of
different kinds.
9. The burning vegetable fubftances in an open vef-jnc|^a<
fel to obtain a fixt alkaline fait. tion.
10. The burning the bones of animals, or the (hells
of fifties, to procure their earthy parts 3 in which manner
the calcined hartfhorn, the powder of crabs claws, and
of oyfter Ihells, are procured.
11. The mixing acid and alkaline falts in a fluid j^-g^gu..
ftate, to form the neutral falts, which may be feparated zation.
from the water either by evaporating, with a flow heat,
fuch a quantity of the water as to allow the falts to
ftioot into cryftals when fet in a cool place, or by
continuing the evaporation till the falts become dry.
12. The diffolving certain metallic fubftances, or
certain earths, in acid liquors, for obtaining metallic and
earthy falts, which may be got in a folid form in the
fame manner as the neutral falts.
13. The evaporating the purified expreffed juices of^. L1!*
certain vegetable fubftances to the confiftence of azation>
cream, and then fetting them by for months, in a cool
place, to allow the effential acid falts to concrete into
cryftals. See Crystallization.
14. The diftilling in proper veffels vitriol or other
fubftances which contain the fulphuric acid, in order to
get it feparate from them 3 and the burning of fulphur
mixed with a fmall portion of nitre, under particular
veffels, fo contrived, and fo placed, as to colle£l the fame
acid.
15. The diftilling nitre, or fea fait, mixt with a cer¬
tain portion of the fulphuric acid, in order to obtain
pure the nitric or muriatic acid.
16. The fubliming certain fubftances that become
volatile by the application of heat, into proper veffels ;tion.im *
and either to unite two of them together for the forma¬
tion of a third, as is done in the preparation of the cor-
rofive fublimate of mercury, when, the muriatic acid is
united to the quickfilver, or to feparate the volatile
parts of any fubftance from the, fixt, as is done in the
fublimation of volatile alkaline falts and of the acid of
benjamin.
17. The melting by the force of fire fuch fubftances 2I<*
as become fluid by the application of heat, fb that they "e
may be feparated from or united to other bodies. Thus
by
Part III. M A T E R I A M E D I C A* &c. ^ n
Principlf^ofby part’cuTnr management and the addition of certain
Ph-rmacy. fubftances, metals are feparated from their ores. And
rofin and bees-wax are intimately united together ; or
they are diSblved in fluid oils, for the preparation of
plafters, ointments, liniments, &c. And fulphur is
united to quickfilver for the making of a black or red
2I7 fulphuret.
Oxidation. 18. The applying of heat to metals, either to oxidate
2I3 them, or to feparate certain volatile fubftances with
R-oafting. which they are combined, or to purify them from more
oxidable metals with which they are alloyed. Thus
mercury is reduced to a red oxide merely by the con¬
tinued application of heat and air ; the fulphuret of an¬
timony is deprived of its lulphur by roafting, and filver
is feparated from lead by being expofed to Inch a heat,
as, while it only fufes the filver, reduces the lead to an
oxide. See Chemistry.
Chap. II. Of the principal forms in which Medicines
are exhibited.
219
Officinal The principal officinal preparations of the Ample nie-
forms. dicines, for the making of which direftions are given in
the Pharmacopoeias, confift of powders, pills, troches,
ele&uaries, infpijfated faces, extra&s, infufons, decoc¬
tions, mucilages, emulfions and mixtures, fyrups, tinc¬
tures, wines, for internal exhibition j and cataplafms,
liniments, ointments, cerates, and plafers, for external
220 application.
Powder. The form of powder is one of the molt Ample, and
very convenient for the exhibition of a variety of me¬
dicines. It is of courfe adapted only to fuch fubftances
as are eaAly reduced to powder, and fuch as are not
too bulky to be taken in a moderate dofe. Hence
emollient and mucilaginous herbs and roots are impro¬
perly ordered in the ftate of powder, as they are too
bulky ; alkaline falts, whether Axed or volatile, are im¬
proper, as they in general either deliquefee in the air,
or evaporate. Such articles as are of a very difagree-
able tafte, or offenAve odour, are alfo more convenient¬
ly given in fome other form.
In preparing compound powders, care fliould be
taken that the feveral ingredients ftiould be intimately
mixed together. Some of them may in general be
moft properly pow'dered feparately, but it is often of
advantage to' powder them together. They ftiould be
kept in a clofely flopped phial, and fuch as are apt to
lofe part of their virtue by long keeping, ftiould be pre¬
pared in fmall quantities.
'1 he dofe of powders fhould be To regulated as fel-
dom to exceed a dram! The fubftance in wdiich they
are to be taken Ihould be of fuch a nature as to m'x
. properly WTth them, fo that they neither float at the
221 t0jnr’ nor t0° rapi<% to the bottom of the veffel.
Pill. The form of pill is moft convenient for fuch articles
as do not require to be given in a large dofe, and are
fo unpleafant in tafte or fmell, that they cannot be
conveniently given in the form of pow'der. As many
patients can fwalW pills, who cannot take medicines
in a lefs folid form, thofe fubftances which are ufually
ordered in powder, are not unfrequently formed into
pills, when their bulk is not fo great as to render the
pills too numerous for a Angle dole.
The moft ufual fubftances that enter into the com-
pofltion of pills are reflns, gum-reflns, extrafts. and
Amilar medicines. Deliquefcetlt falts are ufually im-Pdnciplesof
proper except in fmall quantity, and then they (hould * harm<u
be combined with fame^gummy powder. Such falts as
are efflorefeent, as carbonate of foda, may enter into the
compoAtion of pills j but they Ihould be previoufly ex¬
pofed to the air, fo as to fall into powder. The li¬
quid fubftances employed to form the pills into a proper
mafs, muft be varied according to the nature of the
more folid ingredients. Powders require fyrup, muci¬
lage, balfams, foap, conferve, or honey. Gum reAns
and extrafls are fometimes fufficiently foft without any
addition j but when this is required, a little fpirit or _
wine is the moft proper. Where the mafs is to be com-
pofed of a mixture of gum-reflns and powders, the form¬
er ftiould be flrft moiilened with the prefciibed liquid,
then the powders added, and the whole beaten well to¬
gether, till they are reduced into a uniform plaftic
mafs.
A dram of the pilular mafs is generally divided into
about twelve pills, lb that each pill may weigh about
flve grains.
The maftes for pills ftiould be kept in bladders, and
tbefe ftiould be moiftened now and then, either with a
little wine, or with fome of the fame liquid that wras em¬
ployed in forming the mafs.
Troches or lozenges are hard, round, fiat cakes, Troches,
formed of fuch fubftances as are intended to be gradual¬
ly diffolved in the mouth, and thus pafs by degrees
into the ftomach, or in their paffage thither a<5t on the
throat or larynx. They Ihould be formed of fuch fub¬
ftances as are foluble in the faliva, and are not of a
difagreeable tafte. They uftially contain a great deal
of lugar, and fome gummy matter to render them co¬
herent.
Ele&uaries are lefs folid than pills, being of fuch aEle&uari<^
confidence that they may be i-olled up into a bolus, lb
as to be eafily fwallowed. They are chiefly compofed
of powders mixed up with fyrup or honey. The fub- .
fiances that enter into the compofttion of ele&uaries are
chiefly the milder alterative medicines, or gentle laxa¬
tives. The ftronger cathartics, emetics, and fuch fub¬
ftances as are of an unpleafant tafte, fuch as bitters, the
fetid gum-refins, and very heavy powders, are impro¬
per. The liquid employed to form ele&uaries is ufually
fyrup or honey, the proportion of which is regulated by
the nature of the more folid ingredients, but is ufually
of nearly equal weight.
Confe&ions are now confidered as fynonimous with Confedicns
ele&uaries, as they differ from ordinary ele&uaries in
nothing but being compofed of more aromatic ingre¬
dients. 22S
Conferves may be confidered as ele&uaries formed ofConferve^,
only two ingredients, one of which is fugar, and the
other the pulp of fome fruit, the petals of flowers, or the
outer rind of Seville oranges. 22^
Extra&sand refins are pharmaceutical preparations, the Extra&s
rationale of which is very little underftood. Dr Andrew anc* refin?'
Duncan Junr. has given an excellent account of them,
which we fhall here copy.
“ Extra& in pharmacy has long been ufed, in the
common and true acceptation of the term, to exprefs a
thing extra&ed, and therefore it w^as applied to fub- .
fiances ©f all kinds which were extra&ed from hetero¬
geneous bodies, by the a&ion of any menftruum, and
again reduced to a confiftent form, by the evaporation
4 Z 2 of
732 M A T E R I A
F'inciplesofof that menftruum. Lately, however, e^traft has been
Pharmacy. u{-e(j jn a di{ferent: ancl much more limited fenfe, as
the name for a peculiar principle, which is often indeed
contained in extrafls, and which before had no proper
appellation. It is in the former fenfe that we employ
it here, and in which we wi(h it to be only ufed, while
a new word fhould be invented as the name of the new
fubftance. Till a better be propofed, we fhall call it
extractive,
“ Extrafts are, of various kinds, according to the na¬
ture of the fubftances from which they are obtained,
and the menftruum employed *, but they commonly
confift of gum, fugar, extraftive tannin, cinchonin,
gallic acid, or refin, or feveral of them mixed in vari¬
ous proportions. The menftrua moft commonly em¬
ployed are water and alcohol. The former is capable
of extrafting all the fubftances enumerated, except the
refin, and the latter all except the gum. Wine is alfo
fometimes employed, but very improperly j for as a fol-
yent it can only aft as a mixture of alcohol and rvater,
and the principles which it leaves behind on evapora¬
tion are rather injurious than of advantage to the ex-
traft.
“ Water is the menftruum moft commonly employed
in making extrafts, as it is capable of diffolving all
the aftive principles except refin, and can have its fol-
vent powers aftifted by a confiderable degree of heat.
“ Watery extrafts are prepared by boiling the fubjeft
in water, and evaporating the ftrained decoftion to a
thick confiftence.
“ It is indifferent with regard to the medicine, whether
the fubjeft be ufed freftt or dry ; fince nothing that can
be preferved in this procefs will be loft by drying.
With regard to the facility of extraftion, however, there
is a very confiderable difference ; vegetables in general
giving out their virtues more readily when moderately
dried than when frefti.
“ Very compaft dry fubftances (hould be reduced into
exceedingly fmall parts, previous to the affufion of the
menftruum.
“ The quantity of water ought to be no greater than
is neceffary for extrafting the virtues of the fubjeft.
This point, however, is not very eafily afcertained ; for
although fome of the common principles of extrafts be
foluble in a very fmall proportion of water, there are
others, fuch as tannin, of which water can diffolve only
a fmall proportion, and cannot be made to take up
more by any length of boiling •, befides we have no
very good method of knowing when we have ufed a
fufficient quantity of water; for vegetable fubftances
will continue to colour deeply fucceftive portions of wTa-
ter boiled with them, long after they are yielding no¬
thing to it but colouring matter. Perhaps one of the
belt methods is to boil the fubjeft in fucceflive quanti¬
ties of water, as long as the decoftions form a confider¬
able precipitate with the teft which is proper for de-
tefting the fubftance we are extrafting, fuch as a fo-
lution of gelatin for tannin, of alum for extraftive, &c.
The decoftions are to be depurated by colature, and
afterwards fuffered to Hand for a day or two, when a
confiderable quantity of fediment is ufually found at the
bottom. If the liquor poured bff clear be boiled dowm
a little, and afterwards fuffered to cool again, it will
depofit a frefh fediment, from which it may be decanted
before you proceed to finifti the evaporation. The de-
M E D I C A, &c. Part III.
coftions of very refinous fubftances do not require this Principlesof
treatment, and are rather injured by it, the refin fub- Pharmacy,
fiding along with the aftive dregs. ' v f
“ We would advife the decoftions to be evaporated
after they have been filtered boiling hot, without any
further depuration 5 becaufe fome of the moft aftive
principles of vegetable fubftances, fuch as tannin, are
much more foluble in boiling than in cold water, and
becaufe almoft all of them are very quickly affefted by
expofure to the atmofphere. Therefore, if a boiling
decoftion, faturated with tannin, be allowed to cool,
the greateft part of the very principle on which the ac¬
tivity o( the fubftance depends will feparate to the bot¬
tom, and according to the above direftions, will be
thrown away as fediment. The fame objeftion applies
more ftrongly to allowing the decoftion to cool, and
depofite frefti fediment, after it has been partially eva¬
porated. Befides, by allowing the decoftions to ftand
feveral days before we proceed to their evaporation,
we are in faft allowing the aftive principles contained
in the decoftion to be altered by the aftion of the air,
and to be converted into fubftances, perhaps inaftive,
which alfo are thrown away as fediment.
“ The evaporation is moft conveniently performed in
broad (hallow veffels ; the larger the furface of the li¬
quor, the fooner will the aqueous parts exhale. This
effect may likewife be promoted by agitation.
“ When the matter begins to grow thick, great care is *
neceffary to prevent its burning. This accident, almoft;
unavoidable if the quantity be large, and the fire ap¬
plied as ufual under the evaporating bafon, may be ef-
feftually prevented, by carrying on the infpiffation, af¬
ter the common manner, no further than to the confirt-
ence of a fyrup, when the matter is to be poured into
(hallow tin or earthen pans, and placed in an oven,
with its door open, moderately heated j which afting
uniformly on every part of the liquid, will foon reduce
it to any confiftence required. This may likewife be
done, and more fecurely, by fetting the evaporating
veffel in boiling water 5 but the evaporation is in this
way very tedious.
“ Alcohol is by far too expenfive to be employed as a
menftruum for obtaining extrafts, except in thofe cafes
where water is totally inadequate to the purpofe. Thefe
cafes are,
“ 1 • When the nature of the extraft is very periftiable
when diffolved in water, fo that it is liable to be
decompofed before the evaporation can be completed,
efpecially if we cannot proceed immediately to the eva¬
poration.
“ 2. When water is totally incapable of diffolving the
fubftance to be extrafted, and
“ 3. When the fubftance extrafted can bear the heat •
of boiling alcohol without being evaporated, but would
be diflipated by that of boiling water ; that is, when it
requires a heat greater than 176°, and lefs than 212®,
for its evaporization.
“ In the laft cafe, the alcohol muft be perfeftly free
from water, becaufe the heat neceffary to evaporate it
at the end of the procefs would fruftrate the whole ope¬
ration. Hence, alfo, the fubjeft itfelf ought always to
be dry j thofe fubftances which lofe their virtue by dry¬
ing, lofe it equally on being fubmitted to this treatment
■with tke pureft alcohol.
“ In this way the alcoholic eytraft of fome aromatic
fubftances.
Part Ilf. MATERIA
Prindplesoffubflancesj as cinnamon, lavender, rofemary, retain a
Pharmacy. confiderable degree of their fine flavour.
U^v “ In the fecond cafe, the alcohol need not be fo very
flrong, becaufe it is ftill capable of diflblving refinous
fubflances, although diluted with a confiderable pro¬
portion of water.
“ In the firft cafe, the alcohol may be ftill much weak¬
er, or rather, the addition of a fmall proportion ©f alco¬
hol to water wdll be fufficient to retard or prevent the
decompofition of the deco&ion.
“ The alcohol employed in all thefe cafes fliould be
perfectly free from any unpleafant flavour, left it be
communicated to the extract.
“ The inlpiffation fhould be performed, from the begin¬
ning, in the gentle heat of a water-bath. We need
not luffer the alcohol to evaporate in the air *, the great-
eft part of it may be recovered by collefting the va¬
pour in common diftilling veffels. If the diftilled fpirit
be found to have brought over any flavour from the fub-
je61, it may be advantageoufly referved for the fame
purpofes again.
“ When diluted alcohol is employed, the diftillation
ftiould only be continued as long as alcohol comes over;
and the evaporation fliould be finiftied in wide open vef¬
fels.
“ Pure refins are prepared, by adding to fpirituous
tinftures of refinous vegetables, a large quantity of wa¬
ter. The refin, incapable of remaining diffolved in the
watery liquor, feparates and falls to the bottom ; leav¬
ing in the menftruum fuch other principles of the plant
as the fpirit might have extracted at firft along with it.
* Duncan's But this is only pra&ifed for the purpofe of asalyfis*.”
New Dif- Of infufions and deco&ions it is unneceffary for us
penfatory, t0 make any farther remarks, after what was obferved
chap, xjcxiv. in No 2cq and 20I.
Mucilages are folutions of the pure gums, or of fimi-
lar fubftances, in water. They fliould not be made too
thin, as they are then more readily decompofed on ex-
pofure to the air.
Mixtures are liquid preparations compofed of fub¬
ftances that are not foluble in water, as various powders,
barks, roots, &c. Emulfions differ from mixtures in
being compofed of oily or refinous ingredients, fufpend-
ed in water by means of yolk of egg, honey, or muci¬
lage. Both thefe preparations ftiould be made as they
are required, as few of them keep well.
Syrups are folutions of fugar, either in plain water,
in the juice of fome fruit, or in fome vegetable infufion
or decoftion. They are employed chiefly to render
mixtures or other liquid medicines more palatable, or to
mix up powders and other folid ingredients into pill$,
electuaries, or troches. The proportion of fugar em¬
ployed in the making of fyrups fliould be fo regulated
as to preferve the fyrup in the fame ftate as when firft
made. If too little fugar has been employed, the fyrup'
will fuffer decompofition, and ferment •, if too much,
part of the fugar will feparate in cryftals, leaving the
remainder too weak. .
Formerly the term tin&ure was employed to denote
any tranfparent folution, whether in water or fpirit, that
was coloured. At prefent it is commonly applied to
folutions made by digeftion in alcohol, or in proof fpirit,
though it is frequently extended to folutions in ether,
M E D I C A, See.
733
22J
Mucilages,
228
Mixtures
and emul-
fions.
229
Syrups.
230
Tinctures.
or in ammoniated alcohol. For the aClion of alcohol Principles of
as a menftruum, fee CHEMISTRY. Pharmacy..
In making alcoholic tindtures, we muft obferve that ""
the virtues of recent vegetable matters are very imper-
feftly extradled by. fpirituou? menftrua. They muft
therefore be previoufty carefully dried, and as we can¬
not aflift the folution by means of heat, we muft facili¬
tate it by reducing the folvend to a ftate of as minute
mechanical divifion as poflible. To prevent lofs, the
folution is commonly made in a clofe veffel, and the
heat applied muft be very gentle, left it be broken by
the expanfion of vapour.
The adtion of tindfures on the living fyftem is always
compounded of the adfion of the menftruum, and of the
matters diffolved in it. Nowr, thefe adlions may either
coincide with, or oppofe each other 5 and as alcohol is
at all times a powerful agent, it is evident that no fub-
ftance fhculd be exhibited in the form of a tindlure,
whofe adlion is different from that of alcohol, unlefs
it be capable of operating in fo fmall a dofe, that
the quantity of alcohol taken along with it is inconli-
derable.
Tindfures are not liable to fpoil, as it is called, but
they muft neverthelefs be kept in w'ell clofed phials, el-
pecially when they contain adlive ingredients, to pre¬
vent the evaporation of the menflruum.
They generally operate in dofes fo fmall, that they
are rarely exhibited by them (elves, but commonly com¬
bined with fome vehicle. In choofing the latter, we
muft feledf forne fubftance which does not decompofe
the tinefure, or at leaft feparate nothing from it in a
palatable form.
The London college diredfs all tindfures, except that
of muriate of iron, to be prepared in clofe phials.
The Dublin college explain, that when any other
fubftances are to be digefted, they mean it to be done'
with a low degree of heat *, and when they are to be
macerated, it is to be done with a degree of heat be¬
tween 6o° and 90°. * * Duncan’s
Medicated wines and medicated vinegars differ from ^^''f7^~
tindfures in nothing but the menftruum. ^xx!' C ^
Of the external applications, the preparations of ^
which are given in the Pharmacopoeias, cataplafms or Cataplafms.
poultices may be confidered as extemporaneous, being
never kept ready made.
Liniments, ointments, and'cerates, are compofitions r • .2:3\
c r 7 .,7., 7 Liniments,
or fatty matters, either ammai or vegetable, or b6th,0intment:s
employed as external emollients. They differ only in'and ceratss-
confiftence, liniments being very foft, or nearly -fluid 5
ointments fufficiently hard not to melt in the ordinary
temperature of the atmofphere ; and cerates being of
fuch a confiftence as to be readily fpread on cloth, &c.
without the afliftance of heat. Thefe laft commonly
contain a confiderable proportion of wax, whence their '
name.
Plafters are more folid than cerates, and ufually re- plafterf
quire the aid of heat to fpread them on the proper fub- *
ftance for application, which is ufually leather. Plaf¬
ters fometimes contain powders in their compofition, and
in preparing thefe it is proper firft to melt the fatty in¬
gredients, and fprinkle in the powder when the melted
matter is beginning to cool.
PART IV,
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Part IV.
734
Hiftoryof
Simple and Hrftoty of
Officinal T~.. , r„ ,VTV ' Simple and
Medicines. IAivi lv. A B^vIEF ACCOUNT OF TFIF, ARTICLES OF THE MATFRTA MFUT *Wficir,al
CA, WITH THEIR OFFICINAL PREPARATIONS. -Mefficmes.
234
Phofphorus.
235
Muriate of
ataunonia.
. 235
Water of
ammonia.
Chap. I. Animal Subjlances.
r. Phosphorus, fee Chemistry Index.
Some daring pra&itioners have lately ventured to
recommend the internal ufe of this aftive inflammable
in the advanced ftage of typhus, in palfy and other cafes
of great debility. Taken into the ftomach in a mode¬
rate quantity (below a grain) it produces heat in that
organ, accelerates the pulfe, promotes perfpiration, and
is faid to give unufual vigour to the body. In larger
quantity it produces inflammation of the ftomach and
bowels, followed by gangrene and death. Dofe one-
eighth to one-fourth of a grain in ether, or incorporated
with mucilage.
The internal ufe of this fubftance appears to us to be
more than doubtful; but we think we have experienced
borne benefit from it externally, when diffolved in oil,
in paralytic and rheumatic cafes.
2. Murias Ammonite, E. SAL AMMONIA-
CUS, L. D. Muriate of ammonia. Hal ammoniac (d).
The pureft muriate of ammonia of commerce is that
prepared by fublimation, and which is formed of large
convexo-concave cakes, firm and elaftic, not eafily
broken, and difficult to be cut. It is of a yellowiflr
white colour, of little fmell, and of a very ftiarp faline
tafte.
It is found native in the neighbourhood of volcanoes)
but is ufually prepared for medical purpofes either from
the dung of animals that feed on fait marlhes j or by
decompofing fulphate 'of ammonia by muriate of foda,
or by immediately combining ammonia with muriatic
acid.
Internally it is fometimes given as a ftimulant in ty¬
phus fevers in dofes of 20 or 30 grains mixed with
camphorated mixture ; but it is principally employed
externally in lotions and embrocations, either as a refri¬
gerant to cool the furface in fprains and inflammations,
or as a ftimulant to difperfe tumors or morbid accumula¬
tions of fluids, or to quicken the circulation, as in chill-
blains, &c.
Officinal Preparations.
a. A qua Ammonite, E. AQ_UA AMMONIiE PU-
RJE, L. LIQUOR ALKALI VOLATILIS CAUS¬
TIC US D. Water of ammonia. Water of pure ammo¬
nia. Cau/iic folution of volatile alkali. Strong fpirit of fal
fimmoniac.
This is prepared by decompofing muriate of ammo¬
nia by means of quicklime with the addition of water,
and afterwards diftilling off the ftrongeft portion with a
gentle heat. The preparations of the different colleges
vary a little, the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia ordering
one pound of muriate of ammonia to one pound and a
h. -f oi quicklime 5 the London one pound to two
pounds-, and the Dublin 16 ounces to two pounds. No
great quantity of water is neceffary. The lime is firft
flaked with part of the water, and after it is cold, the
fait and reft of the water are added, and the dittilktion
carried on in well-clofed veffels. The Edinburgh col¬
lege directs Woolf’s apparatus to be employed as a re¬
ceiver, and orders all the leparate liquors to be mixed
together.
Y\\t folution of ammonia fliould be perfectly limpid
and tranfparent, ftiould have an extremely pungent o*
dour, ftiould not effervefce with acids, and fliouM pro¬
duce no precipitate on the addition of alcohol or lime
water. It (hould be kept in fmall bottles well ftopt
with ground ftoppers, and fliould ftand in a very cool
place.
1 his preparation is a very pow-erful ftimulafit, irri¬
tating and inflaming the fkin and noftrils, when applied
externally or fnuffed up the nofe. Hence its ufe as a
rubefacient in rheumatifm, cynanche, paralyfis, and as a
general ftimulus in fyncope, hyfteria, &c. It is fcarce-
ly ufed internally. See below.
b. Alcohol ammoniatum, E. SPIRITUS AM- a 237 •
MONIiE, L. SPIRITUS ALKALI VOLATIL^.edToS"
D. Ammoniated alcohol. Spirit of ammonia. Spirit of
volatile alkali.
This as prepared by the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia
is merely a lolution of ammonia in alcohol, and is pre¬
pared by decompofing eight ounces of muriate of am¬
monia by 12 ounces of quicklime, with the addition of
eight ounces of water and 52 ounces of alcohol, and
diflilling off the alcohol. The preparation of the Lon¬
don and Dublin colleges is made by mixing four ounces
of muriate with fix ounces of potalhes and three pints of
alcohol. The latter therefore contains much carbo¬
nate of ammonia, and is not fo ftrong as the former.
c. Carbonas Ammonite, E. AMMONIA PRE-r f3*
PARATA, L. ALKALI VOLATILE MITE, D.S^mm?
Carbonate of ammonia. Prepared ammonia. Mild^ii.
•volatile alkali.
This is prepared by mixing together one pound of
muriate of ammonia, ^nd twelve pounds of pure carbo¬
nate of lime or chalk, after being reduced* to powder
feparately, and afterwards fubliming.
I his preparation, as it occurs in the fliops, is compof-
ed of irregular maffes of a very white, nearly opaque
fait, of a ftrong pungent odour, and ftiarp alkaline
tafte. It requires to be kept clofely flopped from the
air, by the a£hon of which it crumbles into powder,
and its volatile part is diffipated. When pure, it ffioukl
be entirely volatilizable by heat, but if any thing re¬
mains
(D) I he letters E. L. D. affixed to the articles in this part denote that they are articles of the Edinburgh,
London, cr Dublin Pnarmacopoeias. fc
I
PartlV. MATERIA
Hiftory of mains, there is reafon to fuppofe that carbonate of pot-
SOfficina”da^1 °r ^rae’s m^xec^ ^ 5 an(^ thofe impurities are
Medicines. mo^ t0 be prefent if it is purchafed in the form
/ of a powder. .
Carbonate of ammonia in its medical properties re-
fembles the folution of ammonia, but it is not fo ftrong.
It is chiefly employed for fmelling bottles, which are
ufed in cafes of hyfteria or fyncope, and is often formed
into a neutral fait with the juice of lemons, [citrate of
ammonia) and given as a gentle diaphoretic. It is
fometimes given alone, or mixed with aromatics, in the
form of a bolus, as a diaphoretic or llimuiant. Dofe
five to ten grains.
239 .
Water of
Carbonate
of ammo¬
nia.
240
Water of
acetate of
ammonia.
241
Hydro-ful-
phuret of
ammonia.
d. Aqua Careonatis Ammonite, E. AQUA AM¬
MONIA, L. LIQUOR ALKALI VOL ATILIS
MI IIS, D. Water of carbonate of ammonia. Liquor
of mild volatile alkali.
This is merely a folution of carbonate of ammonia in
wateji, and might be properly prepared by diflidving a
certain proportion of that fait in dlftilled water. The
colleges of Edinburgh and Dublin direft it to be made
by mixing together 16 ounces of muriate of ammonia, and
the fame quantity of carbonate of potaih, pouring upon
them two pounds of water, and dihilling to drynefs.
In the London Pharmacopoeia, the proportions are one
pound of the muriate, a pound and a half of potafhes,
and four pints of water, drawing off two pints by dif-
tillation with a flow fire.
1 his folution fliould be tranfparent and colourlefs ;
Ihould produce a flrong coagulum on the addition of al¬
cohol, and fhould effervefce with aoids.
It is often employed in medicine, both internally
and externally. Internally it is given, firfl as an eme¬
tic, in a dofe of from 1 to 2 drams: fecondly, as a dia¬
phoretic dofe about 50 drops : thirdly, as a flimulant,
20 drops to a dram : fourthly as an antifpafmodic, in a
fimilar dofe : fifthly, as an antacid : and fixthly, as an
anthelmintic combined with oil into an emulfion.
e. Aqua Acetitis Ammonite, E. AQUA AM-
MONIiE ACETATAE, L. LIQUOR ALKALI
VOLATILIS ACETATI, D. SPIRITUS MIN-
DERERI. Water of acetite of ammonia. Water of
acetated ammonia. Liquor of acetatcd volatile alkali.
Mindererases fbirit.
This is a fecondary fait, formed by neutralizing car¬
bonate of ammonia with diftilled acetous acid.
It forms a tolerably tranfparent folution, commonly
of a greenifh caft, of little fmell, and of a weak fa-
line tafte. It fhould fliewr no figns of effervefcence on
the addition of either acetous acid or carbonate of am¬
monia.
This medicine a£ls as a gentle diaphoretic, of confi-
derable ufe in low fevers, and feveral inflammatory com¬
plaints. It may be given in a dofe of ^——6 drams, in
the form ot a draught or julep. It fhould be aflifted by
warm clothing, and warm diluent liquors.
/ Hydrosulhuretum Ammonite, E. Hydroful-
phuret of ammonia.
ihis preparation has been newly introduced into
medical praftice, by the Edinburgh college, who dired
it to be prepared by fubjefling 4. ounces of water of am¬
monia to a Itream of gas arifing from a mixture of 4
ME DIG A, &c. 7,5
ounces of fulphuvet of iron, and 8 ounces of muriatic Hiftory of
acid, previoufly diluted with 2I- pounds of water. Simple and
This preparation forms a folution of a dark green co- jv^cine-
lour and very fetid odour. It fhould more properly ^ ‘ »
be called fulphureted hydrogenet of ammonia. It a£ts
powerfully on the living fyflem. It induces t’ertigo,
drowfinefs, naufea, and vomiting, and leffens the ac¬
tion of the heart and arteries. It therefore deems to be
a diredf fedative. According to the dodlrine of the
chemical phyfiologifts, it is a powerful difoxygenizing
remedy. It has only been ufed in diabetes by Dr
Kollo and others, under the name of hepatized ammo- * Duncan's
nia, in dofes of five or ten drops twice or thrice a Difpenfa-
day *. . tory.
242
gt Oleum ammoniatum, E. LINIMENTUM ^mmoniat-
AMMONITE, L. D. LINIMENTUM VOLA-edoiI-
IJLE. Ammoriiated oil. Liniment of ammonia. Vola¬
tile liniment.
Ammoniated oil is properly a foap, formed by com¬
bining a folution of ammonia, or of carbonate of am¬
monia, with olive oil. The Edinburgh college diredls
it to be prepared by mixing together two ounces of
olive oil and two drams of water of ammonia. The
London college has two preparations of this kind ; a
fironger, formed of one ounce of water of pure am¬
monia, mixed with two ounces of olive oil j and a
weaker, of half an ounce of water of ammonia and one
ounce and a half of oil.
This preparation is feldom kept ready made, as by
Handing it becomes thick, and is diminilhed in ftrength.
It is of a light yellow colour.
Ammoniated oil is a ufeful external application in
cafes of cynanche and rheumatifm, being either rub¬
bed on the affefled part, or applied to it Ipread on flan¬
nel, and changed occalionally.
243
/l Alcohol ammoniatum aromaticum,E. SPIRT Aromatic
TUS AMMONITE COMPOSITUS, L. SPIRT! USammoniat’
ALKALI VOLATILIS AROMATICUS,D. Aro-ed alcoho1'
matic ammoniated alcohol. Compound fbirit of ammonia.
Aromatic fpirit of volatile alkali. Sal volatile.
This is a compofition of ammoniated alcohol with va¬
rious aromatic oils. In the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia
it is prepared by diflblving one dram and a half of oil
of rofexnary, and one dram of oil of lemon peel, in eight
ounces of ammoniated alcohol: by the London college
we are diredted to prepare it of two pints of fpirit of
ammonia, and two drams of oil of lemon, and of oil of
cloves; and by that of Dublin, of two pounds of fpiiit,
and of oil of lemon and oil of nutmeg, each two drams.
It is of a light amber colour, and of a very fragrant
fmell. It is more palatable and lefs acrimonious than
the other preparations of ammonia, and is well hat¬
ed to fpafmodic complaints, falntnefs, and weak-
nefs of the ftomach. De!e from twenty drops to a
dram.
* T ^ 244
i. Linimentum VOLATILE, D. Volatile Liniment 0/* Volatile
the Dublin college. nnnent.
A compound of one part of the above preparation
and two parts of the Dublin foap liniment, of which
hereafter. A fiimulating external application. 245
7 o . ‘ Succiuated %
/; bPiRiTus Ammonite succinatus, L. SuccinatedQim of
fpirit of ammonia. ammonia...
This,'
246
Fetid am-
'inoniated
alcohol.
736 MATERIA
Hiftory of This is prepared by diffolving a fcruple of rectified
^^leand°;i 0p amber) an(j ten grains of foap in an ounce weight
Medicines alcohol, and then adding four meafured ounces of
In.  - water of pure ammonia.
It is at firll of a milky colour, but gradually be¬
comes more or lefs tranfparent by Handing. It is
confidered as much the fame with the French eau de
luce.
It is an ufeful antifpafmodic, whether fnuffed up the
nofe or rubbed on the temples.
/. Alcohol ammoniatum foetidum, E. -SPI-
RITUS AMMONITE FCETIDUS, L. SPIRITUS
ALKALI VOLATILIS FCETIDUS, D. Fetid
ammoniated alcohol. Fetidffnrit of volatile all ah.
A folution of afafoetida in fpirit of ammonia, which
is prepared according to the Edinburgh college by di-
gefting half an ounce of afafoetida in eight ounces of
fpirit of ammonia for 1 2 hours, and diftilling oft’ the
fpirit. The London college direfts fix pints of proof
fpirits, a pound of fal ammoniac, four ounces of afa¬
foetida, and a pound and half of potalh, to be mixed
together, and five pints to be diftilled off with a flow
fire.
An excellent antifpafmodic, particularly fuited to hy-
fterical cafes. Dofe from 30 drops to a dram.
Particular Animal Subjlanccs.
Class MAMMALIA. Order Glires.
3. Castor fiber, E. The Beaver. CASTOR-
EUM, L. D. Cafor.
This is a fubftance fecreted in a follicle fituated near
the anus of the beaver, perhaps the inguinal gland.
It is of a dark brown colour, friable, of a pungent bit¬
ter tafte, and a very ftrong unpleafant fmell. It is con¬
tained in a roundifh or flattened membranous bag.
Bouillon la Grange has found by analyfis, that it con-
fifls of mucilage, bitter extra<5!, refin, a peculiar volatile
.oil, and a flaky cryftalline fubftance refembling adipo-
eire. Its volatile parts come over by diftillation with
water, and great part of the fubftance is foluble in al¬
cohol.
The beft caflor comes from Ruffia, but a great deal
is brought from Canada. The Ruffian caftor is in larger,
rounder bags, and is of a much ftronger fmell than the
Canadian.
Caftor is one of our moft eftablifhed antifpafmodics,
and was much efteemed and extolled by Dr Cullen.
It is chiefly prefcribed in hyfteria, but feldom alone
or in fubftance. Dofe from 10 to 30 grains in a
bolus.
M £ DIG A, &c. Part TV.
from 30 drops to a dram. It is fometimes ufed as an Hiftory of
external application in ear-ach ; equal parts of this and
tincture of opium being dropped into the ear. Medicines.
247
®aftor.
. 248
Tincture of
*aftc@:.
b. Tinctura Castorei composita, E.
pound tincture of caftor.
c°m- 249
Compound
This is prepared by digefting an ounce of powdered
Ruffian caftor, and half an ounce of afaloelida, in a
pound of ammoniated alcohol for feven days, filtering
the liquor through paper.
A more powerful antifpafmodic than the former j dofe
from 20 to 40 drops.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Tinctura Castorei. Tinfture of Caftor.
The London and Dublin colleges direct two ounces
of powdered Ruffian caftor to be digefted ten or feven
days in two pints ( London), or two pounds (Dublin), of
proof fpirit. According to the Edinburgh formula, an
ounce and half of Ruffian caftor is to be digefted for
ieven days in a pound of alcohol, and the tincture (train¬
ed through paper.
This tinfture is of a dark brown colour, and poffeffes
all the valuable properties of the fimple drug. Dofe
3
4. Moschus moschiferus, E. The mulk animal. Muikf
MOSCHUS, L. D. Mufk.
Mufk is a reftnous matter fecreted in a receptacle
fituated near the navel of the muik animal. See Mam¬
malia Index.
This fubilance is, when dry, of a reddifh brown or
rufty l^lack colour, fomewhat un&uous, and of a more
or lefs granulated appearance : it has a bitterifti and
rather acrid tafte •, a fragrant fmell, agreeable at a di-
ftance, but fo ftrong as to be highly unpleafant when
fmelt near to. So violent indeed is the fmell of mulk,
when frefti taken from the animal, or from quantities
put up by the merchants for fale, that it has been known
to force the blood from the nofe, eyes, and ears, of
thofe who have imprudently inhaled its vapours 5 and
we are affured by Chardin, that whenever he engaged
in the purchafe of mulk, he found it always neceffary to
cover his face with feveral folds of a handkerchief, in
order to be fufficiently fecure againft the fudden effe£ts
of the fmell.
As mulk is an expenfive drug, it is frequently adultera¬
ted by various fubftances j and we are affured that pieces
of lead have been found in fomeof the receptacles, inferted
in order to increafe the weight. The moft ufual mode
of adulterating it is by taking the mulk from the bag,
and mixing it with dried blood coarfely powdered.
This may in general be detedled by obferving that the
bag has been opened j by the fetid fmell which the
fubftance emits when heated, and by the fmell of amo-
moniacal gas which is perceived when the adulterated
mulk is rubbed with potalh.
This fubftance is particularly efficacious, and there
is fcarcely any fubftitute for it in particular cafes.
When properly adminiftered it fometimes fucceeds in
the moft defperate cafes. It raifes the pulfe without
producing much heat; it removes fpafmodic affe&ions,
and is found to have confiderable effedt on the nervous
fyftem, increafing the powers of thought, fenfation, and
voluntary motion.
It may be employed in all cafes of typhus fevers 5
in particular, where there is much delirium, fubfultus
tendinum, &c. It is alfo employed in febrile eruptions,
and in many fpafmodic difeafes, as the chincough, epi-
lepfy, tetanus, &c.
25»
Officinal Preparations.
a. Tinctura Moschae, D. Tinflure of mulk.
This is prepared by macerating two drams of mulkmufli*
in a pound of reftified fpirit of wine for feven days, and
draining the liquor.
The tinclure of mulk may be given in dofes of a
dram
. 2-51 ,
Tmcfture of
Fart IV.
Hitter y of dram or two. It is beft mixed with boney or iyrup, as
S;mp'e ami addition of water renders it turbid.
Officinal
Mcdicmci. y jvJistura moschata, L. Mulk mixture.
2C2 This is directed by the London college to be made
Mufk mix- ky rufj[dng two fcruples of muljc, firft with one dram
of double refined fugar, then with the addition of the
fame quantity of powdered gum arabic, and fix ounces
of rofe water, added by degrees.
The mufk muft be well rubbed with the fugar and
gum, before the rofe water be added, otherwife a re¬
paration will take place. It is bed; to make this
prepartion only when required, as it does not keep
wTell.
Mufk mixture is given in mod of the cafes in which
the fimple drug is indicated. Dofe, an ounce or an
ounce and a half.
nr 5- Cervus Elaphus, E. the Stag. CORNU CER-
HarUhom. YJNUM, L. D. Hart/born.
The horn of the dag differs little from bone, except
in containing more cartilage. It was formerly employ¬
ed in the preparation of ammonia, whence that alkali was
denominated hartfkorn, and at prefent there are two or
three modifications of ammonia that are directed to be
prepared from this fubdance. It is alfo burnt to form
pure phofphate of lime.
Officinal Preparations.
*54 Phosphas Calcis, E. CORNU CERVI, VEL
ef lime. CERVINUM USTUM, L. D. Phofphate of lime.
Burnt hartjhorn.
737
carbonate, except in containing a quantity of empyreu- Hiftory of
matic oil. They are in fadl lefs pure than the above‘n^
mentioned preparations of ammonia, and might be en
tirely fet afide. They are chiedy uied to fmell to in
cafes of fainting or hyderia.
Thefe preparations may be made from the bones or
horns of any animal, where hartlhorn cannot be conve¬
niently procured. g
e. Oleum animale, L. OLEUM CORNUAnimal oi?'
C ER VIN I RECTIFICATUM, D. Animal oil.
Reclijied oil of hartjhorn. Dippel's oil.
This is made by diddling the oil ©f hartfhorn that
rifes in the preceding operation, twice or three times,
either by itfelf, or with the addition of water.
Animal oil was formerly much employed as a power¬
ful antifpafmodic. Dofe 15—30 drops. When given
fix hours before the acceffion of a paroxyfm of an inter¬
mitting fever, on an empty domach, it is faid to have
kept off the paroxyfra.
6. Ovis Aries, E. the Sheep. SEVUM OVIL-Mutto*
LUM, L. D. Mutton fuel. fuet-
Mutton fuet is employed in the preparation of fevera^
ointments and cerates, which will be mentioned here¬
after.
Order 6. BellUTE.
z6o
7. Sus scrofa, E. the Hog. ADEPS SUILLUS,Ho!ds iard.
L. D. //ogs lard.
Ufed alfo in the preparation of liniments, ointments,
&c. and fometimes employed alone as an external
emollient.
M A T E R I A M E D I C A, &c.
The Edinburgh college dire&s this to be pre¬
pared by burning pieces of hartfhorn till they be¬
come perfetUy white, and then reducing them to a fine
powder.
Burnt hartfhorn wTas formerly given as an antacid j
but its efficacy in that wTay appears to be trifling, as the
phofphoric acid is not eafily feparated from the lime,
and of courfe "the latter will not neutralife the acid mor¬
bidly fecreted in the alimentary canal. Of late pure
phofphate of lime has been recommended as a remedy
for rickets, with the view' of fupplying folid matter to
the bones. Dofe about ten grains.
. *55
Volatile
ficpicr of
hartffiorn.
256
Salt of
haitffiorr>.
. 257
Oil at
hartfliorn.
h. Liquor volatilis Cornu Cervi, L. D. Vo¬
latile liquor of hartfhorn. Spirit of hartjhorn.
c. Sal Cornu Cervi, L. D. Salt of hartffiorn.
d. Oleum Cornu Cervi, L. D. Oil of harts¬
horn.
Thefe are all made from one chemical operation. A
quantity of hartfhqrn is put into a retort, and fubmitted
to a heat that is gradually increafed. Fiift the vola¬
tile liquor comes over, then the fait, and laftly the
oil. After the fait and oil are feparated from the
liquor, this is diftilled again two or three times
with a moderate heat, by which it is rendered more
pure.
The fait is purified by mixing it with an equal weight
of prepared chalk, and then fubliming.
The volatile liquor and fait of hartlhorn differ little
from the water of carbonate of ammonia, and the folid
Vol. XII. Part II.
Order 7. Cete.
‘ i6t
8. Physeter MACROCEPHALUS, E. Spermaceti Spermaceti.
Whale. Sperma Ceti, L. D.
This is a white flakey fubftance, that is found in
certain cells in the head of the fpermaceti whale. See
Cetology, N° 66, and Chemistry, N° 2860.
As an emollient, fpermaceti is employed both internal¬
ly and externally. Internally it is given in the form of
emuliion mixed with mucilage or yolk of egg, or mix¬
ed with fyrup into a limffus, in cafes of catarrh, ardor
urina, &c. As an external application, it enters into the
compofition of the following
Officinal Preparations.
a. Unguentum Spermatis Ceti, L. D. Sper-ointment
maceti ointment. offperma-
This ointment is prepared by melting together fix^1'
drams of fpermaceti, two drams of white wax, and three
ounces of olive oil, over a flow fire, ftirring them con-
ftantly till they are cold.
b. Ceratum Spermatis Ceti, L. D. CER-sPermaceti
ATUM SIMPLEX, E. Spermaceti cerate. Simpleccrat*’
Cerate. IVhite Cerate.
In the preparations of this cerate, the proportions of
the Edinburgh pharmacopseia difter from thofe dire&ed
by the colleges of London and Dublin. The former
orders fix parts of olive oil, three of white w'ax, and
one of fpermaceti ; the two latter, half an ounce of
fpermaceti, two ounces of white wax, and four ounces
5 ^ of •
MATERIA MEDIC A, &c.
Part IV.
Hsftory of of oil. They are made in a iimilar manner with the
SCffidtiald oint,nent-
Medicines Thefe preparations are ufed principally for drefling
i—ulcers, or to form more compounded ointments or ce¬
rates.
264
Goofe-
greaXe.
265
166
Ifindafs.
267
Cantharides
Class II. BIRDS. Order 2. Anseres.
9. Anas Anser, the goofe. ADEPS ANSERIN-
US, D. Goofe greafe.
This fat is now rarely ufed in medicine, as it feems
to poffefs no fuperior properties to hog’s lard, which is
more conveniently procured.
Order Gallinje.
10. Phasianus Gallus, the domeftic fowl. OVUM
EJUSQUE PUT AMEN. Egg, and egg-shells.
The yolk of egg is employed in pharmacy for ren¬
dering oils and refrns mifcible with water. For this
purpofe it is fcarcely preferable to common vegetable
mucilage, and has the difadvantage of fooner becoming
putrid, and the white is ufed in making alum cataplafm.
Egg-fhells prepared, i. e. levigated, are fometimes em¬
ployed as an antacid, but they do not feem better in
that refpedl than common carbonate of lime, or mag-
nefia.
Class IV. FISHES. Order 6. Chondropterygii.
11. Accipenser Huso, E. Ifinglafs fifh. Ichthyo-
colla, L. D. IJinglafs. See the article Ichtiiyocolla.
Employed as an emollient, and faid to be the prin¬
cipal fubltance ufed in making court plajler.
Class V. INSECTS. Order 1. Coleoptera.
12. Lytta yesicatoria. MELOE VESICA-
TORIUS, E. CANTHARIS, L. D. Cantharides.
Spanish files.
For the natural hiftory of this infeft, fee Entomo-
logy, p. 1695 and for its chemical analylis, fee Che¬
mistry, N° 2875.
Cantharides are ftimulant and virulent to fo great a
degree, that their internal exhibition requires to be con¬
ducted with the utmott caution, otherwife inflammation
in the ftomach, inteftines, or urinary palfages, may be
the confequence. When taken in confiderable quanti¬
ty, they produce inflammation and ulceration of the
jiomach and bowels, attended with mucous or purulent
:tools, fetid breath, violent pains in the belly •, and thefe
iymptoms, if not timely relieved, are followed by faint-
nefs, giddinefs, and death. Applied externally, they
inflame and excoriate the Ikin, and if continued for a
fufficient time, produce a large vefication filled with
acrid ferum. Their external application is not unfre-
quently followed by dfftrefiing ftrangury.
Internally they have been exhibited as a diuretic in
dropfical cafes, in a dofe from half a grain to a grain.
They are frequently employed in weaknefs of the uri¬
nary organs : in incontinence of urine, proceeding from
paralyfis veficae, in gleets, fluor albus-, diabetes, and
other difeafes of the urinary paffages, originating in, or
connefted with debility. Not only in the incontinency
of urine which accompanies a palfy of the lower extre¬
mities, but alfo in that which is occafroned by an over- HiRory of
diflenfion of the bladder, thefe flies have been admini- an^
ftered internally with evident relief. The fame benefi- jyiecj;cjnes
cial effedls have followed their ufe in ifchuria veficalis, ■- 1 -»
or fuppreflion of urine from over-diftenfion of the blad¬
der. They are recommended as an excellent remedy
in gleets by Mead -ad Wcrlhof, and the laft mentioned
phyfician prefcribed them in cafes of hydrophobia.
The internal ufe of cantharides in gleets and leucor-
rhoea has of late been much extended by Dr John Ro-
bertfon ; but for an account of the cireumftances which
led him to fuch a free ufe of this medicine, and for his
mode of exhibiting it, we mull refer to his late work
on the fubjedf, and a paper publifhed by him in the fe-
cond volume of the Edinburgh Medical journal.
When thefe flimulants are adminiilered internally,
they are prefcribed either in powder or in tinfture.
The dofe in fubllance (which is the mold certain form
of internal exhibition) is from half a grain to one or
two grains every fixth hour, made into pills. Or the
tincfure, the dofe is from 10 to .thirty drops. During
the ufe of either, the patient Ihould be directed to drink
of mucilaginous decodtions, emulfions, &c. Camphor
is thought by fome practitioners to moderate the too
ftimulating adtion of cantharides, and is accordingly
combined with them or their tindlures whenever they
are given internally. Others join nitre with them, as
well as camphor.
Of the external ufe of cantharides by way of blifter
we lhall fpeak prefently under the preparations that are
employed for that purpofe.
Officinal Preparations.
268
a. TlNCTURA MeLOES VESICATORII, E. TINCTU-Tincture cf
RA CANTHARIDIS, L. T. CANTHAR1DUM,cantharides*
D. Tindture of cantharides.
The Edinburgh tindlure is diredled to be made, by
digefting for feven days, a dram of powdered cantha¬
rides in a pound of diluted alcohol ; and that of the
Dublin college is prepared with the fame proportions.
The London tindluie is made by digefting two drams of
bruifed cantharides, and half a pound of powdered co¬
chineal, in a pint and a half of proof fpirit for eight
days.
Thefe tin&ures differ a little in point of ftrength.
When given internally, the dofe of the Edinburgh or
Dublin tindlure may be from 20 to 30 drops •, that of
the London tindlure from 10 to 20 drops. J hey are
employed externally as a rubefacient in cafes of palfy,
angina, gaftritis, &c.
- b. Ceratum Cantharidis, L. D. Cerate of can-0l, .
, . , cantharides*
thandes.
This cerate is prepared by mixing a dram, or four
fcruples, of powdered cantharides, with fix drams, or an
ounce, of fpermaceti cerate.
It is chiefly employed to promote the running of if-
fues.
270
C. EmPLASTRUM Mf.LOES VESICATORII, E. EM-Platter of
PL A STRUM CANTHARIDIS, L. EMP. CAN-cantharides.
THARIDUM, D. Platter of cantharides. Bhfiering
plafirr.
According to the Edinburgh college, this plaftcr is
to
P?rt TV. MATERIA
Hifto.; of to be prepared by firft melting together equal weights
Simple snd mutton fuet, yellow wax, and white ronn and
Odicmai whcn tllepe are removed from the fire, fprinkling in an
Medic.ne^. eaual proport.jon 0f powdered cantharides. The pro¬
portions of the London and Dublin colleges are I pound
of finely powdered cantharides, 2 pounds of wax plaffer,
and half a pound of hog’s lard, and the ingredients are
mixed in a fimilar manner.
M E D I C A, &c. 739
refinous ointment, and one part of powdered cantnari-of
des. r j r i • Officinal
All thefe ointments, bcfides being tiled idr.,keeping Medicines,
open blift'ers, are occafionally employed for iffue oint-1 v '
ments.
For more on the fubjecf of blifiers, t! e reader is re¬
ferred to Percival’s Efiays, vol. i. and W liners on tue
ufe and abufe of Medicines.
271
Compound
plafter of
cantharides.
27a
Ointment
*f cantha-
,Vides.
273
Ointment
®f infufion
of cantha-
fides.
274
Ointment
of cantha-
lides pow¬
der.
Emplastrum Meloes Vesicatorii Compo*
SITUM, E. Compound plalier of cafitharides.
This is made of Burgundy pitch, Venice turpentine,
cantharides-, each 1 2 parts, yellow wax, 4 parts j fub-
acetate of copper, 2 parts j muftard feed and biack pep¬
per, each r part. Having firft melted the pitch and
wax, the turpentine is to be added, and while thefe in¬
gredients are ftill fluid, the other articles in fine powder
are to be mixed with them, and the w7hole conftantly
ftirred till cold.
This laft-mentioned plafter of Spanifti flies xs too
compound, and being of a corrofive quality, is rarely
prefcribed. The other more Ample forms of canthari-
des plafter are in frequent ufe for exciting vefications in
various acute and chronic difeafes, particularly in inter¬
nal inflammations and pains, as well as in many fnal-
modic affections. Bliftering has been recommended by.
fome phyficians in the advanced and finking ftage of
typhus fever j but the propriety of fuch a pra£tice is
extremely queftionable. We wrould further remark,
that in the febrile diforders of children, a good deal of
caution is requifite in the application of blifters j a
fpreading erythematous inflammation, and even gan¬
grene, being fometimes the confequence. In fome of
the above-mentioned diforders much benefit is obtained
by keeping the bliftered part open, or in an ulcerated
ftate for a confiderable length of time. Ihis is done by
any of the following ointmeuts.
e. Unguentum Cantharidis, L. UNG. CAN-
THARIDUM, D. ointment of cantharides.
This is prepared by taking pulverized Spanith flies,
two ounces *, diftilled w7ater, eight ounces j ointment ot
yellow refin, eight ounces. 1 he Spanifti flies being
boiled in the water, this is reduced to half the original
quantity, the liquor is ftrained, and the on-tment of
yellow refin added. The mixture is then placed in a
water bath, faturated with fea fait, and evaporated to
the confiftence of an ointment.
yi Unguentum Infusi Meeoes vesicatorii, E.
Ointment of infufion of cantharid s.
To prepare this ointment, the Edinburgh college db
re£ts one part of cantharides to be macerated for a
night in four parts of boiling water; the expreft and
ftrained liquor to be boiled with two parts of bogs lard
till the water is evaporated, then one part of yellow
wax, and the fame proportion of white rofin to be add¬
ed ; and when the whole is melted, and removed from
the fire, two parts of Venice turpentine are to be mixed
with it, and the whole ftirred till cold.
jr. Unguentum Pulveris Meloes vesicatorii,
E. Ointment of cantharides powder.
This is prepared by mixing together feven parts of
Order 2. Hemiptera.
13. Coccus Cacti, E. COCCINELLA, L. D.Cochmea!.
Cochineal. See Entomology jW<?v.
This is employed in medicine merely as a colouring-
matter.
Order 5. Hymenoptera.
Apis Mellifica. The bee.,
14. MEL. Honey.
276
Honey.
Befides being ufed as an article of diet, honey is
often employed medicinally, either for the preparation
of eleftuaries, or for making a kind of fyrups, called
oxytnels or medicated honeys. It generally proves gent¬
ly laxative, but is apt to diiagree with the ftomacb,
producing ficknefs and griping. It might probauly
be entirely fuperfeded by fugar, which-is not attended
with thofe unpleafant effecls.
Officinal Preparations. ,
277
a. Mel despumatum. Clarified honey. akrified
• • 1 ,, .honey.
For the purpofe of clarifying honey, the cc*»eges ot
London and Dublin direft that it ftrould be melted in
a water bath, removing the fcum as it riles.
In this way the honey is rendered more beautiful to
the eye, but is fcarcely lefs liable to difagree wdth weak
ftomachs. ^
b. Mel ACETATUM, L. OXYMEL SIMPLEX. Aretated
Acetated honey. Simple oxymel. honey.
Two pounds of clarified honey are boiled in a glafs
veffel over a gentle fire, with one pound of diftilled
vinegar, till they are reduced to the confiftence of a
fyrup.
This is a ufeful remedy diluted with water and
employed as a gargle, in coughs and fore throats.
Order 7. ApteRA.
15. Oniscus asellus, E. MILLEPEDA, L.MillePed^
D. Millepedes or Woodlice.
Formerly employed as a diuretic in the form of pills,
that were made either of the living animals, or of thefe
killed by fpirit of wine and powdered. ^
16. Cancer astacus, E. The craw-fifh. Crabs eJ'cl4
crorum lapilli. Crab's eyes. See Chemistry, N°
2882.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Cancrorum lapilli pr.$parati, E. Prepared PrcParec,J
, 7 r crabs eyes,
crabs eyes.
5 A 2 Formerly
740 MATERIA
Sirnjle^and Formerly much employed as an antacid, though not
Offidral' ^uPeri°r to common carbonate of lime.
Medicines jy. Cancer PAGURUS, E. The black-clawed
crab. CHELAE CANCRORUM, L. Crabs claws.
Officinal Preparations,
a. Cheije Cancrorum PRjEPARATyE, L. Prepared
282
Crabs
claws.
283
Prepared
crabs claws, crabs claws
Reduced to powder like the former, by levigation,
^ diffuuon, filtration, and drying. Of fimilar properties.
Compound PuLVTS ClIELARUM CaNCRI C0MP0S1TUS, L.
crabs claws. Compound powder of crabs claws.
A mixture of one pound of prepared crabs claws,
with three ounces of prepared chalk, and the fame pro¬
portion of prepared red coral.
Class VI. WORMS. Order 2. Mollusca.
2S5
Leeches. 18. Hirudo medictnalis. Medicinal leech. See
Helminthology Index.
Order 3. Testacea.
286 _
Oyfter 19* Os REA EDULIS, E. OSTREA, L. D Oy-
fliclls. Her. See Conchology Index. TESTAE OSTR E-
ARUM. Oyster Jhells. See Chemistry, N° 2883.
Officinal Preparation.
Prepared a- OSTREARUM TEST7E PRAcPARATiE, L. Prepared
ovfter oyfler Ihells.
flitUs.
Prepared m the fame way as crabs claws, pofieffing
fimilar properties.
Order 4. Zoophyta.
288
Red coral. 20. GoRCONIA NOBILIS. ISIS NOBILIS, E. COR AL¬
LIUM RUBRUM, L. D. Red coral. See Che¬
mistry, N* 2886.
Officinal Preparation.
2S9
Prepared a. CoRALLIUM' RUBRUM PRiEPARATUM. Prepared
red coral, red coral.
As above.
Sponge. 21. SPONGIA OFFICINALIS, E. SPONGIA, L.
D. Sponge. See Helminthology Index.
In its natural Hate, fponge is employed by furgeons,
for cleanfing wounds and ulcers, for making tents, and
for flopping hemorrhagies from fmall divided blood
veffels..
M E D I C A, &c. part xy.
Burnt fponge has been long employed as a remedy Hiftory of
in fcrophulous affe&ions. It feems to owe its beneficial siml)le
operation (mofily flight and uncertain) in thefe dif-
orders, partly to its alkaline and partly to its carbona-
ceous nature. Perhaps the firft-mentioned may con-
ti oute to the folution and difTuhon ^in the human body)
of its coaly matter. It is given (made into a bolus, "or
lozenge) in doles of a Icruple, or half a dram, twice a-
day.
It is likewife faid to be a remedy for the bronchocele,
in whic h cafes it has been adminiftered with fuccefs in
the following manner. The flomach and bowels ha¬
ving been duly cleanfed by a vomit and purge taken
two days before, the patient, on going to bed, is to
place a bolus confiding of half a dram of burnt fponge,
and as much honey as is neceflary, in the mouth, under
the tongue, and as it gradually diffdlves to fwallow it.
1 his bolus is to be repeated for fix nights. A bitter
powder made of five grains of chamomile flowers, gen¬
tian root, and the Idler centaury tops, is to be taken
every feventh day during the uie of the bolus, and on
the eighth day the purge is to be repeated. Others
have employed fponge in thefe cafes in the form of a
lozenge, which is certainly more conveniently held in
the mouth than a bolus *. *Thefaums
MedicatnU
num.
Chap. II. Vegetable Subffances.
Sect. I. Vegetable produls that are procured from
plants in general, or from fuch as are imperfe&ly
191
Burnt
fponge.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Spongia usta, L. I). Burnt fponge.
Sponge is burnt in a clore iron veffel, after being
cut into fmall pieces and bruifed to free it from earthy
and flony matter. The burning is continued till the
fponge becomes black and iriable, and it is then reduced
to a fine powder.
hnr
292
293
Wood foot.
22. Carbo Ligni, E. Charcoal. See CHEMI-Charcoal.
STRY Index.
For medical purpofes charcoal fhould be frelh burned,
or ihould be kept carefully excluded from the air. Its
chief ufe is as an antifeptic, corre&ing putridity 5 hence
it is employed as a tooth-powder, either alone or mixed
with ailringents and aromatics, and is fometimes given
internally in diarrhoea and dyfehtery, where the matters
evacuated are very offenfive. It is alfo faid to aft as a
gentle laxative.
23. Fuligo Ligni combusti. Wood foot.
This differs from charcoal in containing a confiderable
quantity of empyreumatic oil, to which the properties
attributed to it as an antifpafmodic are to be aferibed.
It is now feldom ufed.
24. Alcohol, E. SPIRITUS VINOSUS RFC-common
TIFIC AI US, L. SPIRIT US VINI RECTIFI - alcohol.
CA I US, 1). Alcohol. Rectifiedfpir it of wine.
For the ufual preparation, hiflory and chemical pro¬
perties of alcohol, fee Chemistry, Chap. xi. feft. i.
The only certain mode of alcertaining the purity of
alcohol and its preparations is by taking their fpecific
gravity, for the manner of doing which fee HYDRODY¬
NAMICS. The fpecific gravity of rectified Ipirit fiiould
be 835.
Alcohol is one of the mofl violent ftimuli with which
we are acquainted. Applied externally it corrugates
the folid parts of the body, and coagulates all the
albuminous and gelatinous fluids with which it comes in
contaft. By violently contrafting the fmaller veffels, it
checks
Part IV. MATERIA
Hi,lory of checks paflive kemorrkagles, and by deftreying the fen-
Sirnplf and fibility of the extremities of nerves it alleviates pain,
Officinal anf] jn (orne cf)fes removes fpaftn. Taken undiluted in-
inCS' to the ftomach, it aids in a fimilar manner, contraiding
the folids, and deftroying nervous fendbility. If the
quantity is confiderable, it brings on apoplexy and pal-
fv, followed by death. Sufficiently diluted alcohol
a£ls as a tonic and gentle ftimulus, exhilarating the fpi-
rits, increafing the appetite, and promoting digeftion •,
but a too frequent u!e of ardent f 'irks is attended with
dangerous confequences. See N° 102. It is a ufeful
application to recent burns and fcalds, preventing vefi-
cation.
It mud be remarked, that wbat tbe Edinburgh col¬
lege have called alcohol is not pure alcohol.
295
Pure alco-
kol.
t<)6
Vitriolic
ethereal
liquor.
297
Spirit of
vitriolic
ether.
298
Sulphuric
ether.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Alcohol, L. D. Alcohol.
The procefs for obtaining pure alcohol given by tbe
London college is fomewhat different from that of the
Dublin college. The former diredls a gallon of re6H-
£ed fpirit of wine to be. mixed tvith an ounce of pure
kali, and afterwards a pound of hot prepared kali to be
added. The mixture is to be well thaken and fet by
for 24 hours, when tbe fpirit is to be poured off, mix¬
ed with half a pound more prepared kali, and difiilled in
a water bath. The diftilled alcohol lihould have the
fpecific gravity of 815.
The procefs of the Dublin pharmacopoeia is as fol¬
lows. Five pounds of redlified fpirit are mixed with
one ounce of caullic vegetable alkali, and then with one
pound of pearl-affies dried over the fire and ftill warm.
This mixture is digelled for three days, (baking it fre¬
quently ; and then the fpirit is poured off, and diililled
till three pounds have come over. The Dublin alcohol
has the fpecific gravity of 820, and is confequently
weaker than that of the London pharmacopoeia.
Pure alcohol is not employed in medicine, and there¬
fore the college of Edinburgh have given no formula
for its preparation.
b. Liquor ^.thereus vitriolicus, D. Vitriolic
ethereal liquor.
This is prepared by putting 32 ounces of redlified
fpirit of wine into a retort that is capable of fupporting
a fudden heat, and pouring on it in a continued ftream
32 ounces of fulpburic acid, mixing them gradually *,
then placing the retort in heated fand, and diililling off
16 ounces into a cool receiver, taking care fo to regu¬
late tbe beat that tbe mixture may boil as foon as pofli-
ble. The fpecific gravity ffiould be about 753.
In a fimilar manner is prepared tbe
Spiritus ^itheris vitriolici, L. Spirit of vitri¬
olic ether.
This preparation is an impure ether, and, wffien pu¬
rified, as directed below, it forms the o?nciv\n\ fulphuric
ether.
It is employed as a ftimulant in low fevers and fe¬
brile eruptions. Dofe from 60 to 100 drops.
c. Aether sulphuricus, L. AETHER VITRI¬
OLICUS, L. D. Sulphuric ether. Vitriolic ether.
M E D I C A, &c.
74-1
The colleges of London and Dublin direct their ful- Hiftory of
phuric ether to be prepared by redtifying tbe former
preparation by means of potaffi. According to the jy-tc4ic;nes.
former, two pounds of fpirit of vitriolic ether are to be ——<
mixed with one meafured ounce of water of pure kali,
and the mixture diftilled with a gentle heat, till 14
meafured ounces have come over. In the Dublin for-
inula 16 ounces of vitriolic etherial liquor are mixed
with two drams of powdered cauftic vegetable alkali j
and 1 o ounces are diililled oft'.
The Edinburgh college direef 32 ounces of alcohol,
and the fame quantity of fulphuric acid, to be mixed
together in a proper retort, and 16 ounces to be diitil-
led over from a find heat fuddenly applied. To the
diftilled liquor are then to be added two drachms of
potafh, and from a very high retort 10 ounces are to
be diftilled with a gentle fire.
On the chemical nature and properties of fulpburic
ether, fee Chemistry, Chap. XL Se£L II. Its fpeci¬
fic gravity (hould be about 739.
The medical ufes of ether are thus deferibed by Dr
Duncan. “ As a medicine taken internally, it is an
excellent antifpaimodic, cordial, and ftimulant. In
catarrhal and afthmatic complaints, its vapour is inhaled
with advantage, by holding in the mouth a piece of fu-
gar, on which ether has been dropt. It is given as a
cordial in naufea, and in febrile difea’es of the typhoid
type, as an antifpafmodic in hyftevia, and in other
fpafmodic and painful difeafes ; and as a ftimulus in fo-
porofe and apople£lic affections. Regular practitioners
feldom give fo much as half an ounce, much more fre¬
quently only a few drops, for a dofe ; but empirics
have fometimes ventured upon much larger quantities,
and with incredible benefit. When applied externally,
it is capable of producing two very oppofite effeCts, ac¬
cording to its management •, for if it be prevented from
evaporating, by covering tbe place to which it is ap¬
plied clofely with the hand, it proves a powerful ftimu¬
lant and rubefacient, and excites a fenfation of burning
heat. In this way it is frequently ufed for removing
pains in tbe bead or teeth. On the contrary, if it be
dropt on any part of tbe body expofed freely to the
contaCf of tbe air, its rapid evaporation produces an in-
tenfe degree of cold ; and this is attended with a propor¬
tional diminution of bulk in the part to which it is ap- *T>untan'i
plied : in this way it has frequently facilitated the re- Di/penfa-
duftion of ftrangulated hernia tory.
299
d. AETHER SULPHURICUS CUM AlCOHOLE, E. Sul- Sulphuric
phuric ether with alcohol. ether with.
alcohol.
This is prepared by mixing together one part of ful¬
pburic ether, and two parts of alcohol. In nature and
properties it agrees with the fpiritus cetheris vitriolici of
the London Pharmacopoeia.
e. Oleum Vini, L. Oft of wine. Oil of wine.
This preparation is made by mixing together one
part of alcohol, and the fame quantity of (ulphuric
acid, and diftilling, taking care that no black froth
pafs into the receiver. The oily part of the diftilled
liquor is to be feparated from the volatile acid •, and to
the former is to be added as much water and pure kali,
as is fufficient to correfl the (ulphureous fmell. Then
a gentle heat is to be applied to diftil off the little ether
thatc
MATERIA M E D I C A,
liquor contains ; and the oil that -floats on the
remaining thud is to be feparated and preferved for
ule.
This is employed chiefly as an ingredient in the fol-
lorving preparation ; though it is fometimes given alone
as a ftirnulus, in a dofe from ic to 20 drops.
f SpiRITOS ^THERIS VrTRIQLICI COMPOSITUS, L.
triol'L01 VI" Compound fpint of vitriolic ether.
Prepared by mixing two pounds of fpirit of vitriolic
ether, and three drams of the oil of wine.
It is employed as an antifpafmodic in flmilar cafes, and
dofes, as fulphuric ether.
/42
H Rory of that th
Simple and
Officin -.1
Medicines.
—v ’
301
Co;i,;;OUnd
&c.
Officinal Preparations.
Part IV.
E. ACE-
Hidory of
S mple and
Officinal
Medicines.
305
Diftdled
acetous
a acid.
ether.
303 .
Aromatic
fulphuric
ether with
alcohol.
, 304
Diluted al¬
cohol.
_ 302
Oilyethe- LlQUOR AITHEREUS OLEOSUS, D. LIQUOR
real liquor. HOFFMANNI ANODYNUS. Oily ethereal li¬
quor. Hoffmann's anodyne liquor.
Made by diddling to one half the liquor that re¬
mains after preparing the Dublin vitriolic ether.
Similar in its properties to ether, but weaker. It is
much the fame as the former.
h. tEther sulphuricus cum Alcohole aromati-
cus, E. Aromatic fulphuric ether with alcohol.
This is prepared by digefling, for feven days, an
ounce of bruifed cinnamon, an ounce of bruifed leffer
cardamom feeds, and two drams of powdered long pep¬
per, in two pounds and a half of fulphuric ether with al¬
cohol.
A powerful ftimulant and tonic. Dofe 30 drops to a
dram.
25. Alcohol dilutum, E. SPIRITUS VINO-
SUS TENUIOR, L. SPIRITUS VINI TE-
NUIOR, D. Diluted alcohol. Weaker fpirit of wine.
Prooffpirit.
This is rectified fpirit lorvered with water to what is
called proof ftrength, having a fpebific gravity of about
935. In all its effential properties it refembles com¬
mon fpirits, and either whifky or Britifh fpirit may be
ufed for it. The proof fpirit of commerce is ufually
diftilled either from molailes or grain.
In pharmacy it is employed as a menftruum for mak¬
ing various tinftures.
26. Acidum acetosum impurum. ACETUM
VINI', D. ACETUM, L. Impure acetous acid.
Vinegar.
As the vinegar commonly met with is made from
other fermented liquors befides the juice of the grape,
we have inferted it here among the vegetable princi¬
ples. On the produdlion and properties of vinegar,
fee Chemistry, N° 649 and 2310. Common vinegar,
belides diluted acetous acid, contains tartaric acid, tar¬
trate of potafh, fupertartrate of potafh, and mucilage.
It fliould be tranfparent, of a pale yellow colour, fra¬
grant pungent fmell, and an agreeable fharp tafte. It
is feldom employed in medicine before it is purified by
diftillation or other proceffes to be immediately men¬
tioned. Vinegar is a good family remedy as a refrige¬
rant in fevers, as a ftimulant external application in
bruifes, fprains, &c. and vinegar rvhey made by coa¬
gulating warm milk by means ok < ood vinegar, is one
of the belt auxiliary diaphoretics with which we are ac¬
quainted.
4
3°S
Common
acetous
acid.
a. Acidum acetosum destillatum,
TUM DISTILLATUM, L. D.
The Edinburgh college direfls eight pounds of com
mon acetous acid to be dirtilled in a glafs veffel with
gentle heat, fetting afide the firft two pounds that come
over, and preferving the next four pounds. The Dub¬
lin college dire&s 10 pounds of vinegar to be put into
the ftill, and fix pounds to be drawn off at once ; and
the London college, from five pounds, direfts that there
fliould be diftilled off as much as comes over free from
empyreuma.
Diftilled vinegar is freed from the falts and mucilage
contained in common vinegar, and therefore is purer
and keeps better ; but it is much weaker than good
vinegar. If it has been diftilled in glafs veffels it can
have acquired no metallic impregnation 5 but it is
fometimes, as well as common vinegar, adulterated
with fulphuric acid to make it appear ftronger. This
fraud may be dete£ted by adding muriate of baryta,
which will produce a white precipitate if fulphuric acid
be prefent.
It is employed for gargles, for preparing various ace¬
tates, and other officinal medicines. It is alfo given as
a refrigerant diluted with water in feverilh diforders,
and is applied externally.
\ 307
b. Acidum acetosum forte, E. ACIDUM A- Strong
CETOSUM, L. Strong acetous acid. Radical
negar. Acetic acid.
By the Edinburgh procefs, a pound of dried ful-
phate of iron is to be rubbed with 1 o ounces of ace¬
tate of lead ; the mixture is then to be put into a re¬
tort, and diftilled as long as any acid comes over.
The London college direifls twro pounds of coarfely-
powdered verdigris, well dried by means of a witer
bath, faturated with fea fait, to be put into a retort
and diftilled, repeating the diftillation with the liquor
that comes over.
On the produffion and properties of this acid, fee
Chemistry, N® 652, et feq. Its fpecific gravity
ffiould be about 1060. It is fometimes contaminated
with fulphurous acid or with lead. The former may
be difcovered by the unpleafant tickling cough it then
occafions when fnuffed up the nofey and the latter by
adding lulphuret of ammonia, by which, if lead be pre¬
fent, the liquor will be tinged of a dark brown.
This preparation is employed chiefly as a ftimulant to
be fnuffed up the nofe in fyncope, hyfteria, and fimilar
affedions.: externally it afts as a rubefacient. Both this
and the two following may be ufed as fumigations to
correiff the bad fmell of lick rooms.
acid.
3°f
Aromatic vinegar. Aromatic
vinegar.
c. Acetum aromaticum, I
Vinegar of the four tineas.
Made by macerating four ounces of dried rofemary
tops, four ounces of dried fage leaves, two ounces of
dried lavender flowers, and two drams of cloves, in
ejgbt pounds of diftilled acetous acid for feven days,
and ftrainmg.
Sometimes given as a ftimulus, diluted with water in
typhus.
d. Acidum
Part IV.
MATERIA M E D I C A, At.
Simple^and //. AciDUM ACETOSUM CAMPHORATUM, E. Cam-
OfRcinal phorated acetous acid.
Medicines.
J Prepared by diliolving hair an ounce or camphor, re¬
duced to powder by being rubbed with alcohol, in fix
ounces of ftrong acetous acid.
This ihould be kept in glafs phials with ground Hop¬
pers. It is an excellent ftimulus for fnuffing up the nb-
ftrils.
Syrupus Acidi acetosi, E. Syrup of acetous
743-
310
Syrup of
acetous
acid.
acid.
This is prepared by boiling together two pounds and
a half of acetous acid (^common vinegar), and three
pounds and a half of double refined fugar.
Ufed in the fame cafes as acetated honey, (fee N°
277.) to which it is preferable.
lowing it to Hand till cold, when mofi; of the fulphate Hiftory of
of potafh is feparated in cryftals. S^dnd^
This alkaline carbonate is employed as a diuretic, Medicines*-
mixed with infufion of chamomile and fpirit of juniper, y—
in a dofe of about a fcruple repeated occafionally ; and
as an antacid. It is alfo employed in combination
with citric acid, to relieve naufea and check vomit-
mg.
b. Aqua Kali prjeearati, L.
MITE, D. Water of prepared kali.
314
LIXIVIUM Water°f
MiUUy. ETd
This is made by allowing fubcarbonate of potafh to
deliquefce in a moift atmofphere, and ftraining it j or,
by diflblving it in an equal weight of water.
It poffeffes the fame properties as the dry car¬
bonate, and is employed chiefly for decompofing other
falts.
Acetate of / Acetas Potassa:, E. KALI ACETATUM,
potafli. L. ALKALI VEGETABILE ACETATUM,
D. SAL DIURETICUS. Acetate of potafh. A-
cetated kali. Acetated vegetable alkali. Diuretic
fah.
r. Aqua Carbonatis Potassje. AQUA SUPER-Water of .
CARBONAT1S POTASSiE, E. LIQUOR AL-carbonate
KALI VEGETABILIS MITISSIMI, D. Wa-ofPoUfh-
ter of carbonate of potafh. Solution of mildejl vegetable
alkali.
This fait is made by boiling any quantity of fubcar¬
bonate of potafh with diltilled acetous acid, firft ufing
about five times its weight, and, during the boiling,
’ gradually adding more till all effervefcence ceafes,
flowly evaporating to drynefs, fufing the dry fait, then
diffolving it in water, and flowly evaporating the folu-
tion till there remains a dry white faline mafs, which is
to be kept well ftopt from the air, in which it deli-
quefces. See Chemistry, N° 987..
Acetate of potafh is employed as a diuretic in a dofe
of from one to four fcruples, and in a dilute folution as
312 a refrigerant in fevers, &c.
Impure fub- SuBCARBONAS PoTASSiE IMPURUS. CARBO*
2SX NAS POTASS^ JMPURUS, E. CINERES
' CLAVELLATI, L. ALKALI FIXUM VE¬
GETABILE, D. Impure fubcarbonate of potafh.
Potafhes. Pearlafhes. Fixed vegetable alkali.
For the production and nature of this alkaline fub-
ftance, fee Chemistry, Chap. XII. SeCt I. It is fel-
dom employed in pharmacy, except as the bafis of fome
officinal preparations.
313
Subcarbo- a. SUBCARBONAS PoTAJSSAI. CARBONASPOT-
nateofpot. ASSiZE> E> KAL! PRyEPARATUM, L. AL-
afll‘ KALI VEGETABILE MITE, D. Subcarbonate
of potafh. Carbonate of potafh. Prepared kali. Mild
vegetable alkali.
This is properly a neutral fait, and is prepared by dif¬
folving fubcarbonate of potafh in water, and faturating
it with carbonic acid, by palling through it a ftream of
this gas, arifing from the decompofition of carbonate of
lime by diluted fulphuric acid.
On the nature of this fait, fee Chemistry, N° i 09,
I74*
By this means the alkaline carbonate is better adapt¬
ed for internal ufe, as it is rendered not only more plea-
fant to the tafle ; but is lefs apt to offend the ilomach.
Indeed it is the only form in which we can exhibit pot¬
afh in fufficient dofes, and for a fufficient length of
time, to derive much benefit from its ufe in calculous
complaints. It has certainly been frequently of advan¬
tage in thefe affeClions, but probably only in thofe in-
ftances in which the Hone confifls of uric acid, or urate
of ammonia ; for though fuperfaturated with carbonic
acid, yet the affinity of that acid for potafh is fo weak,
that it really operates as an alkali.
Six or eight ounces may be taken two or three times
a-day. It in generally proves powerfully diuretic, and
fometimes produces inebriation. This laft effed is a-
fcribed to the carbonic acid.
d. Aqua Potasste, E. AQUA KALI PURI, L. Water of
LIXIVIUM CAUSTICUM, D. Water of potafh. potaflt.
Water of pure kali. Caujlic ley.
This is ufually prepared from the former fubftance,
which is purified by burning it in a crucible, then dif¬
folving it in water, filtering and evaporating to drynefs
in a clean iron pot, flirring the mafs as it dries, to pre¬
vent its coalefcing into one cake.
This fait appears in fmall white grains of fcarcely
any perceptible fmell, but of a hot alkaline tafte.
When pure, it fhould diffolve entirely in cold water,
and fhould deliquefce in moifl air into a limpid tranfpa-
rent fluid.
As ufually made, it contains a confiderable propor¬
tion of fulphate of potafh, which may be feparated from
it By mixing it with its own weight of water, and alT
The following is the Edinburgh procefs for obtain-,
ing a folution of pure potafli.
Take of newly prepared lime, eight ounces j carbo¬
nate of potafh, fix ounces. Put the lime into an iron
or earthen veffel, with 28 ounces of warm water. Af¬
ter the ebuliition is finifhed, inflantly add the (alt, and
having thoroughly mixed them, cover the vefiel till
they cool. When the mixture has cooied, agitate it
well, and pour it into a glafs funnel, whole throat muft
be obftru&ed with a piece of clean linen. Cover the
upper orifice of the funnel, and infert its tube into an¬
other glafs vefiel, fo th?A th? water of potaih may gra¬
dually drop through the rag into the lower yelfei. Aa
fpoa.n
744
II i ft or v' of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicine?.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
so
Fotafli.
313
Fotalli with
lime.
3*9
Eees wax.
loon as it ceaies to drop, pour into the funnel fome
ounces of water, but cautioufly, fo that it may fwira
above the matter. The water of potafh will again be¬
gin to drop, and the affufion ot water is to be repeated
m the fame manner, until three pounds have dropped,
which will happen in the fpace of two or three days j
then mix the fuperior and inferior parts of the liquor
together by agitation, and keep it in a well flopped
phial.
From this procefs thofe of the London and Dublin
colleges do not materially differ. For other methods
of procuring pure potato, fee CHEMISTRY, N0 905,
etfeq..
This preparation was formerly much employed in
calculous diforders. From 10 to 40 drops were given
in gruel, milk, or broth, twice or thrice a-day \ but
even in thefe dofes it has often proved highly injurious,
when long continued, to the organs of digeftion.
Hence it has been juflly fuperfeded by the folution of
carbonate of potafli above mentioned.
c. Potassa, E. KALI PURUM, L. ALKALI
VEGETABILE CAUSTICUM, D. LAPIS IN-
FERNALIS. Potafli. Pure kali, Caujhc vegetable
alkali. Common Jlronger cauJHc.
This is made by evaporating any quantity of the fo¬
lution of potato in a very clean covered iron velfel, till
on the ebullition ceafing, the faline matter flows like
oil, which happens before the velfel becomes red. The
mafs is then to be poured out on a fmooth iron plate,
till it be divided into fmall pieces before it hardens,
when it muft be depofited in a well-flopt phial.
This has been long employed by furgeons as a cauf-
tic \ but its ufe in this way is inconvenient, as from its
rapid deliquefcence it is not eafily confined.
f Potassa cum Calce, E. CALX CUM KALI
PURO, L. CAUSTICUM MITIUS, D. Potato
with lime. Lime with pure kali. Milder caujlic.
Afade by evaporating in a covered iron veffel any
quantity of folution of potafli till it is reduced to a
third, and then gradually adding as much newly flaked
or powdered lime as is fufficient to form a thick mafs,
which is to be kept in a clofely flopped veffel. This is
employed as a cauftic, and is milder in its operation,
and more manageable than the laft.
28. Cera. Bees wax.
Though wax is generally obtained from honey¬
combs, we have here introduced it as a vegetable prin¬
ciple, fince modern chemiflry has toown that it may be
obtained by certain proceffes from moff vegetables. See
Chemistry, N° 2432.
Two varieties of wax are employed in medicine, cera
f.ava, yellow wax, which is the wax as it is naturally
procured from the comb, and cera alba, white wax'
bleached by art. They do not differ in their fenfible
propeities, and the white wax is only preferable to the
yellow, from its making ointments, &c. of a more deli¬
cate colour.
Wax is feldom employed internally, though it is
fometimes admmiftered as an emollient by way of
emulfion in diarrhoea and dyfentery. It is ufed chief¬
ly for preparing ointments, liniments, and cerates.
Part IV.
Hifto v of
Officinal Preparations. Simple and
Officinal
a. LINIMEntum SIMPLEX, E. Simple liniment. Medicines.
Made by melting together one pad: of white wax, and 320
four Oi olive oil. Simple lini-
b. Ukguevtum simplex, E. Simple ointment.
This differs from the laid, only in its proportions, oiat'‘
being compoied of twTo parts of white wax, and four of
olive oil.
c. Uxguentum cereum, L. D. Wax ointment. Waxoint-
Made by melting together four ounces of white wax,m * ^
three ounces of fpermaceti, and a pint of olive oil. ’
J T- 32.}
a. Ji.MPl,ASTRUM SIMPLEX, E. EMPLASTRUM Simple
CERAi,, D. EMPLASTRUM CERFE COMPO-Plaiter’
SITUM, L. Simple plafter. IVam plajler. Com¬
pound wax pi after.
The Edinburgh preparation is compofed of three
parts of yellow wax, and of mutton fact and white ro-
fm each two parts 5 that of the London and Dublin col¬
leges is formed from yellow wax and mutton fuet, each
three pounds, and yellow rofin one pound.
29. Ammoniacum. Gum ammoniac.
Ihisisa common concrete, gummy, refinous juice
from the Eaft Indies, generally in large raafles, com¬
pofed of little lumps or tears, of a milky whitenefs:
the external parts of the mafs are commonly yellowito
or brownito, and the white tears change to the fame
colour on being expofed for fome time to the air. Of
the plant from which it is extracted, we have no further
knowledge, than what is learnt from the feeds found a-
mong the tears, which refemble thofe of dill, except
that they are larger, and apparently belong to a plant
of the umbelliferous kind.
Ammoniacum has a flrong fmell, and a naufeous
fweetifli tafle, which is followed by a bitter one. It is
frequently made ufe of in afthmas, in menftrual fup-
preffions, and cache&ic indifpofitions. In obflruclions
ol the breaft it is accounted the moft effectual of the
aperient gums : in hyfteric cafes, fome of the others
are. preferred or joined to it, on account, chiefly, of
theii more powerful fmell. It is moft commodioufly
taken in the form of pills j the dole is a Icruple or half
a dram, every night or oftener : in larger dofes, as a
diam, it generally loofens the belly. Applied exter¬
nally, it is fuppofed to difeufs hard indolent tumours.
Ojpcinal Preparations.
a. Ammoniacum purificatum. Purified gum am- Purified
324 .
Ammoma-
moniac.
gum amine-
Emulfion of gum am-
Amrnoniacum is purified by melting it in hot water,nia<^
Squeezing it through linen, and evaporating to a proper
confiflence.
326
Emulfien Of;
guru am-
Made by triturating two drams of ammoniac with moniac»
half a pint of diftilled water till an emulfion is formed.
Given in moft cafes where ammoniac is ufed as an
expeiftorant. Dofe an ounce or two, repeated oc-
cafionally.
b. Lac Ammoniaci, L. D
monia.
2
c. Emflastrum
Part IV.
Simpkand c' EmPLASTRUM GUMMOSUM, E. Gum plafter.
Medicines. . ^ade by melting together eight parts of plafter of
. lemivitrified oxide of lead, one part of gum ammoniac,
and the fame proportion of galbanum and yellow wax.
Employed to form adheftve plafters.
^ ^ 30. Myrrha. Myrrh.
Myrrh. Myrrh is a gum refin brought from the Eaft Indies,
or from Abyflmia. The beft myrrh is in the form of
tears. It ftiould be of a yellowr, or reddifh yellow co¬
lour, becoming redder when breathed on, light, brittle,
a.n >un<^uous pellucid, Ihining, prefenting white
femicircular ftriae in its frafture j of a very bitter aro¬
matic tafte, and a ftrong, peculiar, not unpleafant
odour. It is not good if whitilh, dark-coloured, black,
refinous, ill-fmelled, or mixed with impurities, which is
too commonly the cafe.
Neumann afeertained that water and alcohol are both
of them capable of taking up the whole of the tafte and
fmell of the myrrh, the extraft made by either after the
other being infipid. The alcohol diftilled from the
tinfture elevated none of the flavour of the myrrh ; but
during the infpiffation of the deco&ion a volatile oil a-
rofe, containing the whole of the flavour of the myrrh,
and heavier than water, while the extraft was merely
bitter. F?om 7680 parts of myrrh he got 6000 watery
extract, 1 80 volatile oil, and 7 20 alcoholic 5 and in-
rerfely, 2400 alcoholic, and 4200 watery. Dr Duncan
junior has obferved that the timfture is tranfparent, and
when poured into water, forms a yellow opaque fluid,
but lets fall no precipitate, while the watery folution is
always yellow and opaque ; and that myrrh is not fufi-
ble, and is difficultly inflammable. Mr Hatchett found
it foluble in alkalies.
Myrrh is a heating ftimulating medicine. It fre¬
quently occafions a mild diaphorefis, and promotes the
fluid fecretions in general. Hence it proves ferviceable
in cachetic difeafes, arifmg from ina&ivity of the fyftem,
and is fuppofed to ad efpecially upon the uterine fyftem*
and to refift putrefadion.
It is exhibited in fubftance j in the form of powder,
* u? mto PIlls» >.n dofes of 10 to 60 grains j
Difpenfa- diuolyed m water, as in Griffith’s famous, but un-
tory. chemical, myrrh mixture j and diffolved in alcohol *.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
—v—
330
Sagapc-
num.
745
parts of myrrh, dried favin, dried rue, and Ruffian Hiftory of
caftor. Simple and
Given as a ftimulus in uterine obftrudions. Dofe Medidnes.
from a fcruple to a dram feveral times in the day.   ^ -o
31. Sagapenum. See Chemistry, N° 2495.
Sagapenum is employed as a ftimulant and antifpaf-
modic, chiefly in combination with other gum refins, to
be mentioned hereafter.
32. Angustura. CORTEX ANGUSTURfE. Anguftura.
Anguftura bark.
This bark was fome years ago introduced into this
country from the Weft Indies. It is not certainly
known of what tree it is the produce, blit it is probable
that it is a fpecies of cinchona. It is thus deferibed by
Mr Brande. “ There is a confiderable variety in the
external appearance of the anguftara bark, owing,
however, probably, to its having been taken from trees
of different fizes and ages, or from various parts of the
fame tree, as the tafte and other properties perfectly
agree. Some parcels (fays Mr Brande) which I
have examined, confift chiefly of flips torn from
branches which could not have exceeded the thicknefs
of a finger. Thefe are often fmooth, three feet or
more in length, and rolled up into fmall bundles. In
others, the pieces have evidently been, for the greater
part, taken from the trunk of a large tree, and are
nearly flat, with quills of all fizes intermixed.
“ The outer furface of the anguftura bark, when good,
is in general more or lefs wrinkled, and covered with a
coat of a grayilh white, below wffiich it is brown, with
a yellow caft : the inner furface is of a dull brownilh
yellow colour. It breaks fhort and refinous. The
fmell is Angular and unpleafant, but not very power¬
ful ; the tafte intenfely bitter, and flightly aromatic ;
in fome degree refembling bitter almonds, but very lad¬
ing, and leaving a fenfe of heat and pungency in the
throat. 1 his bark, when pow7dered, is not unlike the
powder of Indian rhubarb. It burns pretty freely, but
without any particular fmell * See
It is employed as a tonic, generally in fubftance
dofe from 15 to 30 grains. It may alfo be given in?^K.
the form of infufion, deco&ion, tinfture, or extraft/'
It xs u ell adapted to cafes of debility of the alimentary
canal.
Officinal Preparations.
. 328
Timfture of
myrrh.
329
Compound
powder of
myrrh.
a. Tinctura Myrrhs. Tinaure of myrrh.
This tinaure is made by digefting three ounces of
powdered myrrh in about 20 ounces of alcohol, mixed
with 10 ounces of water, according to the Edinburgh
procefs 5 half a pint of alcohol, with a pint and a half
of proof fpirit, according to the London college j or
two pounds of alcohol according to that of Dublin, for
feven or eight days.
. Tinaure of myrrh is feldom given internally, its prin¬
cipal ufe being as an external application, either as a
gargle, or as a lotion for cleanfing foul ulcers, and pro¬
moting the exfoliation of carious bones.
£. Pulvis Myrrhas compositus, L. Compound
powder of myrrh.
Made by rubbing together into a powder equal
Vol. XII. Part II.
33. Colomba. RADIX COLOMBO. Columbo
root.
This root is brought from Columbo, a town in theColumb®
ifiand of Ceylon, to which it was originallv tranfp!antedr#ot.
from the continent of India. It is called by the Portu-
guefe Raijs de Mofambique. We are as yet unacquaint¬
ed with the vegetable of w?hich it is a part.
Columbo root comes to us in circular pieces, which
are from half an inch to three inches in diameter, and from
two inches to a quarter of an inch in length. The fides
are covered with a thick wrinkled bark, of a dark
brown colour externally, but of a light colour within.
The furfaces of the tranfverle fedlions appear very un¬
equal, higheft at the edges, with a concavity towards
the centre. On paring off this rough furface, the root
is feen to confift of three laminae, the cortical, ligneous,
and medullary. This laft is much the fofteft, and,
when chewed, feems very mucilaginous. A number of
fmall fibres run longitudinally through it, and appear
on
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
7+6
Hiftoryof on tne fuvface. The cortical and ligneoas parts are di¬
vided by a circular black line. All the thicker pieces
have fmall holes drilled through them, for the conveni¬
ence of drying.
This root has an aromatic fmell, but is difagree-
ably bitter and pungent to the tafte, refembling muitard
feed long kept.
This is an excellent bitter tonic, ufeful in debilities
of the ilomach and inteftinal canal, in bilious diar¬
rhoeas, in bilious fevers, in which it fometimes agrees
when Peruvian bark fails j in the naufea and vomit¬
ing attending pregnancy. It is ufually given in fub-
llance, in a dole from 15 grains to half a dram, or by
way of infulion.
Officinal Preparation.
Tincture of Tingtura Colombai,, E. L. Tin£ture of Columbo.
columbo. t . .
The Edinburgh college direfil this tincture to be made,
by digelting for eight days two ounces of columbo root
in two pounds of diluted alcohol. The London tinc¬
ture is ftronger than this, being made with two ounces
and a half of the root to two pints of proof fpirit.
This tinflure may be given in a dofe of a dram or
two.
For fome valuable obfervations on the nature and
ufes of columbo root, fee Percival's Effiays, vol. ii.
PartlV.
333
grains. It has foraetimes been ufed with advantage as Hi dory of
a mafticatory in ftrumous affections of the tonfils. It is
often preferibed in the form of a watery infufion, made MecUf.jnts.
by fteeping two ounces of the bruifed root in one pint ——y—
of boiling water. A fmall wine glafs full of fuch an
infufion, taken warm three or four times a day, has
afforded great relief in many cafes of gouty dyf-
peplia.
Officinal Preparation:.
337
tf. Tinctura Zingiberis. L. Tinfture of ginger. Tincture ef
This is made by digefting two ounces of powdered
ginger in two pounds of proof fpirit, for eight days.
It may be given in a dofe of two ®r three drams, mixed
with water.
ginger.
338
b. Syrupus Amomi Zingiberis, E. SYRUP US s^rup of
ZINGIBERIS, L. Syrup of ginger. ^'
The Edinburgh fyrup is made by macerating three
ounces of beaten ginger in four pounds of boiling water
for 24 hours in a covered veffel, and then forming the
fyrup by adding feven pounds and a half of double re¬
fined fugar. The fyrup of the London college is made
with four ounces of bruifed ginger to three pints of boil¬
ing dillilled water, adding a lufficient quantity of double
refined fugar to make a fyrup.
A ufeful addition to flimulating mixtures, and em¬
ployed in pharmacy as a conftituent in feveral electua¬
ries and pills.
Sect. II. Medicinal Vegetables, arranged according to
the Syjlem of Linnccus.
Class I. MONANDRIA. Order 1. Monocynia. 37. Amomum Zedoaria, D. Long zedoary root. Long zedo
339
334
Round ze¬
doary.
335.
Turmeric
root.
34. Ktempferia rotunda. ZEDOARIA, L.
Round zedoary root.
This is a fpicy root brought from the Eaft Indies, in
pieces about an inch long, rather rough on the furface,
and commonly terminating in a point. It is feldom em¬
ployed except as an ingredient in an aromatic electuary
to be afterwards mentioned.
35. Curcuma longa. CURCUMA, L. Tur¬
meric root.
This is brought from the Eaft Indies, where it is em¬
ployed as a fpice. The roots are tuberous, long, knot-
tyj and wrinkled •, of a pale yellow colour externally,
and a (Inning faffron biown within •, of a weak aroma¬
tic fmell, and a warm, fiightly bitter tafte.
Seldom employed in this country as a remedy, but
„ much ufed in the compofition of curry powder.
336
Cfinger. ^o. Amomum ZINGIBER, E. ZINGIBER, L. D.
Ginger root. See Botany, p. 76.
This is the lead acrimonious of all the foreign aro¬
matics. It may be taken in confiderable quantities, ei-
ihe with food or as a medicine. It is an excellent ftimu-
lant, peculiarly fuited to the conftitutions ofthofewhofe
ftomaebs are fubjeCf to flatulency, atonic gout, and
other diforders marked by want of energy in the organs
of digeftion. In thefe cafes it may be given either by
itfelf, or combined with bitters and other tonics. It is
alfo joined with antacids. It is a common and ufe¬
ful addition to cathartic medicines, particularly to in-
fufions and timftures of the vegetable cathartics, ferving
to moderate their irritating aflion on the bowels. The
pulverized root may be given in dofes from 10 to 30
ary*
A fpicy root brought from the Eaft Indies, efpecially
from Ceylon, much refembling the kaempferia in proper¬
ties, but rather ftronger.
. 38. Amomum Cardamomum. AMOMUM RE-Ief^^,ar
PENS, E. CARDAMOMUM MINUS, L. D.damcm
Leffer cardamom feeds. ieeds.
It is uncertain whether thefe feeds are the produce
of the amomum cardamomum or repens. They are
brought from the Eaft Indies, and form a very grateful
aromatic, frequently employed in practice as a itimu-
lant. They are brought to us in little wdiilifti, round-
ifti, triangular, pointed pods. The feeds are of a dark
brown colour, of a fragrant fmell, and pungent, rather
faltifti tafte. The hulks are feparated from the reft by
beating them in a mortar.
Officinal Preparations.
34 r
Tinctura Amomi rerentis, E. TINCTURATlndturet#
CARDAMOMI, L. D. Tin&ure of cardamomcardamoia
r . feeds,
feeds.
The Edinburgh tinflure is made by digefting for
feven days, four ounces of bruifed cardamom leeds in
two pounds and a half of diluted alcohol. In the Lon¬
don formula, three ounces of the feeds are digefted for
eight days in two pints of proof fpirit. Dofe two or
three drams.
34 2
b. Tinctura Cardamomi composita, L. D. Com- compomwl
pound tin&ure of cardamom leeds. timftureof
Made by digefting two drams of leffer cardamom feedSi
feeds powdered, the fame quantity of powdered ca¬
raway
Part IV. MATERIA
Hiftory of raway feeds (and in the London formula, of cochineal),
Sj^e *2^ an ounce °f bruifed cinnamon, and foufr ounces
Medicines. ^oned raifins, in two pints, (or according to the
w-y—— Dublin college, two pounds), of proof fpirit for 14
days.
A very grateful aromatic tin&ure, fometimes given
alone as a cordial, in a dofe of three or four drams, but
more commonly added to ftimulant draughts and juleps,
to which it gives a fine rich colour.
Galangal 39* Maranta Galanga. GALANGA. Galan-
•oot. J gal root.
Sometimes employed as a warm aromatic, in a dofe of
about a, fcruple.
Class II. DIANDRIA. Order 1. Monogynia.
truvetil 40- Olea EuROPiEA, E. OLIVA, L. D. The
’ olive tree. OLEUM OLIVAS. Olive oil.
M E D I C A, &c. 747
London college a pound and a half, of rofemafy tops, Hiflory of
with a gallon of diluted alcohol, and a fufficient quan- arK*
tity of water to prevent burning, dillilling off a gal- Medicines.
Chiefly employed to form fome compound tinftures,
or as an external flimulant, in which way it is com¬
monly ufed under the name of Hungary water.
43. Salvia officinalis.
Sage leaves.
E. SALVIA, L. D. Sage.
349
An infufion of fage leaves is fometimes employed as
a refreftiing drink in fevers, and has been recommend¬
ed as a tonic in nervous debilities and dyfpepfia. It forms
a good fubftitute for Chinefe tea.
350
44. Veronica Becabunga. BECABUNGA, L.Brooltlime'
D. Brooklime. See Botany, p. 84.
A common fucculent plant that has been recom¬
mended as an excellent antifcorbutic.
Pure olive oil fliould have a fine rich greenifli yellow
colour, with fcarcely any perceptible tafte ort fmell $
(hould be perfedlly tranfparent, and fhould congeal at
about 38° of Fahrenheit. It is brought to us from the
fouth of France, from Italy, and the Levant. The bell
is fuppofed to come from Florence.
Olive oil is chiefly employed as an emollient, both
externally and internally. Internally it is fometimes
employed as a gentle laxative, and to moderate the ac¬
tion of acrid fubftances, efpecially poifons. It has been
given as an anthelmintic, either alone or formed into
an emulfion writh ammonia.
345
Hedge hyf- 41- GratIOLA OFFICINALIS, E. GRATIOLA,
fop. L. Hedge hyffep.
This plant, w-hen dried, is fometimes employed as a
draftic purgative and anthelmintic, given in fubftance,
in a dofe of from 20 to 30 grains, or by way of infu¬
fion, to the extent of 3 drams. Its ufe requires cau¬
tion.
346
Rofemary.
42. Rosmarinus officinalis, E.
NITS, L. D. Rofemary.
ROSMARI-
The tops of rofemary are ufed as a ftimulant, and
form an ingredient in fome tindtures. Rofemary owes
its ftimulating powers to its effential oil, which is very
Jimilar to camphor.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oleum volatile Rorismarini officinalis,
Volatile E. OLEUM RORISMARINI, L. Volatile oil
oil of rofe- of rofemary.
Kiary.
'I his oil, like moft of the other volatile oils of aromatic
plants, is obtained by diftilling the plant with a fuffi¬
cient quantity of water to prevent burning, and fepa-
rating the oil that floats on the furface of the diftilled
liquor, by means of a funnel with a long capillary
tube.
Oil of rofemary is feldom employed alone, but it
may be given in a dofe of a few drops as a ftimu'
iant.
■748
Spirit of l>. SPIRITUS RORISMARINI OFFICINALIS, E. SPI-
roRjnary. RI L US RORISPtlARINI, L. Spirit of rofemary.
Made by diftilling 2 pounds, or, according to the
Order 3. Trigynia.
45. Piper nigrum. Black pepper. Black pep-
This is brought from the Eaft Indies, being culti-per"
vated chiefly in Java and Malabar. White pepper is
the fame fruit, with the black bark taken off.
Pepper is one of the moft heating fpices, and is faid
fometimes to adl violently on the kidneys, fo as when
taken in large quantities to excite nephritis. It is not
frequently given internally as a ftimulant, efpecially in
the form of powder. A few grains of white pepper
fwallowed whole, are recommended by fome pradlition-
ers, as a remedy in the debility of the digeftive or¬
gans.
35*
46 Piper Cubeba. CUBEBA. L. Cubebs. Cubebs.
Thefe are fcarcely to be diftinguilhed by the eye
from common pepper, except in being furnilhed with a
long flender ftalk. They are brought from Java. In
ftimulating properties they refemble pepper, but are
much weaker, and are feldom ufed.
, 353
47. Piper longum. Long pepper. IjeP"
Long pepper appears in final! round grains, difpofed
fpirally in a long cylindrical head. It is extremely
pungent, and has a kind of faltith tafte. It is employ¬
ed chiefly as an ingredient in an aromatic eledtuary
and tindlure.
Class III. TRIANDRIA. Order 1. Monogy'nia.
48. Valeriana officinalis, E. VALERI-Vait-n^*
ANA SYLVESTRIS, L. D. Valerian rot. r®°t-
This root confifts of a number of firings or fibres, of
a pale browniffi colour, proceeding from a common
flock, and matted together. It has a very ftrong, un-
pleafant fmell, and a w^arm, bitterifh, acrid tafte. It
imparts its fmell to water diftilled from it, and mod of
its properties may be imparted to alcohol. Valerian
grows commonly in Britain, and the beft is that which
grows in high, dry fituations. The roots fhould be
taken up in autumn or winter.
Valerian is a valuable antifpafmodic, and is properly
ranked among the meft powerful of that clafs of reme¬
dies. It has been found efficacious in epilepfy, in which
it lhould be given in fubftance, in large dofes, to the
5 B 2 extent
t
748
MATERIA ME DIG A, &c.
Hiflory of extent of a dram or two /everal times a day. It is
Wl-nd ufefu] ;n hyfleria, and in cafes of great nervous fenfibi-
Medk-ines ^ foretimes united with cinchona in the form
n——Y——' of an electuary. The ufual dofe is from 15 to 30
grains Its unpleafant flavour is moft effe&ually con¬
cealed fcy the addition of a little mace.
Tiniture of a. TlKCTURA
valerian, lerian.
Officinal Preparations.
Valeriaki, L. Tindlure of va-
356
Refinous
extraft of
wild vale-
357
Saffron.
35S
Syrup of
faffron.
This is made by digefting four ounces of valerian
root in coarfe powder in two pints of proof fpirit for
tight days, with a gentle heat.
This tinfture is given in the fame cafes in which va¬
lerian is ufeful in fubftance, in a dofe of from two to
four drams ; but it is not fo efficacious as the powder,
or the following tindlure.
b. Tinctura Valeriani ammoniata, L. D.
Ammoniated tindlure of valerian.
Made by digefting for eight days, in a clofely cover¬
ed veffel, four ounces of powdered valerian root in two
pints of compound fpirit of ammonia.
This is perhaps the beft form in which valerian can
be given, as its antifpafmodic virtues are much improv¬
ed by the addition of ammonia. Dofe a dram or two,
which is beft taken in water a little warmed.
c. Extractum Valeriani Sylvestris Resin-
osum, D. Reftnous extradl of wild valerian.
This extraft is made by digefling for four days a
pound of powdered valerian in four pounds of redftified
fpirit of wine j then pouring off the tinflure, and boil¬
ing the reftduum in 12 pounds of water to two pounds.
The two liquors are to be drained feparately \ the de-
\otffion is to be boiled, and the tindlure diftilled, till
both are fufficiently thick, and they are then to be mix¬
ed together.
Of the effe£ls of this extraft we have had no expe¬
rience ; but we believe an extra£l made by infpiffating
the ammoniated tin&ure, has been given with fuccefs
in the form of pills.
49. Crocus Sativus, E. CROCUS, L. D. Saf¬
fron.
Saffron is made from the ftigmata of the above fpe-
cies of the crocus, which is cultivated for that purpofe
in Tome parts of England, efpecially in Effex. Saffron
is alfo brought from abroad, but that of our own pro¬
duce is conftdered as the beft. See Botany, p. 100.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Syrupus Croci, L. Syrup of faffron.
This is made by infufing an ounce of faffron in a
pint of boiling diftilled water for 12 hours, and boiling
the drained infufion with a fufficient quantity of double
refined fugar to form a fyrup.
Syrup of faffron is ufed chiefly as a pleafant addition
to draughts and juleps, to which it imparts a fine yel¬
low colour.
. 359
Tinfture of
iaffron.
Part IV.
into ffireds, in 15 ounces of diluted alcohol for feven Hiftoryof
days, and ftraining the tindlure.
By fome practitioners this is confidered as a good re- ]\ie(jicinei,
medy in chronic weaknefs, and is given in the dofe of a y-.—.J
table fpoonful undiluted, every morning.
360
50. Iris Florentina, E. IR IS, L. Florentine Florentine
orris. orris.
This is brought from Italy in white, flattifti, knotty
pieces, that are very difficult to break or powder. It
has an agreeable fragrant fmell, and a fiightly bitter
tafte. It is employed chiefly as a perfume. 361
W a ter flupTa
51. Iris Pseudacorus. IRIS, D. Water flag.
See Botany, p. ico.
Order 2. Digynia.
52. Saccharum Officinarum. Sugar.
CHARUM NON PURIFICATUM, E. L.
CHARUM RUBRUM, D. Brown fugar.
CHARUM PURIFICATUM, L. D. SACCHA¬
RUM PURISSIMUM, E. Refined fugar.
On the 'chemical properties of fugar, fee Chemistry.
Brown fugar is fometimes employed as a gentle laxa¬
tive, efpecially in clyfters. Refined fugar is ufed chiefly
in making fyrups and conferves, and in giving an agree¬
able tafte.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Syrupus simplex, E. Simple fyrup.
362
SAC-5”8"'
CAP 3"3
^'Refined
b AC- fugar.
3<4
Made by diffolving 15 parts of double refined fugarfUp^C ^"
in 8 of water, by a gentle heat.
53. A vena sativa, E. AVENA, L.
Oats.
3^5
Oats.
Common
wheat.
367
Starch.
b. Tinctura Croci, E. Tinfture of faffron.
Made by digefting an ounce of Engliffi faffron cut
Oats are employed in medicine chiefly to form gruel,
which is made either from groats or oatmeal, and is an
ufeful diluent in febrile and inflammatory affeftions,
and is alfo ufed in clyfters as an emollient. Poultices
are fometimes made of oatmeal, mixed with other fub-
ftances according to the nature of the cafe.
54. Triticum Common wheat.
FARINA. Flour. AMYLUM. Starch.
Flour and ftarch are fometimes ufed as emollients,
efpecially the latter, in the form of clyfters or troches,
in cafes of diarrhoea, dyfentery, &c.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Mucilago Amyli, E. L. Mucilage of ftarch. Mucilage
Made by triturating half an ounce of ftarch with one
pound of water, and then boiling the liquor till it be
fufficiently thick.
3^9
b. Trochisci Amyli, L. Troches of ftarch. Troches &f
ftarch.
Compofed of an ounce and half of ftarch, fix drams
of extraft of liquorice, half an ounce of powdered Flo¬
rentine orris root, and one pound and a half of double
refined fugar, made into a mafs for troches, with muci¬
lage of gum tragacanth.
Thefe troches are employed as demulcents, to allay
the irritation of tickling coughs.
55. Hordeum
368
Part IV.
MATERIA ME DIG A, &c.
749
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
37°
Common
barley.
55. Hordeum distichon, E. D. HORDEUM,
L. Common barley.
Common barley freed from the hulks, and formed
into what is called pearl barley, is ufed in medicine as
an emollient in the form of deco&ion, or barley water.
37T
Becodtion
of barley.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Decoctum Hordei distichi, E. DECOCTUM
HORDEI, L. Decoaion of barley.
The making of barley water requires more nicety
than is ufually fuppofed. The following is the method
direaed in the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia.
Take of pearl barley two ounces j water five pounds.
Firft walh off the mealy part which adheres to the
barley with fome cold water ; then extraa the colour¬
ing matter by boiling it a little with about half a pound
of water. Throw this decoaion away, and put the
barley thus purified into five pounds of boiling w'ater,
which is to be boiled down to one half, and ftrain the
decoaion.
372
Compound b. DECOCTUM HORDEI COMPOSITUM, L. Com-
decodkicn ofp0Uncj decoaion of barley.
barley.
Made by boiling two pints of the decoaion of barley,
two ounces of diced figs, half an ounce of liquorice
root diced and bruifed, two ounces of doned raifins,
in one pint of diddled water, boiled to two pints and
drained.
Thefe decoaions may be ufed as common drink, in
pneumonia, and fimilar affbaions of the bread.
373
Sarcocol.
374
Madder
root.
37 S
Contrayer-
of from 30 to 40 grains j and a decoaion of it, ufed as
a gargle, has been recommended in putrid fore throat.
Officinal Preparation.
a. PELVIS CONTEAYERViE COMPOSITUS, L. Com-
pound powder of contrayerva.
This is made by mixing together five ounces of
powdered contrayerva, and one pound and a half of
powder of crabs claws. Dole about a dram, repeated
every three or four hours.
Class V. PENTANDRIA. Order 1. Monogynia.
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicine};.
37^
Compound
powder of
con tray er-
377
Class IV. TETRANDRIA. Order 1. Monogynia.
56. Penjea sarcocolla. SARCOCOLLA, L.
Sarcocol. See Chemistry, N° 2493.
57. Rubia tinctorum, E. RUBIA, L.D. Mad¬
der root.
This root has been long reputed a fpecific in uterine
obftru&ions, but we believe without any good founda¬
tion. It is recommended in the atrophy of children,
given in fubftance, in dofes of a fcruple or half a dram
leveral times a-day. Its property of tinging the bones
of animals has been already mentioned.
58. Dorstenia contrajerva, E. CONTRAYER¬
VA, L. Contrayerva root.
The root of this plant is knotty, an inch or two
long, about half an inch thick, of a reddiih brown
colour externally, and pale within. From all fides of
it there {hoot out long, rough, (lender fibres, generally
loaded with knots. It has a peculiar kind of aromatic
fmell, and its tafte is fomewhat aftringent and bitterifh,
with a light fweetilh kind of acrimony, when chewed
for a confiderable time. The fibres have little or no
tafte or fmell, therefore the tuberous parts alone fhculd
be chofen.
This plant is perennial, and grows in South America
and fome of the Caribbee ifiands.
Contrayerva has been employed as a ftimulant dia¬
phoretic, in typhus fever, given in fubftance, in a dofe
co. Anchusa tinctoria, E. ANCHUSA, D.Alkanet
root.
Alkanet root.
This root is employed merely to give colour to an
ointment.
37s
60. Spigelia marylandica, E. SPIGELIA,c.ar,olina
L.D. Carolina pink root. pmk r00t-
From 10 to 20 grains of the root of this plant have been
given twice a day to children between 2 and 12 years
of age, when troubled with worms. It generally ope¬
rates as a purgative \ but when it does not produce this
effedl in a fufticient degree, proper dofes of rhubarb,
jalap, or calomel, fhould be given with it. As the
fpigelia may be eafily overdofed, and in that cafe pro¬
duces alarming fymptoms, it Ihould perhaps be erafed
from the catalogue of vermifuge medicines, of which
there is a fufficient number without it, that are at leaft
equally efficacious, and much fafer in their operation.
379
61. MENYANTHES TRIFOLIATA, E. TRIFOLIUM Marfti tre-
PALUDOSUM, L. D. Marfti trefoil. fo'k
This plant operates by purging and vomiting, in
a dofe of a dram. It has been recommended in fevers
and intermittents, but is feldom employed.
380
62. Convolvulus scammonia, E. SCAMMO-Scammony..
NIUM, L. D. Scammony.
This is a gum refin which is brought from Syria,
Myfia and Cappadocia. The roots of this plant,
which are very long and thick, when frefti contain a
milky juice. To obtain this, the earth is removed fro\j.
the upper part of the roots, and the tops of thefe are
cut obliquely off. The milky juice which flows out, is
collefted in a fmall veffel funk in the earth at the lower
end of the cut. Each root furnifties only a few drams,
but it is collected from feveral vcffels, and dried in the
fun. This is the true and unadulterated fcammony.
It is light, of a dark gray colour, but becomes of a
whitifti yellow when touched with the wet finger, is
Alining in its frafture, has a peculiar naufeous fmell,
and bitter acrid tafte, and forms with water a greenifti
milky fluid, without any remarkable fediment. In this
ftate of purity it feldom reaches us, but is commonly
mixed with the expreffed juice of the root, and even of
the ftalks and leaves, and often with flour, fand, or
earth. The beft to be pact with in the (hops comes from
Aleppo, in light fpongy maffes, having a heavy dif-
agreeable fmell; friable, and eafily powdered 5 of a
finning afli colour, verging to black j w'hen pow’dered
of
75°
Iliftorj of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
* Dr D:tn-
ran's Dif-
J>enfatory.
MATERIA MEDIC A, &c.
of a liglit gray or wliitifli colour. An inferior fort is
brought from Smyrna in more compadt ponderous
pieces, not lb friable, with lefs fmell, and lefs eafily
powdered, of a darker colour, not fo relinous, and full
of fand and other impurities *. See Chemistry, N°
2488.
Scammony is one of the moft draffic purgatives, and
as fuch is fometimes given in dropfy, in a dofe of from
5 to 15 grains. It is alfo one of the molt common an¬
thelmintics ; but in this latter cafe is generally combin¬
ed with a mercurial.
Officinal Preparations.
3S1
Compound a. PuLVIS SCAMMONIJE COMPOSITUS, L. E. D. Com-
■pawdev oi pound powder of fcammony.
icaimnony. ^
Part IV.
Officinal Preparations.
composites, E. Compound
Hiltory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
a. Pelvis Jalaps
powder of jalap. .g6
Ihis is prepared by grinding together one part of
powdered jalap and tvsm parts of fupertartrate of potalh jalap,
into a fine powder.
The fupertartrate of potaflr in this preparation is ufe-
ful chiefly for affifting in reducing the jalap to a finer
powder, and thus rendering its operation milder. Dofe
from half a dram to one dram.
h. Extr actum Convolvuli Jalaps, E. EX- Extra A of'
TRACTUM JALAPII, L. EXTRACTUM JA-jalap.
LAPyE, D. Extraff of jalap.
3,2
Compound
powder of
fc ammony
with aloes.
3S3
?owder of
fcammony
with calo-
mel.
3*4
Jilecbiary
of fcammo-
ny.
The London powder is compofed of fcammony,
hard extract of jalap, of each two ounces ; ginger, half
an ounce: powdered j^parately, and then mixed to¬
gether. V
This powder in the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia is di¬
rected to be compofed of fcammony, fupertartrite of po¬
talh, equal parts rubbed together to a fine pow’der.
The Dublin formula directs of fcatnmony and vitrio-
lated vegetable alkali, each two ounces, and ginger
half an ounce, powdered feparately, and then mixed to¬
gether.
As the flrength of thefe poxvders is different, their
dofes mult vary : from 10 to 30 grains of the Edinburgh
powder, and from 8 to 15 of the others, may be given
for a dofe.
b. Pelvis Scammonii composites cum Aloe, L.
Compound powder of fcammony with aloes.
This is compofed of fix drams of fcammony, hard
extract of jalap, focotorine aloes, of each one ounce
and a half, of ginger half an ounce, powdered fepa¬
rately and mixed together.
Dole from 5 to 15 grains.
c. Pelvis Scammonii cum Calomelane, L. Pow¬
der of fcammony with calomel.
This is compoied of fcammony half an ounce, calo¬
mel, double refined fugar, of each two drams, powder¬
ed feparately and then mixed together.
This is well fuited to cafes of worms, and may be
given from 12 to 20 grains.
d. Electuaruim Scammonii, L. D. Elefluary of
fcammony.
This extra#, according to the Edinburgh procefs, is
made by digefting one pound of powdered jalap in four ■
pounds of alcohol for four days, pouring off the liquor,
and boiling the refiduum for 15 minutes in five pounds
of diftilled water, filtering the deco#ion while boiling
hot through linen. This decoction is to be repeated
with the lame quantity of water, and both decoftions,
when filtered, are to be boiled to the confiftency of
honey. In the mean time the fpirit is to be drawn off
from the timffure by diftillation, till this alfo becomes
thick, when it is to be mixed with the watery extra#,
and both evaporated in a bath of boiling water faturat-
ed with muriate of foda, till there is formed a mafs of
a proper confiflence for making pills.
'Phis extra# is a powerful purgative j it may be given
in a dofe of from 5 to 15 grains.
38S
c. Tinctura Convolvuli Jalaps, E. TINCTU-Tin(aure »f
RA JALAPII, L. TINCTURA JALAPAE, D.->alaP-
Tin#ure of jalap.
This tin#ure is made by digefting three ounces (ac¬
cording to the Edinburgh college) or eight ounces ac¬
cording to the colleges of London and Dublin, of
powdered jalap, in 15 ounces (or two pints London, or
two pounds Dublin), of diluted alcohol, for feven or
eight days, and draining the liquor through paper.
1 he dofe of the Edinburgh tin#ure may be from
three to fix drams; that of the others from two to four
drams.
3S9
64. Datura stramonium, E. STRAMONIUM.Thorn aP-
Thorn apple. See Botany, p. 137. Pie-
J' 390
65. Hyoscyamus nicer, E. HYOSCYAMUS BJack be*>‘
D. Black henbane. 5 ^ane*
Prepared of an ounce and a half of powdered fcam¬
mony, cloves, ginger, of each fix drams, effential oil
of caraway half a dram, and fyrup of rofes or orange
peel, a fufficient quantity to form an ele#uary.
A brilk warm purgative, dofe from 15 to 30 grains.
385
jalap. 63 Convolvulus jalapa, E. JALAPIUM, L.
JALA PA, D. Jalap root.
The botanical and medical hiftory of this Ample
has been already fufticiently detailed under the ar¬
ticle Botany, p. 132. It remains here only to notice
the
_ This plant grows commonly on dunghills and uncul¬
tivated places in feveral parts of Britain. It produces
large, dark-coloured, woolly, jagged leaves, of a very
flrong and peculiar fmell, fparkling when burnt, as if
impregnated with nitre. Thefe leaves are the princi¬
pal part employed in medicine, a#ing as a narcotic.
The feeds are alfo employed, and when fmoked like
tobacco, are faid to be an excellent remedy in toolhach.
Wherever an anodyne is wanted, and opium dif-
agrees, this herb, and the preparations from it, may be
piefcribed. It is efpecially (uited to fpaimodic and
colic affl#ions, and to cafes of chronic rheumatifm and
arthritis.
3
Part IV. MATERIA
Hi Rory cf arthritis. Infiances are alfo recorded of its beneficial
Simple and eflfe&s in mania and melancholy 5 but in the laft-men-
Medidres t‘onec^ diforders, it has at leaft as often failed as it has
J—y—; fucceeded, and is, on the whole, a doubtful remedy in
dileafes belonging to the order of vefanise. It does not
occafion coftivenefs like opium, and forms one of the
befi fubfiitutes for this expenfive narcotic. Given in
large dofes.- it produces great debility, delirium, re¬
markable dilatation of the pupils of the eyes, convulfions,
and death. It is ufually given in the form of extraft,
but the leaves are fometimes applied frefh by way of
cataplafm to fchirrous tumors and cancerous ulcers.
Officinal Preparation;.
391 a. Succus spissatus Hyoscyami nigri, E. In-
lufce^/6 fpiUatcd juice of henbane.
This is made by bruifing the frelh leaves, and putting
them into a hempen bag, in which they are ftrongly
compreifed till the juice is extracted. This is evapo¬
rated in flat vefiels heated with boiling water, faturated
with muriate of foda, till it becomes of the confiftence
of thick honey ; and after the tnafs has become cold, it
is put into glazed earthen veflfels fprinkled with alcohol,
and clofely covered.
Dofe from twTo grains to 15 or 20, on extraordinary
occafions •, but if thefe large dofes occafion unpleafant
effefls, as headach, vertigo, vomiting, or purging, the
medicine muft be difcontinued.
M E D I C A, &c.
75 r
juice of
henbane.
As a narcotic, it has fcarcely been ufed, though it Hiftory of
has been recommended in mania, epilepfy, hyfteria, &c. s^le aijd
It has been given in dyfentery and intermittent fever, Medicines
in a dofe of five grains twice a day ; but it does not u—v »
poffefs any fuperior medicinal powers*. *Mnrray's
'Element),
69. Capsicum annuum, E. PIPER INDICUM,yo1 i.
L. D. Capficum. Indian or Cayenne pepper. See 397
Botany, p. I 38. Cayenne
1 0 pepper-
It has been given with manifefl advantage in cafes
of gouty dyfpepfia, in fome hydropic affedlions joined
with paralytic fymptoms, and in the advanced and fink-
ing ftage ef typhus and the malignant endemic fever
cf the Weft Indies ; alfo in the malignant fore throat,
in which it has a good effedl, both when taken into the
ftomach, and when ufed as a gargle. Bergius relates,
that he prefcribed the feeds with fuccefs in obftinate
agues. Of the dried and pulverized capfules, the dofe,
internally, is from one to three grains. In the advan¬
ced ftage of the yellow fever, double the laft mentioned
quantity has been given at a time. The gargle is pre¬
pared by macerating the powder firft in warm vine¬
gar, and afterwards adding a proper quantity of hot wa¬
ter, and continuing the maceration for a fufficient length * Prafti-
of time. The proportions, two drams of the capficum ^ ty720/’*
to half a pound of each menftruum *. •l‘s' ^u
. 39S
70 Solanum dulcamara. DULCAMARA, D.f11161,
Bitter fweet. See Botany, p. 138.
' fweet.
. 392
Tincture of
henbane.
b. Tinctura Hyoscyami nigri,
henbane.
E.
Tin&ure of
Made by digefting one ounce of the dried leaves of
henbane in eight ounces of diluted alcohol for feven
days, and ftraining. Dofe from half a dram to a dram.
Tobacco 66. Nicotiana tabacum, E. NICOTIANA,
leaves. L. D. Tobacco leaves. See Botany, p. 137.
Befides its ordinary narcotic virtues, the fmoke of
tobacco thrown up the bowels by way of clyfter, has
proved an effcdlual remedy in obftinate colic.
Officinal Preparation.
394
Tobacco
wine.
a. Vinum Nicotiana: tabaci, E. Tobacco wine.
Made by macerating one ounce of the dried leaves of
tobacco in one pound of Spanhh white wine for feven
days, and ftraining the liquor.
This has been fometimes employed as a diuretic.
Dofe from 30 to 60 drops.
395
Letter cen¬
taury.
67. Chironia CENTAURIUM, E.
MINUS, L. D. Eeffer centaury.
CENTAURIUM
A ftrong bitter, fometimes employed as a tonic in the
form of an infufion of the tops.
.. 39^ . gg, Strychnos Nux vomica. Nux vomica. The
JS ux vomx- . ,
ea kernel.
The tafte cf this kernel is extremely bitter ; it has
little or no fmell, and is fo hard, that it cannot be re¬
duced into powder by beating.
This nut is a very powerful narcotic, inducing even
death by its fedative power, as, on dilTedlion, no maiks
ef inflammation, or local afieflion, are to be difcovered
in the ftomsch.
71. AtROPA BELLADONNA, E. BELLADONNA, Deadly
D. Deadly nightlhade. See Botany, p. 138. nightfhade*
The whole plant is poifonous, and the berries, from
:heir beautiful appearance, have fometimes proved fatal
to children. The fymptoms excited are, a drynefs of
the mouth, a trembling of the tongue, a very diftrefling
thirft, a difhculty of fwallowing, fruitlefs efforts to vo¬
mit, and great anxiety about the praecordia. Deli-
rium then comes on, wuth gnalhing of the teeth, and
convulfions. The pupil remains dilated, and is not fen-
fible even to the ftimulus of light. The face becomes-
tumid, and of a dark red colour. The jaws are fre¬
quently locked. Inflammation attacks the oefophagus,
ftomach, and inteftbies, fometimes extending to the
mefentery, lungs, and liver, accompanied with violent
pains in the abdomen. The ftomach is very infenfible
to ftimulus, and the periftaltic motion of the inteftines
is deftroyed. General relaxation, palfy, efpecially of
of the lower extremities, convulfions, vertigo, blindnefs,
coma, and death fucceed. The body foon putrifies^
fwells, and becomes marked with livid fpots \ blood
flows from the nofe, mouth, and ears, and the flench is
infufferable. On diffeclion the blood is found to be fluid,
the inteftinesare inflated and inflamed, or eroded and gan¬
grenous. The beft method of cure is to excite vomit¬
ing as foon as pofiible, by emetics, and tickling the
fau.es; to evacuate the bowels by purgatives and cly-
fters, and to give largely, vinegar, honey, milk and oil.
In fome children who recovered by this treatment,
the delirium was fucceeded by a profound fooor, ac¬
companied with fubfultus tendinum; the face and
hands became pale and cold, and the pulfe final!,
hard, and quick. Their recovery wras flow, and the
blindnefs continued a confiderable time, but at laft wentt Duncarfr
cff 4. Difpenfa-
a'"-'-
75 2
H iftory o A medicine capable of producing fucb powerful ef-
S‘®.P‘C arj1^ fefts, demands the utmoft caution on the part of the
Medicines, preicriber. He fhould begin with the fmalieft dofes,
i — increafing them very gradually^to a double, triple, or
quadruple quantity (in which cafes the intervals between
the repetitions of the dofes ftiould be proportionably
lengthened) and defifting as foon as a drynefs or ftric-
ture of the throat, or much diarrhoea, or great languor,
with ficknefs and vomiting, or vertigo, and dimnefs of
' figbt, come on.
It is belt employed in fubftance, beginning with a
grain for adults, and an eighth or a fourth of a grain
for children.
It has been employed in a great variety of cafes, as,
l. In feveral febrile difeafes; in obftinate intermittents j
and in the plague. 2. In inflammations •, the gout. 3.
In comatofe diieafes j in palfy, and lofs of fpeech from
apoplexy. 4. In fpafmodic difeafes j in chorea, epi-
lepfy, chincough, hydrophobia, melancholy, and mania.
5. In cachedlic affections j in dropfies, and obftinate
jaundice. 6. In local difeafes j in amaurofis, ophthal¬
mia, in fchirrhus, and cancer.
Officinal Preparations.
4°° a. Succus spissatus AtropjE Belladonna, E.
Infpiffate 1 jnfpj{pated juice of deadly nightfhade.
juice 01 1 J ^ o
deadly This is made in the fame way as the infpiffated juice
nightlhade. 0f henbane/ See N° 391. Dofe from one to five
grains.
72. Cinchona officinalis, E. CINCHONA,
*L. CORTEX PERUVIANUS. Cinchona bark.
Peruvian bark. 'Jejuits bark.
The account of this valuable remedy already given
under Botany, p. 133. and the article Cinchona, has
been fo ample, that we ftiall add nothing to it in this
place, but ftiall immediately proceed to notice the offi¬
cinal preparations, referring our readers for further in¬
formation on the fimple, to Percival’s effays, the Synop-
fis Materiae Medicae, the Thefaurus Medicaminum, and
Dr Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
Offiicinal Preparations.
jnfullon of a’ INFUSUM Cinchona officinalis, E. Infufion
cinchona cinchona bark.
bark. This is made by infufing an ounce of powdered cin¬
chona bark in a pound of water for 24 hours, and fil¬
tering.
Dofe from twro to four ounces.
b. Decoctum Cinchona officinalis, E. DE-
COCTUM CORTICIS PERUVIANI, L. D. De-
codtion of cinchona bark.
Prepared by boiling an ounce of powrdered cinchona
bark in about a pound and a half of water for 10 mi¬
nutes, and ftraining the liquor while hot.
This is fcarcely !o good a preparation as the infufion.
The ordinary dofe is three or four ounces.
M A T E R I A M E D I C A,. &C. . ' Part IV.
cinchona bark in about twro or two pounds and a half Hiftory of
of diluted alcohol for feven or eight days, and ftrain- Simple and
ing the Hquor through paper.. _ # Medicines.
I his is feldom given by itfelf, being •generally'
added to the decodtion or infufion. Dofe three or four
drams to an ounce.
.
Cinchona
bark.
4°3
Tincture of
cinchona
bark.
c. Tinctura Cinchona officinalis, E. TINC-
TURA CORTICIS PERUVIANI, L. D. Tindure
of cinchona bark.
Made by digefting four or fix ounces of powdered
d. Tinctura Cinchona composita, L. D. Com¬
pound tindlure of cinchona bark. Huxham's tinSlure
of bark.
This is a very aromatic tindlure of bark, made by di¬
gefting two ounces of powdered cinchona, from half an
ounce to an ounce and a half of dried Seville orange
peel, three drams bruifed Virginian fnake-root, a dram
of faffron, and two fcruples of poe. dered cochineal, in
20 ounces or two pounds of proof fpirit for‘14 days, and
ftraining.
Dofe two or three drams.
404
e. Tinctura Cinchona ammoniata, L. Ammo- Ammoni-
niated tindlure of cinchona. » atecl tinc¬
ture of cin-
Made by digefting four ounces of powdered cinchona chona.
in two pints of compound fpirit of ammonia for 10 days
in a clofe veffel.
As a preparation of cinchona bark, this is ufelefs, and
as a ftimulus it is not preferable to the compound fpirit
of ammonia by itfelf.
4° 5
/. Extractum Cinchona officinalis, E. Ex-Extra<ftof
trad! of cinchona bark. cinchona.
1
This is made in the fame manner as extradl of jalap,
fee N° 387.
g. Extractum Cinchona, L. Extradl of bark.
The following is the procefs of the London college
for making this extradf.
Take of Peruvian bark, in coarfe powder, one pound;
diftilled water, 12 pints. Boil for an hour or two, and
pour off the liquor, which, while hot, wall be red and
pellucid, but, as it grows cold, will become yellow and
turbid. The fame quantity of water being again pour¬
ed on, boil the bark as before, and repeat the boiling
until the liquor, on becoming cold, remains clear.
Then reduce all thefe liquors, mixed together and
ftrained, to a proper thicknefs by evaporation. This
extradl muft be prepared under two forms; one foft,
and fit for making pills, and the other hard and pul-
verizable.
The Dublin college gives feparate proceffes for mak¬
ing their hard and foft extradl of cinchona ; but they
do not materially differ from the above.
All thefe extradls may be given in the form of pills,
in a dofe of from 10 to 20 grains, or by way of clyfter
in the quaptity of a dram or two.
bark.
73. Cinchona Caribbaa, E.
Caribbean iflands.
406
Cinchona of the cinchona of
the Carib¬
bean iflands.
This is a fpecies of cinchona introduced here by Dr
Wright. In medical properties it refembles the former,
and may be fubftituted for it.
407
74. Lobelia syphilitica, E. Blue cardinal flower. Blue cardi-
See Botany, p. 133. nal flower.
75-
&e.
Part IV.
M A T E R I A
Hiftcry of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
40S
Ipecacuan
root.
75. CephXelis ipecacuanha, E. IPECACU¬
ANHA, L. D. Ipecacuan root.
A pretty full account of ipecacuan has been already
given in the article Botany, under Pfycotria Emetica,
P- I35’
It appears that this drug, or fomething very fimilar
to the common ipecacuan, is the produce of feveral ve¬
getables, which are enumerated by Dr Duncan in his
Difpenfatory.
Ipecacuan is given as an emetic, in full dofes of a
fcruple or 2^ grains; as an expectorant, in dofes of one
grain, repeated every three or four hours ; as a diapho¬
retic, given in combination with opium j and as anti-
fpafmodic, given from three to fix grains.
When properly adminiftered, it proves ferviceable in
the following difeafes, viz. in intermittent fevers, a pa-
roxyfm of which has often been arrefted by giving it as
an emetic about an hour before the paroxyfm was ex-
pe£ted to come on ; in continued fevers, given at the
commencement as an emetic, and followed by a dia¬
phoretic regimen ; in feveral inflammatory difeafes, as
rheumatifm, given as a diaphoretic ; in pneumonia, ex¬
hibited to excite and keep up naufea without vomiting j
in dyfentery, in which it was formerly deemed a fpeci-
fic ; in exanthematous difeafes, efpecially where the
eruption is difpofed to recede ; in hemorrhages, given
in naufeating dofes ; in feveral fpafmodic affe&ions, as
epilepfy, afthma, dyfpncea, chincough, chronic diar¬
rhoea, hvfleria ; in mental alienation, as melancholia
and mania, given in large dofes; in fome kinds of
dropfy ; in jaundice 5 in amaurofis.
Ipecacuan is befi: exhibited in fubftance ; but it is of¬
ten given in the form of a vinous infufion.
OJicinal Preparations.
4C'9
Ipecacimn a. VlNUM IPECACUANHiE. Wine of ipecacuan.
This is made by digefting two ounces of bruifed ipe¬
cacuan root in about two pounds of Spanilh white wine,
for about a week, and {training.
This preparation being more palatable than the ipe¬
cacuan in fubftance, is well fuited to delicate and
fqueamifti patients. It may be given from an ounce to
two ounces. •
410
Powdered h. PuLVIS IPECACUANHAS ET OpIT, E. PULVIS
ipecacuan IPECACUANHA COMPOSITUS, L. D. PUL-
ai. opium. Yjg DOVER!. Powder of ipecacuan and opium.
Compound powder of ipecacuan. Dover's powder.
This powder is prepared by triturating eight parts of
cryftallized fulphate of potaih, with one part of hard
dry opium, and one part of powdered ipecacuan, till
they are reduced to a very fine powder.
. The cryftallized fait in this procefs ferves the purpofe
of reducing the opium and ipecacuan to a ftate of very
minute divifion, and thus renders them more effedlual.
This is a valuable diaphoretic, and may be given from
10 to 20 grains ; but where a long continued fweat is
defired to be kept up, it is better to give 10 or 15
grains at firft, and 10 or 5 grains more a few hours
after.
411
Buckthorn. 76. Rhamnus catharticus, E. SPINA CER¬
VIN A, L. Buckthorn. See Botany, p. 139.
Vol. XII. Part II.
M E D I C A,
75.S
Hiftory of
Officinal Preparation. Simple and
' " Officinal
a. Syrupus Rhamni cathartici, E. SYRUPUS lMecIlcmes-
SPINA, CERVINA, L. Syrup of buckthorn. ( i 2
The Edinburgh college diretls this to be made with syruP
two parts of the depurated juice of ripe buckthorn
berries, and one part of double refined fugar, boiled to
the confidence of a fyrup. The London procefs is
more complex. It directs a gallon of the frefti juice of
ripe buckthorn berries, an ounce of bruifed ginger, an
ounce and a half of powdered pimento, and feven
pounds of double refined fugar. The juice is to be fet
afide for three days, and then drained from the fteces.
The ginger and pimento are to be macerated for four
hours in a pint of the ftrained liquor. In the mean
time the reft of the juice is to be boiled down to three
pints; then the fugar and the pint of juice in which the
fpices had been macerated, are to be added, and the
whole boiled to the confiftence of a fyrup.
This fyrup is a good cathartic, but is feldom given
alone, except to children. Dofe from fix drams to an
ounce and a half.
77. Vitis vinifera; E. The vine. Wine.
The remedies drawn from the vine are wine, *grapes,
and fupertartrate of potaih.
The properties, of wine as a ftimulant and cordial,
have been already mentioned. See N° 100. The wines
ufually employed in medicine are,
Vinum album hifpanum, white Spanifh wine. ^
Vinum album rhenanum, Rheniffi wine.
Vinum rubrum lufitanum, red Port wine.
The.laft, befides the ftimulaling power common to
all -wines, pofleffes much aftringency, and is therefore
better fuited to cafes of debility.
414
78. UVA PASS A. Raifins. Raifins.
Thefe are chiefly employed as emollients and demul¬
cents.
415
79. Supf.rtartras Potass.®. SUPERTARTRISSuPertar*'
POTASSA. TARTAR! CRYSTALLI, L. D.tratte°f
CREMOR TARTARI. Supertartrate of potafti.^C a*
Cryjlals of tartar. Cream of tartar.
For the chemical nature of this fait, fee Chemistry.
This fait is employed in medicine chiefly as a gentle
laxative and refrigerant. As a laxative, it may be
given in the dofe of from two drams to half an ounce,
mixed with fyrup or honey, or difiblved in a large
quantity of barley water. In the latter way it has
been found a good diuretic in dropfies. As a refriger¬
ant, it is given in a diluted folution, iweetened with fu¬
gar, or fome pleafant fyrup.
Officinal Preparations.
410 V
a. Tartras Potassie. TARTRIS POTASSA, E. Tartrate of
KALI TARTARISATUM, L. ALKALI VE-Pota^-
GETABILE TARTARISATUM, D. Tartrate of
potafli. Tartarifed hah. Tartarifed vegetable alkali.
Soluble tartar.
This fait is prepared by adding to a folution of fu-
pertartrate of potaih, a fuificient quantity of fub-carbo-
5 C natc
754 M A T £ R I A
Iliftory of nate of potafh, to neutralize tire excefs of tartaric acid.
Simple and por ^}jJs p-jrpofe it ufually requires about one part of
Medicines the alkaline carbonate to three parts of fupertartrate of
> y potadi. After neutralization, the liquor is filtered,
and fet by to cryilallize.
This fait forms an excellent cooling purgative, and
may be given in dofes of from half an ounce to an ounce.
It forms a good addition to rhubarb.
Tartrate of TaRTRAS POTASS.® ET Sod®. TARIRIS PO-
potafli and TASSiE ET SODjTI, E. NATRON TARTA-
ioda. RISATUM, L. SAL RUPELLENSIS, D. Tar¬
trate of potafh and foda. Tartarixed natron. Rochelle
fait.
Prepared by adding to a folution of fupertartrate of
potafh, a fufficient quantity of carbonate of foda, to
neutralize the excefs of tartaric acid, filtering the li¬
quor, and cryftallizing.
This triple fait is a more agreeable laxative than the
former, but is not fo ftrong. Ufual dofe from one to
two ounces.
41S
Pureft fub- C. SuBCARBOR'AS POTASS® PURISSIMUS. CARBO-
carbonate NAS POTASS^ PURISSIMUS, E. SAL TAR-
ofpotalh. q^RL Pureft fubcarbonate of potafh. Salt of tar¬
419
Sweet vio¬
let.
tar.
Prepared by burning all the tartaric acid from tar-
tar, folution in water, filtration and cryflallization.—
Similar in its ufes with N° 313. which fee.
80. Viola odorata, E. VIOLA, L. D. Sweet
violet. See Botany, p. 141.
Officinal Preparations.
Syrup of a. Syrupus Viol® odorat®, E. SYRUPUS
violets. VIOLiE, L. D. Syrup of violets.
Made by macerating one pound or two pounds
( L. D.) of the frefh petals of violets, in four pounds or
five pints (L.) or fix pounds (D.) of boiling water for
24 hours, draining the liquor without expreffion, and
boiling it wdth a fufficient quantity of double refined
fugar, to make a fyrup.
A gentle laxative for young children.
41T
Red cur- 81. RlBES RUBRUM. Red currants.
The fruit of red currants is ufed as a refrigerant in
febrile aflfeftions.
422
Black cur- 82. RlBES NIGRUM. Blackcurrants.
Alfo employed as a refrigerant 5 and the following
preparations form a good domeltic palliative in inflam¬
matory affeftions of the throat, and in tickling coughs.
Officinal Preparations.
InfplfTated a. SUCCUR SPISSATUS RlBIS NIGRI. Infpiffated juice
juice of of black currants.
rants! CU ~ This is made by expreffing and clarifying the juice
of ripe black currants, and then evaporating it in a
bath of water with muriate of foda, to a proper confid¬
ence.
Syrup of h. Syrufus Ribis nigri. Syrup of black cur-
black cur- rants.
rants.
M E D I C A, &c. Part IV.
Prepared by boiling the depurated juice of black Hiftory of
currants with a fufficient quantity of fugar to make a . ar^
r i. j o Officinal
fyruP- ' Medicines.
Order 2. DlGYNIA.
83. Gentiana lutea, E. GENTIANA,
Gentian root.
L.
425
D . Gentian,
The root of gentian is moderately long, fiender,
branched, brownilh on the outfide, of a reddifn yel¬
low or gold colour within. It is perennial, a native of
the siouiitainous parts of Germany, &c. whence the
diops are generally fupplied with the dried roots.
Among the gentian brought to London, fome years
ago, a root of a different kind was mixed, the ufe of
which occafioned violent diforders, and in fome indan¬
ces, as is faid, proved fatal. This root is externally of
a paler colour than gentian, and its longitudinal wrinkles
finer and clofer •, on cutting the two roots, the difference
is more remarkable, the poifonous root being white,
without any degree" of the yellow tinge which is deep
in gentian, nor is its tade bitter, like that of gentian,
but mucilaginous.
Gentian root is a drong davourlefs bitter *, in tade
lefs exceptionable than mod of the other common drong
bitters, and hence among us mod generally made ufe
of. The flavour and aromatic warmth wanting to ren¬
der it grateful, and acceptable to the domach, are fup¬
plied by additions.
The root of this plant is a valuable fubdance, very fuc-
cefsfully and very generally employed as a domachic
and drengthening medicine. It is particularly ufeful
in various chronic affections connefted with debility,
fuch as dyfpepfia, diarrhoea, hyderia, chlorofis, dropfy.
It has alfo been given wdth good effeCt in intermittent
fevers, joined with the peruvian bark 5 and in conva-
lefcencies from all fevers. In thefe and other cafes it
is combined with aromatics and chalybeates j fometimes
with acids j at other times with alkaline falls, efpecially
in dyfpeptic and chlorotic affeCtions, as alfo in certain
diforders of the bowels j with abforbents and aromatics-
in cafes of gout.
The ufe of this bitter, like that of many others,
mud not, however, be carried too far, as by weaken¬
ing the energy of the nervous fydem, it predifpofes to
palfy and apoplexy.
Officinal Preparations. ^
a. Infusum Gentian® compositum, E. L. D.Compound
INFUSUM AMARUM. Compound infufion ofinf™!®”0*
• * * /* /*
gentian. Bitter injujion.
The Edinburgh infufion is made by deeping half
an ounce of diced gentian root, one dram dried
peel of Seville oranges, half a dram of coriander feeds
bruifed, firit in four ounces of diluted alcohol for
three hours, and then adding one pound of w’ater;
macerating without heat for twelve hours, and then
draining.
This infufion, according to the London Pharmaco¬
poeia, is made by macerating for an hour in boiling
water, twelve ounces by mealure, one dram of diced
gentian root j one dram and a half dried orange peel,
half an ounce of fredi outer rind of lemons. I he Lub¬
lin formula direCfs two drams of bruiled gentian root,
half an ounce fredi outer rind of lemons, one dram and
a
#
Part IV. ' MATERIA
Hiftory of a half of dry orange peel, four ounces of diluted alco-
Siknple and ancj twelVe ounces of boiling water $ and the in-
Medicines ^u^on to ma(^e ^7 alcohol and afterwards
< ‘t ' with the addition of water, nearly as in the Edinburgh
procefs.
Thefe infuflons form a good tonic remedy in debility
of the alimentary canal. A glafs of them may be given
twice or thrice a day, either alone, or with the addi¬
tion of fome aromatic tonic tinffure.
427
Compound b. TlNCTURA GeNTIAME COMPO>ITA, E. L. TINC-
tinAureof TURA AMARA. ELIXIR STOMACHICUM.
gentian. Compound tinfture of gentian. Bitter tinciure. Sto¬
machic elixir.
The Edinburgh tin&ure is prepared by macerating
two ounces of diced and bruifed gentian root, an
ounce of dried and bruifed Seville orange peel, half an
ounce of bruifed canella alba, and half a dram of
powdered cochineal, in twro pounds and a half of dilut¬
ed alcohol for feven days. The tinfture of the Lon¬
don college is made with two ounces of diced and
bruifed gentian, one ounce of dried orange peel, half
an ounce leffer cardamom feeds, hulked and bruifed,
digefted for eight days in two pints of proof fpirit.
Thefe tin&ures are feldom given alone, but may be
adminiftered in a dofe of two or three drams in a glafs
of water.
Compound e‘ VlNUM GENTIANJE COMPOSITUM, E. VINUM
wine of AM ARUM. Compound wine of gentian. Bitter
gentian. noine.
Prepared of half an ounce of gentian root, one
ounce of cinchona bark, two drams of Seville dried
orange peel, one dram of canella alba, four ounces di¬
luted alcohol, two pounds and a half of Spanilh white
wine. The diluted alcohol is firlt poured on the root
and bark diced and bruifed, and after 24 hours add¬
ing the wine, then macerating for feven days and
ftraining. Dofe from two drams to half an ounce.
429
ExtraAof d. EXTRACTUM GENTIAN® LUTEA1, E. EX-
gentian. TRACTUM GENTIANiE, L. D. Extradl of gen-
tian.
This is made by evaporating the faturated and drain¬
ed deco&ion of the root to a confidence fit for being
made into pills, under which form it is frequently pre-
feribed in all thofe cafes in which the infufion and tinc¬
ture are employed. Dofe of this extradf from ten
grains to half a dram. It is feldom given alone, but
generally in combination with aromatic and aloetic
powders, with myrrh, fulphurate of iron, &c.
430
Elm bark. 84. Ulmus campestris, E. ULMUS, L. D.
Elm bark.
The inner bark of the elm is frequently employed
in cutaneous eruptions, as an alterative, or gentle dia¬
phoretic, in the form of decoflion.
431
DecoAion
of elm
bark.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Decoctum Ulmi, L. Deco&Ion of elm bark.
M E D I C A, &c.
Made by boiling four ounces of the frelh inner bark Hiftory of
of elm bruifed, in four pints of water to two, and drain- *
ing. Dofe about four ounces, repeated feveral times Me(jjcjncs>
This medicine probably does not deferve the reputa¬
tion it has acquired.
43*
85. Eryngium maritiMum. ERYNGIUM, L.ErynS°
D. Eryngo root. See Botany, p. 144.
433
86. Daucus carota, E. DAUCUS SYLVES-Carrot-
TRIS, L. D. Wild carrot feed.
The feeds are fometimes employed as a carminative,
and have been recommended as a diuretic. They are
feldom ufed.
The grated roots of cultivated carrot are frequently
applied as. a poultice to cancerous and ill-conditioned
ulcers.
87. CONIUM MACULATUM, E. ClCUTA, L. D. Hemiock.
Hemlock. See Botany, p. 145.
Hemlock has been employed chiedy in fcrophulous
and cancerous diforders, both internally and external¬
ly, and in many of thefe cafes, with condderable be¬
nefit j in other indances, without any fenfible relief,
even after Weing continued for a great length of time.
Like mod propofers of new remedies, Stoerck has been
too profufe in his encomiums on hemlock. It has been
found ufeful in chronic rheumatifm, and fome cafes of
gout, where opium difagreed, and in that acutely pain¬
ful complaint termed tic doloureux; as alfo in caries
of the bones and bad venereal ulcerations. Dr Butter
preferibed it with marked fuccefs in the hooping-cough 5
and being lefs flimulant than opium, and lefs liable to
check expe&oration, it generally anfwers better than
the infpidated juice of the poppy, in cafes of phthifii
pulmonalis. The dried leaves may be given alone in
dofes of dve to 15 grains. With the infpiflated juice
and powder are joined, according to the nature of the
diforder in which they are given, calomel, guaiacum,
aramoniacum, &c. In the adminidration of this, as
of all other narcotic medicines, it is proper to begin
with the fmalled dofes, afterwards gradually increafing
them to as much as the patients can well bear. In this
manner many indances are recorded where adonidiing
quantities of hemlock have been taken, in cancerous
and other painful diforders, without didurbing the con-
ditution. It is a fign that the medicine has been pudi-
ed to its utmod length, wdien it diforders the head, do-
mach, or bowels. For external ufe, fomentations,
cataplafms, and pladers, are prepared from this vege¬
table *.
Officinal Preparation.
* Practical
Synopjis,
vol. ii.
435
a. Succus SPISSATUS Conti MACULATI, E. SUC-InfpiffatecI
CUS SPISSATUS CICUTtE, D. Infpiffated juice julce ot
of hemlock. hemlock*
This is made by exprefling hemlock which is gather¬
ed when the flowers are beginning to appear, and al¬
lowing the juice to dand fix hours until the feces fub-
fide, then reducing the decanted juice to drynefs in a
water bath.
5 C 2
This
756
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
43.6
Creeping:
fkirret.
437
Cummin
feeds.
MATERIA
This exlra& may be given in a dofe of two grains,
increafing it gradually as long as feems prudent.
88. Sium nodiflorum. SIUM, L. Creeping
fkirret.
Formerly employed as an emmenagogue and lilhon-
triptic, but now feldom ufed.
89. Cumikum Cyminum. CUM1NUM, L. Cum¬
min feed. See Botany, p. 146.
MEDIC A, &cc
Part IV.
Officinal Preparations.
Cataplafm of cum-
43?
Cummin
plafier.
438
Cataplafm «. CATAPLASMA CuMINI, L.
of cummin, min feed.
This is made of cummin feed one pound ; of bay ber¬
ries, dried leaves of water germander, virginian fnake-
root, each three ounces \ cloves one ounce \ rubbed to¬
gether into a powder, and formed into a cataplafm with
three times their weight of honey.
b. Emflastrum Cumini, L. Cummin plafter.
This is compofed of cummin feeds, caraway feeds,
• bay berries, each three ounces 5 Burgundy pitch three
pounds, and yellow wax three ounces. The pitch and
wax are firlt melted together, and the other ingredients
in fine porvder mixed with them.
Both thefe preparations are intended for external ap¬
plication to the belly, in feme diforders of the ftomach
and bowels, which require fuch a famulus.
Afatetida. 9°* Ferula Asafoetida, E. ASAFCETIDA,
L. D. Afafcetida. See Botany, p. 145. and Che¬
mistry, N° 2490.
441
Purified
afafcetida.
442
Officinal Preparations.
a. Asafoetida purificata. Purified afafoetida.;
Afafoetida is purified in the fame manner as gum am¬
moniac.
Emulfion of b. Lac ASAFOETIDA:, L. Etnulfion of afafoetida.
af.foetida. is made in the fame manner as the emulfion of
gum ammoniac (See N° 326.), and is given in fimilar
dofes.
t- i43 f c. Tinctura Ferula Asafoetida:, E. TINC-
afafeetida. TURA ASAFCETIDiE, L. D. Tindture of afafoe¬
tida.
This tinfture is prepared by digefting four ounces of
afafcetida in tw’o pounds and a half (E), or two pounds
(D), or two pints (L), of re&ified fpirit of wine, for
about a week.
This is a good preparation of afafoetida, and may be
given in dofes of from 20 to 60 drops.
444 ,
Compound
pills oi afa¬
fcetida.
e. Emflastrum Asafoetidte, E
foetida.
Plafter of afa Hiftfry °f
dimple and
Officinal
Made by melting together plafter of femivitrified 1ViC'''i‘cines‘
oxide of lead, afafoetida, of each two parts, and galba- '
num and yellow wax, of each one part. Platter of
Applied to the belly in hyftexia. afafcetida.
446
91. BUBON GALBANUM, E. GALBANUM, L. D. Galbanum.
Galbanum. See Chemistry, N° 2494.
Galbanum is employed in fimilar cafes as afafoetida.
It is feldom given alone.
Officinal Preparations.
447
a. Galbanum purificatum. Strained galbanum.Purified
• -rti , . galbanum.
Galbanum is purified by melting it, incloied in a blad¬
der, by the heat of boiling water, and ftraining it
through linen.
6 . . . 448
b. Tinctura Galbani, L. Tindlure of galbanum.T‘n<ffure of
gaibanum.
This is made by digefting two ounces of galbanum,
cut into fmall pieces, in two pints of proof fpirit, for
eight days, with a gentle heat, and ftraining. Dofe from
one to two drams.
c. Pilulte Galbani composite:,
galbanum pills.
449
Compound Compound
galbamim
pills.
Prepared of opoponax, myrrh, fagapenum, of each
an ounce, afafoetida half an ounce.
Similar to the afafoetida pills, and given in firnilar
dofes.
45a
92. Angelica Archangelica, E. ANGELI-Angelica.
CA, L. D. Angelica.
An elegant aromatic, but feldom employed.
451
93. CoRIANDRUM SATIVUM, E. CORIx\NDRUM. Coriander
Coriander feeds. See Botany, p. 147. feeds.
453
94. CaRUM CARUI, E. CARUON, L. CARUI,Carraway
D. Carraway feeds. See Botany, p. 147. feeds.
Officinal Preparations.
OL. CA-oil of car-
raway.
454
d. Pilulte Asafoetid.® composite, E. Com¬
pound afafoetida pills.
Made by beating together afafcetida, galbanum, and
myrrh, of each eight parts, and one part of redtified oil
of amber, into a mafs with fimple lyrup. Dofe 15
grains, or a fcruple, three or four times a-day. Chiefly
in hyfteria.
a. Oleum volatile Cari carui, E.
RUI, L. D. Volatile oil of carraway.
Prepared by diftillation in the fame manner as the oil
of rofemary. A very warm ftimulant. Dofe two or
three drops.
b. Spiritus Cari carui, E. SPIRITUS CARUI,Spirit of
L. D. Spirit of carraway. carraway.
Prepared by macerating half a pound of bruifed car-
raw’ay feeds in eight or nine pounds of proof fpirit
for a day or two, and then with the addition of a fuf-
ficient quantity of W’ater to prevent burning, diftilling
off the fpirit.
A good dram, where drams are required, as in flatu¬
lent colic. Dofe half an ounce to an ounce.
OPOPONAX, L. Opoponax.
95. Pastinaca opoponax.
Opoponax.
One of the gum-refins, brought from the Eaft Indies
and the Levant. It pcffeffes properties fimilar to thofe
of
455
Part IV. M A T E R I A
Hiftory of of oalbnnum and afafcetida, and is ufually employed in
Simple and combination with them.
Officinal
96. Anethum graveoleks, L. Dill-feed.
456
Dill feed. This feed is of a nearly oval Ihape, convex on one
fide and Hat on the other, of a yellpwifh colour, of a
warm pungent tafte, and aromatic fmell. Employed
fometirnes as a carminative.
4S7 r
AVater of
dill.
45s
Sweet fen¬
nel feed.
45? ,
Water of
fweet fen¬
nel.
460 -
Oil of fen¬
nel.
461
Farflty.
462
Ar.iieed.
. 463
Oil ot am-
feed.
444
Compound
fpirit of
aiufeed.
44s
Elder.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Aqua distillata Anethi, L. Dill water.
A gallon of water diibilled from a pound of bruifed
dill feeds.
97. Anethum foeniculum, E. FCENICULUM,
L. D. Sweet fennel feeds. See Botany, p. 147*
Officinal Preparations.
a. Aqua distillata foeniculi dulcis, L D.
Sweet fennel water.
Prepared as dill water.
b. Oleum volatile Foeniculi dulcis, D. Oil
of fweet fennel feeds. Prepared as the oil of rofemartj,
&c.
98. Apium petroselinum, E. PETROSELIN-
UM, L. Parfley.
The feeds of parlley.are carminative, and the roo*
is gently diuretic.
90. Pimpinella Anisum, E. ANISUM, L. D.
Anileeds.
This plant is cultivated in Afia, and in the fouth of
Europe. The feeds have a peculiar grateful fmell, and
a fweet aromatic tafte.
They are gently tfimulant, carminative and expec¬
torant.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oleum volatile Pimpinellje anisi, E. OLE¬
UM VOLATILE ANISI, L. D, Volatile oil of ani-
feed.
Prepared as the other volatile oils.
This oil freezes at no very low temperature. It is
a powerful and grateful ftimulant. Dofe, a drop or
two.
b. Spiritus Anisi composites, L. Compound
fpirit of anifeed.
From anifeed and angelica feed, of each half a
pound, proof fpirit a gallon, and enough water to pre¬
vent burning, a gallon of fpirit is dillilled.
A very agreeable cordial, in cafes of flatulence.
Order 3. Trigynia.
109. Sambucus nigra, E. 'SAMBUCUS, L.
D. Elder leaves, baikp and berries. See Botany,
p. M8-
M E D I C A, &c. 757
Hiftory of
Officinal Preparations. Simple and
a. Succus SPISSATUS BACCiE SaMBUCI, L. D. In- fncdicines.^
fpiflated juice of elder leaves.
Prepared in the fame way as the juice of black cur-TkfP^te(1
rants. See N° 422. elder.
b. Unguentum Sambuci, L. UNG. SAMBUCI-
NUM, D. Elder ointment. meat.
Prepared by boiling four pounds of elder flow’ers in
three pounds of mutton fuet and a pint of olive-oil till
they are crifp, and then {training.
463
101. Rhus Toxicodendron, E. Poifon oak. Poifonoak.
The leaves of this fhrub, which is a native of North
America, are very acrid, and have lately been intro¬
duced into praftice by Dr Alderfon of Hull as a re¬
medy for palfy. Dofe half a grain or a grain. In
Edinburgh it has been lefs fuccefsful than with Dr Al¬
derfon. See Alderfon’s “ Effay on the Rhus Toxico¬
dendron,” and Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
469
102. Linum usitatissimum, E. LINUM, L.Untfeed.
D. Common flax. Lintfeed. See Botany, p. 149.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oleum Lini usitatissimi, E. Lintfeed oil.
Expreffed from the feeds by inclofing them in a
hempen bag after beating them in a {tone mortar. It
thould be ex prefled wdthout heat.
Emollient. Has been given with fuccefs in fome
cafes of hcejnoptyjis, nephritis, colic, and fome internal
inflammations. Dofe an ounce or two, made into an
emulflon.
470
Lintfeed
oil.
47 *
103. Linum catharticum, D. Purging flax. SeePurglng
Botany, p. 149. llilx'
Class VI. HEXANDRIA. Order 1. Mono-
GYNIA.
472 *
104. Berberis vulgaris. BERBERIS, D. Bar-BarberrY-•
berry.
The fruit is employed as a refrigerant. See Bota¬
ny, p. 159.
473
105. Allium sativum, E. L. D. Garlic. SeeGadR'*
Botany, p. 156, where a long account is given of its
nature and ufes.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Syrupus Allii, D. Syrup of garlic.
Prepared by macerating a pound of fliced garlic in two
pounds of boiling water in a clofe veflel for 12 hours,
and then adding to the {trained liquor four pounds of
double refined fugar.
ic6. Allium cepa. CEPA, D. Onion. (
474.
Syrup of
garlic.
A gentle diuretic when raw, but chiefly ufed roafted
by way of a cataplafm.
107. Aloe perfoliata, E. ALOE SOCOTO-A1jjs76
RINA? L. D. Aloes,
So
/
758
Hiftory of
Simple snd
Officinal
Medicines.
MATERIA M
So full an account of the feveral varieties of aloes
and their ufes in medicine has been given under Bo¬
tany, p. 158, that it is neceffary for us here only to
notice its
&C.
Pm IV.
477
Powder of
aloes with
canella.
47S
Aloetic
powder
with guaia
eum.
479
Aloetic
powder
with iron.
4S0
Aloetic
.pills.
..4Si
Pills of
aloes and
afafoetida.
482
Pills of
aloes'and
eolocynth.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Pulvis Aloes cum C^anella, L. HIERA PI¬
CK A. Powder of aloes with canella.
Prepared of a pound of focotorine aloes, and three
pounds of white canella, powdered fepaiately and then
mixed together.
A warm flimulant cathartic. Dofe 10 grains to 20.
Bed given in the form of pill.
b. Pulvis Aloeticus cum Guaiaco, L. Aloetic
powder with guaiacum.
Prepared by mixing together an ounce and a half
of powdered focotorine aloes, an ounce of powdered,
refin of guaiacum, and half an ounce of aromatic pow¬
der. Dofe as of the preceding.
c. Pulvis Aloeticus cum Ferro, L. Aloetic
powder with iron.
Prepared of iocotorine aloes, an ounce and half,
myrrh two ounces, dry extract of gentian and vitriolat-
ed iron, each an ounce, powdered fepaiately, and mix¬
ed together.
This is confidered as a good emmenagogue in a
a dofe of 15 grains.
d. PlLULvE ALOLTIC/E, E. D. PILULE ALOES
COMPOSIIVE, E. Aloetic pills. Compound pills of
aloes.
The Edinburgh aloetic pills are prepared by .beating
together into a mafs equal parts of powdered aloes and
foap. '1 hofe of the London college are made of an
ounce of powdered focotorine aloes, half an ounce of
extraft of gentian, two fcruples of oil of carraway feeds,
and enough fyrup of ginger to form a mafs. The Dub¬
lin pills are made of an ounce of Barbadoes aloes, with
half an ounce of extract of gentian, and two drams
of powdered ginger, formed into a mafs with foap
jdly.
Any of thefe compofitions forms a good cathartic
for fedentary people. Dofe 10 to 20 grains.
e. Pilulte Aloes et Asafoetidte, E. Pills of
aloes and afafcetida.
Prepared with equal parts of powdered aloes, afafoe-
tida and foap, made into a mafs with mucilage of gum
arable.
A good remedy in dyfpepfia, efpecially in females.
Dofe about 10 grains, twice a day.
f. Piluije Aloes cum Colocynthide, E. Pills
of aloes with colocynth.
Thefe are formed of focotorine aloes, fcammonv,
each eight parts, colocynth four parts, oil of cloves
and fulphate of potafii with fulphur, each one part.
The aloes, fcammony, and fait, are together reduced to
powder, and mixed with the colocynth previoufly beat
to a fine powder •, then the oil is added, and the mafs
formed with mucilage of gum arabic.
E D I C A,
A powerful purgative, well fuited to melancholia and Hiflory of
fimilar difeafes. Dofe 10 to 20 grains. Simple and
) Officinal
g. Pilulte Aloes et Myrrhs, E. L. PILU- Medicines.
LAi RULE Pills of aloes and myrrh. Rufus'i pills.'
Prepared of four parts of iocotorine aloes, two parts pil!s of
of myrrh, and two parts of faffron (one part L.), made aIoes aruI
into a mafs with fyrup of faffron. mynh.
A good laxative and ftomachic. Dofe 15 or 20
grains.
h. Extractum Aloes, C. Extradl of aloes. Extra<ff of
Prepared as extratt of gentian. aloes-
. r, 4S5
*• Iinctura Aloes socotorin^e, E. TINCTU-Ti»<ffure of
RA ALOES, L. D. Tindfure of aloes. aloes.
Made by digefting half an ounce of powdered foco¬
torine aloes and an ounce and a half of extradl of liquo¬
rice, in four ounces of alcohol and a pound of difiilled
water (E.), or in eight ounces of proof fpirit with the
fame quantity of difiilled water (L.), for a few days,
with a gentle heat and frequent agitation. Dofe about
an ounce.
486
h. Tixctura Aloes et Myrrhte, E. TINCTU-Tinaure of
RA ALOES COMPOSITA, L. Tinaure of aloesa:°es and
and myrrh. Compound tinclure of aloes. myrrh.
This tinaure, according to the Edinburgh procefs,
is prepared by firft digefiing two' ounces of powdered
myrrh in a pound and a half of alcohol mixed with
half a pound of water, for four days; then adding an
ounce and a half of powdered focotorine aloes, and an
ounce of faffron ; digefting for three days longer, and
pouring off the tinaure. The London tinaure is
made by digefiing three ounces of focotorine aloes and
the fame quantity of faffron, in two pints of tinaure of
myrrh, for eight days, and ftraining it.
Thefe tinaures differ in ftrength : the Edinburgh
tinaure may be given in a dofe of half an ounce or
fix drams; the London one in half that quantity.
4S7
/. Tinctura Aloes ^etherea, E. Etherial tine-Etherial
ture of aloes. tindture of
This tinaure is prepared by digefiing focotorine
aloes, and myrrh powdered, of each an ounce and a
half, with an ounce of fliced faffron, in a pound of ful-
phuric ether with alcohol; firft digefting the myrrh a-
lone for four days, then adding the reft, digefting for
four days longer, and ftraining.
More ftimulating than the other tinaures. Dofe two
or three drams.
m. Vinum Aloes socotorinal, E. VINUM A-wineof
LOEIICUM, D. VINUM ALOES, L. Wine aloes,
of focotorine aloes. Aloctic wine. Sacred elixir.
The Edinburgh wine is prepared by digefting an
ounce of powdered focotorine aloes, and leffer carda¬
mom feed, and ginger bruifed, of each a dram, in two
pounds of Spanifii white wine, for feven days, with oc-
cafional agitation and ftraining. The Dublin college
direas four ounces of powdered focotorine aloes, and
two ounces of powdered canella alba, in four pounds
of Spanifh white wine for fourteen days, with frequent
agitation and then filtrating. In the London procefs,
the proportions are, eight ounces of powdered aloes,
two
3
Officinal
Medicines.
pai:t IV. MATERIA
Hiftory of two ounces of powdered canella, fix pints of Spanifh
Simple and whjte wine, and two pints of proof fpirit.
This appears from long experience to be a medicine
of excellent fervice. The dofe as a purgative is from
one to two ounces. It may be introduced into the ha¬
bit, fo as to be produftive of excellent effedls, ds an al¬
terant, by giving it in fmall dofes, at proper intervals :
thus managed, it does not for a confiderable time ope¬
rate remarkably by ftool; but at length proves purga¬
tive, and occafions a lax habit of much longer con¬
tinuance than that produced by other common ca¬
thartics.
M E D I C A, &c. 759
■r-w 1 r r • Hiftcry of
d. OxYMEL ScILLjE, L. UXyniel of fquill. Simple and
Prepared by boiling three pounds of clarified honey, Medicines,
with two pints of vinegar of fquill, in a glafs veffel, with .— vi
a gentle heat, to the confiftence of a fyrup. 493
This is not fo good a preparation as the lyrup of fquill, j?xyntel ol
and is very apt to produce ficknefs. Dofe three or four '
drams.
489
Squill.
E. SCILLA, L. D.
large dofes, it
and fome
490
Dried
frjuill.
491 r
Vinegar of
fquill.
gar
quor is
from two drams to
fition.
49 2
Syrup of
fquill.
e. Cokserva SciLLvE, L. Conferve of fquill.
494 „
Conferve of
fquill.
I08. SCILLA MAR IT IMA
Squill. See Botany Index.
When the root of fquill is taken
produces a violent vomiting and purging
times ftrangury, bloody urine, and inflammation and
erofion of the ftomach or bowels; in moderate dofes it
proves emetic, without any further confequence, and in
fmall dofes, it is a good expedlorant and diuretic. It
is chiefly employed as an expe&orant in afthma and pe-
ripneumony, and as a diuretic in dropfy.
Officinal Preparations.
a. SciLLA MARITIMA EXSICCATA, E. SCILLA
EXSICCATA, L. SCILLiE PREPARATiE,
D. Dried fquill.
Squill is dried by firfi: removing its outer coat, then
cutting it tranfverfely into thin flices, and drying thefe
with a gentle heat.
The fign of its being properly dried is that it be ren¬
dered friable without lofing its bitternefs and acrimony.
This is an excellent mode of preparing fquill, where it
is to be given in fubftance. The dofe of dried fquill when
reduced to powder and given as an expectorant or diu¬
retic, is from one grain to three.
b. Acetum Scile« maritime, E. ACETUM
SCILLiE, L. ACETUM SCILLITICUM, D.
Vinegar of fquill.
This is made by macerating dried fquill in vinegar
or diftilled vinegar, with a proportion of proof fpirit.
The proportions of the different colleges vary. Ihe
Edinburgh college directs two ounces of fquill to two
pounds and a half of diftilled acetous acid, and three
ounces of alcohol; that of London a pound of fquill,
fix pints of vinegar, and half a pint of proof fpirit ;
while the Dublin proportions are half a pound of
fquill, three pounds of vinegar, and four ounces of
proof fpirit. The fquill is firft macerated with the vine-
for fome days with a gentle heat, then the li-
expreffed, and the fpirit added to it. Dofe
half an ounce, chiefly in compo-
. 495 ^
1 incfture oC
This is made by beating together in a mortar, an
ounce of frefti fquill and five ounces of double refined
fugar.
A very injudicious and naufeous preparation.
/. Tinctura Scillte, L. D. Tindlure of fquill. . ^
This tindlure is prepared by digefting four ounces of
frefti dried fquill, in two pints, or two pounds of proof
fpirit, for feven or eight days, and pouring off the clear
liquor.
This is a good preparation of fquill, efpecially when
it is intended as a diuretic ; dofe twenty or thirty
drops.
4961
£•. Mel Scile®, L. MEL SCILLITICUM, D. Honey of
Honey of fquill. fquilL
Prepared by boiling together in a glafs veffel, three
pounds of clarified honey and two pints of the tinc¬
ture of fquill, to the confiftence of a fyrup. Dofe, a
dram or two.
b. Piluije Scillal, L. PILULiE SCILLITICiE, Squfii pills.
E. D. Squill pills.
Thefe, according to the London and Dublin col¬
leges, are to be prepared by beating together a dram
of frefti dried fquill reduced to powder, three drams of
pow dered ginger, three drams of foap, and two drams
of gum ammoniac, with a fufficient quantity of fyrup
of ginger, or jelly of foap, to form a mafs fit for mak¬
ing pills. In the Edinburgh procefs a fcruple of dried
fquill, in fine powder, a dram of gum ammoniac, a
dram of powdered leffer cardamom feeds, and a dram
of extrafled liquorice, are beaten into a mafs, with
Ample fyrup.
This is a good form of fquill, when intended as an
expeftorant. Dofe from io to 15 grains.
498
109. LlLIUM CAKDIDUM. LILIUM ALBUM, D. White lily.
White lily root. See Botany, p. 156.
110. Acorus Calamus, E.
MATICUS, L. Sweet flag.
Order III. Trigynia.
CALAMUS ARO
See Botany', p. 159,
499
Calamus
aromaticus.
c. Syrupus Scillte maritime, E. Syrup of
fquill.
This fyrup is made with two pounds of vinegar of
fquill, and three pounds and a half of double refined fu¬
gar, diffolved with a gentle heat.
A good expe&orant. Dofe from half an ounce to an
ounce.
in. Colchicum Autumnale, E.
CUM, L. D. Colchicum, or meadow fajffiron
Botany, p. 161.
500
COLCHI- Colclucum,
See
Officinal Preparations.
a. Syrufus Colchici autumnalis, E.
colchicum.
5°r
Syrup of Syrup of
colchicum.
Prepared by firft macerating an ounce of freftt co.l-
chicum root, cut into thin flices, in 16 ounces of vine-
g?r>
760
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Fart IV.
Hiftory of gar, for two clays, with occanonal agitation, and then
Officinal' t^e cxpreffed liquor with 26 ounces of double
Medicines, ^fined fugar into a fyrup.
* ' Employed as a diuretic, in a dofe of from a dram to
an ounce or more.
Oxymel of b. Oxymel ColcHICI, L. Oxymel of colchicum.
colchicum. rr,, - • 1 • 1 r \ r .
1 nis is made in the lame manner as the lyrup, only
that two pounds of clarified honey are ufed inftead of
fugar to the pint of vinegar of colchicum. It is given
in limilar dofes with the former.
503
Sorrel. 112. Rumex acetosa, E. ACETOSA PRA-
TENSIS, L. ACETOSA, D. Sorrel. See Bo¬
tany, p. 160.
Much recommended as a diaphoretic ar.d fiimulant
in rheumatic affeclions and in cutaneous eruptions
Eofe from four to eight ounces twice a-day.
, Hiftory of
Simple and
Oiticinal
Medicines.
117. Polygonum Bistorta, E.
L. 1). Great biftort or fnaheweeJ.
p. 168.
BISTORTA, -v—
See Botany,
ftort.
Class IX. ENNEANDRIA. Order 1. Monc-
GYNIA.
fir
118. LaurUS ClNNAMOMUM, E. C INN AMO- Cinnamon.
MUM, L. D. Cinnamon. The bark and its ejfential
oil. See Botany, p. 170. and 174. See alio the ar¬
ticle Ceylon.
Class VII. HEPTANDRIA. Order 1. Mono-
GYNIA.
Horfechef- 113‘ ^.SCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM, E. HIPPOCA-
nut. STANUM. Horfe-chefnut bark and fruit.
The bark of horfe chefntit is a powerful allringent,
and has lately been recommended as a fubllitute for
cinchona. It is certainly a good tonic, and may be
given in powder from half a dram to a dram; or a dram
of the extradl of it may be mixed with an ounce of cin¬
namon water, and given in the dofe of a tea fnoonful
three or four times a-day. A llrong infufion of it,
fnuffed up the nofe, has long been employed as an
errhine.
Class VIII. OCTANDRIA. Order 1. Moxo-
GYNIA.
Elemif 114' Amyris ELEMIFERA. ELEMI, L. Refin
of elemi. See Botany^ p. 166. ; and Chemistry,
N° 2471.
Officinal Preparations.
$06'
Elemi oint-
-ment.
a. Unguentum Elemi, D. UNG. ELEMI
COMPOSITUM, L. Elemi ointment.
Prepared by firft melting a pound of elemi with two
pounds of mutton fuet, and on removing them from
the fire, immediately adding 10 ounces of turpentine,
and two ounces of olive oil,' and draining the mixture.
A llimulating ointment, in much reputation with fome
furgeons for cleanfing ulcers.
Balm of I][5* Amyris Gileadensis, E. BALSAMUM
Gilead. GILEADENSE. Balfam or balm of Gilead. See
Botany, p. 166.
Mezereon. Il6' Daphne MezEREUM, E. MEZEREUM,
L. MEZEREON, D. Mezereon or /purge laurel.
See Botany, p. 168.
Officinal Preparations.
Decoction a' DeCOCTUM DAPHNES MeZEREI, E. Decoclion
ofmeze- of mezereon.
Prepared by boiling with a gentle heat two drams
of the bark of mezereon root, and half an ounce of
bruifed liquorice root, in three pounds of water to two
pounds.
Officinal Preparations.
£13
Aqua LauRI CiNNAMOMI, E. AQ^UA CIN-Cinnamon
NAMOMI, L. D. Cinnamon water. Barley evW/tf« water*
mon.
A gallon of water diltiiled from a pound of bruifed
cinnamon.
An excellent cordial in a dofe of two ounces.
b. SPIRITUS LauRI CiNNAMOMI, E. SPIRIT US Spint of
CINNAMOMI, L. X). Spirit of cinnamon. cinnamon.
A gallon of proof fpirit diftilled from a pound of
bruifed cinnamon.
Preferable to the former only where a:dent fpirits are
required.
C. TlNCTURA LauRI CiNNAMOMI, E. TINCTU- Tindture of
If A CINNAMOMI, L. I). Tincture of cinnamon. cmnam011‘
Made by digefiing three ounces, or three ounces and
a half of bruifed cinnamon, in about two pounds of
proof fpirit, for about a week.
A better tonic than the fpirit, as it contains the
aftringent as rvell as aromatic principle of cinnamon.
Dofe two or three drams.
515
d. TlNCTURA CiNNAMOMI COMPOSITA, E. L. f‘omPoun®
TlNCTURA AROMATICA, D. Compound tine-t:.n,aure of
ture of cinnamon. Aromatic linBure.
Made by digefiing an ounce (or fix drams, L. D.)
of bruifed cinnamon, an ounce (or two drams, D. or
three drams, L.) of bruifed cardamom feeds, two drams
of powdered long pepper, (and two drams of powdered
ginger, L. D.) in two pounds and a half (or two
pounds, D. or two pints, L.) of proof fpirit, for feven
days.
A very hot tindture, ufeful in afthenic atony of the
ftomach. Dofe two or three drams.
S1^
Pulvis AROMATICUS, E. L. D. Aromatic pow- Aromatic
der. powder.
The Edinburgh aromatic powder is prepared of equal
parts of cinnamon, lefler cardamom feeds, and ginger,
beaten together to a very fine powder. The propor¬
tions of the other colleges are cinnamon two ounces,
lefler cardamom feeds, ginger and long pepper, of each
an ounce. Dofe 10 grains to a fcruple.
f ELECTUARIUM AROMATICUM, E. D. CON- Aromatic
FECFIO AROMATICA, L. Aromatic eledtuaryelcc^uai7'
or confeffiion. Cordial con/eElion.
The
2
Part IV. M A T E R I A
Hiftory of The Edinburgh elefluary is made by mixing one
Simple and part Qf aromatic powder with two parts of fyrup of
r led lanes' orange Peeb That of the Dublin college is prepared
i * -Tby mixing three ounces of conferee of orange peel with
half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, half an ounce of
powdered nutmeg, two drams of powdered ginger, and
two drams of fafiron, with an ounce of double refined
fugar, and beating them together with a fufficient quan¬
tity of fyrup of orange peel into an eledtuary. The
London confedtion is made by firft macerating half a
pound of zedoary in coarfe powder, and half a pound
of faffron, in three pints of water for 24 hours, prefling
out the liquor, and evaporating it to a pint and a half,
and adding 16 ounces of compound powder of crabs
claws, of cinnamon and nutmeg each tw-o ounces,
cloves an ounce, leflfer cardamom feeds half an ounce,
all in fine pow'der, and two pounds of double refined
fugar, fo as to form an eledtuary.
Of thefe compofitions, the firft is the beft. Dofe a
fcruple to half a dram.
crS
Caffia bark. 119. Laurus CASSIA, E. CASSIA LIGNEA, D.
Caflia bark. See Botany, p. 173*
This is commonly employed inftead of cinnamon,
and though not lb delicate, is as efficacious as that ex-
penfive drug. The buds of caflia are, we believe,
ftronger than the bark.
M E D I C A, &c.
sip
Claflia wa¬
ter.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Aqua Lauri cassia, E. Caflia water.
Diftiiled like cinnamon water, for which it is com¬
monly fubftituted.
Canrihor. I20* Taurus camphora, E. The camphor tree.
1 CAMPHORA, L. D. Camphor or CatvpJiire. See
Botany, page 170 and 174 •, and Chemistry, N°
2441. See alfo the article Camphora.
Internally camphor is adminiftered as a diaphoretic
in typhoid fevers, in rheumatifm, in low eruptive fe¬
vers, in a dofe of from five to 20 grains; and as an an-
tifpafmodic in hiccup, hyfteria, epilepfy, and in mania
and melancholia, efpecially in that maniacal aflfedlion
that fometimes takes place in lying-in women. It is
applied externally in cafes of gangrene, to difeufs in¬
dolent tumors, and to difperfe colledlions of milk in
the bread of women who are weaning their infants.
Officinal Preparations.
Camphorat- a‘ Emulsio camphorata, E. Camphorated emul-
ed emul- fion.
Prepared by firft beating together twTo drams of
blanched fweet almonds, and a dram of double refined
fugar, then rubbing with thefe a fcruple of camphor,
and gradually adding fix ounces of water to make an
emulfion. Dofe two or three ounces.
522 b. Mistura camphorata, L. Camphorated mix-
Camphorat- t-nre
€<1 mixture.
Made by rubbing a dram of camphor, firft with a
little redtified fpirit of wine, and then with half an
ounce of double refined fugar, and adding gradually a
pint of boiling diftilled water, and ftraining off the clear
liquor.
Vol. XII. Part II.
Scarcely fo aftive as the foregoing,
fame.
Camphorat¬
ed oil.
Dofe much the Hiflory of
Simple and
Officinal
c. Tinctura Camphora:, E. SPIRITQS CAM- Medicines.
PHORATUS, L. D. Tin&ure of camphor. Cam- ^
phoratedfpirit. . 523
Tmdture
A folution of camphor in reblified fpirit. The fe-of camphor,
veral colleges direbt very different proportions, viz. the
Edinburgh an ounce, or tw7o or three ounces, of cam¬
phor, to a pound of alcohol; the London four ounces to
two pints; and the Dublin college half an ounce to eight
ounces.
d. Oleum camphoratum, E. Camphorated oil.
A folution of camphor in oil olive, in the proportion
of half an ounce of the former to two ounces of the
latter, made by triturating them together in a glafs or
marble mortar.
525
e. Linimentum Camphora: compositum, L. LINI-Cam. horat-
MENTUM CAMPHORiE, D. Compound lini-ed liniment,
ment of camphor.
Made by firft mixing fix ounces of wTater of pure am¬
monia (L.) or 10 ounces of water of carbonated ammo¬
nia (D.) with 16 ounces, (or two pounds, D.) of fpirit
of lavender, and diftilling off the fpirit from a glafs re¬
tort ; then diffolving in the diftilled fpirit two ounces
(L.) or three ounces (D.) of camphor.
Thefe three laft are intended for external applica¬
tion in the cafes above mentioned, and the laft is the
moft ftimulating.
121. Laurus nobilis, E. LAURUS, L. Bay.Bay.
See Botany, p. 171, and 172.
The leaves, berries, and expreffed oil of the berries,
are employed in medicine.
122. Laurus Sassafras, E. SASSAFRAS, L.Saflalras.
D. Saffafras wood, root, and bark. See Botany,
P- 'll'
Employed chiefly as a gentle diaphoretic or alter¬
ative in cutaneous eruptions, by wray of decobtion or in-
fufion.
526
Officinal Preparation.
52S
a. Oleum volatile Lauri Sassafras, E. OLE-OJ1 of‘ fafla-
UM SASSAFRAS, L. Oil of faffafras. tras*
Diftilled as the other volatile oils.
Order 2. TRIGYNIA.
529
123. Rheum palmatum, E. RHAB ARB ARUM, RlmbaiW.
L. D. Rhubarb. See Botany, p. 175.
Officinal Preparations.
53°
a. Infusum Rhei palmati, E. Infufion of rhu-Infuiion of
barb. rhubarb.
Made by macerating half an ounce of bruifed rhu¬
barb in eight ounces of boiling water for 12 hours ;
then adding an ounce of fpirit of cinnamon, and ftrain-
:ne. Dofe half an ounce to an ounce and a half.
53i
b. VlNUM Rhei PALMATI, E. VINUM RHA-Rhubarb
BARBARI, L. Rhubarb wine. wmc-
5 D The
762 ■ M A T E S I A M
Hiflory of The Edinburgh wine is prepared by in Puling two
Simple ard ounces 0f diced rhubarb and a dram of bruded canella
M^didnes ah.)a in 15 ounces of Spaniih white wine, and two
u— 1 ounces of diluted alcohol, for feven days, and draining
through paper. The London formula direfts two
ounces and a half of diced rhubarb, half an ounce of
bruifed leffer cardamom feeds, and two drams of faffron,
to be digefted in two pints of Spaniih white wine, and
half a pint of proof fpirit, for 10 days.
The Edinburgh wine is the llronger, and may be
given in the dofe of an ounce. Dofe ol the London,
about an ounce and a half, or a fmall wine glafs
full.
t'lT,
Tin&ure of c. Tinctura Rhei pai.mati, E. TINCTURA
rhubarb. RHABARBARI, L. D. Tinclure of rhubarb.
Prepared by digefling three ounces (E.) or two
ounces (L. D.) of diced rhubarb, half an ounce (E.)
or two drams (L. D.) of bruifed cardamom feeds, (and
two drams of faftron L. D.) in two pounds and a half
(E.) or two pounds (D.) or two pints (L.) of proof
fpirit, for about a week, and draining.
As a purgative, this may be given in the dofe of
an ounce } as a domachic from two to four drams.
53.t
Compound d. TlNCTURA RHABARBARI COMPOSITA, L. Com-
tindture of p0und tinfture of rhubarb.
rhubarb.
Prepared of two ounces of diced rhubarb, half an
ounce of bruifed liquorice root, two drams of powdered
ginger, and two drams of faffron, digeded for x 4 days
in 1 2 ounces of proof fpirit mixed with a pint of didd¬
led water.
Ufes and dofes as of the preceding.
Tindture of e- TlNCTURA Rhei ET Aloes, E. Tin&ure of rhu-
rhubarb barb and aloes.
Made by digeding 10 drams of diced rhubarb, fix
drams of powdered focotorine aloes, and half an ounce
of bruifed cardamom feeds, in two pounds and a half
of diluted alcohol, for feven days.
Dofe half an ounce to an ounce.
E 1) I C A, &c.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Tinctura Balsami Peruviaxi, L.
of balfam of Peru.
Part IV.
Thnflure
II i ft or y of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
Made by digeding four ounces of balfam of Peru in yindhire 0f
a pint of rectified fpirit of wine till the balfam is dif-bsjfam of
folved. Peru.
Dofe half a dram to a dram and a half as a dimu-
lant.
S3*
125. Toluifera Balsamum, E. BALSAMUM Ba!iam of
TOLUTANUM, L. D. Balfam of Tolu. See Bo- u'
tany, p. 182, and Chemistry, N0'2483.
Officinal Preparations.
539
a. Tinctura toluiferje Baesami, E. TING- Tincture of
TURA BALSAMI TOLUTANI, L. D. Tine-bral.fam01
ture of balfam of d'olu.
Made by digeding an ounce, or an ounce and half
(D.), of balfam of Tolu in a pound, or a pint (L.),
of alcohol, till the ballam is diffolved.
This is the belt form cf employing this balfam, and
it may be given mixed with honey, or, as in the fol¬
lowing preparation, with fyrup. Dofe, half a dram to
two drams as an expefitorant or dimulant.
54®
b. SYRUPUS TOLUIFER2E BALSAMI, L. SYR UPUS Synip o£
TOLUTANUS, L. Syrup of balfam of Tolu, or lo*a.
balfamic fyrup.
The Edinburgh college direft this fyrup to be pre¬
pared by mixing an ounce of the above tincture with
two pounds of common fyrup. The London procefs is
to boil eight ounces of balfam of Tolu with three pints of
diddled water for two hours, drain the liquor, and boil
it with a fufficient quantity of double refined fugar to
make a fyrup. The Edinburgh formula produces both
a cheaper and a dronger fyrup.
126. Cassia Fistula, E. CASSIA FISTULA-Caflfa fif-
RIS, L. D. Caffia fruit. See Botany, p. 181. tula*
Tiufiture
of rhubarb
anfi gen¬
tian.
f. Tinctura Rhei et Gentianje, E. Tinclure of
rhubarb and gentian.
Made by digeding two ounces of diced rhubarb, and
half an ounce of diced gentian root, in two pounds and
a half of diluted alcohol, for feven days, and drain-
ing.
A good domachic. Dofe two or three drams.
of
Peru,
Class X. DECANDRIA. Order i, Monogy-
nia.
123. Myroxylon Peruiferum, E. BALSA-
MUM PERUVIANUM, L. D. Balfam of Peru.
See Botany, p. 182, and Chemistry, N° 2484.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Eeectuarium Cassia Fistula:, E. ELEC- Eidhiaiy
TUAR1UM CASSIiE, L. D. Elefiluary of caffia. ofcaffia.
This is prepared of four parts (E.), or half a pound
(LO, of the pulp ef cadia; one part (E.), or an ounce
(L.), of the pulp of tamarinds j one part (E.), or two
ounces (L .), of manna ; and four parts or half a pound
of fyrup of damafk rofes. The manna is fird difiolved
in the fyrup by a gentle heat, the pulps are then added,
and the whole evaporated to the confidence of an elec¬
tuary.
A gentle laxative. Dofe two or three drams.
127. Cassia Senna, E. SENNA, L. D. Sen-senna.3
na leaves. See Woodville, Lewis, and Duncan (c.)
Officinal
(c) This volume is new drawing very near a clofe, and it is indifpenfible that the prefent article diould not ex¬
tend beyond it. It is therefore neceffary that in the remaining part of the materia medica, we fhould be extreme¬
ly concife, and fhould omit all the natural hidory, and much of the medical hidory, of the fimple articles. For¬
tunately, in many cafes, thefe circumdances have been anticipated under botany j and where this has not been.
the
fart IV'.
Hiftory of
Simple anfl.
Officinal
Medicine?.
544.
Simple in-
frfion of
fenna.
545
Tartarized
infufion of
ifenna.
a. Infusum
of fenna.
MATERIA
Officinal Preparations.
SenNjE simplex, L. Simple infufion
M E D 1 C A, &c. 765
Made like other extracts that have been mentioned. Hiftory of
Dole 10 1030 grains. Not much ufed. ^Offidnal^
Medicines.
g. Pulvis Senn^ composites, L. Compound
powder of fenna.
Prepared by macerating an ounce and a half of fen¬
na, and a dram of powdered ginger, in a pint of boiling
water, for an hour, in a covered veffel. Dofe about two
or three ounces.
b. Infusum Sennas tartarisatum, L. Tartar-
ized infufion of lenna.
Inflead of ginger, half an ounce of bruifed coriander
feeds and two drams of cryilals of tartar are here added.
Dofe as of the above.
546
Infufion of
tamarinds
with fexna.
~V
55°
Compofed of fenna, cryftals of tartar, each two ounces, ComPoun^
fcammony half an ounce, and ginger two drams. D°fe fenna.
two or three fcruples.
551
128. HtEMATOXYLON CaMPECHIANUM, E. H/E-Logwoodi
MATOXYLON, L. D. LIGNUM CAMPE-
CHENSE. Logwood. See Botany, p. 183.
c. Infusum Taaiarindi cum Senna, E. Infufion
of tamarinds with fenna.
Prepared by macerating an ounce of prsferved ta¬
marinds, a dram (or two, three, &c. drains) of fenna,
half a dram of bruifed coriander feeds, and half an
ounce of brown fugar, in eight ounces of boiling water,
for four hours, in a glafs velfel.
An excellent laxative. Dofe from two to four ounces,
according to the quantity of femia.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Extractum Htematoxyli, L.
wTood.
553
Extra£! of log- Extra# of
logwood.
Made by boiling logwood in fucceflive portions of
water, and evaporating the mixed liquors to a proper
confiftence. Dofe a icruple to two fcruples.
129.
bark.
Svvietenia Mahagoni, E.
553
■130. Svvietenia Febrifuga, E.
etenia bark.
Mahogany tree Mahogany
bark.
Febrifuge Swi-Febriffige
fwietenia.
5-47
Compound
tincture of
'fenna.
d. Tinctura Sennue composita, E. TINC-
TURA SENN/E, L. D. Compound tinfture of
fenna.
The Edinburgh tinfture is made by digefting two
ounces of fenna, an ounce of bruifed jalap root, and
half an ounce of bruifed coriander feeds, in three pounds
and a half of diluted alcohol, for feven days, Graining
the tin&ure, and adding four ounces of double-refined
fugar. The London and Dublin tindlures are made by
digefting a pound of fenna, an ounce and a half of
bruifed carraway feeds, half an ounce of bruifed carda¬
mom feeds, and 16 ounces of ftoned raifins, in a gallon
or nine pounds (D.) of proof fpirit, for 14 days. Dofe
half an ounce to an ounce and a half.
Eledtuary e‘ ElECTUARTUM CaSSI^ SeNNTE, E. ELECTU-
•f fenna. ARIUM SENNiE, L. D. Eleftuary of fenna. Le¬
nitive elechiary. ,
The Edinburgh and London eleftuaries are com¬
pofed of eight ounces of pounded fenna, four ounces of
powdered coriander feeds, three ounces of liquorice
root, half a pound or a pound of figs, half a pound of
pulp of tamarinds, half a pound of pulp of prunes (and
half a pound of pulp of caffia (L.), and two pounds and
a half of double refined fugar. That of Dublin is made
of four ounces of powdered fenna, a pound of pulp of
French prunes, two ounces of pulp of tamarinds, a
pound and a half of molaffes, and two drams of effential
oil of carraway. Dofe about half an ounce.
k c f Extractum Cassia Senn^:, E. EXTRAC-
fernia.1" ° TUM SENNJE, L. D. Extract of fenna.
Thefe barks are good tonics, and may be ufed inftead
oi the cinchona.
555
131. GuAIACUM OFFICINALE, E. GUAIACUMjOuaiacuat,
L. D. Guaiacum wood, bark and refin. See Bo¬
tany, p. 181. ; and for an excellent account of the na¬
ture and chemical properties of the refin, fee Phil. Tranf.
for 1806. p. 89.
Officinal Preparations.
55**
a. Decoctum Guaiaci compositum, E. ComA'0ml)0uncl
pound deception of guaiacum. DecoEiion of the woods
Made by boiling three ounces of guaiacum rafpings,^1’**
and two ounces of ftoned refins, in ten pounds of water
to five pounds ; adding towards the end, of fliced faffa-
fras and bruifed liquorice root, each an ounce.
Given as a diet drink in cutaneous eruptions and
rheumatifm, to the extent of a pint in the day.
b. Tinctura Guaiaci officinalis, E. Tin&ure Tin&ure of
of guaiacum. guaiacom.
Made by digefting a pound of powdered refin of
guaiacum in two pounds and a half of alcohol for ten
days, and filtering.
A good diaphoretic. Dofe, two or three drams mix¬
ed with honey or fyrup.
' 55S
c. Tinctura Guaiaci ammoniata, E. TINC-Ammomat-
TURA GUAIACI VOLATILIS, D. .TINC-e‘l ti,'<w
TURA GUAIACI, L. Ammoniated tin&ure of°u^uaid
guaiacum.
5 D 2 This
the cafe, we here make a general reference to Woodville’s “ Medical Botany,” Lewis’s “ Experimental Hi
fiory,” Duncan’s “ New Difpenfatory,” the “ Pra&ical Synopfis,” and “ Thefaurus MedicarmraanP
7(>4
Hiitory of 1 his is made by digefting four ounces of powdered
Ofi'dr^T re^n guaiacum in about one pound and a half of
Medicines. amm°niated alcohol for feven days (three days L.), and
• filtering.
More fiimulant than the lafl. Dofe one or two
drams.
1^2. Ruta graveolexs, E. RUTA, L. D. Rue.
See Botany, p. 182.
M A T E R 1 A M E D I C A, &c.
Part IV.
Rue.
559
Officinal Preparations.
55o
Volatile oil a' OLEUM VOLATILE RuTiE, D. Volatile oil of
of rue. rue.
Eillilled as other volatile oils. Ufed chiefiy as an
anthelmintic. Dofe from three to fix drops.
$6*
Extra# of ExTRACTUM RUT2E GRAVEOLENTIS, E. EX-
rue. TRACI IJM RUJh/E, L. D. Extract of rue.
Made like other watery extra&s. Dofe about one
fcruple.
562
gimarouba. 123. QUASSIA, SlMARUBA, E. SIM AROUBA,
L. D. Simarouba, or mountain damfon bark.
Uled as a tonic in dyfentery, obftinate diarrhoea, in-
digeflion, and intermittent fevers. Dofe about a dram
in fubftance, or two drams in the form of decoftion,
which is the better mode of exhibition.
5^3
Quaffia. I.34- Quassia excelsa, E. QUASSIA, L.
Ouaffia wood, bark, and root.
A firong bitter, and good tonic, generally given by
way of infufion, in the proportion of one to two drams
to a pint of water.
5^4
Yellow Rhododendron Chrysanthum, E. Yel-
VVV low-flowered rhododendron. See Botany, p. 184. and
dron/ Duncan’s Difpenfatory,
WhoSe- I36* Arbutus Uva Ursi, E. UVA URSI, L.
berry. Whortleberry. See Botany, p. 184.
566
Storax. 137. Styrax OFFICINALE, E. STYRAX, L.
STYRAX CALAMITA, D. Storax. See Bo¬
tany, p. 184, and Chemistry, N° 2481.
567
Purified
ftorax.
Officinal Preparatic:-:.
a. Styrax purificata, L. D. Purified ftorax.
Storax is purified by difibiving it in re&ified fpirit,
{training the folution, and reducing it to a proper thick-
nefs by a gentle heat. <
Employed chiefly as an ingredient in a tinfture to be
mentioned immediately.
568
Benzoin. 138. Styrax Benzoin, E. EENZOE, L. BEN-
ZOINUM, D. Benzoin or benjamin. See Botany,
p. 184, and Chemistry, N° 2480.
Officinal Preparations.
569
Compound a. flNCTURA BENZOLS COMPOSITA, E. L. BAL-
tm.Y-e • SAMUMTRAUMATICUM. Compound tindure of
benz in. Traumatic vulnerary y or friars bulfam.
Prepared by digefting three ounces of powdered ben-
benzo.n.
zoin (two ounces of {trained {toraxr, L.) an ounce of Hiftory of
balfam of iolu, and half an ounce of powdered focoto- Simple and
rine aloes, in two pounds of alcohol, for feven days for, ,?ffic'nal
three days, L.) and Gaining. V
This tindture forms a good expeftorant, made into
an emulfion with honey; and it has been long, though
perhaps undefervedly, celebrated, as an external appli¬
cation to wounds.
b. Acidum Benzoicum, E. SAL BENZOINI, BcnSfc
D. FLORES BENZOES, L. Benzoic acid. Salt acid.
of benzoin. Flowers of benjamin.
The Edinburgh procefs for obtaining tins a'cid is, to
triturate 24 ounces of benzoin with eight ounces of car¬
bonate of fod a j to boil this mixture in 16 pounds of
water, conflantly flirring, {training the decoction ; re¬
peat the boiling with fix pounds of more water, {train¬
ing, mixing the two decoitions, and evaporating till
only two pounds remain, filtering again, and dropping
into the fluid diluted fulphuric acid as long as there is
any precipitation ; then difiblving the precipitated acid
in boiling water, {training the folution through linen,
and fetting it afide to cryftallize *, and laitly walhing
the cryftals with cold water, and drying them.
For other methods of procuring this acid, and for an
account of its chemical properties, fee Chemistry, N°
714 etfeq.
Benzoic acid is employed as an expectorant, in a dole
of a grain or two.
571
139. CoPAIFERA OFFICINALIS, E. BALSAMUM Balfam of
COPAIVA^L. BALSAMUM COPAIBA, D. copaiva.
Baifam of Copaiva. See Botany, p. 185.
Order II. Digynia.
140. DlANTHUS CaR.YOPHYLI.US, E. CARYO-Clove july.
PHYLLUM RUBRUM, L. D. Clove julyiiowerJLwer.
See Botany, p. 196.
Officinal Preparations.
573
a. SYRUPUS DlANTHJE CaRYOPHYLLJE, E. SYRU-Syrup of
PUS CARYOPHYLLI RUBRI, L. Syrup of clove clove july-
july flower.
Made by macerating a pound or two of the petals of
clove july flowers frelh gathered, and freed from the
heels, in four pounds or fix pints of boiling water for
12 hours, in a glafs veifel, {training the infufion, and
adding of double refined fugar, {even pounds, or as
much as is fufficient to form a fyrup.
Order 4. Pentagynia.
flower.
574
141. Oxalis Acetocella. LUJULA, L. A-Woodfor-
CE1OSELLA, D. Wood forrel. See Botany re^
p. 187.
Officinal Preparations.
a. CONSERVA AcetosellAl, D. Conferve of wood CoJerve of
forrel. wood for¬
rel.
Made by beating the leaves of wood forrel in a mar¬
ble mortar with a wooden peltle, firft by themfifives
and then with three times their weight of doi e-
fined fugar, till they are thoroughly combined.
Class XL
Part IV.
M A T E H I A M E D I C A, &c.
Hiftory of
Simp eand ClassXI, DODECANDRIA. Order I. Mono-
Officinal
Medicines.
142. Asarum Europteum, E. ASARUM, L.
D. Afarabacca. See Botany, p. 190.
Ojjkcinal Preparations.
577 ,
Corrr^iouncl
Com-
a. Pulvis Asari compositus, E. L. D.
powder of pound powder of afarabacca.
c;i< Prepared according to the London and Dublin pro-
cefs, of equal parts of afarabacca, fweet marjoram,
Syrian herb maftich, and lavender, dried and reduced
together to a fine powder. In the Edinburgh formu¬
la there are ufed three parts of afarabacca, one of mar¬
joram, and one of lavender.
Ufed as an errhine.
Canella alba, E. L. D. See Bqtany,
57s
White ca¬
nella.
I43*
p. 190.
Class XII. ICOSANDRIA. Order 1. Mono-
GYNIA.
- 579
Goves.
7 3
Hiftory of
148. AmYGDALUS COMMUNIS, E. AMYGDA-Simple and
LIE BULGES, L. D. AMYGDALAE AMAR.E, officina!
L. Sweet and bitter almonds. See Botany, p. 193.
OJjilinal Preparations.
5S7 ,
Sweet ana
bitter al-
a. Oleum Amygdali communis, E. OLEUMmonds.
AMYGDALARUM, L. D. Oil of almonds. 5gg
Exprefied in the ufual manner. Given as an emol- ^n^jsa^
lient, ad libitum.
589
b. Emulsio Amygdala-: communis, E. LAC Almond
AMYGDALAE vel AMYGDALARUM, L. D.emulfion*'
Almond emulfion.
Made by beating an ounce of blanched fweet al¬
monds, or an ounce and a half, either by themfelves, or
with half an ounce of double refined fugar, and gradual¬
ly pouring on them two pounds and a half or two pints
of diftilled water, to form an emulfion.
A grateful demulcent, that may be drunk in any
quantity.
144. Eugenia Caryophyllata. CARYO-
PHYLLUS AROMATICUS, E. CARYOPHYL-
LA AROMATICA, D. Clove tree, and its effen-
tial oil. See Woodville’s Botany, and Duncan’s Dif-
penfatory.
5So Myrtus Pimenta, E. PIMENTO, L. D.
Iimento. pImento> jama;ca pepper, or allfpice. See Botany,
p. 194.
Officinal Preparations.
fSt a. Aqua Myrta: Pimenta:, E. AQ^UA PI-
w”er!t0 MENTO, L. Pimento water.
A gallon of water diftilled from half a pound of pi¬
mento. Dofe, a fmall wine glafs full.
Volatile oil Oleum volatile Myrti Pimenta:, E. Vola-
of pimento, tile oil of pimento.
Dillilled as other volatile oils. Given as a flimulus
in a dofe of two or three drops.
,5S3^ c. Spiritus Myrti Pimenta:, E. SPIRITUS
Spirit of p:- pjjYlENTO, L. D. Spirit of pimento.
mcRto. ’
A gallon of proof fpirit dillilled from half a pound
of bruifed pimento. Dofe about an ounce.
Pomegra- 146. .PuNICA GRANATUM, E. GRANATUM,
Rate. L. D. Pomegranate. See Botany, p. 195*
Kino8'5 Eucalyptus REsinifera. KINO, E. L. D.
Kino. See Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
Officinal Preparation.
S*6 . a. Tinctur a Kino, E. D. Tindfure of kino.
TinCture of
kino. Prepared by digefting two ounces of powdered kino
in a ncund and a half of diluted alcohol, for ievendays,
ar • hering, Dofe from one dram to three, as an a-
ftringent.
149. Prunus domestica, E. L. D. Prunes.
Ufed as a gentle laxative, chiefly in compolition.
59°‘
Prunes.
591
150. Prunus spinosa. PRUNUS SYLVESTRIS,Sloes.
L. Sloes.
Employed as an aftringent.
Officinal Preparation.
a. CONSERVA PRUNI SYLVESTRIS, L. ConferTC of S92
n Conferve
floes* floes.
Made by mixing any quantity of the pulp of floes,
obtained by boiling them in water till they are foft,
and fublequent expreflion, with three times its tveight
of double refined lugar.
Order 4. PentaGYNIA.
593
151. Pyrus cydonia. CYDONIA MALUS, L.^ec
Quince feeds. See Botany, p. 197.
(Officinal Preparation.
a. Mucilago Seminum Cydonii Mali, L. Mu.,t
. . ’ Mucilage
cuage or qumce ieed. 0f qUinee
Made by boiling one dram of quince feeds in eight
ounces of dillilled water, with a flow fire for 10
minutes, and then fqueezing the mucilage through
linen.
Order 5. Polygynia.
152. Rosa Gallica, E. ROSA RUBRA, L. D.Redsr90>e„
Red role buds. See Botany, p. 198.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Infusum Rosa: gallica:, E. INFUSUMInfuf9t’cf.
ROS^l, L. INFUSUM ROSARUM, D. lafu-rofo.
lion of red rofes.
Prepared by infufing one ounce of the dried petals of
red
76s _ , MATERIA M E D I C A, Sec
Sample ?ml 1Ca 10auo^ ^VT0 pounds and a half of boiline
Officinal water> m_ a g^afs or unglazed earthen veffel, till cold,
Medicines. '-Sien adding about half a dram of fulphuric acid, and
about two ounces of double refined fugar.
A pleafant refrigerant and gentle aftringent, given
internally in hemorrhages, and much employed as a
gargle.
"Syrup of b' Syrupus ROS,e gallics, E. Syrup of red rofes.
red rofes. Made by macerating feven ounces of the dried petals
of red rofes in five pounds of boiling water for 12 hours,
draining the liquor, and adding fix pounds of double
refined fugar to make a fyrup.
c. Mel Rosas, L. D. Honey of rofeo.
59S Made by macerating four ounces of dried petals of
Honey of red rofe buds in three pints of boiling diitilled water,
for fix horns, then {framing the liquor, and boiling it
with five pounds of clarified honey to the confidence of
a fyrup.
Tart TV.
Made by boiling the juice of rafpherry with a fuffi- Hidory of
cient quantity of double-refined fugar to make a fyrup. ^imPle aRtl
0 ^ r Officinal
156. Tormentilla erecta, E. TORMEN-^idnesV
I ILL A, L. D. Tormentil root. See Botany,
p. 199.
157. Potentilla reptans. PENT A PHY L -root*
LUM, L. Common cinquefoil. See Botany, p. 6c3
607
Torrnentil
158. Geum urbanum. Avens or herb bennet.
Botany, p. 199. and the “ Pia&ical Synopfis.”
This is confidered as a good fubditute for cinchona.
Common
cinquefoil.
See 609
Avens.
Class XIIL POLYANDRIA. Order 1. Mono-
GYNIA.
_ 6r«
159. Papaver Rhoeas. PAPAVER ERRATI - Common
CUM, L. Common red poppy. See Botany, p.redP0PP}'-
204.
J. CONSERVA RoSyTT RUBRA5, L. CONSERVA
ROSAi, D. Conferve of rofes.
Conferve of Made by beating the fredi petals of red rofes with
three times their weight of double-refined fugar till
they are thoroughly mixed.
153. Rosa Damascena, L. D. ROSA CEN-
600 TIFOLIA, E. The damafk rofe. See Botany,
Bamalk P* 19^*
rofe.
Officinal Preparations.
60 x
Rofe wa- a. Aqua Ros^e centifolge, E. AQUA ROS^E
ter- L. D. Rofe water.
A gallon of water didilled from fix pounds of the
fredi petals of damaik rofes.
Chiedy employed as a perfume.
602 '
Syrup of b. SYRUPUS RoS^T CENTIFOLIyE, E. SYRUPUS
damaik ROSiE, L. Syrup of damafk rofes.
rofes.
Made by macerating one pound (E.) or feven
ounces (L.) of the frelh petals of damafk rofes, in four
pounds or four pints of boiling didilled water, and
adding to the drained liquor three pounds (E.) or fix
pounds (L.) of double-refined fugar, to make a
603 f>rup-
Hips. 154. Rosa canina, E. CYNOSBATUS, L.
Hips. See Botany, p. 198.
Officinal Preparation.
604
Conferve of CONSERVA RoSyE CANINLE, E. CONSERVA
hips. CYNOSBAIT, L. Conierve of hips.
605
Rafpber-
prs.
_ Made by beating any quantity of the pulp of ripe
hips with three times its weight of double-refined
fugar.
155. Rubus ID.EUS, L. D. Rafpberry. See Bo¬
tany, p. 198.
606
Syrup of
efopberries.
a. Syrupus
rgfpberry juice.
Officinal Preparation.
FRUCTUS RuBI ID7EI, L.
Syrup of
Officinal Preparation.
a. Syrupus Papaveris erratici, L. Syrup ofs nfirf
red P°PPy- ‘ redpoppy.
Four pounds of the fredi flowers of red poppy are
gradually mixed with four pints and a half of boiling
diddled water in a water bath, condantly dirring
them ; they are then fuffered to macerate for 12 hours,
the juice is preffed out and boiled with double-refined
fugar into a fyrup.
Generally added to narcotic draughts, juleps, &c.
6x2
160. Papaver somniferum, E. PAPAVER White
ALBUM, L. D. White poppy. Opium. See Bo-PffiW*
TANY, p. 204.
To dilate on any article, biowever important, is now
out of our power 5 we mud therefore, befides the above
reference, refer our readers for the bed accounts of
opium, to Dr Crumpe’s “ Inquiry,” Dr Duncan’s Dif-
penfatory, the “ Pra&ical Synopfis,” and Thefaurus
Medicaminum.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Opium purificatum, L. D. Purified opium.
^A pound of opium, cut into fmall pieces, is digefted Purifkd
with 12 pints of proof fpirit, with a gentle ,heat, till asoplum‘
much as pofiible of the opium is diifolved. The tinc¬
ture is then filtered and didilled to a confidence proper
for making into pills or beating to powder.
Purified opium is commonly confidered as rather
weaker than crude opium ; two grains of the fofter
mafs, and one grain and a half of the harder, being an
ordinary dofe.
b. Pqlvis OPIATUS, E. L. Opiate powder. Opiate4
By the London procefs this is formed "by mixing to-P0^61*-
gether a dram of hard purified opium in powder, and
nine drams of burnt and prepared hartdiorn. The
Edinburgh powder is prepared of one part of opium,
and nine parts of prepared carbonate of lime, rubbed
together to a very fine powder.
Ten grains of thefe powders contain one grain of
opium ; but the Edinburgh powder is-rather the {Long¬
er.
3
Part IV.
MATERIA
Kincry ef er. They are ufeful when it is required to adminitler
Simple and CpJum jn very {mail dofes.
Officinal ^ 1
pILUL7E Opii, L. PILUIJE OPIATE, E.
6i5 Opium pills. Opiate o\ thebaic pills.
Opiate ril.s. rpjle Lon^on piHs are prepared of two drams of hard
purified opium in powder, and one ounce of extract of
liquorice, beaten together till they are perfe&ly united.
The Edinburgh pills are formed of one part of opium,
and feven of extract of liquorice, foftened feparately
with diluted alcohol, beaten into a pulp and mixed,
and then beaten with two parts of pounded Jamaica
pepper into an uniform mafs.
The London pills contain two grains of opium, and
the Edinburgh one grain, in 10 of the mafs.
616 a. Extractum Opii, D. Extraft of opium.
Extradl of _ .
opium. Prepared by diffolving two ounces oi punned opium
in one pound of boiling water, draining the liquor, and
adding, while vcarm, one pound of cold diddled wa¬
ter, expofing to the air for two days, filtering again,
and evaporating to the proper confidence of an ex¬
tract.
Troches of e. Trochisci Glycyrrhizje cum Opio, E. TRO-
liq'uorice CHISCI GLYCYRRH1Z/E COMPOSITE D.
with opium. Troches of liquorice with opium. Compound troches of
liquorice.
The Edinburgh troches are formed by triturating
two drams of opium, with half an ounce of tindfure of
tolu •, then adding by degrees five ounces of extradl of
liquorice, foftened in w'arm water, and eight ounces of
common fyrup; and ladly, five ounces of powdered
gum arabic, and drying the mafs till it is of a confid¬
ence to form troches, weighing ten grains each. The
Dublin formula dire&s two drams of purified opium to
be triturated with a dram of balfam of Peru, and three-
drams of tin£fure of myrrh, till they are intimately mix¬
ed ; then to be added two drams of timdure^ of tolu,
and nine ounces of extraft of liquorice, foftened in
warm water j when the whole is to be well beaten to¬
gether, and, wfith the addition of five ounces of powder¬
ed gum arabic, formed into troches, weighing ten
grains each.
Thefe troches are intended to allay irritation in
tickling coughs. About feven and a half of tne Edin¬
burgh, and fix ot the Dublin troches, contain aoout one
grain of opium.
.<SlS f. Elf.ctuarium Opiatum, E. CONFEC110
tuary6 e eC" O PI AT A, L. Opiate elettuary. Opiate con feci ion.
The Edinburgh ele&uary is formed by mixing toge¬
ther fix ounces of aromatic powder, three ounces of finely
powdered fnakeroot, half an ounce of opium, difiufed
in a futhcient quantity of Spanilh white wine,, and one
pound of the fyrup of ginger. The London confe&ion
is prepared of fix drams of hard purified opium in pow¬
der ; of long pepper, ginger, and carraway feeds pow¬
dered, each two ounces*, and fyrup of white poppy
boiled to the confidence of honey, three times the
weight of the other ingredients. The opium is firft
mixed with the fyrup, then the other powders added,
and the whole intimately blended.
Thefe are intended as Cumulating compofitions of
M E D I C A, &e. ‘ _ 767
opium. Thirty-fix grains of the London, and 43 of Hffiory of
the Edinburgh preparation, contain about one grain
of opium. Medicines.
p. Ei.ectuarium mimoste Catechu, E. ELEC-1
TUAR1UM CATECHU COMPOSITUM, D.Eleai?ary
CONFECTIO JAPONIC A. Ele&uary of catechu. 0f catechu.
Japonic confection.
Thefe ele6Iuaries are prepared of four ounces of ex¬
tract of catechu pow'dered, three ounces powdered
kino, one ounce of cinnamon, and the fame of nut¬
meg in powder, one dram and a half of opium, diffu-
fed in Spanifh white wine, and two pounds and a quar¬
ter of fyrup of red rofes boiled to the confiftence of
honey (E.) ; or 14 ounces of fyrup of ginger, and the
fame of the fyrup of orange peel, boiled to the confift¬
ence of honey (D.).
Powerful aftringents, given in diarrhoeas, .ten feru-
ples contain about one grain of opium, and the ulual
dofe is a tea fpoonful frequently repeated.
h. Tinctura Opii, E. L. D. TINCTURA THE-Tindture of
LAIC A. Tinfture of opium. Ihebaic tindiure. Lr-0Plum’
quid laudanum.
The London and Dublin tin£hires are made by di-
gefting two ounces of opium in two pounds of diluted-
alcohol, 14 days, and filtering. The London tinfture
is made by digefting ten grains of powrdered purified
opium in a pint of proof fpirit for ten days.
Theie tinftures are confidered as of nearly equal
ftrength. Dofe as narcotics, 25 or 30 drops j as an-
tifpaimodics, they are, like the folid opium, given in
much larger does..
° 621
i. Tixctura Opii camphorata, L. D. ELIXIRCamphoraf-
PAREGORICUM. Camphorated tindure of opium.ed tindture
of opium.
raregonc elixir.
Prepared by digefiing one dram of hard purified
opium, one dram of flowrers of benzoin, tw?o fcruples of
camphor, and one dram of efiential oil of anifeeds, in two
pints of proof fpivit, for ten days.;
H alf an ounce of this tindure contains about one
grain of opium. Ufual dofe about one dram or two.
€27,
k. Tinctura Opii ammoniata. Ohm ElixirAmm^niat-
PAREGORicuM, E. Ammoniated tindure of opium.
Made by digefting three drams of benzoic acid, three
drams of fliced faffron. two drams of opium, and half a
dram of volatile oil of anifeeds, in ten ounces of am-
moniated alcohol, feven days, in a ciofe veffeh
An excellent antifpafmodic, ftronger than the laft.
Dofe about one dram.
62.T
/. Syrupus Opii, D. Syrup of opium; Syrup of
• <• nr* • Opium.
Made by diffolving 48 grains of extrad of opium in
three pounds of boiling water, and adding a lufheient
quantity of double refined fugar to make a fyrup.^
An excellent narcotic for children. According to
Dr Duncan, an ounce of it contains about two grains
and a half of opium.
524;
m. SyRUPUS PaPAVERIS SOMNIFERI, E. SYRILSyrup of
PUS PAPAVERIS ALBI, L. Syrup of white pop- whitepop-
pies.
pies.
The Edinburgh fyrup is made by macerating two
pounds-
768
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Hi Rory of pounds of diced white poppy heads, freed from the
'officinal ^eec^s’ 'n 3° pounds of boiling diftilled water for 12
Medicines, hours, boiling it to a third, and preffing out the liquor,
v which is again boiled to one half, {trained, and formed
into a fyrup with four pounds of double refined fugar.
The proportions in the London procefs are, three
pounds and a half of poppy heads, eight gallons of
water, and fix pounds of fugar. *
A weak narcotic, not fo certain as the lalt fyrup.
Class XIV. DIDYNAMIA.
SPERMIA.
167. Hyssopus officinalis, E.
D. Hyilbp. See Botany, p. 216.
Fart IV.
Hi Rory of
^ Simple and
Order I. Gymno- OfHcina.i
Medicines.
HYSSOPUS, 634
’HyiTop. •
CS5
625
Ladanum.
626
Compound
iadanum
plalter.
161. Cistus creticus, LADANUM, L.
num. See Chemistry, N° 2466.
Officinal Preparation.
627
Stavefacre.
mm.
628
Blue monks¬
hood.
629
Infpiffated
juice of
aconite.
530
Winter’s
bark.
163. Aconitum neomontanum. Aconitum na-
pellus, E. ACONITUM, L. D. Blue monks¬
hood, or aconite. See Duncan's Difpenfatonj.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Succus spissatus Aconiti Napelli, E. Infpif¬
fated juice of aconite.
Made from the frefh leaves of aconite in the ufual
manner. Dofe from half a grain to three grains, twice
or thrice a day.
168. Mentha viridis. MENTHA SATIVA,Spearmint.
L. D. Spearmint. See Botany, p. 217.
Lada-
Com-
a. Emplastrum Ladani compositum. L.
pound ladanum plafter.
Formed of three ounces of ladanum, one ounce of
frankincenfe, powdered cinnamon and exprefied oil
of mace, each half an ounce, and one dram of effential
oil of mint.
A warm flimulating plafler.
Order 3. Trigynia.
162. Delphinium staphisagria. STAPHIS-
AGRIA, L. D. Stavefacre.
Employed as an external application againft ver-
Order 4. Tetragynia.
1'64. Winter a aromatic a, E.
Similar to canella alba.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Aqua Menthte sativte, L. D. Mint water.
A gallon of water diltilled from a pound and a half
of mint.
635
Mint wa¬
ter.
s 537
b. Oleum volatile Mentile Satiate, L. D. Vo-Oil of mint,
latile oil of mint.
c.
mint
Diftilled as other volatile oils.
Sitritus Menthas sativae, L.
Spirit of
A gallon of fpirit diftilled from a pound and a half
of mint.
63 s
169. Mentha Piperita, E. MENTHA PIPER-PePP«-
IS, L. D. Peppermint. See Botany, p. 217. Knjnt-
Officinal Preparations.
639
Winter’s bark.
a. Aqua Mentha Piperita, E. AOUA MEN-PePPe1'-
THiE PIPERITIDIS, L. Peppermint wrater. mint water.
b. Oleum Volatile Menthte Piperita: veloilofpen.
PlPERlTlDIS, E. L. D. Oil of peppermint. permint.
c. Spiritus Mentha: Piperit.e vel PirERiTi-Spint4of
Dis, E. L. Spirit of peppermint. peppermint.
All thefe are prepared in the fame manner as fimilar
preparations of mint, poffefs fimilar properties, but ra¬
ther {Longer. Dofe of the water, a wine glafs full;
of the oil, a drop or two5 of the {pint, about an ounce.
170. Mentha Pulegium, E. PULEGIUM, L. Pennyroyal.
D. Pennyroyal. See Botany, p. 217.
Order 6. Polygynia.
Black hd- 165. Helleborus NIGER, E. L. D. MELAM-
lebore. PODIUM. Black hellebore. See Botany, p. 210.
Officinal Preparation.
Tindture of a- ^ Ib’CTURA HELLEP.OR1 NIGRI, E. L. D. Tinc-
black helie-ture of black hellebore.
•bore.
Prepared by digefling four ounces of black hellebore,
and about half a dram of powdered cochineal, in two
pounds and a half (E.), or two pints (L.), or two
pounds (D.), of diluted alcohol, for about a week.
Much celebrated as an emmenagogue. Dofe about
a tea fpoonful.
633
Stinking 166. Helleborus FOETiDus. HELLEBORAS-
hellebore. TER, L. Stinking hellebore. See Botany, p. 210.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Aqua Mentha: Pulegii, E. AQUA PULE-Pennyroyal
GII, L. D. Pennyroyal ivater. water.
b. Oleum volatile Mentha: Pulegii, E.oiiofien-
OLEUM PULEGII, L. D. Oil of pennyroyal. nyroval.
c. Sfiritus Mentha: Pulegii, E. SPIRITUS 5pim of
PULEGII, L. Spirit of pennyroyal. pennyroyal.
Difiilled in the fame manner, and pofTefling fimilar
properties with the preparations of mint.
T 546
171* Lavandula spica, E. Lavendula, L. D. Lavender
Lavender flowers. See Botany, p. 216. flowers.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oleum volatile Lavandula: Spica, E. O- oil
LEUM vender.
2
Part IV. MATERIA
Hiftoryof X.EUM VOLATILE LAVENDULiE. Volatile
Simple and qJj Qf lavender.
Officinal
‘^e^‘^ne!,‘ as other volatile oils.
649 b. Spiritijs Lavandula spIca:, E. SPIRITUS
Spirit of la- LAVENDULiE, L. D. Spirit of lavender.
vender.
Two pounds of frefh flowering fpikes of lavender to
eight pounds of alcohol, and feven pounds drawn off,
(Ed.) A pound and half of lavender to a gallon,
(L.) or nine pounds (D.) of proof fpirit, and five pints,
(L.) or five pounds (D.) drawn off.
A powerful ftimulus, feldom employed internally,
except in the following preparation.
649
Compound c. Spiritus Lavandula: Spica: compositus, E.
tindture of SPIRITUS LAVENDUL^E COMPOSITUS, L.
lavender. TINCTURA LAVENDUL^E COMPOSITA, D.
Compound fpirit of lavender. Compound tinElure of
lavender.
Made by digefting an ounce (or half an ounce, L. D)
of bruifed cinnamon, half an ounce of bruifed nutmegs,
(two drams of bruifed cloves, E.) and three drams (or
an ounce L.) of red fanders fhavings, in three pounds
(or three pints L.) of fpirit of lavender, and a pound
(or a pint L.) of fpirit of rofemary, for about a
week.
An excellent cordial in faintnefs or naufea. Dofe
from 20 drops to a dram.
650
Syrian herb 172. TeUCRIUM MaRUM. MARUM SYRIA-
maftieh. CUM, L. D. Syrian herb maftich. See Botany,
p. 216.
Water1 er I73* Teucrium Scordium. SCORDIUM, L.
mander. Water germander. See Botany, p. 216.
White3 I7^* Marrubium vulgare, E. E. D. White
horehound. horehound. See Botany, p. 218.
Origanum. I77* ORIGANUM VULGARE. ORIGANUM, L.
D. Origanum, or voild marjoram. See Botany, p.
218.
. 654.
Oil of ori¬
ganum.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Oleum Origani, L. D. Oil of origanum.
Dillilled as other volatile oils. Much ufed in tooth-
655
Sweet mar-
ioram.
656
Ealm.
178. Origanum Majorana, E. MAJORANA,
L. D. Sweet marjoram. See Botany, p. 219.
179. Melissa officinalis, E. MELISSA, L.
Balm. See Botany, p. 219.
Order 2. Angiospermia.
^57
Foxglove.
180. Digitalis purpurea, E. DIGITALIS,
L. D. Foxglove. See Botany, p. 221. See alfo
Withering on Foxglove, Duncan’s Difpenfatory, the
Praciical Synopfis, and the Thefaurus Medicaminum.
Dofe of the digitalis in fubflance about one grain,
gradually increafed,
Officinal Preparations.
Infufion of a‘ ^NFUSUM Digitalis purpureas, E. Infufion of
foxglove, foxglove.
Vol. XII. Part II.
M E D I C A, &c. 769
Made by macerating a dram of the dried leaves of Hiftory of
foxglove in eight ounces of boiling wTater, with an ounce ^
of fpirit of cinnamon, for four hours, and filtering. Medicines.
Ufed principally in dropfical complaints. Dofe half1 v— ,/
an ounce, or one ounce, twice a day.
6S9
b. Tinctura Digitalis purpurea, E. Tin£lureT!nfture ef
of foxglove. foxglove.
Prepared by digefting an ounce of the dried leaves
of foxglove in eight ounces of diluted alcohol, for feven
days, and ftraining through paper.
Much recommended in hatmoptyfis, and the early
ftiges of confumption, to diminifti the frequency of the
pulfe. Dofe from 10 to 2Q drops, twice or thrice a
day, gradually and cautioufly increafed.
Class XV. TETRADYNAMIA. Order i. Si-
LICULOSjE.
, 66 m
181. CoCHLEARIA OFFICINALIS, E. COCHLE-Garden
ARIA, D. COCHLEARiA HORTENS1S, L.^vy-
Garden feurvygrafs. See Botany, p. 225. giafs*
Officinal Preparation,
a. Succus Cochleari;$. compositus, E. L. Com• Conip^mfj
pound juice of feurvygrafs. jv,icc- 0f
According to the Edinburgh procefs, this is prepar-^^J
ed by mixing juice of feurvygrafs, juice of water creftes,'
both frefti gathered, and juice of Seville oranges, of each
twyo pounds, with half a pound of fpirit of nutmeg ;
and after the feces have fubfided, ftraining the liquor.
The London preparation is compofed of two pints of
juice of feurvygrafs, one pint of the juice of brooklime,
and the fame of that of water creffes, and 20 ounces by
meafure of Seville orange juice, mixed and ftrained as
before,
A celebrated remedy in the feurvy, and cutaneous
eruptions. Dofe from one to four ounces, twice 6r
thrice a day.
J 66*
182 COCHLE ARIA ARMORACIA, E. R APH ANUS Holfe-rav
RUSTIC ANUS, L.D. Horfe-radilb root. See Bo-dllh root-
TANY, p. 226.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Spiritus Raphani compositus. L. D.
pound fpirit of horfe-radilh.
66*,
Com- Compound
fpirit of
horfe-ra-
Two gallons or 18 pounds (D.) of proof fpirit diftilled^1-
from frefti horfe-radifti root, and dried Seville orange
peel, of each two pounds 5 frefti garden feurvy grafs
four pounds, and bruifed nutmegs an ounce.
Formerly much celebrated as an antifcorbutic, and
ftimulant. Dofe from half an ounce to an ounce.
Order 2. Siliquos;e.
664
183. Cardamine pratensis, E. CARDAMINE,Ladies
L. Ladies fmock. See Botany, p. 226. fmock.
665
183. SlNAFIS ALBA, E. SINAPIS, D. White White muf-
mufiard feed. tardfeed.
666
184. SinapiS NIGRA. SINAPIS, L. CommonCommort
muftard feed. See Botany, p. 228. muftard
feed.
5 E
Officinal
77°
Hiflory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
667
Muftard
calaplafm.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
Order 3. OcTANDRIA.
PartlV.
668
Water¬
cress.
Officinal 'Preparation.
a. CATAfLASMA Sinapeos, L. GATAPLASMA
SIN API UM, D. Muftard cataplafm, or finapifm.
Prepared of equal parts of powdered muftard and
crumb of bread, made ipto a proper confiftence w’ith
vinegar.
An excellent external ftimulant application, in the
low ftage of acute difeafes, and in other cafes where
flight external inflammation is indicated.
185. Sisymbrium 'nasturtium. E. NASTUR¬
TIUM AQUATICUM, L. D. Water crefles. See
Botany, p. 226.
Hi/lory of
Simple and
' Officinal
190. Polygala Senega, E. SENEKA, L. D.
Seneka root. See Botany, p. 237. 676
Seneka
root.
Officinal Preparation.
a. DECOCTUM PoEYGALjE SENEGiE,
tion of feneka.
E.
^77
Decoc- Decodlion
of feneka.
Made by boiling one ounce of feneka root in two
pounds of water to 1 6 ounces, and flraining.
Ufed in dropfy and rheumatic or arthritic com¬
plaints, and lately recommended in croup. Dofe about
two ounces, three or four times a-day.
Class XVI. MONODELPHI A. Order 1. Tri-
ANDRIA.
T ^ , 186. Tamarindus indica, E. TAMARINDUS,
„ -ni^r ^ Tamarinds. See Botany, 231.
670
Gommon
callow.
Order 8. Polyandria..
187. Maeva sylvestris, E. MALVA, L. Com¬
mon mallowx See Botany, p. 233.
Officinal Preparation.
Order 4. Decandria.
678
191. PtEROCARPUS SANTALINUS, E. SANTA-Red fan-
LUM RUBRUM, L. D. Red fanders wood. ders wood
Employed chiefly to give colour to a tinflure.
679
192. Pterocarpus Draco, E. SANGUIS Dragon’s
DRACONIS, L. Dragon’s blood. See CHEMi-^'°od.
TRY, N° 2467.
Employed as an aftringent, but now7 feldom ufed.
680
193. SPARTIUM ScOPARIUM, E. GENISTA,Common
L. D. Common broom tops. See Botany, p. 237. bl00in-
a. Decoctum pro enemate, L. Decoflion for
, clyfters.
DecoAion Made by boiling one ounce of the dried leaves of
for clyfters. mallow, and one ounce and a half of dried chamomile
flowers, with a pint of water, and ftraining.
6,mz
Marffimal- 188. AlTHAIA OFFICINALIS, E. ALTHAEA, L.
low. Marlhmallow root. See Botany, p. 233.
Officinal Preparations.
^73
Decodlion
©f marih-
mallow.
674
Syrup ol
marfli-
mallow.
a. Decoctum Alth/ple officinalis, E. De-
codlion of marflimallow.
Made by boiling four ounces of dried marlhmallow
rootbruifed, and two ounces of ftoned raiflns of the fun,
In feven pounds of water to five pounds, ftraining, and
when the feces have fubfided, pouring off the clear
liquor.
A good emollient drink in inflammatory difeafes.
h. Syrupus Althtete officinalis, E. SYRU-
PUS ALTHALffL, L. Syrup of marlhmallow.
Made by boiling one pound of frelh marlhmallow
root, fliced or bruifed, in ten pounds or a gallon of wa¬
ter, to one half, and adding four pounds of double-re¬
fined fugar to make a fyrup.
A good emollient and demulcent in coughs, &c.
Class XVII. DIADELPHIA. Order 2. Hex-
andria.
Common 189. FuMARIA OFFICINALIS. FUMARIA, D.
fumitory. Common fumitory. See Botany, p. 237.
Officinal Preparation.
68 r
a. Extractum CENTSTiE, L. Extra£I of broom. Extract of
Employed as a diuretic.
6S2
194. DOLICilOS PRURIENS, E. DOLICHOS, D. Cowbage.
Cowhage, ox cow-itch. See Botany, p. 239.
68
195. Astragalus Tragacantha, E. TRAGA-^um traga-
CANTH A, L. D. Gum tragacanth, or gum dragant. canth.
This gum is a mere mucilage, and is employed as a
demulcent.
Officinal Preparations.
6S4
a. Mucilago Astragali Tragacantha:, 'E. Mucilage
MUCILAGO TRAGACANTHyE, L. MUCI .of gum tra-
LAGO GUMMI TRAGACANTHiE, D. Mu-S^autb.
cilage of gum tragacanth.
Made by macerating one ounce of powdered gum
tragacantb in eight ounces of boiling wrater (E.), or
half an ounce in ten ounces (L.), or one dram in eight
ounces (D.), and diffolving by fubfequent trituration.
685
b. Pul vis Tragacantha: compositus, L. Com-Compound
pound powder of tragacanth. powder of
tragacanth.
Prepared of powTdered gum tragacanth, gum arable,
and ftarch, of each half an ounce, rubbed into a powder
with three ounces of double refined fugar.
A demulcent powder, ferviceable in tickling coughs,
ftrangury, ardor urinae, violent mucous dianthoea, and
fimilar difeafes. .
<86
196. Glycyrrhiza glabra, E. GLYCYR- Liquorice
R HI Z A, mot.
Tart IV.
MATERIA
Liquorice root and extrafl of liquo-
M E D I C A, &c.
77r
HLftoryof. RHIZA, L. D.
Simple arid rjce>
Cfficinal ' _ . .
Medicines. Ufed as an emollient and demulcent, m fublxance, m
decoftion, pills, eleftuaries, &c.
Officinal Preparation.
6S7 _ xr'V
Kxtradlof a. ExTRACTUM GlyCYRRHIZ^ GLABRA, E. LA-
liquorice.. TRACTUM GLYCYRRHIZ^E, L. D. Extraft
of liquorice.
*
Prepared like other watery extracts.
dS3
Cabbage- 197. Geoffrala inermis, E. GEOFFRiEA, D.
tree bark. Cabbage-tree bark.
Lately introduced into this country from the Weft
Indies as an anthelmintic, in the form of decodtion.
Officinal Preparation.
Decodbon a. Decoctum Geoffr7E^ inermis, E. Deco&ion
mi cabbage- of cabbage-tree bark.
tree bark. ]VIacie by boiling one ounce of powdered cabbage-
tree bark with a gentle fire in two pounds of water to
one pound, and ftraining. X)ofe to children a table
fpoonful, to adults four; giving caftor oil, and dilut¬
ing with acidulated drinks, if unpleafant fymptoms
ftiould arife.
69° , 198. Trigonelea Foenum Grecum. FOENUM
SeTSreek GRECUM, L. Fenugreek feed. See Botany, p.
■ • 241.
Class XVIII. POLYADELPHIA. Order 3.
Icosandria.
orange.
_ . . Tr.T'T> XT * Iliftory of
d. CoNSERVA ClTRI AuRANTII, E. CONSERv A Simple and
AURANTII HISPALENSIS, L. CONSERVA Officinal
CORTICIS AURANTII, D. Conferve of orange Median*^
Peeh , 695
Prepared by beating the frefti rind of Seville oranges^nfemrof
firft by itfelf, and then with three times its.weight of 1
double-refined fugar.
200. Citrus medica, E. LIMON, L. D.
mon juice, peel, and effential oil. See Botany, p.
242.
696
Le- Lemon.
Officinal Preparations.
hi
a. Aqua Citri medical, E. Lemon peel water. Lemon peel
water.
A gallon of water diftilled from two pounds of frefti
lemon peel.
A pleafant aromatic water, fimilar to orange water.
b. Syrupus Citri medical, E. SYRUPUS Ll-Syrupof
MONIS SUCCI, L. D. Syrup of lemon juice. lemon juice.
Made by diffolving five parts (E.) or five pounds
(L.) or four pounds (D.) of double-refined fugar, in
three parts or two pints (L.) or two pounds (D.) of fil¬
tered lemon juice.
A pleafant refrigerant fyrup.
699
c. Succus Limonis spissatus, L. Infpiflated le-infpiffated
mon juice. lemon juice.
Prepared in the fame manner as the infpiffated juice
of elder berries.
Employed chiefly as a refrigerant, efpecially in bili¬
ous or remittent fevers.
Sevifi'e1 I99- Gitrus Aurantium, E. AURANTIUM
HISPALENSE, L. D. Seville orange juice, peel,
and leaves. See Botany, p. 243.
Officinal Preparations.
Svrmfnf a- SYRUPUS ClTRI AURANTII, E. SYRUPUS
OTangepeel. CORTICIS AURANTII, L. D. Syrup of orange
peel.
Prepared by macerating fix ounces, or eight ounces
(L. D.), of the frefli outer rind of Seville oranges, with
three pounds or five pints (L. D.) of boiling water, for
I 2 hours in a clofe veffel, and adding to the filtered li¬
quor of double-refined fugar four pounds, or enough to
make a fyrug.
ETfed chiefly in compofition.
■ Orange A QUA Citri aurantii, E. Orange-peel wa-
peel water, ter.
Ten pounds of water diftilled from two pounds of
frefti orange peel, after due maceration.
A pleafant cordial water. Dofe two or three
ounces.
Tindme of ^ Tinctura Aurantii corticis, L. D. Tindure
•range peel, of orange peel.
Made by digefting three ounces of frefti orange peel
in two pints or two pounds of proof fpirit for three
days. Dofe three or four drams to an ounce.
Order 4. Polyandria.
70*
201. Melaleuca Leucodendron, E. CAJE-Cajeput,
PUT A. Cajeput oil.
Ufed as an external ftimulant in cafes of luxation,
fprains, and rheumatic and gouty affedions.
202. Hypericum perforatum. HYPERICUM,St *
L. St John’s wort. See Botany, p. 243.
Class XIX. SYNGENESIA. Order 1. Poly-
gamia ^qualis.
702
203. Leontodon Taraxacum, E. TAR AX A-Dandelion.,
CUM, L. D. Dandelion root and leaves.
Reputed a diuretic, but fcarcely employed in modern
pradice.
204. Lactuca virosa, E. Wild lettuce. See Wild
Botany, p. 248. and Duncan’s Difpenfatory. lettuce!
7°3
Officinal Preparation.
7°4
a. Succus spissatus Lactuc^e viroste, E. In-infpjffiateG
fpiffated juice of wild lettuce.
Prepared as other infpiflated juices j employed as a lettuce*
narcotic and diuretic, principally in dropfies proceed¬
ing from vifceral obftrudions. Dofe at firft about
5 E 2 three
772
Hiftory of three grains, gradually inareafed to I c or more, twice
or thrice a-da^
'Mcil;c,nes-, 205. Arctium Lappa, £. BARDANA, L. D.
Burdock root.
Recommended as a diuretic, and given in the form
of decoction in dropfies, &c.
206. Cynara scolymus, E. CINARA SCOLY-
MUS, E. D. Artichoke leaves. *
Employed as a diuretic.
Order 2. POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA.
207. Artemisia Abrotanum. ABROTANUM,
L. Southernwood. See Botany, p. 251.
MATERIA MED 1C A, &c.
PartIV.
705
Surdoik
root.
70S
Artichoke
leaves.
707
Southern.
wood.
Officinal Preparation.
FRO FOMENT'D, L.
Deco&ion for
_ 7°* a. DecoctuM
&r fomsn- fomentations-
Prepared by boiling for a little, of the dried leaves of
fouthernwood, the dried tops of fea wormwood, and
dried chamomile flowers, each an ounce, with half an
ounce of dried bay leaves, in fix pints of diftilled water,
and {training.
709
Sen-worm- 2o8- Artemisia maritima. ABSYNTHIUM
wood. MARITIMUM, L. D. Sea-wormwood. See Bo¬
tany, p. 251.
710
Conferve of
fea worm¬
wood.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Conserva Absynthii maritimi, L. Conferve
of fea wormwood.
Prepared by beating the frelh tops of fea wormwood
with three times their weight of double refined fugar,
into a conferve.
Employed as a tonic and ftomachic in hypochon-
driafis, epilepfy, &c. and as an anthelmintic. Dofe
two drams to half an ounce, twice or thrice a day.
711
Wormfeed. 209. Artemisia Santonica, E. SANTONI-
CUM, L. D. Wormfeed.
Employed as an anthelmintic. Dofe from half a
dram to a dram, twice a-day, in powder.
71a
Common 210. Artemisia Absinthium, E. ABSINTHI-
wormwood.UM VULGARE, L. D. Common wormwood. See
Botany, p. 251.
211. Tanacetum vulgare, E. TANACETUM,
L. D. Tanfy, leaves and flowers. See Botany,
p. 251.
A good tonic and anthelmintic. Dofe half a dram
to four drams in fubftance, or a table fpoonful of the
expreffed juice.
212. Arnica Montana, E. L. D. German leo¬
pard’s bane. See Botany, p. 253, and Duncan’s Dif-
penfatory.
213. Inula Helenium. INULA CAMPANA,
L. D. Elecampane. See Botany, p. 253.
Solidago Virga Aurea. VIRGA AUR-
7J3
Tanfy.
7*4
Leopard’s
bane.
Elecam¬
pane
710
Golden rod. 214
£Aj D. Golden rod.. See Botany, p. 253.
21J
L. D.
Tussilago farfara, E. TUSSILAGO, &w7a°d
Coltsfoot. See BOTANY, p. 252. Officinal
Medicines.
216. Anthemis nobilis, E. CHAM^EMELUM.   '
L. D. Chamomile flowers. See Botany, p. 254.
An excellent tonic and anthelmintic.
"“V
717
Colts loot.
  Dofe in fub- , 7l8
fiance about a fcruple in powder, or one dram in in-g^™°miIe
fufion. Ufed externally as an emollient and difcutient,
in the form of clyller or fomentation.
Officinal Preparations.
710
a. DECOCTUM AnTHEMIDIS NOBILIS, E. DECOC-Becodtion
TUM CHAMv^MELI, D. Decodlion of chamo-°f
mile. ^le.
Prepared by boiling an ounce of chamomile flowers,
and half an ounce of bruifed carraway feeds, in five pounds
of water (E.), or half an ounce of chamomile flowers
with two drams of fweet fennel feeds, in a pound of wa¬
ter (D).
Ufed as a carminative clyfler, or flimulant fomen¬
tation.
720
b. Extractum AnTHEMIDIS NOBILIS, E. E^f- Extract
TRACTUM CHAMiEMELI, L. Extrad of cha-^amomife.
momile.
Prepared as other watery extradls. Dofe from a fcru¬
ple to a dram, as a tonic and anthelmintic.
721
217. AntHEMIS PyrETHRUM, E. PYRETHRUM, Pelhtory of
L. D. PelHtory of Spain. Spain.
Ufed chiefly as a mafticatory in toothach.
Order 3. Polygamia Frustranea.
722
218. Centaurea benedicta, E. CARDUUSBleffed"
BENEDICl'US, L. D. Bleffed thiftle. See Bo-thilUe.
TANY, p. 255.
Class XX. GYNANDRIA. Order V. Hex-
andria.
723
219. Aristolochia Serpentaria, E. SERPEN-Virginian
TARIA VIRGINIANA, L. D. Virginian fnake-^na^ei00^*'
root. See Duncan’s Difpenfatory, and the Synopfis
Materiae Medicae.
Employed as a ftimulant and tonic in low fevers,,
gangrene, &c. Dofe in fubftance 10 grains to 30.
Officinal Preparation.
724
a. TlNCTURA ArISTOLOCHL® SeRPENTARLE, E Tindlure of
TINCTURA SERPENTARI^E, L. D. TinaUrefnake rwt-
of fnakeroot.
Prepared by digefting two ounces of bruifed Virgi¬
nian fnakeroot, and a dram of powdered cochineal, in
two pounds and a, half of diluted alcohol, for feven days
^E.), or three ounces of fnakeroot in two pints (L.),
or two pounds (D.) of proof fpirit, for feven or eight
days. Dofe from two drams to half an ounce.
Order 10. Polyandria.
220. Aruivt maculatum. ARUM, L. D. Arum, Wake
or wake robin. robin.
Officinal-
7*5
Pa t IV.
Hirtory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
726
MATERIA MEDIC A, &c.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Cokserva Ari, L. Conferve of arum.
Made by beating a pound and a half of the frefli
Conferve of root of arum bruifed, with a pound and a half of double
arum. refined fugar, into a conferve. Dofe about a dram.
Class XXL MONOECIA.
NIA.
727
■Nutmeg
tree.
72S
Oil of
naace.
729
Spirit of
nutmeg.
Order 1. Monogy-
MYRISTICA,
221. Myristica moschata, E.
L. D. Nutmeg tree.
Nux Moschata. Nutmeg. Macis. Mace. Ole¬
um Macis. Oil of Mace. See Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Sfiritus Myristicae Moschatje, E. SPIRI-
TUS NUCIS MOSCHATiE, L. D. Spirit of nut¬
meg.
A gallon of fpirit diftilled from two ounces of well-
bruifed nutmegs. A good cordial. Dofe about half
73?..
Birch juice.
73i
Mulberries.
73*
■Syrup of
mulberry
juice.
733
Common
flinging
nettle.
227. JUGLANS REGIA,
walnuts.
73 S
Extract of
oak bark.
bark.
JUGLANS, L. Unripe
773
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
> ^ •
737
Walnut.
733
Fir tree.
739
Burgundy
pitch.
EM-
Com-
740
Compound
Burgundy
pitch plaf-
Order 4. Tetrandria.
222. Bbtula alba, D. Birch juice.
A gentle diuretic.
223. Morus nigra. Morus, L. Mulberries.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Syrupus Sucgi fructus Mori, L. Syrup of
mulberry juice.
Prepared in the fame manner as the fyrup of black
currant juice.
Employed as a refrigerant and demulcent.
224. Urtica dioica. URTICA, L. Common
ftinging nettle.
Ufed as a rubefacient to paralytic limbs, which are
whipped with nettles.
Order 8. Polyandria.
Oak?bark. 225* Q.UERCUS ROBUR, E. QUERCUS, L. D.
Oak bark.
A powerful aftringent, employed in paffive hemor¬
rhages, diarrhoea, leucorrhoea, and fimilar cafes. Dofe
in fubftance 15 grains to half a dram of the powdered
bark. Ufed externally by way of gargle, or lotion.
Employed as a tonic and anthelmintic.
Order 10. MONODELPHIA.
228. Pinus Abies. The fir tree.
Pix Burgundica, E. D. Burgundy pitch.
Officinal Preparation.
a. EmplaSTRUM Picis Burgundicte, D.
PLASTRUM PICIS COMPOSITUM, L.
pound Burgundy pitch plafter. ter>
Prepared ef two pounds of Burgundy pitch, one
pound of ladanum (L.) or of galbanum (D.), four
ounces of yellow1 wTax, the fame of yellow refin, and
one ounce of expreffed oil ©f mace.
A ftimulating plafter.
229. Thus, L. Frankincenfe.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Emplastrum Thuris compomtum, L. Com¬
pound plafter of frankincenfe.
Prepared of half a pound of frankincenfe, three
ounces of dragon’s blood, and two pounds of litharge
plafter, adding the refins in powder to the melted li¬
tharge plafter.
230. Pinus balsamea. Hemlock fir.
Balsamum Canadense, E. L. D. Balfam of Ca¬
nada.
231. Pinus Larix. The larch.
Terebinthina Veneta, E. D. Venice turpen¬
tine. OLEUM VOLATILE PINI, E. OLEUM
TEREBINTHIN2E, L. D. Oil of turpentine.
The oil of turpentine is direfted by the London col- pejitine
lege to be prepared by diftillation from common turpen¬
tine.
74i
Frankin-
cenfe.
742
Compound
plafter of
frankin*
cenfei
743
• Balfam ot
Canada.
744
Larch.
745
Venice tur¬
pentine.
746
Oil ot tur-
Officinal Preparation.
OLEUM Purified oil
D. of turpea-
tine.
Officinal Preparation,
a. Extractum. Quercus, D. Extrafh of oak.
Oleum volatile Pini furissimum, E
TEREBINTHINiE RECTIFICATUM, L.
Purified oil of turpentine. Spirit of turpentine.
Diftilled with the addition of water in well luted
veffels till the pureft part of the oil has come over.
Stimulant and diuretic. Dofe from 10 to 30 drops. -
Mixed with an equal proportion of ether, it is much »
recommended in calculus. It is, an excellent applica¬
tion to chilblains and recent burns.
Prepared like other watery extradls. Dofe 10 grains
to a fcruple.
736 226. Quercus Cerris, E. L. D. GALLA. Gall-
Gall nuts. nuts> See Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
This is perhaps a more powerful aftringent than oak
bark, and is employed in fimilar cafes,
232. Pinus Sylvestris.
A. Pix Liquida, E. D. Tar.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Unguentum Picis, E. L. D. Tar ointment.
Prepared by melting together equal parts of tar and
mutton
74S
Tar.
749
Tar oint¬
ment.
774 M A T £ R I A
Hiftory of mutton fuet (L. D.-), or five parts of tar and two parts
Medicines. Jtiteemed a goad application in cutaneous difeafes,
' v ' efpecially tinea capitis.
7S°
Common B. Terebintiiika vulgaris, L. B. Common tur-
turpentine. pentine.
This, like other turpentines, is a ftimulant and diu¬
retic.
751 '
Yellow C. Resixa FT.AVA, L. RESINA ALBiV, D.
rofui. Yellow' rolin. White rojin.
Employed chiefly in making ftimulating ointments
and plafters.
^ ^ Officinal Preparations.
Refinous a. UxGUENTUM RESINOSUM, E. UNGUENTUM
-oyitment. RESINA FLAV7E, L. D. Refinous ointment.
2 e/low bajilicon.
Prepared by melting together eight parts of hog’s
lard, five of white rofin, and twm of yellow w'ax (E.) ;
or by melting together, of yellow rofin and yellow wax,
each one pound, over a flow fire, adding a pint or fe-
ven ounces of olive oil, and (training the mixture while
hot (L. D.).
753
Cerate of l. Ceratum Resijce flav./E, L. D. Cerate of
yfow yellow rofin.
rohn. J
Prepared by melting together half a pound of the
preceding ointment, and one ounce of yellow W'ax.
Thefe are intended as ftimulating applications to
ulcers that do not heal or fuppurate properly.
Refinous c* Emplastrum RESINOSUM, E. EMPLAS-
.plafter. TRUM LYTHARGYRI CUM RESINA, L.
EMPLASTRUM ADHESIVUM. Refinous plafter.
Litharge plafter with rojin. Jldhefive plajler.
Prepared by melting five parts (E.),or three pounds
(L.), of plafter of femivitrified oxide of lead {litharge
plafter), and adding one part (E.) or half a pound
(L.) of white or yellow rofin powdered.
Employed, fpread on linen, to form adhefive plafters}
for keeping the edges of ulcers or recent wmunds to¬
gether j for giving mechanical fupport to ulcerated
limbs, or keeping on other dreffings.
Palma^ 233. Ricinus communis, E. L. D. Palma chrifti
chriftifeeds.feeds. See BOTANY, p. 271.
Officinal Preparation.
Caftoroil <7. Oleum RlCINl, L. Caftor oil.
Expreffed in the ufual manner from the hufked
feeds.
Caftor oil is feldom prepared in this country, being
brought chiefly from the Weft Indies. When cold
drawn, it is milder, and lefs fubjedt to become rancid,
but it requires a larger dofe than the common oil. It
is an excellent purgative, well fuited to cafes of colic
and worms, given either *by the mouth, or by way of
clyfter. Dofe in the former cafe about aone ounce, and
in the latter about two ounces.
M E D I C A, &c. Part IV.
234. Croton Eleutheria, E. CASCARIL- Uiftoryof
LA, L. D. Cafcarilla bark. Simple and
Offiefnift
An excellent aromatic tonic. Dofe about half a idicines,
dram, or two fcruples, two or three times a-day.
Officinal Preparations.
Cafcaiilla
bark.
a. Tinctura Cascarillte, L. D.
cafcarilla.
Tindture
rf
ot Tincture of
cafcarilla.
Prepared by digefting four ounces of powdered caf¬
carilla bark in two pints or two pounds (D.) of proof
fpirit, for about a week, with a gentle heat. Dole
about one ounce ; belt in compofition with decodtion or
infufion of cinchona.
b. ExTRACTUM CaSCARILEAl, L. D. Extract of Extract of
cafcarilla. cafcarilla.-
Prepared in the ufual way of making extradts. Dofe
from 10 to 30 grains.
Order 10. Syncenesia.
235. Momordica Elaterium, E. CUCUMISw;i/A,
AGRESTIS, L. D. Wild cucumber. cumber.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Succus spissatus MomordicjE Elaterii, E. Elatcrium,
ELATERIUM, L. Infpifiated juice of wild cucum¬
ber. Elaterium.
This is prepared by flicing ripe wild cucumbers, ex¬
prefling the juice very gently, and (training it through
a very fine hair fieve ; boiling it a little, and fetting it
by for (ome hours, till the thicker part has fubfided.
The fupernatant fluid is then poured off, and feparated
by filtering from the thicker matter, which is to be
dried and kept for ule.
A violent cathartic, employed in dropfy. Dofe half
a grain to one grain.
236. CUCUMIS CoLOCYNTHIS, E. COLOCYN-Colocynth.
THIS, L. D. Colocynth or bitter apple. See Bo¬
tany, p. 271.
Officinal Preparation.
a. ExTRACTUM ColOCYNTHIDIS COMPOSITUM, L. Compound
Compound extradt of colocynth. extradt of
Prepared by digefting fix drams of the pith of coA10^ *’
locynth, cut (mall, in a pint of proof fpirit, with a
^gentle heat for four days, then diffolving in the ex-
prefied tindhire one ounce and a half of powdered foco-
torine aloes, and half an ounce of powdered fcammonyj
and laftly drawing off the fpirit, and adding to the in-
fpiffated extradf, a dram of hulked cardamom feeds in
powder.
A ftrong cathartic and anthelmintic. Dofe frouv
5 to 3° grains.
237. Bryonia alba. BRYONIA, D. Bryony Er
root. See Botany, p. 271. where it is ddcribed rooyt,ny
under the name of Bnjonia dioica.
1
Class
Part IV.
Hiftory of
{.impie and Class XXII. DIXCIA.
Officinal
'—-v ‘ 238. Salix tragilis. SALIX, D. Crack wil-
765 low bark.
Crack wd- ^ good tonic, employed as a fubftitute for Peruvian
bark. Dofe about one dram.
low bark.
Order 5. Pentandrfa.
239. Pistacia Terebinthus. TEREBINTHI-
NA CHIA, L. Chio turpentine.
Not materially different from the other turpentines.
240. Pistacia Lentiscus, E. MASTICHE, L.
Maftich. See Botany, p. 276. and Chemistry, N°
2464.
241. Humulus Lufulus. Hop.
A good narcotic, which has been found an excellent
fubftitute for opium. See an Inaugural differ tat ion de
Humulo Lupulo, lately printed at Edinburgh by Dr
de Roches, and Kirby’s tables, p. 94.
Order 6. Hexandria.
Sarfaparilla 242. SMILAX SARSAPARILLA, E. SARSAPA-
root. RILLA, L. D. Sarfaparilla root. .
A flight diaphoretic, of little efficacy.
166
Chio tur¬
pentine.
767
Maftich.
768
Hop.
MATERIA M E D I C A, Sec.
Diftilled in the fame manner as other volatile oils.
Order 2. Diandria. Stimulant and diuretic. Dole from three to ten
drops.
b. Spiritus .Tuniperi communis compositus, E.
SPIRITUS JUNIPERI COMPOSITUS, L. D.
Compound fpirit of juniper.
Nine pounds or a gallon of diluted alcohol diftilled
from one pound of well-bruifed juniper berries, orte
ounce and a half of bruifed carraway feeds, and the
fame of fweet fennel feeds.
A good diuretic, but not fuperior to common gin.
244. Juniperus Lycia, E. OLIBANUM, L. Olibanum.■
D. Olibanum. See Chemistry, N° 2487.
776
244. Juniperus Sabina, E. SABINA, L. D.Savine.
Savine.
Reputed a fpecific in uterine obftru&ions, but gra¬
dually lofing its celebrity. Dofe in fubftance from
fifteen grains to two fcruples. Applied externally as
an efcharotic to venereal warts and fimilar excrefeences.
770
Decoftion
of fartapa-
rilla.
771
Compound
decoftion
of farfapa-
rilla.
Officinal, Preparations*
a. Decoctum Smilacis Sarsaparillje, E. DE-
COCTUM SARSAPARILLA. L. D. Decodtion
of farfaparilla.
Prepared by digefting fix ounces of fliced farfaparilla
root in eight pints of diftilled water, for two hours, in a
heat of about 195°; then taking out the root and bruif-
ing it, repeating the maceration; then boiling the liquor
down to four pints, preffing it out, and ftraining the
decodlion.
b. Decoctum Sarsaparilla compositum, L. D.
Compound decodlion of farfaparilla.
Made by macerating fix ounces of fliced and bruifed
farfaparilla root, one ounce of the bark of faffafras
root, in ten pints of diftilled water, for fix hours j then
boiling dowm to five pints, adding towards the end,
three drams of mezereon, and ftraining the decodtion.
A good diet drink, but fcarcely fuperior to the com¬
pound decodlion of guaiacum. Dofe from four to
eight ounces, three or four times a-day,.
Order 12. Monadelphia.
243. Juniperus communis, E. JUNIPERUS,
L. D. Juniper berries. See Botany, p. 278.
Ojficinal Preparations.
773
Oil of junl- a. Oleum volatile Juniperi communis, E.
per. OLEUM .TUNIPERI BACCA, L. OLEUM
BACCARUM JUNIPERI, D. Oil of juniper
berries..
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oleum volatile Junipert Sabina, E. O-
LEUM SABINA, D. Volatile oil of favine.
b. Extractum Sabina, L. D. Extradl of favine.
Made like other extradls. Dofe from 10 to 30
grains, twice or thrice a-day.
r. TINCTURA SABINA COMPOSITA, L
Compound tindlure of favine.
Prepared by digefting one ounce of extradl of favine
in a pint of tindlure of caftor, and half a pint of tindlure
of myrrh, till the extradl is diflblved.
Given as an emmenagogue, and as an antifpafmodic
in hypochondriac affedlions. Dofe from 30 drops to a
dram, twice or thrice a-day.
246. Cissampelos Pareira. PAREIRA BRA¬
VA, L. Pareira brava root. See Duncan’s Difpen-
fatory.
Class XXIII. POLYGAMIA. Order 1. Mo-
NOECIA.
Volatile oil-
of favine.
77S
Extract of
favine.
779 ,
, Compound
tinefture of .
favine.
780 •
Pareira -
root.
7S1
Juniper
berries.
247. Stalagmitis Cambogioides. GAMBO-Gambose*-
GIA, E. L. D. Gamboge. See Duncan’s Difpen-
fatory.
A violent cathartic and anthelmintic. Dofe from
1 or 2 grains to 10 or 15 grains. The latter chiefly
in cafes of taenia.
782
248. Veratrum album, E. HELLEBORUS White heI-
ALBUS, L, D. White hellebore root. See Bo-lebore roots
TANY, p, 28l.
mal Preparations.
7*3
Decodlion Decodlion -
of white
hellebore.
Made by boiling an ounce of powdered white helle¬
bore
b. Decoctum Hellebori albi, L.
of white hellebore.
775
Sipple ami foot in two pints of diflilled water to one pint, and
’ Officinal' aci^I.ng to ftrained liquor when cold two ounces of
Medicines. re£lified fpirit of wine.
v Uied as a lotion, diluted, if neceffary, in the itch, and
fimilar cutaneous affedtions.
7S4.
Tinaure of Tinctura Veratri albi, E. Tindlure of
white hel- white hellebore.
iebore.
Prepared by digelling eight ounces of powdered
white hellebore root in two pounds and a half of diluted
alcohol for feveral days, and filtering though paper.
Employed occafionally to aflitl the operation of eme¬
tics and cathartics, in fome apopledfic and paralytic
cafes, in mania } dofe in thefe cafes from half a dram
to two. drams. Employed alfo as a general ftimulant or
alterative in cutaneous difeafes, beginning with about
two drops twice or three a day, and gradually increaf-
ing the dofe.
7S5
Ointment c. UnGUENTUM HeLLEBORI ALBI, L. D. Oint-
of white ment of white hellebore.
hellebore.
Prepared by mixing four ounces of ointment of hogs
lard, with one ounce of powdered white hellebore
and one fcruple of eflential oil of lemon.
Ufed in fimilar cafes with the decoflion.
786
Catechu. 249. Mimosa Catechu, E. CATECHU, L. D.
Catechu, or Japan earth. See Botany, p. 282.
A powerful allringent, employed in diarrhoeas, ute¬
rine hemorrhage •, and externally by way of lotion or
lozenge, for exulcerations and aphthous ulcers of the
mouth. Dofe internally from 15 grains to two fcru-
ples.
materia m e r> i c a, &c
Part TV.
Officinal Preparations.
787
Infufion of a. Infusum Mimosa; Catechu, E.
catechu. JAPONICUM. Infufion of catechu.
Officinal Preparations.
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines..
790
Mucilage of
gum arabic.
791
Arabic
emullio*.
a. Mucilago Mimosa: Nilotica:, E. P»IUCI-
LAGO ARABICI GUMMI, L. D. Mucilage of
gum arabic.
Prepared by diffolving one part of powdered gum-
arabic in about two of boiling water, and ftraining.
b. Emulsio Mimosa: Nilotica:, E. EMULSIO
ARABICA, D. Arabic emulfion.
Piepared, according to the Edinburgh procefs, in
the fame manner as almond emulfion, with the addition
of two ounces of gum .arabic, added while beating the
almonds. The Dublin emulfion is compofed ef two
drams of powdered gum arabic, half an ounce of large
almonds, three drams of double-refined fugar, and one
pound of decodliou of barley.
Employed in the fame cafes as almond emulfion.
r. Trochisci GummosI, E. Gum troches.
Prepared of four parts of gum arabic, one of pow-
deied flarch, and 1 2 of double refined fugar, made in¬
to a mafs for troches with water.
Similar in ufesto the lozenges of ftarch. See N°^6p.
25 J. PARIETARIA OFFICINALIS. PARIETARIA,Pellitoiy of
E. Pellitory of the wall. the wall.
Order 2. DlOECIA.
7g2
Gum
troches.
INFUSUM
^52. Iraxinus Ornus, E. L. D. Manna-afti. Manna!
Manna.
A mild purgative, well fuited to children, but re¬
quiring fome gentle aromatic to prevent griping. Dofe
from a dram to half an ounce. Beft in compofition
with lenna.
Prepared by macerating two drams and a half of
powdered extraft of catechu, and half a dram of bruifed
cinnamon, in feven ounces of boiling whaler, for two
hours, in a covered veffel, ftraining'the liquor and add¬
ing one ounc<; of fimple fyrup. Dofe from one to two
ounces.
Tinrture of ^ TlNCTTmA Mimosa: Catechu, E. TINCTU-
A-ateclm. TINCTURA JAPONICA.
Tin&ure of catechu.
Prepared by digefting three ounces of extra# of ca¬
techu, and two ounces of bruifed cinnamon, in two
pounds and a half, or two pints (L.), of diluted alco-
hol, for feven or ten days, and ftramiiag through paper,
Dofe two or three drams.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Syrupus Manna:, D. Syrup of manna. Syru^f
Prepared by macerating half an ounce of fenna inmanna‘
one pound of boiling water for twelve hours in a co¬
vered veflel, ftraining the liquor, and adding one pound
of manna, and one pound of dounle refined fiigar, to
make a fyrup.
This forms an excellent purgative for children.
253. Panax Quinquefolium. GINSENG, L.r-7pf
Ginfeng root. root
A Chinefe root, formerly much in repute as a fti¬
mulant, but now out of falhion.
789
Giyn ara¬
ble.
c. Electuarium Mimosa Catechu, E. ELECTU-
ARIUM CATECHU COMPOSITUM, D. CON-
FECTIO JAPONICA. Elefluary of catechu. Ja¬
ponic ConfeElion. See preparations of opium.
2,50. Mimosa Nilotica, E. GUMMI ARA-
BICUM, L. D. Gum arabic.
A dry mucilage, very ufeful as an emollient and de-
jnulcent.
3
Order 3. Trioecia.
254. Ficus Carica, E. CARICA, L. D. Figs.FiJ*7
See Botany, p. 282. & s •
A gentle laxative, ufed chiefly in compofition.
Class XXIV. CRYPTOGAMIA. Order 1. Fr-
lices.
795
255. Polypodium Filix Mas, E. FILIX, L. Male tena
FILIXroot*
Fart IV,
FILIX
P. 285.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
777
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
MAS, D. Male fern root. See Botany,
799
Iceland
liver-wort.
Soo
Female
agaric.
801
Palm oil.
80a
Water.
803
Snow or
rain water
pureft.
This fubftance has been in great repute as an anthel-
J mintic, efpecially in cafes of tienia, given in dofes of a
dram or two, followed by a ftrong cathartic.
Order 3. Alg.£.
256. Lichen Islandicus. Iceland liver-wort.
This lichen has lately become a falhionable remedy
as an emollient, in pulmonary confumption. It con¬
tains a great quantity of farinaceous and mucilaginous
matter, and is therefore highly nutritious.
See Synopfis Materise Medicse, and Thefaurus Medi-
eaminum.
Order 4. Fungi.
257. Boletus Igniarius, E. AGARICUS. Fe¬
male agaric.
This fubftance has been much celebrated as a ftyp-
tic •, and before ligatures were fo much employed, was
ufed to flop haemorrhage from the mouths of bleeding
vefiels during furgical operations. It is now out of
falhion.
Appendix. Palm^e.
258. Cocos Butyracea. PALMA, E. Mackaw
tree. Pa/m oil. See Botany, p. 289.
A vegetable oily matter, employed as an external
emollient.
Chap. III. Miniral Substances.
Sect. I. Water.
259. Aqua. Water.
Though ftmple water forms no part of the Materia
Medica in the Pharmacopoeias, it is an article of fo
much importance, both in diet and medicine, that it
ought not to be omitted here. We (hall therefore
make no apology for mferting the following neat ac¬
count of it, given by Dr Duncan in the later editions
of his Difpenfatory.
“ The chemical properties of water have been al¬
ready enumerated. (See Chemistry, N° 384, et feq.')
The pureft natural water is fnow or rain water col-
lefled in the open fields ; that which falls in towns, or
is colledled from the roofs of the houfes, is contaminat¬
ed with foot, animal effluvia, and other impurities ;
although, after it has rained for fome time, the quanti¬
ty of thefe dimimlhes fo much, that Morveau fays that
it may be rendered almoft perfeftly pure by means of
a little barytic water, and expofure to the atmofphere.
Rain water, after it falls, either remains on the lurface
of the earth, or penetrates through it, until it meets
with fome impenetrable obftruftion to its progrefs,
when it burfts out at fome lower part, forming a fpring,
or well. The water on the furface of the earth, either
defeends along its declivities in ftreams, which gradu¬
ally wearing channels for themfelves, combine to form
rivers, which at laft reach the fea •, or remains ftagnant
in cavities of confiderable depth, forming lakes or ponds,
er on nearly level ground, forming marlhes.
Vol. XII. Part II.
“ The varieties of fpring water are exceedingly mi- Hiftory of
merous j but they may be divided into foft, which are
fufficiently pure to difiblve foap, and to anfwer the jyie(ticines.
purpofes of pure water in general j the hard, which —-—\r~—J
contain earthy falts, and decompofe foap, and are unfit ^ 804
for many purpofes, both in domeftic economy, and in ^^ties of
manufadtories j and the faline, which are ftrongly im¬
pregnated with foluble falts. When fpring waters pof-
fefs any peculiar character, they are called mineral wa¬
ters. River water is in general foft, as it is formed of
fpring wTater, which, by expolure becomes more pure j
and running furface water, which, although turbid
from particles of clay fufpended in it, is otherwife very
pure. Lake water is fimilar to river water. The wa¬
ter of marfhes, on the contrary, is exceedingly impure,
and often highly fetid, from the great proportion of
animal and vegetable matters which is conftantly de¬
caying in them. 805
“ Mineral waters derive their peculiarity of character, Mineral
in general, either from containing carbonic acid orwaters*
foda not neutralized, fulphurated hydrogen, purging
falts, earthy falts, or iron ; or from their temperature
exceeding in a greater or lefs degree that or other fur¬
rounding bodies. The foilovying are the molt celebrated. j,r(-
“ a. Warm Springs.—Bath, Briftpl, Buxton, Matlock, \yarrn
in England. Barege, Vichy, &c. in France. Aix-la-fprings.
Chapelle, Borfet, Baden, Carlsbad and Toeplitz in Ger¬
many and Pifa, Lucca, Baia, and many others in Italy. So^
“ b. Carbonated Springs.—Pyrmont, Seltzer, Spa, Carbonated
Cheltenham, Scarborough. fprings.
“ c. Alkaline.—Carlsbad, Aix-la-Chapelle, Barege, So?
rp .• 0 Alkaline,
loeplitz. gc9
“ d. Sulphureous.— Enghien, Lu, Aix-Ia-Chjpelle, Sulphure-
Kelburn, Harrowgate, Moifat, and many in Italy. ' ous.
“ e. Purging.—'Sea water, Remington Pnors, Har- 81°
rowgate, Lu, Carlsbad, Moffat, Toeplitz, Epfom,^^”®
Sedlitz, Kelburn, and all brackilh waters. SlI‘
“ J. Calcareous.—Matlock, Buxton, and all hard wa-Calcareous,
ters. „
g. Chalybeate.—Hartfell, Denmark, Cheltenham, ^jiai(r)etlte<
Pyrmont, Spa, Tunbridge, Bath, Scarborough, Vichy,
Carlsbad, Lemington Priors. §13
“ Medical ufe.—Water is an efiential conftituent in Medical
the organization of all living bodies ; and as it is con-uIe°fwa"
tinually expanded during the procels of life, that waite t“1'
muff: be alio continually fupplied 5 and tins fupply is of
fuch importance, that it is not left to reafon or to
chance, but forms the objedl of an imperious appetite.
When taken into the ftomach, water acls by its tem¬
perature, its bulk, and the quantity abforbed by the
la&eals. Water about 60 degrees, gives no fenfatiotx
of heat or cold; between 60 degrees and 45, it gives a
fenfation of cold followed by a glow and increafe of
appetite and vigour ; below 45, the fenfation of cold is
permanent and unpleafant, and it aifts as an aftringent
and fedative ; above 60, it excites naufea and vomiting,
probably by partially relaxing the fibres of the ftomach,
for when mixed with ftimulating fubftances it has not
thefe effedls. In the ftomach and in the inteftines it
a£ls alfo by its bulk, producing the effedls arifing from
the diftenlion of thefe organs ; and as the inteftinal
gafes confift of hydrogen gas, either pure, or carbo¬
nated, or fulphurated, or phofphorated, it is probably
in part decompofed in them. It likewife dilutes the
contents of the ftomach and inteftines, thus often di-
5 F minilhing
778 MATE R I A M E D I
HifKryof minifliing their acrimony. It is abrorbed by the lac-
SpffidnaT1 tea^s.’ ^^utes ^ chyle and the blood, increafes their
Medicine Aridity, leiTens their acrimony, and produces plethora
' y  ad molem. Its effe&s in producing plethora and flui¬
dity are, however, very tranlitory, as it at the fame
time increafes the fecretion by the fkin and kidneys.
Indeed the efte£ls of fudorifics and diuretics depend in
a great meafure on the quantity of w^ater taken along
with them.
“ Mineral waters have alfo a fpecific action, depend¬
ing on the foreign fubftances which they contain. It is
however, neceffary to remark, that their effects are in
general much greater than might be expected from the
itrength of their impregnations, owing probably to the
very circumftance of their great dilution, by which
every particle is prefented in a Hate of activity, while
the lafteals admit them more readily than they would
in a lefs diluted ftate.
“ Carbonic acid gas gives to the w-aters which are
ftrongly impregnated wdth it, a fparkling appearance,
and an agreeable degree of pungency. In its effects
on the body it is decidedly Itimulant, and even capable
of producing a certain degree of intoxication. It is of
great fervice in bilious complaints, atony of the fto-
mach, naufea, and vomiting, and in all fevers of the
typhoid type.
“ Alkaline waters produce alfo a tonic effe£t on the
ftomach, but they are lefs grateful. They are particu¬
larly ferviceable in morbid acidity of the ffomach, and
in difeafes of the urinary organs.
“ Sulphureous waters are chiefly ufed in cutaneous
and glandular difeafes. Their effeds are ftimulant and
heating, and they operate by the fkin or bowels.
“ Purging waters derive their effects from the neutral
falts they contain, efpecially the muriates of foda, lime,
and magnefia, and the fulphates of foda and magnefia.
They are much more frequently ufed for a length of
time to keep the bowels open by exciting the natural
aflion, than to produce full purging. Ufed in this w7ay,
inftead of debilitating the patient, they increafe his ap¬
petite, health, and ftrength.
“ Chalybeate waters are ufed as tonics. They flimu-
late confiderably, and increafe the circulation ; but as
they alfo generally contain neutral falts, they a<ff as
gentle laxatives. They are ufed in all cafes of debility,
cachexia, chlorofis, fluor albus, amenorrhoea j and, in
general, in what are called nervous difeafes.
“ The external ufe of water depends almofl: entirely
on its temperature, which may be
“ j. Greater than that of the body, or above 970
Tahr. The hot bath.
“ 2. Below the temperature of the body.
e. From 97 to 85, the w7arm bath.
b. From 85 to 65, the tepid bath.
c. From 65 to 3 2, the cold bath.
“ The hot bath is decidedly ftimulant in its a£fion.
It renders the pulle frequent, the veins turgid, the face
flufhed, the refpiration quick j increafes animal heat,
and produces fweat. If the temperature be very high,
the face becomes bathed in fweat, the arteries at the
neck and temples beat with violence, anxiety and a
fenfe of fuffocation are induced ; and if periifted in,
C A, &c.
except where there are hot fprings, as at
Switzerland.
Part IV.
Baden in Htftory 0f
Sinnple and
Officinal
Medicines,
Si5
814
External
ufe of wa¬
ter.
Hot bath
vertigo, throbbing in the heart, and apoplexy, are the
confcqiienc$s. It is very rarely employed in medicine,
“ The Ruflians and fome other nations ufe the hot
bath as an article of luxury.
“* The efte6ts of the affufion of hot water have not
been afcertained, and it is probable, that when the heat
is not fo great as to deftroy the organization of the fkin,
the very tranfient application of the water would be
more than counteraffed by the lubfequent evaporation.
“ With regard to the a£tion arifing from their tem¬
perature, all baths below 970 differ only in degree, as
they all ultimately abflradt caloric from the furface,
but with a force inverfely as their temperature.
“ The warm bath excites the fenfation of warmth, Warm
partly becaufe our fenfations are merely relative, andbatil-
partly becaufe its temperature, though lefs than that of
the internal parts of the body, is asffually greater than
that of the extremities, which are the chief organs of
touch. But as water is a much better conduftor of
caloric than air, and efpecially than confined air, as
much caloric is abftracted from the body by water
which is a few degrees lower than the external tempe¬
rature of the body, as by air of a much loiver tempera¬
ture. The warm bath di mini flies the frequency of the
pulfe, efpecially when it has been previoufly greater
than natural; and this effefl is always in proportion to
the time of immerfion. It alfo renders the refpiration
flower, and leffens the temperature of the body, relaxes
the mufcular fibre, increafes the bulk of the fluids by
abforption, removes impurities from the furface, pro¬
motes the defquamation and renewal of the cuticle,
and fpftens the nails and indurations of the Ikin.
“ The ftimulant power of the w7arm bath is therefore
very inconfiderable, and its employment in difeafe will
be chiefly indicated by preternatural heat of the lur-
face, and frequency of the pulfe, rigidity of the muf¬
cular fibre, and morbid affeftions of the (kin. It has
accordingly been found ferviceable in many cafes of
pyrexia, both febrile and exanthematous, in many fpaf-
modic difeafes, and in moft of the impetigines. It is
contraindicated by difficulty of breathing and internal
organic affeflions, and fliould not be ufed when the
ftomach is full. gry
“ The affufion of warm ivater very generally produces Affufion of
a confiderable diminution of heat, a diminiihed fre-warra wa~
quency of pulfe and refpiration, and a tendency to re-ter‘
pofe and fleep j but its effe6ls are not very permanent,
and its ftimulus is weak. It is recommended in febrile
dileafes, depending on the ftimulus of preternatural heat,
and in thofe attended w7ith'laborious refpiration, and in
the paroxyfms of heffic fever.
“ As the tepid bath and affuflon produce effefts inter¬
mediate between thofe and cold water, it is unneceffary
to enumerate them. ? ;
“ The cold bath produces the fenfation of cold, which Ccid b„th.
gradually ceafes, and is fucceeded by numbnefs. It
excites tremor in the fldn, and fhivering. The fkin
becomes pale, contracted, and acquires the appearance
termed cutis anferina. The fluids are diminifhed in
volume, the folids are contracted, the caliber of the
veffels is leffened, and therefore numbnefs and palenefs
are induced, and the vifible cutaneous veins become
fmaller. There is a fenfe of drowfmefs and inactivity,
the joints become rigid and inflexible, and the limb's
Medicines.
Part IV. MATERIA M
Hifloryof are affected with pains and fpafmodic. contractions.
.Simple and refpiration is rendered quick and irregular, the
Gfficina! pulfe {]ow^ regular, and fmall 5 the internal heat
is at firft diminiihed, but gradually and irregularly re¬
turns nearly to its natural ftandard ; the extremities,
however, continue cold and numb, or fwollen and li¬
vid ; the perfpiration is fuppreffed, and the difcharge
t,f urine is rendered more frequent and copious. If the
cold be exceflive on its application, long-continued vio¬
lent thiverings are induced, the puli'e ceafes at the
wrift, the motion of the heart becomes feeble and lan¬
guid, there is a fenfation of coldnefs and faintnefs at
the ftomach, and a rapid diminution of animal heat •,
and, at laft, delirium, torpor, and death, are the con-
fequences. If the application of the cold bath be not.
carried to an exceffive length, on emerging from the
water the whole body is pervaded by an agreeable fen¬
fation of warmth, and the patient feels refreOied and in¬
vigorated. .
a 'j'j^g primary adlion of the cold bath is ftimulant,
and the degree of this aftion is in proportion to the
lownefs of its temperature. This opinion is indeed di-
rectly oppofite to a theory of cold which has been ad¬
vanced with the confidence of demonftration. “ Heat
is a ftimulus, cold is the abftraftion of heat ; theiefore
cold is the abftradlion of ftimulus, or is a fedative.
To this we might oppofe another theory, equally fyllo-
giftic, and nearer the truth. Free caloric is a ftimulus,
cold is the fenfation excited by the paffage of free ca¬
loric out of the body 5 therefore cold is a ftimulus.
But, in fact, the aftion of cold is by no means lb
fimple. It is complicated, and varies according to.its
intenfity, duration, and the ftate of the fyftem to which
it is applied. It a£ls at firft as a ftimulant, in exciting
fenfation •, then as a tonic, in condenfing the living fi¬
bre ; and, laftly, however paradoxical it may appear, as
a fedative, by preventing that diftribution of blood in
the minute and ultimate vefiels, which is neceffary for
the exiftence of fenfibility and irritability, and by the
abftraftion of the ftimulus of heat.
“ The cold bath may be fo managed as to procure
any of thefe effefts, by regulating the length of time for
which it is applied.
« Cold affufion, or the pouring of cold water over the
body, is a very convenient way of applying the cold
bath in many cafes. In this way cold is very fuddenly
applied to the furfac?, its operation is inftantaneous and
momentary j but may be continued by repeated affu-
fions for any length of time, and fo as to produce its
extreme effe&s. Where the effecls of cold affufion
may be thought too fevere, fprinkling the body with
cold water, or water and vinegar, may be fubftituted.
« The application of cold maybe epn ployed in fevers
and febrile paroxyfms, when the heat is fteadily above
the natural ftandard, and in many dileafes arifing from
relaxation and debility. It is contraindicated when the
heat of the body is below 970, when there is any nota¬
ble perfpiration from the furface •, and when there is
oeneral plethora. Debilitated habits ihould be defend¬
ed from the violence of its aftion, by covering the body
with flannel.
“ In yellow7 fever, efpecially in thofe cafes in wdiich
the heat of the {kin is exceffive, it is particularly iifeful,
and ought to be long continued. In phrenitis and
E D I C A, &c.
other local inflammations, it promifes to be of
S19
Cold aflu-
fion.
^Duncan's
779
;dvan- Hiltory of
tage. In gout its effects are doubtful, being m fome
inftances falutary, in others deftru&ive. A criterion Medicines,
to enable us to determine wffien it ought or ought not ——v *
to be reforted to, is much wanted. In inflammatory
rheumatiftn and rheumatic gout it is decidedly ufeful.
It is of advantage in all the hemorrhagies and exanthe¬
mata ; in tetanus, colic, cholera, hylleria, mania, if-
churia, and in burns •, and, in general, in all thofe lo¬
cal difeafes in which folutions of acetate of lead, of mu¬
riate of ammonia, &c. are ufually employed ; icrr the
good effects ot thefe depend entirely on the diminiffied
temperature.*” *    
For more refpefling the utility of the cold affufion, Difpenfa-
fee Currie’s “ Medical Reports and for an excellent 31
account of the effe&s and ufes of baths, fee Marcarde ^ 1
de la Nature et de I'Ufoge des Bains, and a Treatife on
on Cold and Warm Bathing, lately publiftred at Edin¬
burgh.
Officinal Breparation.
a. Aqua destillata, E. AQUA DISTILL A-Diftilted
TA, L. D. Diftilled water. ^ water‘
From 10 gallons of fpring water, the London col¬
lege directs four gallons to be drawn off, throwing
away the firft four pints that come over. The Dublin
college diredls 10 pounds to be diftilled from 20
pounds, throwing away the firft: pound } while the col¬
lege of Edinburgh directs water to be diftilled in very
clean veffels till two-thirds have come over.
Sect. II. Inflammable Subflances.
S21
260. Sulphur sublimatum, E. L. D. FLORES Sublimed
SULPHURIS. Sublimed fulphur. Flowers of /u/-fulphur.
phur.
For an account of the chemical nature and properties
of fulphur, fee Chemistry, Chap. ix.
As a medicine, fulphur is employed both internally
and externally. Internally it is given as a laxative, in .
the dofe of a dram or two, and as a diaphoretic in
finaller dofes. Externally it is one of the moft certain
remedies for the itch, and fome other cutaneous affec¬
tions.
Officinal Preparations. $22
a. Sulphur sublimatum lotum, E. D.
RES SULPHURIS LOTI, L. Waffied fublimedfuiphur,
fulphur. Wafhedflowers of fulphur.
Sublimed fulphur is freed from the fulphurous.acid,
which it has imbibed in the preparation, by boiling it
for a little in four times its weight of water, and after
pouring off the water in which it was boiled, waffiing
it by repeated affufions of cold water, till it no longer
imparts acidity to the water.
Sublimed fulphur ffiould always be waffied before be¬
ing ufed internally, otherwife it is very apt to diforder
the ftomach and bowels.
823
b. Oleum sulphuratum, E. L. Sulphurated oil. Sulphur&t-
Prepared by boiling one part of fublimed fulphur ine<*
eight of olive oil (E.), or one part to four parts ( L.), in a
large iron not, till they are thoroughly united. Formerly
6 5 F 2 much
7§a MATERIA
<Hifton of much ufcd as an expeflorant in coughs, in a dofe of
Officinal ^rom ten t0 4° drops, but now feldom ufed, except as
Medicines. an external application to foul ulcers.
Sr4 c' Petroleum sulphuratum, L. Sulphurated pe-
Sulphurat- troleum.
ed petro- j • i r
leum. prepared in the lame manner as the laft, with oil of
petroleum, and ufed for the fame purpofe.
0‘"t'T15;nt d. Unguentum Sulphuris, E. L. D. Ointment of
of fulphur. fu]phun
Prepared by mixing half a pound (L.) or five ounces
(D.) of ointment of hogs-lard, with four ounces (L.)
or three ounces (D.) of flowers of fulphur 5 or four parts
of hogs-lard, with one of fublimed fulphur, adding to
each pound of the ointment, half a dram of volatile oil
of lemons, or volatile oil of lavender (E.).
An excellent application in the itch. Ordinary quan¬
tity for an adult about four ounces, which fhould be rub¬
bed in at once.
U6
Sulphuret <?. SULPHURETUM PoTASSiE, E. KALI SULPHU-
•fpotaffi. RATUM. L. ALKALI VEGETABILE SUL¬
PHURATUM, D. HEPAR SULPHURIS. Sul¬
phuret of potalh. Sulphurated kali. Sulphurated ve¬
getable alkali. Liver of fulphur.
For the preparation and chemical properties of this
fubftance, fee Chemistry, N° 918.
Sulphuret of potafh is feldom employed in medicine,
except as a remedy in violent' mercurial falivation, in
r Table’s ^ 1:0 very *• It has lately
p S^a es' been much recommended, diflblved in lime water, as an
effeftual external application in tinea capitis.
Precipitated f SULPHUR PRiECIPITATUM, L. D. Precipitated
fuIPhur- fulphur.
M E D I C A, &e. Part IV.
by boiling half a potmd of it in a pint of diftilled water, Hiftory of
and fetting alide the folution to cryftallize. Simple and
Succinic acid is now icarcely employed in medicine. M^Jincs
d. Oleum Succini furissimum, E. OLEUM
SUCCINI RECTIFICATUM, L. D. Purified oilPuritkdoil
of amber. 0f amber.
The Edinburgh college diredls oil of amber to be
purified by diitilling it in a glafs retort with fix times
its quantity of water, till two-thirds of the water have
palled into the receiver; when the pure volatile oil
comes over, it is to be feparated from the water, and
preferved in veffels clofely flopped. The procelfes of
the other colleges do not materially differ from this.
Oil of amber is a powerful flimulant and antiipafmo-
dic, ufeful in hyfterical and fimilar ditorders. Hole
10 or 12 drops. Ufed alfo externally in paralyfis and
rheumatifms.
262. Bitumen petroleum, E. PETROLEUM,permleumj
L. PETROLEUM BARBADENSE, H. Petro- '
leum or rock oil. Barbadoes tar.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Oleum Petrolei, L. Oil of petroleum.
Prepared by. diftilling petroleum in a fand bath.
. 834
Oil of pe¬
troleum-
Employed as a ftimulant and antifpafmodic. Dofe
from 10 to 30 drops. Alfo ffed as an external ftimu¬
lant in ftrains and rheumatifms.
Sect. III. udcids.
263. Acidum sulphuricum, E. ACIDUM VI-
TRIOLICUM, L. D. Sulphuric acid. Vitriolic acid.
Oil of vitriol.
S3S
Sulphuric
acii.
Prepared by diffolving fix ounces (L.) or four ounces
(D.) of fulphuret of potalh, in one pound and a half
of diflilled water, and adding diluted fulphuric acid (L.)
or diluted nitrous acid (D.), as long as there is any
precipitation. The precipitate is then to be feparated
by the filter, and w allied till it has loft all acidity, and
then dried.
Similar in its nature to wafhed fublimed fulphur, but
confidered as rather milder.
828 > '
Amber. 261. Succinum, E. L. D. Amber. See Chemi¬
stry, N° 2476.
Amber in its natural ftate is not employed in medi¬
cine, except to make the following
Officinal Preparations.
8,29
Succinic a. Acidum Succini, E. SAL SUCCINI, D. L.
acid. Succinic acid. Salt of amber.
830
Oil of am- b. Oleum Succini, E. L. D. O'l of amber.
her.
For the preparation and chemical properties of thefe
fubftances, fee Chemistry, N° 724, etfeq.
r 831 *
Purified fait c- Sal Succini purificatus, L. Purified fait of
•f amber, amber.
The London college dire&s this acid to be purified
For the preparation and chemical properties of ful¬
phuric acid, fee Chemistry, Chap. x. Sett. 1.
_ Undiluted fulphuric acid is feldom employed in me¬
dicine, except as an external ftimulant and rubefacient,
in combination with fatty fubftances.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Acidum sulphuricum dilutum, E. ACIDUM Diluted ful-
VI1RIOLICUM DILU I UM, L. D. Diluted ful-phuric acid,
phuric acid. Diluted vitriolic acid. Spirit of vitriol.
One part of fulphuric acid mixed with feven of wa¬
ter (E.), or one ounce with eight ounces of water (L.),
or two ounces, with 14 ounces of water, (D.).
Diluted fulphuric acid is employed as a refrigerant in
fevers, aftringent in homorrhages, and tonic in dyfpep-
fia. Dofe from 20 drops to a dram.
b. Acidum sulphuricum aromaticum, E. Aro- Aromltk
matic fulphuric acid. Elixir of vitriol. fulphiiric
_Prepared by firft mixing two pounds of alcohol^'
with fix pounds of fulphuric acid, by gradually drop¬
ping the acid into the alcohol ; digefting this mixture
with a very gentle heat in a clofe veffel, for three days;
and adding one ounce and a half of bruifed cinnamon,
and one ounce of bruifed ginger; digefting again in a
clofe
Part IV. MATERIA
Hiftory of clofe veffel, for fix days, and filtering the tindlure through
Simple ard paper jn a g]afs funnel.
Offiuna ^ excellent ftimulant and tonic, well fuited to dyf-
■   peptic complaints. Dole irom r 5 to 40 drops.
Sul’ihate of C Sulphas PoTASSAt, E. KALI VITRIOL A-
potafli. TUM, L. ALKALI VEGETARILE VITRIO-
L ATUM, D. Sulphate of potalh. Vitriolatedkah. Vi-
triolated vegetable alkali. Vitriolated tartar.
For the nature and propeities of this fait, fee CHEMI¬
STRY, N° 925, et feq.
The Edinburgh college diredls this fait to be pre¬
pared by an immediate combination of fulphuric acid
diluted with fix times its weight of water, with as much
pure carbonate of pgtalh, dilfolved alfo in fix times its
weight of water, as is fufficient to neutralize the acid.
The fait is procured from the folution by evaporation
and cryftallization. The other colleges obtain this fait
by dilfolving the faline mafs that remains alter the
dillillation of nitrous acid, filtering and cryftallizing
as before.
Sulphate of potafh is a mild purgative, and may be
given in a dofe of four or five drams, but it requires
a large quantity of water for its folution. It is em¬
ployed chiefly to aflift in the pulverization of opium,
fcammony, &c.
Sulphate of d. SULPHAS POTASS,® CUM SuLPHURE, E. SAL
potalh with POLYCHRES TUS. Sulphate of potafh with ful-
fulphur. phur. Sal polychrejl.
Prepared by mixing together equal parts of powdered
nitrate of potafh and fublimed fulphur ; injedling the
mixture gradually into a red hot crucible and, when
the deflagration ceafes, allowing the fait to cool, and
putting it into a veflel that is to be clofely flopped.
Similar in its effe&s with the lafl, but more eafily
prepared.
M E D I C A, &c. 781
This preparation is fuppofed to be a powerful lithon- Hiftory ot
triptic, and the occafional ufe of it certainly appears
to prevent the formation of uric acid. It may be drunk Medicines,
in the quantity of half a pint or a pint during the day. y—j
843
e. Phosphas Sod®, E. Phofphate of foda. Phofphate
For the preparation and nature of this fait, fee CHE-°noc!a’
MISTRY, N* 1075, el feq.
An excellent laxative, preferable to moft other faline
cathartics, from its tafle being but little unpleafant.
Dofe from one to two ounces, which is beft taken dif-
folved in foup, beef tea, or gruel.
844
265. NlTRAS PoTASSiE, E. NITRUM, L. D. Nitrate of
Nitrate of potafh. Wire. Saltpetre. See Chemistry, potafh.
N° 942, etfeq.
Nitrate of potafh is ufed in medicine as a diaphore¬
tic, diuretic, and refrigerant. Dofe from five to 23
grains.
Officinal Preparations.
. . 4 S45
a. Nitrum PURIFICATUM, L. Purified nitre. purified
Purified by folution in boiling water, filtration, and nitre,
cryftallization. g ^
b. Acidum nitrosum, E. L. D. Nitrous acid. Nitrous
Fuming fpirit of nitre. ac‘^*
Prepared by decompofing nitrate of potafh by ful¬
phuric acid, in the manner mentioned under Chemi¬
stry, Chap. x. Seft. 3.
It is in this ftate that the acid obtained from nitrate
of potafh is generally employed in medicine, though
for certain purpofes the nitric acid is to be preferred.
Thefe acids are employed as refrigerants and diuretics,
largely diluted, and in fmall dofes, viz. from five to 20
drops, and alfo as tonics and general ftimulants, as
mentioned below. Externally they a6t as ftimulants or
efcharotics, according to their ftrength.
840
Impure
carbonate
of foda.
841
Carbonate
®f foda.
SECT. IV. Alkalies and Alkaline Salts.
264. Carbonas. Sod,e impurus, E. RARYL-
LA, L.D. Impure carbonate of foda. Barilla. Fix¬
ed mineral alkali.
Officinal Prepdrations.
a. Carbonas SodjE, E. N ATRON PREPARA-
TUM, L. ALKALI FOSbILE MITE, D. Car¬
bonate of foda. Vitriolated natron. Mild feffil al¬
kali.
Prepared by boiling impure carbonate of foda, bruif-
ed or powhered barilla, till all the fait is diffolved,
then filtering the liquor, and fetting it by to cryftal-
lize.
For an account of the nature and properties of this
fait, fee Chemistry, N° 1085.
Employed in medicine chiefly as an antacid and li-
thontriptic. Dofe from 10 to 30 grains.
84s
Water of b. AQUA SUPERCARBONATIS SODiE, E. Water of
fupercarbo- fupercarbonate of foda.
rate o o Prepared by pafling a ftream of carbonic acid gas
through a folution of carbonate of foda, as was di-
redled for preparing the water of carbonate of potafh.
See N° 315.
c. Acidum nitrosum dilutum, E. L. D.
ed nitrous acid. Aquafortis.
Prepared by mixing equal weights of nitrous acid
and water, taking care to avoid the noxious fumes.
Ufes the fame as of the laft ; but the diluted acid is
better calculated for internal exhibition. Dofes about
double thofe of nitrous acid.-
d. Acidum nitricum, E. Nitric acid.*
Prepared by redlftilling nitrous acid in a retort with
an adopted receiver, with a very gentle heat, till the
red portion has paffed over, and the remaining acid has
acquired the ftate of nitric acid. See Chemistry as
above.
This is the acid wdrich has been fo much recommend¬
ed of late as a cure for fyphilis, in which it is admini-
ftered, diluted with water in the proportion of a dram
to a pint, which is to be taken at intervals through the
day, fucking it through a quill or glafs tube, to avoid
injuring the teeth, and gradually augmenting the'
quantity as far as the ftomach will bear. Though the
advantages of nitric acid in fyphilitic complaints appear
to have been overrated, it is no doubt a valuable fucce-
daneum to mercury, and has, we believe, been of fer-
vice in cafes where mercurial preparations were inad-
ixiiflible, or unfuccefsful. Nitric acid, in its nafeent;
ibte.
847
Dllut- Diluted ni¬
trous acid.
S48
Nitric acid.
78:
Hi (lory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicine*.
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
849
Ointment
of nitrous
acid.
S50
Spirit of
nitrous
ether.
851
Muriate of
foda.
ftate, as procured by an extemporaneous decompofition
of nitre by fulphuric acid, has been found of advantage
as a fumigation in coruecting putrid effluvia.
e. Unguentcjm Acim nitrosi, E. Ointment of
nitrous acid. Oxijgenatcd ointment.
Prepared by gradually mixing fix drams of nitrous
acid with one pound of melted hog’s lard, and conti¬
nually agitating the mixture as it cools.
A good remedy in herpes, lepra, and fome other
cutaneous affe&ions, and faid to have fucceeded as A
fubflitute for mercurial ointment.
/. Spiritus ^Etheris NiTRost, E. L. LIQUOR
jSE FHEREUS NI I’ROSUS, D. Spirit of nitrous
ether. Ethereal nitrous liquor. Sweet fpirit of nitre.
About three parts of alcohol and one of nitrous acid,
gradually mixed together, diftilling over the fpirit from
a water bath.
Diuretic, ftimulant, and tonic. Dofe 20 drops to a
dram.
266. Murias Sod/e, E. SAL MURIATICUS,
L. SAL COMMUNIS, D. SAL MARINUS.
Muriate of foda. Sea fait. Common fait. See Che¬
mistry, N° 1046.
Muriate of foda is employed as a laxative and an¬
thelmintic. In the former way it is ufually adminifter-
ed in clyfters j in the latter it is given by the mouth,
in the dofe of half a dram to an ounce or more. Ex¬
ternally, when dried by heat, it is ufed as a ftimulant
and rubefacient.
267. Subboras Sod^e. BORAS SODiE,
BORAX, L. D. Subborate of foda. Borax. Se<
Chemistry, N° 1067.
Sometimes given internally as a diuretic ; but gene-
Part IV
E. Hi (lory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
rally employed as a detergent to aphthous crufts and
ulcerations in the mouth and fauces, either by way of0ff0(}a, ~J
lotion, or made into a linftus with fyrup or honey.
Sect. V. Soaps.
Hispanus. SAPO, E.
Spanish
856
or Caltiie ibip.
268. Sapo
Caftile foap.
The Edinburgh and London colleges particularize
the foap that fhould be ufed in medicine, as prepared of
olive oil and foda.
On the nature and properties of foap, fee Chemistry.
Soap is employed both internally and externally.
Internally it aids as a gentle laxative, and is fuppofed
to pofiefs lithontriptic powers. In this latter way it has
been given in the quantity of from half an ounce to an
ounce in the day. Excepting with this intention, it is
feldom given alone. Externally it is ufed as a ftimu¬
lant and detergent, under the various forms mentioned
below.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Tinctura Saponis, E. LI NI M E NT UIVX Und are o£
SAPONIS COMPOSITUM, L. L1NIMENTUM foaP'
SAPONACEUM, D. Tinfture of foap. Compound
liniment of foap. Saponaceous liniment. Opodeldoc.
S57
a Officinal Preparations.
Dried mu- a. MURIAS SOD® EXSICCATUS, E. SAL COM-
mteoffo. MUNIS EXSICCATUS, D. Dried muriate of foda.
Muriate of foda is dried by roafting it over the fire
in a wide iron veffel, with occafional agitation, till it
ceafes to decrepitate.
Muriatic b. Acidum Muriaticum, E. L. D. Muriatic a-
aCi ’ cid. Marine acid. Spirit of fea fait.
Prepared by decompofing muriate of foda by fulphu¬
ric acid, in the manner defcribed under Chemistry,
Chap. x. Sefl. 5.
Muriatic acid is ufed in medicine as a refrigerant,
diuretic, and ftimulant. Dofe from 10 drops to 40 or
50. It is a good medicine in low fevers, largely dilu¬
ted and fweetened with fugar. In its nafcent ftate, as
obtained by the extemporaneous decompofition of mu¬
riate of foda by fulphuric acid, it is an excellent fumi¬
gation, and in this refpefl is perhaps to be preferred to
the nitric acid.
Sulphate of ^ Sulphas SoDiE, E. NATRON VITRIOLA-
fpda. TUM, L. ALKALI FOSSILE VITRIOLA-
UM, D. SAL GLAUBERI. Sulphate of foda.
Vitriolated natron. Vitriolated mineral alkali. Glau¬
ber's fait.
Ufually prepared by diflolving and neutralizing the
acidulous fait remaining after the preparation of muri¬
atic acid, filtering the liquor, evaporating, and fetting
it afide to cryftallize. See Chemistry, N° 1030.
A good purgative, but not fuited to all ftomachs.
Dofe from one to two ounces.
2
The Edinburgh tinfture is prepared by digefting
four ounces of foap fiiavings in two pounds of alcohol
for three days $ then adding to the filtered liquor two
ounces of camphor and half an ounce of volatile oil of
rofemary, agitating them diligently. The London li¬
niment is compofed of three ounces of foap, one ounce
of camphor, and one pint of fpirit of rofemary ; that of
the Dublin college of two ounces of Caftile foap, one
ounce of camphor, eight ounces of alcohol, and the fame
of water, and two fcruples of effential oil'of rofemary.
8 c8
b. Tinctura Saponis et Opii, E. LINIMEN- TincTureof
TUM ANODYNUM. Tincture of foap and opium, fcap and
Anodyne liniment. 1 opium.
Prepared in the fame manner as the laft with the ad¬
dition, from the beginning, of one ounce of opium.
Thefe tinftures or liniments are excellent ftimulant
applications in cafes of fprains, rheumatic pains, and
fimilar affections; and the latter of them has been found
ufeful when applied to the tumid belly of children that
are threatened with rickets.
859
c. Ceratum Saponis, L. D. Soap cerate. Soapcerate.
Prepared by boiling one pound of powdered litharge
with a gallon or eight pounds (D.) of vinegar, over a
flow fire, with conftant agitation, till the mixture com¬
bines and thickens ; then adding eight ounces of foap,
10 ounces of yellow wax, and a pint or 14 ounces
(D.) of olive oil, and continuing the heat and agita¬
tion till they are united to form a cerate.
, 860
d. Emplastrum Saponis, L. EMPLASTRUMSo/p pla-
SAPONACEUM, E. D. Soap plafter. fter.
Prepared by mixing one part of foap with fix of
melted
Part IV
Hiftorv of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
MATERIA M E D 1 C A, &e.
7?.
S6i
Sulphate pf
barvta.
862
Carbonate
of baryta.
melted litharge plader (L. D.), or one part of lliced
foap, with four of plafter of femivitrified oxide of lead,
and two parts of gum plafter melted together, (E.-).
Thel'e are intended as difcutient applications.
Sect. VI. Earths and Earthy Salts.
269. Sulphas Baryta, E. TERRA PONDE-
ROSA VITRIOL AT A. BARYTES. Sulphate of
Baryta. Vitriolated ponderous earth. Barytes, See
Chemistry, N° 12^6, etfey.
Employed in medicine only tor preparing the muri¬
ate of baryta.
270. Carbonas Baryt.e, E. TERRA PON-
DEROSA. Carbonate of baryta. Heavy fpar. See
Chemistry, as above.
8*3
Muriate of,
baryta.
Officinal Preparations.
a, Murias Baryta, E. Muriate of baryta.
Prepared by diflblving carbonate of baryta broken
into fmall pieces in a mixture of one part of muriatic
acid and three of water, filtering the liquor, evapora¬
ting and cryftallizing. Where the carbonate of baryta
cannot be procured, this fait is obtained from the ful-
phate, by a very complex procefs, for which fee Dun¬
can’s Difpenfatory, and Chemistry as above.
8 64
Solution
muriate
baryta.
0f b. Solutio Muriatis Baryta, E.
of muriate of baryta.
Solution of
S<q
Lime.
Prepared by diffolving one part of cryftallized muri¬
ate of baryta in three of water.
This has been recommended as a powerful ftimulant
and tonic, in a variety of difeafes. We believe it has
been of fervice in fome cafes of fcrophula. Dofe from
five to ten drops, twice or thrice a-day.
271. Calx, L. CALX VIVA, E. CALX RE-
CENS USTA, D. Lime. Quicklime. See Che-
misty, Chap. xiii. Sec. 1.
Lime in fubftance is fcarcely employed in medicine,
except by way of caufiic, mixed with foft foap or pot-
ath.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Aqua Calcis, E. L. D. Lime water.
This-is a (aturated folution of frefii burnt quicklime
in water. After being made, it fhould be kept in vet
fels that are not too large, and carefully flopped, that
it may not imbibe carbonic acid from the air.
Lime-water is employed as an antacid and aftrin-
gent, a tonic, and an anthelmintic. Dofe internally
from two to four ounces. As an anthelmintic it is
ufed in the way of clyfter, to deftroy afearides. It is
alfo employed externally as a ftimulant and detergent.
T .. h. Linimentum Aqua: Calcis. OLEUM LINI
f lime-wa- CUM CALCE, E-. Liniment of lime, or Lintfeed
ter. oil with lime.
Prepared by nixing equal parts of lintfeed oil and
lime-water.
86(5
Lime-wa¬
ter.
A ufeful application to recent fealds and burns.
272. Carbonas Calcis, E. Carbonate of lime.
Carbonas Calcis mollior, E. CRETA, L. D.
Chalk. Cakbonas Calcis durior, E. M ARMOR.
Marble. See Chemistry, N° i 230, et feq.
Carbonate of lime in its foft date is much employed
in medicine as an antacid, and when powdered or pre¬
pared, it is applied externally to fealds and burns, and
to cancerous fores.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Carbonas Calcis prjeparatus, E. CRETA
PRAxPARATA, L. D. Prepared carbonate of lime.
Prepared chalk.
This is chalk reduced to a very fine powder by tri¬
turation, levigation, diffufion in water, filtration, and
drying. Ordinary dofe as an antacid, from 15 grains
to a dram.
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
86S
Carbonate
of lime.
869
Chalk.
870
Rfarbie.
Syr
Prepared
carbonate
of lime*
MISTURAchaffiV
tion.
b. Potio carbonatis Calcis, E.
CRETACEA, L. D. Chalk potion.
Prepared, according to the Edinburgh college, by
triturating an ounce of prepared carbonate of lime with
two ounces of mucilage of gum arabic, and half an
ounce of double-refined fugar ; then adding gradually
two pounds and a half of water, and two ounces of
fpirit of cinnamon.
The London and Dublin mixture is prepared by mix¬
ing one ounce of prepared chalk, fix drams of double-
refined fugar, one ounce of powdered gum arabic, with
two pints or 30 ounces (D.), of diftilled water.
Employed as an antacid, efpecially in diarrhoea, ac¬
companied by acidity in the inteftinal canal. It may
be taken ad libitum.
873
c. Trochisci carbonatis Calcis, E. TROCHIS-Troche*of
Cl CRETAL, L. Troches of carbonate of lime.donate-
Troches of chalk. of lime.
Prepared of four ounces of carbonate of lime, one
ounce of gum arabic, one dram of nutmeg, and fix
ounces of double-refined fugar, powdered together, and
formed into a mafs with water, (E.)jor, of four ounces
of prepared chalk, two ounces of prepared crabs claws,
half an ounce of cinnamon, and three ounces of double-
refined fugar, powdered and made into a mafs with
mucilage of gum arabic (L.). Ufed as the preceding.
S74
d. PuLVIS CARBONATIS GaLCIS COMPOSITUS, E. Compound •
PULVIS CRETAi, COMPOSITUS, L. Compound powder of
powder of carbonate of lime. Compound powder o^cArbonato
chalk.
of lime.
Prepared of four ounces of prepared carbonate of
lime, half a dram of nutmeg, and half a dram of cin¬
namon pow’dered together ( E.) •, or, of half a pound of
prepared chalk, four ounces of cinnamon, three ounces
of tormentil, and the fame of gum arabic, and half an
ounce of long pepper powdered feparately, and mixed
together (L.).
Ufed as antacids and tonics, in debility of the intefti¬
nal canal. Dofe from 15 to 30 grains.
e. Aqua Aeris fixi, D. Water impregnated with^g^^'
fixed air* '■ . with fixed -
Prepared air.
S7<S
Solution of
muriate of
784
Hiltory of Prepared by paHing a ftream of carbonic acid gas
Officinal ar'^nS from decompofition of three ounces of
Medicines, powdered white marble, and one half pound of diluted
--y--—. vitriolic acid, mixed with an equal quantity of water,
through fix pounds of pure fpring water, in a Nooth’s
apparatus, with occafional agitation.
An excellent tonic, refrigerant, and anti-emetic.
f. Solutio Muriatis Calcis, E. Solution of
muriate of lime.
Prepared by diffolving nine ounces of white marble
broken to pieces, in fixteen ounces of muriatic acid,
mixed with eight ounces of water ; digeff ing for half an
hour, pouring off the liquor, evaporating to drynefs,
diffolving the refiduum in !-§- times its weight of water,
and filtering the folution.
An excellent tonic, ufeful in cafes of fcrophula and
fchirrus. Dofe from 30 to 60 drops, twice or thrice a-
day.
c ,S77
Sulphate of Sulphas Magnesite, E. MAGNESIA VI-
magneua. XRIOLATA, L. D. SAL CATHAR TICUS A-
MARUS. Sulphate of rnagnefia. Vitriolated magnejia.
Epfomfait. See Chemistry, Chap. xiii. Sedt.q.
MATERIA M E D I C a, &c. Parr IV.
PHAS ALUMINA, E. ALUMEN, L. D. Su- Hi (Tory of
periulphate of alumina and potafh. Alum. See Che- Simple and
MISERY, N° 1418, etfeq. '
Alum is employed both externally and internally as """ 'f~"‘
an aflringent and tonic. Internally it is given chiefly
in haemorrhages j dofe from ten grains to a fcruple.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Alumen purieicatum, L. Purified alum. PuLfkd
Prepared by boiling one pound of alum with onea'um-
dram of chalk, in a pint of diililied water, draining and
cryflallizing.
b. Sulphas Aluminas exsiccatus, E ALUMEN Dried fiif-
US1UM, L. Dried lulphate of alumina. Burntof
alum. alumina.
Alum is freed from its water of cry Utilization by
melting it over the fire in an earthen 01 iron veffel, and
keeping it there till it ceafes to boil.
Employed as an efchaiotic, to deftroy fungous ex-
crelcences.
Ufed as a purgative, in a dofe of an ounce to an
ounce and a half; as a tonic and gentle flimulant, in
the dofe of a dram or two diluted confiderably, twice
a-day.
Officinal Preparations.
•878
Carbonate a. Careonas Magnesije, E. MAGNESIA AL-
ofmagne- BA, L. D. Carbonate of magnefia. White magnefa.
Prepared by decompofing fulphate of magnefia by
an equal weight of carbonate of potafh, each previoufly
diffolved in twice its weight of w^arm water, drained,
and then mixed, indantly adding eight times their weight
of warm water ; then boiling the liquor for a little
with agitation, and when the heat is a little diminiih-
ed, draining the liquor through linen, and well wash¬
ing the powder that remains on the filter with warm
water, and drying.
An excellent antacid, and in cafes of acidity, a laxa¬
tive ; alfo a good anti-emetic, where the ficknefs is
accompanied with acidity. Dofe from half a dram to a
dram.
Magnefia. Magnesia, E. MAGNESIA USTA, L. D.
Magnefia. Burnt or calcined magnefa.
I his is pure magnefia, freed from carbonic acid, by
keeping it in a red heat for two hours, and putting it
up in clofely dopped bottles.
Preferable to the former as an antacid, wherever
the extrication of carbonic acid may be unpleafant, by
producing datulency, efpecially for children.
S80
Trochesof c. Trochisci Magnesias, L. Troches of mag-
Hiagnefia. nefia.
Prepared by triturating together four ounces . of
burnt magnefia, two ounces of double refined fiugar, and
a fcruple of powdered ginger, and forming a mafs for
881 troches, with mucilage of gum arable.
Sulphate of
alumine 274. SUPERSULPHAS ALUMINAS ET POTASSiF,. SUL-
and potafh. „
c. Aqua Aluminis comfosita, L. CompoundCoir Jund
alum water. alum wa-
Prepared by diffolving half a dram of alum, and thettr*
fame of vitriolated zinc, in four ounces of diddled
water.
Employed externally as a dimulant or adringent,
efpecially in ophthalmia, and as an inje&ion in leu-
corrhoea.
d. PuLvrs Sulphatis Alumina; compositus, E. r 885
PULVIS SI YPTICUS. Compound pow'der of ful-poweie^of
phate of alumina. Sujpticpowder. fulphate of
Compoied of four parts of fulphate of alumina, and * " mina’
one pait of kino, rubbed together to a fine powder.
Attringent. Dofe from 15 to 30 grains.
, §S5
e. Cataplasma Aluminis, L. CO * GULUM Alum curd.
ALUMINOSUM, D. Alim cataplafm. Alum
curd.
Prepared by (baking any quantity of the white of
egg with a piece of alum till a curd is formed.
A ufeful application to fore and watery eyes, fpread
on linen, and applied at bed-time.
275. Bolus galeicus, L.
A clayey earth,- formerly
or abforbent.
French bole. FrPncJ
employed as an antacid
Sect. VII. Metals and Metallic Preparations.
888
275. AxiDUM ARSENIOSUM. OXIDUM ARSE- Arfenious
NIy£. E. Arfenious acid. Oxide of arfenic. White acid.
arfenic. See Chemistry, N° 1536, etfeq.
For an excellent account of the effedfs of arfenic on
the living body, the modes of obviating or counter-
afling them, and of its medical ufe, fee Duncan’s Dif-
penfatory.
This fubdance is employed as a tonic in intermit¬
tent fever, but we confider it as a dangerous remedy.
For the mode of preparing and exhibiting it, fee
Duncan’s
Part TV.
M A T E R I A
Hiftory of Duncan’s Difpcnfatcry as above, and Thefaurus Mcdi-
Simple and camuium.
276. SuLPHbiiETUM Antimonii, E. ANTIMO-
NIUM, L. STIBIUM, D. Sulphuret of antimony.
For the natural hiftory and chemical nature of this
fubftance, fee Mineralogy Index, and Chemistry,
Chap xiv. feet. 12.
In its natural ftate, fulphuret of antimony is not
employed in human medicine, except to farm the fol¬
lowing
M E D I C A, &e.
STIBIATUM RUFUM,
ret of antimony.
785
SS9
Sulphuret
of antimo¬
ny.
890
Prepared
fuljihuret of
antimony
Officinal Preparations.
'Bpi
Oxide of
antimony
with lul-
pl;ur.
892
Vitrified
oxide of an¬
timony with
•lulphur.
s93
^Vitrified
exide of
antimony
with wax.
S94
Brown an-
timonial
fulphur.
S95
Precipita¬
ted fulphu¬
ret of anti¬
mony.
a. SULPHURETUM AnTIMONII PRAlPARATUM, E.
ANTIM ONI UM PR SEPARATUM, L. STIBI¬
UM PR JPP AR AT UM, D. Prepared antimony.
Ruduced to a very fine powder in the fame manner
as chalf;, &c.
b. Oxidum Antimonii cum sulphure per nitra-
tem Potassje, E. CROCUS ANTIMONII, L.
STIBIUM N1TRO CALC I NAT UM, D. Oxide
of antimony with fulphur. Crocus of antimony.
Prepared by injefting into a red hot crucible equal
weights of fulphuret of antimony and nitrate of potalh,
powdered feparately, and well mixed ; ieparating the
reddilh matter that remains after the deflagration is over,
from the whitith cruft above it, and reducing the former
to powder, which is to be well wafbed with hot „water
till it is taftelefs. Scarcely employed in medicine, ex¬
cept as the bafts of other preparations.
c. Oxidum Antimonii cum sulphure vitrifica-
tum, E. ANTIMONIUM VITRIFICATUM,
L. Vitrified oxide of antimony with fulphur. Viirif-
ed antimony. Glafs of antimony.
Prepared by gradually heating powdered fulphuret
of antimony till it ceafes to emit fulphurous fumes, and
then melting it by an intenle heat iuto a glafs, which
is to be poured out on a heated brafs plate.
Employed by the London college as the bafts of their
antimonial wane.
d. Oxidum Antimonii vitrificatum cum cera,
E. Vitrified oxide of antimony with wax.
Made by adding to one part of melted yellow wax,
eight parts of vitrified oxide of antimony with fulphur,
and roaiting the mixture over a gentle fire with con¬
tinual agitation for about a quarter of an hour, then
pouring out the mixture, and, when cold, grinding it
to powder.
"Phis is fimilar to a medicine that was much efteemed
by Sir John Pringle, as a remedy in dyfentery. Dofe
from two or three to 20 grains, according to the age
and firength of the patient.
e. Sulphur stibiatum fuscum, D. KERMES
MINERALIS. Brown antimonial fulphur. K ermes
mineral.
For the preparations and nature of this fubftance, fee
Chemistry, N° 1688.
f Sulfhbretum Antimonii prtecipttatum, E.
SULPHUR ANT. PR^ECJP. L. SULPHUR
Vol. XII. Part II.
D. Precipitated fulphu- Hiftory cf
Simple and
Oflicinat
Prepared by dilTolving two pounds of prepared ful- Veckanes.
phuret of antimony in four pounds of water of potafh,
mixed with three pounds of w ater, adding more, if ne-
ceflary, in a covered iron pot, over a flow fire for three
hours, frequently ftirring with an iron fpatula, ftraining
the liquor while hot, and precipitating the fulphuret
by diluted fulphuric acid ; then wafhing and drying the
precipitate. See Chemistry, N° 168S.
Employed like the laft as a diaphoretic. Dofe two
or three grains.
8 / M
g. Murias Antimonii, E. ANTIMONIUM Muriate of
MURIATUM, L. STIBIUM M UR I AT UM antimony.
CAUSTIC UM, D. Muriate of antimony. Murict-
ed antimony. Butter of antimony. See Chemistry,
p. 638.
Employed fometimes as a cauftic, and for preparing
the following fubftance.
897
h. Calx Stiisii pr^cipitata, D, Precipitated Precipita-
calx of antimony. Powder of algaroth. ted calx of
antimony.
Prepared by adding eight ounces of muriated anti¬
mony to a filtered folution of eight ounces of mild ve¬
getable alkali, in 40 pounds of water, walking and
drying the precipitated powder.
t. Oxidum Antimonii cum phosphate Calcis, Oxide of
E. PULVIS AN FiMONIALIS, L. PULVIS antimony
SI IBIATUS, D. Oxide of antimony with phofphateW!t^ P^10^
of lime. Antimonial powder. * phate of
r lime.
For the preparation and nature of this fubftance, fee
Chemistry, N° 1686. It is confidered as nearly the
fame with James's powder.
An excellent diaphoretic. Dofe from five to ten
grains.
L Tartras Antimonii et Potassje.
ANTIMONII, E. ANTIMONIUM TARTAR I _ animony
SAfUM, L. TARTARUM STIBIATUM, D.andPotaf}1
Tartrate o antimony and potalh. Tartarized anti¬
mony. Stibiated tartar. Emetic tartar or tartar
emetic. See Chemistry, N6 1687, and Duncan’s
Diipenfatogy.
The Edinburgh and London Colleges diredl this to
be prepared by boiling together three parts of oxide of
antimony with fulphur, (fee N° 891.) and four parts
of fuper-tartrate of potalh, tor a quarter of an hour, in a
glals veffel, ftraining the liquor, and letting it by to
cryftallize.
Emetic *, dofe two or three grains at once, or better
half a grain 01 a grain at ihort intervals. Expectorant; dofe
half a grain, repeated at long intervals of two or three
hours. Diaphoretic, in fimijar dofes, combined with
opium, &.c. Alterative, in ftjll fmaller dofes. Exter¬
nally ftimulant and rubefacient.
/. VlNUM TARTRIT1S ANTIMONII, E. V1NUM Win^of
AN'l'IMONlI TARTAR^JBATI, L. VINUMtavtnteof
TARTAR! SdTBIATI, D. Wine oftartrite of an-aimiIK)ny*
timony. Wine of tartarized antimony.
Prepared by diffolving tartrate of antimony and pot-
afti either immediately in Spanilh white wine, or firft
in boiling water, and then adding the wine. The pro-
5 ^ portions
899
TARTRIS Tartrate of
7
86
History of
Simple and
Officinal
Me : icines.
901
A-ntimonial
902
Calcined
animony.
9°3
Compound
antimonial
pills.
904
Mercury.
9° 5
Purified
mercury.
906
Acetate 1
mercury.
907
Muriate
mercury.
M A T E R I A M
portions of the colleges vary; thofe of Edinburgh be¬
ing 24 grains of the fait to a pound of wine } of Lon¬
don and Dublin, 40 grains of fait to two ounces of
boiling water, and eight ounces of wine •, fo that the
former contains two grains in every ounce by weight,
the latter four grains in every ounce by meafure.
Dofes of the Edinburgh wine as an emetic, an ounce,
or an ounce and half, or at intervals half an ounce •, as
an expeftorant or diaphoretic, a dram or two. The
London and Dublin wine may be taken in about half
the above dofes.
in. Vinum Antimonii, L. Antimonial wine.
Prepared by digefting an ounce of vitrified antimony
in powder, in a pint and half of Spanilh white wine,
for 12 days, with frequent agitation and draining through
paper.
This preparation might be omitted, as it is neither
fo eafily prepared nor fo certain as the lad.
n. Antimonium calcinatum, L. Calcined an¬
timony. Diaphoretic antimony. See CHEMISTRY, IN0
1690.
Formerly much employed as a diaphoretic in a dofe
of from five to 30 grains ^ but dnee the introduflion of
James’s powder and the analogous preparations, nearly
difufed.
0. PlLULTE SxiBII COMPOSITE, D. PILULE
PLUMMERI. Compound antimonial pills. Plummer's
pills.
Prepared by triturating together three ounces of
precipitated fulphur of antimony, and the fame of mild
muriate of mercury 5 then adding a dram of extract of
gentian, and the fame of hard Spanilh foap, and form¬
ing a mafs with foap jelly.
Formerly in great repute as an alterative.
277. Hydrargyrum, D. HYDRARGYRUS, E.
L. ARGENTUM VIVUM. Mercury, ^uickfilver.
For an account of the chemical nature and proper¬
ties of mercury, and the modes of afeertaining its puri¬
ty, fee Chemistry, p. 642.
We diall fird notice the feveral officinal preparations
of mercury, and then fubjoin a fketch of its ufes and
the cafes to which it is bed adapted.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Hydrargyrum purificatum, D. HYDRAR¬
GYRUS PURIFICATUS, E. L.
The Edinburgh procefs is to rub together four parts
of quickfilver, and one part of iron filings, and didil
from an iron veffel.
,f b. Acetas Hydrargyri. ACETIS HYDRAR-
GYRI, E. HYDRARGYRUM ACETATUM,
D. HYDRARGYRUS ACETATUS, L. Ace¬
tate of mercury. Acetated mercuru. See Chemistry,
N° 1749.
Scarcely employed at prefent, except as an external
fiimulant or difeutient.
Part IV.
Muriate of mer- H ftoryof
Corrofive fubli- s‘mP'e and
J Officinal
Medicines.
E D I C A, &c.
DRARGYRUS MURIATUS, L.
cury. Corrqftve muriated mercury,
mate. See Chemistry, N° 1736.
Prepared by boiling two pounds of purified quickfil¬
ver in two pounds and a half of fulphuric acid, in a glafs
veffel, over a fand bath, to drynefs, triturating the dried
mafs when cold with four pounds of dried muriate of
foda, then fubliming in a glafs cucurbit with a heat
gradually increafed, and feparating the fublimed matter
from the fcorice.
Ufed as a fialagogue ; dofe one-eighth to one-fourth
of a grain 5 as an external Itimulus or efcharotic to ve¬
nereal ulcers, chancres, and herpetic eruptions, in the
proportion of about a grain or more to the ounce of li¬
quid.
908
of
c. Murias Hydrargyri, E. HYDRARGY¬
RUM MURIATUM CORROSIVUM, D. HY-
d. Submurias Hydrargyri, E. HYDRARGY-Submuriate
RUM MURIATUM MITE SUBLIMATUM, I), of mercury.
CALOMELAS, L. Submuriate of mercury. Sub¬
limed mild muriate of mercury. Calomel. See Chemi¬
stry, N° 1742, where the procefs is much the fame
as that of the Edinburgh college.
Given in moft cafes where mercury is indicated.
Dofe, as a diaphoretic or alterative, about a grain $ as
a cathartic or anthelmintic, three to 10 grains j as a
fialagogue, one or two grains twice a day.
9°9
e. Submurias Hydrargyri PRiECiPiTATus, E.Precipita-
HYDRARGYRUM MURIATUM MITE PR/E,- ted fubmu-
CI PI TATUM, D. HYDRARGYRUS MURI-riatcofmer'
AT US MITE, L. Precipitated fubmuriate of mer¬
cury. Precipitated mild muriate of mercury.
Procured by adding to a folution of half a pound of
purified quickfilver in the fame weight of diluted ni¬
trous acid, a folution of four pounds and a half of mu¬
riate of foda in eight pounds of boiling water j waihing
and drying the precipitate.
Much the fame in its effefts and dofes as the fore-
going.
910
f Calx Hydrargyri alba, L. White calx of White calx
mercury. White precipitate. ot mercury.
Prepared by diffolving firfi: half a pound of fal am¬
moniac, and then half a pound of muriated mercury, in
diftilled water, adding to the mixed folution half a
pound of water of prepared kali, filtering and walking
and drying the precipitate. See Duncan’s Difpenfa-
tory.
9x1
g. Unguextum Calcis Hydrargyri alb^:, L. ointment af
Ointment of wffiite calx of mercury. white calx
of mercury.
Prepared by mixing a dram of the foregoing with
an ounce and a half of ointment of hog’s lard.
Ufed to deftroy vermin, and in fome cutaneous erup¬
tions.
0X2
h. Oxidum Hydrargyri cinereum, E. PUL-cinereous
VIS HYDRARGYRI CINEREUS, D. Cinere-ox!dV_f
ous oxide of mercury.
Prepared by diffolving four parts of purified quick¬
filver in five parts of diluted nitrous acid ; then gra¬
dually adding 15 parts of dillilled water, and pouring
in a fufficient quantity of water of carbonate of ammo¬
nia to precipitate the whole of the oxide, which is to be
waffied and dried.
mercury.
A
Part IV. MATERIA
Hiftory of A mild fialagogue and alterative. Dofe from one
S-P'e an1d to five grains. Ufed alfo as a fumigation in fyphilitic
Medicines, eruptions, &c.
' ^ 1 i. Unguentum Oxidi Hydrargyri cinerei, E.
Ointment Ointment of cinereous oxide of mercury.
oxide of0115 Compofed of one part of the foregoing, and three
mercury, paits of hog’s lard. Ufed for mercurial inunftion.
Quickfilver Hydrargyrus cum Creta, L. Quickfxlver
with chalk, with chalk.
Prepared by triturating together three parts of puri¬
fied quickfilver and five parts of prepared chalk, till
the globules difappear.
A mild alterative. Dofe from 10 to 30 grains.
Calcined /. HYDRARGYRUM CALCIXATUM, D. HYDRAR-
ntercury. GYRUS CALCINATUS, L. Calcined mercury.
See Chemistry, N° 1709.
A violent fialagogue. Dofe half a grain to a
grain.
Red^xide m’ OxiDUM HYDRARGYRI RUBRUM PER AciDUM
of mercury, nitricum, E. HYDRARGYRUS NITRATUS
RUBER, L. HYDRARGYRUM SUBNITRA-
TUM, D. Red oxide of mercury by nitric acid. Red
nitrated mercury. Red precipitate. See Chemistry,
N° 1709.
Ufed as a ftimulant or an efcharotic in fungous ul¬
cers, &c.
917
Ointment n. UNGUENTUM OxiDI HYDRARGYRI RUBRI, E.
ofred oxide Ointment of red oxide of mercury,
of mercury.
Compofed of one part of the foregoing reduced to
fine powder, and eight parts of hog’s lard.
Yellowfub- 0. SuBSULPHAS HYDRARGYRI FLAVUS, E. HY-
fulphate of DRARGYRUM SUBVITRIOLATUM, D. HY-
mercuiy. DRARGYRUS VITRIOLATUS, L. Yellow
fubfulphate of mercury. Subvitriolated mercury. Tur-
peth. mineral. See Chemistry, N° 1720.
Employed chiefly as an errhine, mixed with liquorice
powder or cephalic fnuff.
•RWkfil P' SULPHURETUM HYDRARGYRI NIGRUM, E. HY-
phuretof DRARGYRUM SULPHURATUM NIGRUM,
mercury. D. HYDRARGYRUS CUM SULPHURE, L.
Black fulphuret of mercury. Mercury withfulplmr.
Ethiops mineral.
Prepared by triturating together in a glafs mortar
with a glafs peftle, equal weights of purified quickfil¬
ver, and fublimed fulphur, till the globules of the for¬
mer difappear. See Chemistry, N® 1712.
Employed chiefly as an alterative in cutaneous dif-
eafes and glandular affeftions. Dofe from five or 10
grains to a dram-or more.
Red^fidphu- HYDRARGYRUM SULPHURATUM RUBRUM, D.
jet of mer- HYDRARGYRUS SULPHURATUS RUBER,
CUI7* L. Red fulphuret of mercury. FaEiitious ffitinabar.
Vermilion. See Chemistry, N° 1713.
Ufed principally as a fumigation for venereal ulcers
in the nofe, mouth, and throat, and as an ingredient
in an ointment for the itch.
MEDIC A, &c. 787
r. Pilulje Hydrargyri, E. L. D. Mercurysimpie^nd"
pills. Officinal
.... _ . , . . Medicines.
Prepared by triturating an ounce of punned quick- ———i
filver with the fame weight of conferve of red rofes in a 921
glafs mortar, till the globules completely difappear, ad-M<|rcur*a^
ding occafionally a little mucilage of gum arabic, then*11 s*
adding two ounces of ftarch, and beating the whole with
a little water into a mafs, to be immediately divided into
480 equal pills (E.). The London pills are compofed
of two drams of purified quickfilver, three drams of
conferve of rofes, and one dram of powdered liquorice 5
and the Dublin pills of three drams of quickfilver, the
fame of extraft of liquorice, and a dram and a half of
purified liquorice root.
Four grains of the Edinburgh mafs, three of the
London, and two and a half of the Dublin, contain
about one grain of mercury, fo that the laft are nearly
twice asdtrong as the firft. Dofe of the Edinburgh
pills as a fialagogue, from three to fix, once or twice
a day.
j. Unguentum Hydrargyri, E.
ment. Blue ointment.
922
Mercurial oint- Mercurial
ointment.
Prepared by triturating together one part of quickfil¬
ver with a little hog’s lard, till the globules difappear j then
adding one part of mutton fuet, and as much hog’s lard
as, with the firft quantity, is equal to three parts. Alfo
formed with double or treble the quantity of mercury.
Ufed for mercurial inun&ion. Quantity to be ufed
at once about four fcruples or drams every other night,
or every night.
925
t. Unguentum Hydrargyri fortius, L. D.^nger
Stronger mercurial ointment. Sntmem!
Compofed of two pounds of purified quickfilver, 23
ounces of prepared hog’s lard, and an ounce of prepa¬
red mutton fuet.
Quantity ufed at once, about two fcruples or a
dram.
u. Unguentum Hydrargyri mitius, L. D. Mild-Mil.dermel '
er mercurial ointment. Trooper's ointment. curial oint-
1 ment.
Formed of one part of the foregoing, and two of
prepared hog’s lard. Ufed chiefly to deftroy vermin,
or for fome cutaneous affe&ions.
9*5
v. Emplastrum Hydrargyri, E. MercurialMercunaI
plafter. Plafter-
Formed by melting one part of . olive oil, and the
fame of white rofin together \ and when the mixture is
cold, rubbing with it three parts of quickfilver till the
globules difappear, afterwards adding by degrees fix
parts of melted plafter of feftiivitrified oxide of lead,
and mixing the whole carefully together.
w. Emplastrum Ammoniaci cum Hydrargyrq, Plafter of
L. Plafter of gum ammoniac with mercury; gum amme.
niac with
Prepared by triturating together three ounces of pU. mercury,
rified quickfilver, with about a dram of fulphurated
oil, till the globules difappear, and then adding gra¬
dually one pound of ftrained gum ammoniac melted.
J G 2 x.
7S8
MATERIA
Hif-ory of
SimpI'- an<T x‘ ilMPLASTRUM LlTHARGYRI CUM HyDRARGYRO,
Officinal L. Litharge plafter with mercurv.
Medicines. J
—1 Compofed of three ounces of purified quickfilver,
T. 5*'' about a dram of iulphurated oil, and a pound of melt-
L’thasge ed ]itharge plafter>
1 hefe three lart are employed as refolvents and dif-
cutients, in ca,es of venereal nodes and beginning indu¬
rations.
plalter with
mercury.
92S
Ointnient
of nitrate
of mercury.
y. UnguenTUm kitratts Hydrargyri, E. UN-
GUENTUM HYDRARGYRI NITRATI, L. D.
UNGLEN 1 UM Cl I RINUM. Ointment of nitrate
of mercury. Citrine ointment*
Prepared by firlt dinolving one part of quickfilver in
two of nitrous acid, and beating up the folution in a
glafs mortar, with nine parts of olive oil, and three of
hog’s lard, previsufly melted together (or with 12
paits of hog’s lard, L. D.) till the whole is formed in¬
to an ointment.
A powerful ftimulant and detergent ointment, ufeful
in inflammation and ulceration of the eyelids, and in
cutaneous affeiRions.
929
Milderoint- 55. UnGUENTUM KITRATIS HYDRARGYRI MITIUS
trateof111" ^ ^lc*er °intment qf nitrate of mercury,
mercury. Prepared in the fame way as the laft, except ufincr
three times the quantity of oil and lard.
Mercury, or fome of its preparations, is exhibited,
1. As an errhine j the fubfulphate of mercury j 2. As
a fialagogue, mercury in almoft any form •, 3. As a ca¬
thartic, the fubmuriate of mercury ; 4. As a diuretic,
the oxides, the muriate, and the fubmuriate, combined
with other diuretics ; 5. As a fudorific, calomel con¬
joined with a fudorific regimen ; 6. As an emmena-
gogue ; 7. As an aftringent, muriate of mercury;
8. As a ftimulant, muriate of mercury ; 9. As an an-
tifpaimodic j 10. As an anthelmintic.
With fome of thefe views, mercury is frequently ex¬
hibited, 1. In febrile difeafes ; in obftinate agues. 2. In
inflammatory difeafes, in indolent and chronic inflam¬
mations, efpecially of the glandular vifcera, as the li¬
ver, fpleen, &c. 3. In exanthematous difeafes, vario¬
la 4. In profluvia ; in dyfeutery. 5. In fpafmodic
difeafes •, tetanus, trifmus, hydrophobia, &c. 6. In ca¬
chectic difeafes ; anafarca, afcites, hydrothorax, hydro¬
cephalus, &c. 7. In impetigines, fcrofula, fyphilis,
lepra, nfterus, &c. 8. In local difeafes j in caligoeor-
neae, amaurofis, gonorrhoea, obftipatio, amenorrhoea
firppreflionis, tumours of various kinds, herpes, tinea
* DuTze/m'spfor't, &c. *
Difpenfa
tory
930
Zinc.
.951
Oxide of
vine.
For a more particular account of the'medical eflefls
and ufes of mercury, we refer our readers to Cullen’s
Materia Medica, vol. ii. The Practical Synopfis, vol. i.
The T/iefaurus Medicaminum, and Murray’s Elements
vc%.
278. Zincum, E. L. D. Zinc. See Chemistry,
p. 649.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oxidum Zikci, E. ZINCUM CALCINA-
TUM, L. CALX ZINCI, D. FLORES Z1NCI.
Oxide of zinc. Flowers of %inc. See Chemistry N°
1756.
d. SOLUTIO SULPHATIS ZlNCI, E.
phate of zinc.
M E D T C A, See. palt ]y.
Employed as atonic and antifpafmodic, chiefly in Hi (lory of
epiiepiy. Dcfe Iram three to 10 grains, three or four^'111!116 and
times a dayr. Officuial
Medicines.
b. Uxguentum OXIDI ZiNCI, E. Ointment of *  
oxide of zmc. 932
Ointment
Compofed of one part of the foregoing, and fix partsof 0Xide of
of firnple liniment* zinc.
Applied to the eye as an aftringent, in cafes of oph¬
thalmia, attended with debility and relaxation of the
veliels.
^ Sueehas Z^!, E. ZINCUM VITRIOLA-SulphSecr
rrrz • • • SuIphate of zinc. Vitrio/ated otinc.zmc-
White vitriol. See Chemistry, N° 1764.
Employed internally as an emetic, in the dofe of
from 10 to 30 grains, and as an aftringent and tonic
in a dofe of from two to five grains, ieveral times a
day. Externally as a ftimulant and aftringent, in the
form of lotion, collyrium, or injedtion.
934
Solution of ful'Solutionof
fulphate of
. Prepared by diffolving 16 grains of fulphate of zinc
in eight ounces of water ; then adding 16 drops of di¬
luted fulphuric acid, and filtering through paper.
Ufed in moft cales where the fulphate of zinc is em¬
ployed externally.
/• aQIA .Zikci vitriol, AT I CUM Camphora, L.Wate/of
Y ater ol vitriolated zinc with camphor. vitriolated
Compofed of half an ounce of vitriolated zinc, halfcamphon
an ounce by meaiure of camphorated fpirit, and two
pints of boiling water, mixed together, and filtered
through paper.
Ufed for an aftringent lotion and collyrium.
93<r
Solution of ace-Solution of
acetite of
^ Prepared by mixing together a folution of one dramZ l C’
of fulphate of zinc, in 10 ounces of diftilled water, and
a folution of four fcruples of acetate of lead in 10
ounces of diltilled water, allowing them to ftand for
fome time at reft, and filtering.
An excellent aftringent collyrium.
279- Oxidum Zikci impurum, E. TUTIA, L.impSoe
1). impure oxfae or zmc. lutty. See Mineralogy ide of zinc.
Index.
f Solutio acetitis Zixci, E.
the of zinc.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Oxidum Zixci impurum pr^.paratum, E.prpnitpt
TUTIA PRZEPARATA, L. D. Prepared impureSpureox-
oxide of zinc. Prepared tutty. ideofzmc.
Prepared in the fame way as chalk, and other hard
fubftance*.
939
UN - Ointment of
b. UXGUENTUM OXIDI ZlXCI IMPURI, E.
GUENFUM 1 UTL^E, L. D. Ointment of impure'mPureox'
oxide of zinc. Tutty ointment. ide of zinc..
Compofed of one part of the foregoing, and five
parts of Ample liniment (E.), or of any quantity of the
foregoing, and as much ointment ot Ipermaceti, or of
hog’s
part IV. MATERIA
Hiftoryof hog’s lard as is fufncient to form a foit ointment
Simple and/j^ j) ^
Ufed in fimilar cafes with N° 932.
280. Carbonas Zinci iMPURus, E. L/VPIS CA-
Impure csr- L AMINARIS, L. D. Impure carbonate of zinc,
bonate of Calammc. See Mineralogy Index.
Officinal
Medicines.
94 a
941
Prepared
Officinal Preparations.
Carbonas Zinci
E.
L.
bonate of
zinc.
94 2
Cerate of
irapure car
bontte of
a. UARBONAS Z>INC1 IMPURUS PRiEPARATUS,
impure car-LAPIS CAL AMINARIS PR^PARATUS,
i). Prepared carbonate of zinc. Prepared calamine.
Prepared as chalk, &c.
b. Ceratum carbonatis Zinci impuri, E. CE-
RATUM LAPIDIS CAL AMINARIS, L. D.
CERATUM EPULOTICUM. Cerate of impure
carbonate of zmc. Calamine cerate. ILpulotic cerate.
Brown cerate. Turner's cerate.
Compofed of one part of the foregoing, and five
parts of fimple cerate (E.), or of hair a pound (L.), or
one part (D.) of the foregoing, the fame of yellow wax,
and a pint (L.) or two parts (D.) of olive oil.
Employed chiefly as a dreffing to fores and ulcers.
Tin.
943
281. Stannum,
A'd-
E. L. D. Tin. See Chemistry,
944
PovXler of
tin.
Officinal Preparation.
a. Stanni pulvis, L. D. Powder of tin.
Prepared by granulating melted tin by agitation in a
covered wooden box rubbed with chals.} or by ftirring
while malted over the fire till it be reduced to a pow¬
der. ^ _ .
Employed as a mechanical anthelmintic, efpecially
in cafes of trenia and lumbricus. Dofe from two drams
to half an ounce.
282. Plumbum, E. L. D. Lead. See Chemistry,
p. 657.
Oxidum Plumbi albi, E. CERUSSA, L. D.
ide of lead. White oxide of lead. Cerufe.
mistry, N° 1856.
945
Lead.
946
White ox
White lead. See Che-
947 ,
Combound
powder of
cerufe.
_ acetite of
lead.
M E D I e A, &c. 789
SATURNI. Superacetate of lead. Acetatcd cerufe. Su- Hi dory of
gar of lead. See Chemistry, N° 1858. "offidnaT
Chiefly employed in folution as an external rtfriger- Medicines.
ant or aftringent, by way of lotion, collyrium, or injec¬
tion. Its external ufe being highly dangerous, ought
to be entirely abandoned.
. 95°
</. UnGUAn'TUM ACETITIS P.LUMBI, E. UNGUEN-OintmentOt
TUM CERUSSiE ACETATE, L. D. UN-
GUENTUM SATURN1NUM. Ointment of ace-J
tite of lead. Ointment of acetated cerufe. Saturnine
ointment.
Compofed of one part of the foregoing, and 20 parts
of Ample ointment (E.), or two drams of the forego¬
ing, two ounces of white wax, and halt a pint or half a
pound of olive oil (L. D.)
A ufeful refrigerant ointment. ^ _
283. Oxidum Plumbi rubrum, E. MINIUM, L.^yd oxide
Red oxide of lead. Red lead. See Chemistry, N00116*'1,
1832.
This is now fcarcely employed in medicine.
952
284. Oxidum Plumbi semivitreum, E. Ll-Semwitrifi-
THARGYRUS, L. D. Semivitrified oxide of lead.ed ^ of
Litharge. See Chemistry, N° 1834.
lead.
Officinal Preparations.
953
Prepared Prepared li¬
tharge.
Offcinal Preparations.
a. Pulvis Cerusss compositus, L. Compound
powder of cerufe.
Compofed of five .ounces of cerufe, half an ounce of
farcocol, and half an ounce of gum tragacanth, pow¬
dered together. _ -
Intended as an external difeutient, but inferior for
that purpofe to the folutions of the falts of lead.
Ointment fr UNGUENTUM OXIDI PLUMBI ALBI, E. UNGUEN-
of whiteox-a r guM. Ointment of white oxide of lead.
ide ot lead. A2,:
Wtiite ointment.
Compofed of five parts of fimple ointment, and one
of white oxide of lead.
A cooling deficcative ointment, forming a ufeful
application in cafes of excoriation.
Sunerace- c. SuPERACETAS PluMEI. ACETIS PLUMBI, E.
tate of lead.CERUSSA ACETATA, L. D. SACCHARUM
a. Lithargyrus pr^eparatus, E. D.
litharge.
Reduced to an impalpable powder by levigation, &c.
in the ufual manner.
954
b. Aqua LlTHARGYRI ACETATI, L. LIQUOR Water of
LITH ARGYRI ACETATI, D. EXTRAC FUM acetated
SATURNI. Water of acetated litharge. Ex trad e/'lltd‘irSe’
lead.
Prepared by mixing two pounds four ounces of li¬
tharge with a gallon of diftilled vinegar, boiling to fix
pints with conflant agitation, then felting it afide till
the feces have fubfided, and then draining.
955
c. Liquor Lithargyri acetati compositus, D.Compound
AQUA LITHARGYRI ACETATI COMPOST“^ofli^
TA, L. Compound water of acetated litharge. ♦harye.
Prepared by mixing a dram of the foregoing with a
dram of proof fpirit, and adding 14 ounces or a pint of
diftilled water.
This is intended as a refrigerant application, and is
attended with effedfs fimilar to thofe of the fuperacet »te
of lead, from which it however differs in its chemical
nature.
95<>
d. Ceratum Lithargyri acf.tatt compositutvi,ComP°urid
L. CERATUM LITH ARGYR[ ACETAi I, D.
Compound cerate of acetated litharge. thar^e.
Prepared by rubbing half a dram of camphor with a
little olive oil, and in ths mean titr" adding gradually
two ounces and a half of acetated litharge to a raeli :.i
mixture of tour ounces of yellow wax, and m. c ounces
of olive oil, ftirring it till cold 5 and laf ly advl’ ig tee
camphorated oil. Formerly much employed as a re¬
frigerant application, but differing in little, except in
confidence.
(
790
Hiftory of
Simyle and
Officinal
Medicines.
957
Plafter of
femivitrifi-
ed oxide of
lead.
MATERIA
confidence, from the other combinations of lead with
fatty matters.
e. Emplastrum oxidi Plumbi semivitrei, E.
EMPLASTRUM LITHARGYRI, L. D. EM¬
PLASTRUM COMMUNE. PJafter of femivitrified
oxide of lead. Litharge plajler. Common plajler. Dia-
culum phtjler.
Prepared, by boiling together over a flow fire, one
part of femivitrified oxide of lead in powder, and about
two parts of olive oil, adding a little hot water from
time to time, Eind conllantly agitating till the litharge
and oil are uniformly mixed.
This plafter has been long employed to cover exco¬
riated iurfaces, and to form plafters for fupporting the
teguments in the neighbourhood of fores and ulcers.
For the ill effedls of lead as a poifon, fee Fothergill’s
“ Cautions concerning Poifons of Lead and Copper.”
285. FERRUM, E. L. D. Iron. See Chemi¬
stry, p. 664.
Officinal Preparations.
959
.Purified fi- a. FeRRI LiMATURYE PURIFICATjE, E. Purified
lings of filings of iron.
Iron.
lilings of iron are purified by placing a fieve over
them, and attradling the purer particles through the
fieve by means of a good magnet.
Sometimes employed internally as a tonic and anthel¬
mintic, but their ufe is attended with an unpleafant ex¬
trication of hydrogenous gas.
960
Purified h. FERRI OXIDUM NIGRUM PURIFICATUM, E.
J^xide FERR! SQUAMAL PURIFICA'IYE. Purified
non. black oxide of iron. Purifiedfeales of iron.
961
Carbonate
«f iron.
962
'Water of
aerated
iron.
.963
Wine of
iron.
This is a preparation of the feales of iron that col¬
led! about a fmith’s anvil, by the magnet.
A better medicine than the former, as it is not attend¬
ed with the extrication of hydrogen gas. Dofe from five
grains to a fcruple.
c. Carbonas Ferri, E. FERRI RUBIGO, L.
D. Carbonate of iron. Ruflofiron. See Chemistry,
N° 1886, and 1929.
A good tonic, ufeful in general debility, and in ute¬
rine obftruClions dependent on debility. Dofe about a
fcruple, feveral times a day.
d. Aqua Ferri aerati, D. Water of aerated
iron.
This is an artificial chalybeate water, prepared in the
fame manner as, N° 875. with the addition of a coil
of fine iron wire fufpended in the water.
An excellent tonic, forming a good fubftitute for the
natural chalybeate waters. Dofe a glafs or two, twice
or thrice a day.
e. Vinum Ferri. L. VINUM FERRATUM,
D. Wine of iron. Chalybeate wine.
Prepared by digefting four ounces of iron filings in
four pints of Spanilh white wine, for a month, with fre¬
quent agitation, and then draining the liquor.
A tonic formerly much ufed in chlorotic cafes. Dofe
from a dram to half an ounce.
2
M E D I C A, &c. Pat IV.
f. Sulphas Ferri, E. FERRUM VITRIOLA- liftoryof
TUM, L. D. SAL MARTIS. Sulphate ol iron. Simple and
Vitriolated iron. Salt of feel. See Chemistry, N° ^effieffies
—v—<
A good tonic, but apt to difagree with the ftomach Sulphate
and bowels. Dofe from half a grain to one grain feve-ofiron.
ral times a day. ,
965
g. Tinctura muriatis Ferri, E. TINCTURATIn<ftureof
FERRI MUR I ATI, L. D. TimW of muriate 0fmuriateQf
iron. lron- •
The Edinburgh tinclure is prepared by digefting
three ounces of purified black oxide of iron in powder,
and ten ounces of muriatic acid, with a gentle heat •,
then adding, after the powder is diffolved, as much al¬
cohol as will make the whole liquor amount to two
pounds and a half. The preparations of the other col¬
leges do not materially differ from this. Dofe from 10
to 20 drops, twice or thrice a day.
.966
h. FERRUM TARTARISATUM, L. Tartari%ed iron. Tartarized
iron.
Prepared by mixing one pound of iron filings, and
two pounds of powdered cryftals of tartar, into a thick
mafs with diftilled wrater, expofing them to the air for
eight days in a wide glafs veffel, and then drying the
matter in a fand bath, and grinding to a very fine
powder. See Chemistry, p. 671. Dofe from’io to
30 grains.
967
286. Sulphas Ferri natives. Native fulphate of Native ful-
iron. Green vitriol. Green copperas. - phate of
iron.
Officinal Preparations.
a. Sulphas Ferri exsiccatus, E. Dried fulphate Dried ful-
of iron. phate of
Prepared by expofing any quantity of fulphate ofllLn'
iron to the adlion of a moderate heat, in an un¬
glazed earthen veffel, till it becomes white and perfeft-
ly dry.
b. Oxidum Ferri rubrum, E. Red oxide of iron. Red^oxide
Colcothar of vitriol. of iron.
Prepared by expofing the foregoing preparation to
an intenfe heat till it is converted into a very red
matter.
_ 97o
c. Emplastrum oxim Ferri rubri, E. EM- pLfter of
PLASTRUM ROBORANS. Plafter of red oxide refd oxide
of iron. Strengthening plajler. ° ir011'
Prepared by grinding eight parts of red oxide of
iron with three of olive oil; and then adding them
to a melted mixture of 24 parts of plafler of femivitri¬
fied oxide of lead, fix parts of white rofin, and three of
yellow wax.
Ufed as an external application, fpread on linen or
leather, in weakneffes of the back and loins.
971
d. Murias Ammonite et Ferri, E. FERRUM Muriate of
AMMONIAC ALE, L. Muriate of ammonia and iron. amm.olda
and iron.
Prepared by mixing equal weights of red oxide of
iron, walked and dried, and muriate of ammonia, and
fubliming, E. Dole from three to ten grains.
972
e. Tinctura Ferri ammoniacalis, L. Tinclure Tindtureof
of ammoniacal iron. ammoniacal
Prepared ^ron'
Part IV. M A T E R I A M E D I C A, &c.
791
hi .jryof Pi'epared by digefting four ounces of the preceding,
^ VV^^ a P'nt Pro°^ and ftraining.
Medicines Ufed in iimilar cafes with the tinfture of muriate of
*  ) iron, which is, howrever, to be preferred to it.
973
Tui&ureof f, Tinctura I’erri acetati, D. Tinflure of
acetated acetated iron.
iron.
Prepared by rubbing together in a glafs mortar, ace¬
tated vegetable alkali, and vitriolated iron, of each
an ounce, till the mafs deliquefces, and then adding
during the trituration two pounds of alcohol, and drain¬
ing the folution.
A powerful aftringent and tonic. Dofe 20 or 30
drops.
The preparations of iron, given in a moderate dofe,
gradually raife the pulfe, improve the colour of the
face, and increafe the alvine, urinary, and cuticular
excretions. Their taking proper effeft is denoted by
fetid eru&ations and black ftools.
Thefe tonics are indicated chiefly in cafes of pre¬
ternatural difcharges, or fuppreflion of natural fecre-
tions or excretions, proceeding from a languor and
fluggifhnefs of the fluids, and general weaknefs of the fo-
lids. They are therefore ufeful in paflive haemorrhages,
in dyfpepfia, hyfteria, and chlorofis $ in moft of the
cachexice, and in cancerous affe&ions, and in the general
debility that often remains after acute difeafes or excef-
five haemorrhages.
The preparations of iron, when given too largely,
or improperly, produce headach, anxiety, heat of fkin,
and not unfrequently haemorrhages or vomiting, pains
in the flomach, and fpafms and pains in the bow-els.
They are improper wherever the circulation is already
too quick, the folids too tenfe and rigid ; and where
there is any ftri&ure and fpafmodic contraflions of the
veflels.
974
Copper.
287. Cuprum, E. L. D. Copper. See Chemistry,
p. 674.
Subacetate
of copper.
Subacetas Cupri. SUBACETIS CUPRI, E.
AERUGO. Subacetate of copper. Verdigris. See
Chemistry, N° 1995.
Employed chiefly as an efcharotic, to deftroy cal¬
lous edges or fungous flefh, or as a ftimulant to foul
ulcers.
Officinal Preparations.
976
Prepared a. Airugo fralparata, L. D. Prepared verdi-
verdigris. gris.
Prepared like other fubftances not foluble in wa¬
ter.
977
Oxymel of b. Oxymel Airuginis, L. Oxymel of verdigris.
^ Prepared by diffolving one ounce of prepared verdi¬
gris in feven ounces of vinegar, ftraining through linen,
and boiling with 14 ounces of claiified honey to a
proper confiftance.
Sometimes ufed as a detergent gargle to venereal ul¬
cerations of the mouth and tonfils, but with much pre¬
caution. Mere generally employed, mixed wuth fome
ftimulant ointment, as an external , ftimulant and efcha¬
rotic.
C. UngUENTUM SOBACETITIfJ CuPRI, E. Ointment Sinfp^and
of fubacetite of copper. Officinal
„ .... r ~ . , 'Medicines.
Prepared by mixing 15 parts 01 reiinous ointment, ;_ ,
and one part of fubacetite of copper. 978
Ointment
d. Liquor Cupri ammoniati, D. AOUA CU-offubaee-
PRI AMMONIATI, L. AQUA SAPPHARINA.ti^ ofC0P-
Water of ammoniated copper. Sapphire veater. ^*979
Prepared by the Dublin college, by mixing four^^erff
grains or prepared verdigris, and two Icruples 01 ial ted copper,
ammoniac, with eight ounces of frefti made lime wa¬
ter, digefting for 24 hours, and pouring bff the clear
liquor.
Ufed as a ftimulant and detergent lotion.
0S6
288. Sulphas Cupri, E. CUPRUM V1TRIO-Sulphur of
LATUM, D. V1TRIOLUM CCERULEUM. Sul-c°PPer-
phate of copper. Vitriolated copper. Blue or Roman
vitriol. Bluejlone. See Chemistry, N° 1972.
Sometimes given internally as an emetic, in the dofe
of from two to five grains, and as a tonic, a grain or
twTo, feveral times a-day $ but its internal ufe is danger¬
ous. More frequently employed as an efcharotic.
Officinal Preparations.
981
a. SOLUTIO SULPHATIS CUPRI COMPOSITA, E. A- Compound
QUA STYPTIC A. Compound folution of fulphate f°'utlon 0I~
of copper. Styptic water. copper^
Prepared by boiling three ounces of fulphate of cop¬
per, and the lame of fulphate of alumina, in tivo pounds
of water, till they are diflblved j then adding one ounce
and a half of diluted fulphuric acid to the liquor pre-
vioufly filtered.
Employed chiefly as a ftyptic for flopping fuperficial
haemorrhages, or bleedings at the nofe.
9S2
b. Ammoniaretum Cupri, E. CUPRUM AM- Ara-n- nia-
MONIATUM, D. Ammoniaret of copper, ^.retofeop-
moniated copper. ^er#
Prepared by the Edinburgh college, by rubbing twro
parts of the pureft fulphate of copper with three parts
of carbonate of ammonia carefully together, in a glafs
mortar, till the effervefcence has entirely ceafed, and
they unite into a violet-coloured mafs, which is to be
wrapt up in blotting paper, and dried, firft upon a chalk
ftone, and afterwards by a gentle heat, and put into a
phial that is to be clofely flopped.
Employed as a tonic and antifpafmodic, chiefly in
cafes of epilepfy. Dofe about half a grain or a grain,
gradually increafed to four or five grains, three or four
times a-day.
983
c. Pilulte ammoniareti Cupri, E. Pills of am- P • -
moniaret of copper. m" '"
“ copper.
Compofed of 16 grains of ammoniaret of copper in
fine powder, and four fcruplea of crumb of bread, beat¬
en into a mafs with a fufficient quantity of water or car¬
bonate: of ammonia, and immediately divided into 32
equal pills.
One or two of thefe pills is a moderate dofe.
For an account of tjie ill effects arifing from copper
*7P ®
/ V z
Hiftory of
Simple and
(.'fficinal
Medicines.
M A T E R I A M E D I C A, &c.
, ... Ci lAo mc^-ns^ of detecijng snd ooviisting way of philofophical experiment.
t>,em, fee Fothergill’s Cautions concerning the polfons
of lead and copper, and Duncan’s Difpenfatory.
fearches on Nitrous Oxide.
See Davy’s
J84
Siver.
. 9S5
Nitrate of
lilver.
2S9. Argentum,
MISERY, p. 68l.
E. L. D. Silver. See Che-
OJjicinal Preparation.
r. Nitras Argenti, E. ARGENTUM NI-
TRATUM, L. D. CAUSTICUM LUNARE.
Nitrate ot mver, NitratedJitVer. Lunar caujlic.
Prepared by diffolving in a phial, with a gentle heat,
four ounces of the pureft filver flattened into plates, and
cut into pieces, in eight ounces of diluted nitrous acid,
mixed with four ounces of diftiiled water, and evapo¬
rating to a dry rnah, which is to be put into a large
crucible, and placed on a gentle fire, incrcafed gradu¬
ally till the mafs Hows like oil j then pouring it into
iron pipes previoufly heated and anointed with tallow,
and when cool, putting it into a glafs veffel to be well
flopped.
Employed chiefly as an efcharotic, to deflroy the
cabousedges of ulcers, warts, and other excrefcences j
but lately much recommended, and employed with
forue fuccefs, as a tonic in cafes of epilepfy. It ihould
be begun in -very final] doles, about one-eigbtb or one-
fourth 01 a grain, diffolved in diftilled water, or made
into a pill with crumb of bread, gradually increafing
the dofe to a grain or more, twice or three times a-day.
9S6
Oxygenous
Chap. IV. Gafeous Subjlancss.
290. Gas Oxygeneum. Oxygenous gas.
Part1V.
Re* Hiftory of
Simple arid
Officinal
j- MedicinA.
292. Gas Hydrogeneum. Hydrogen pas.
flammable air. See CHEMISTRY, N° 373, et feq. 933
Hydrogen gas diluted with about ten times its quan- ^droSea
tity of atmofpheric air, has been recommended in afth-
matic complaints; but its fuccefis has not equalled the
expectations of phyficians.
293. Gas HydrOGENEUM CARBONATUM. Car-Carbonic
bonated hydrogen gas. See Chemistry, N° 412. acid gas.
This gas, which is fo deleterious when refpired in its
pure flate, has been, flrongly recommended when dilut¬
ed with about 20 parts of atmofpheric air, as a remedy
in phthifis, in fome cafes of which it has evidently been
of fervice, relieving the fympterns, and at leaft arreft-
ing the progrefs of the difeafe. It fliould, however,
be employed with great caution, and at firft largely
diluted.
99*
acid Carbonic
acid
Vital
294., Gas acidum carbonicum. Carbonic
gas. Fixed air. See Chemistry, N° 595.
Befidesthe lolution of this gas in water (fee N° 87 ^),
ufed internally as a tonic and refrigerant, the gas itfelf,
as evolved from fermenting fubftances, is a good iiimu-
lant or antifeptic application to foul ulcers and can¬
cerous fores. The modification of this fubitance, which
is contained in yefl or barm, has been mifeh employed
of late in typhus, but we believe with no material be¬
nefit.
^ . 99i
295. Caloricum. Caloric. Heat. See CHEMI-Caioric
STRY, Chap. iii.
as.
gas. air.
On the nature and properties of this gas, fee Chemi¬
stry, N° 341.
When air, with an mcreafed proportion of oxygen,
is refpired, it aifls as a powerful fiimulus, increafing
the circulation and animal heat, railing the fpirits, and
producing a temporary increafe of vigour and activity,
folio.ved, however, in a fhort time, by correfponding
languor and wearinefs. From its. flimulant effefts, the
refpiration of fuperoxygenated air has been much re¬
commended in various cafes of debility, as chlorofis,
epilepfy, afthmatic and dropfical affections ; but it
feems now falling into difufe, from a conviction that
practitioners were too fanguine in their expectations.
See Alyon E/Jai fur les Proprietes Medicinales de
POxygens, 8 vo. Ward Dijfert. Inaug. de Medicina Pneu-
matica, Edin. 1800. Hodges’s Differt. Inaug. de Oxy-
gen'w, Edin. 1801 ; and the Practical Synopfis.
987
Gafeous ox- 291. Gas Azotii oxidum. OX1DUM NITRO-
ide of azote supvl. Gafeous oxide of azote. Nitrous oxide. See
Chemistry, p. 493, 494, where the nature and effeCts
of this gas are detailed at fufficient length.
As the refpiration of this gas is not followed by the
depreffion and debility confequent on the application of
moft other ftimuli, it promifes fair to become a ufeful
remedy in fome cafes of debility and atony of the vital
powers ; but it is not yet much employed except by
It would be in vain for us here to attempt any ac¬
count of the effeCls of heat on the human body, and
thefe have been amply detailed, both by chemical and
phyfiological writers. It acts as a powerful ftimulus,
and as i'uch is often employed, efpecially in the form of
warm and vapour baths, in various cafes of debility and
atony of the fyflem. The effeCts and ufes of the warm
and vapour baths have been already mentioned under
Water, as have the effeCls and ufes of the cold bath.
296. Lumen. Light. See Chemistry, Chap. ii. Light!2
Befides its effeCl on the eye, in producing vifion, light
evidently ads as a general and powerful ftimulus, raif-
ing the Ipirits, and increafing the vigour and adivity
of the body. See Ruth’s ledures on animal life.
297. Electricitas. EleCh'icity. Eledricity.
Common eleCfricity aCts as a powerful ftimulus on
the fyftem, in proportion to the degree of concentra¬
tion in which it is applied. When applied under the
form of a ftream, or continued difeharge of eleCtric
fluid, its eff. Cts are the moft gentle; but in gene¬
ral, when applied in the form of {parks, it is more
aClive, but its effeCls are more confined 5 and when ap¬
plied by way of a ftiock, it aCts very powerfully, pro¬
ducing an agitation of the mufcles of the part through
which the fliock is difeharged ; and if the fhock is
violent, the whole body partakes of the agitation. E-
\ leCIricity
1
Part I V. MATERIA
Hiftory of Icflrlcity has been found of fervice, chiefly in cafes of
Simple and paraiyfis and of uterine obflru&ion dependent on debi-
Officinal
Medicines. por m0(je of applying eleftricity to the body,
under its various dates, we muft refer to Cavallo’s Me¬
dical Eleftricity, and Cuthbertfon’s Pradical Ekaricity
and Galvanifm.
M E D I G A, See.
ADDENDUM.
The following was omitted among
793
the preparations of
Hiftory of
Simple and
Officinal
Medicines.
iron. 995
g. Carbonas Ferri pr/ecipitatus, E. Precipi-^P^'
tated carbonate of irori. nate of
Galvanifm. 298. GaLVAKISMUS. Galvanifm.
This modification of ekaricity is found to have pro¬
duced ftill greater effeas on the human body, when ap¬
plied under particular circumftances, into which we
have not now room to enter. Much has of late. been
written on the efficacy of this powerful agent in the
cure of various difeafes, but like moft other new reme¬
dies, its powers have been greatly overrated. It ap¬
pears to have been moft fuccefsful in cafes of local para¬
iyfis, or nervous atony. In particular, it has in feveral
inftances relieved deafnefs, efpecially that fpecies which
feems to arife from torpor of the auditory nerve.
For the effeds of galvanifm on the body, and its ap¬
plication in medicine, fee Wilkinfon’s Elements of
Galvanifm, vol. ii. p. 441, J Cuthbertfon’s Eledricity
and Galvanifm j the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical
Journal, &c.
Prepared by decompofing a folution of fulphate ofir0n‘
iron by a folution of carbonate of foda ; wafhing and
drying the precipitate.
Similar in its virtues to 961. Dofe five to 30 grains.
The fpace allotted to this article was fo fmall, and
the time for preparing it fo fhort, that it is, of necef-
fity, much lefs full and complete than it might other-
wife have been. As it was impoflible, under fuch cir¬
cumftances, to produce any thing like an original and
complete treatife, the compiler has endeavoured to
render as ufeful as poffibk the feledion that he found
it neceffary to make, and to fupply the unavoidable de¬
ficiencies by a reference to the moft refpe&abk works
on the fubjed.
ERRATA. N° 620 •, for The London and Dublin tindures, ran/The Edinburgh and Dublin tindures $ and
for ten grains, read ten drams.
INDEX.
JlcETATE of potafli,
of mercury,
Acid, acetous, impure,
diftilled,
ftrong,
camphorated,
acetic,
benzoic,
fuccinic,
fulphuric,
aromatic,
vitriclic,
nitrous,
nitric,
muriatic,
marine,
arfenious,
Aconitum neomontanum,
JTfculus hippocaftanum,
Affufion of warm water,
cold water,
Alcohol) common,
pure,
ammoniated,
aromatic,
fetid,
Alkali) volatile, mild,
vegetable, fixed
mineral, fixed,
Allium fativum,
cepa,
Vol. XII. Part II.
2
N° 31X
906
3°5
206
3°7
3°9
3°7
570
829
835
837
835
847
848
tU %
888
628
5°4
817
819
294
295
237
243
246
238
212
840
473
475
AloeS)
Alihcea officinalis,
Alum)
Amber)
Ammonia) prepared,
Ammoniacum)
Ammoniaret of copper,
Amomum, zingiber,
cardamomum,
repens,
zedoaria,
Amygdalus communis,
Amyris elemifera,
gileadenfis,
Anethum graveolens,
foeniculum,
Angelica archangelica,
Angu/lurS)
Antacids)
Anthelmintic S)
Anthemis nobilis,
pyrethrum,
Antimony)
vitrified,
tartarized,
calcined,
diaphoretic,
AntifpafmodicS)
Apium petroklinum,
Apple) bitter,
Applet) efcuknt, lift of,
N® 476 Aquafortis) N° 847
■ 672 Arbutus uva urfi, 565
881 Ai'ijlolochia ferpentaria, 723
828 Arnica montana, 7J4
238 ArfeniC) white, 888
324 abrotanum, 7°7
982 maritima, 7°9
336 fantonica, 710
340 vulgaris, 712
ib. Artichoke) 7°8
339 Arum maculatum, 725
387 AfarabaccO) 576
505 Afarum europseum, ib.
506 AJJafcetida) 44°
436 ■A[fs'ls milk, charader of, 58
458 AJlragalus tragacantha, 683
430 AfringentS) 17°
331 belladonna, 399
191 AvenS) 609
183 . B,.
718 Balm) 656
721 of Gilead, 5°7
889 B a If am of Peru, 536
892 of Tolu, 53s
899 of Copaiva, 571
902 of Canada, 743
ib. Barberryt 472
179 Barilla) 840
461 Bark) Peruvian or Jefuit’s, 40I:
762 Barytes 861
03 Bath)\io\) 8r5
J ' ' 5 H Kath
794
Bath, wartny
cold,
Bees-wax,
Benzoin or benjamin,
Berber is vulgaris,
Berries, efculent, lilt of,
Bijlort, great,
Bitterfweet,
Borax,
Broom,
Bryonia alba,
Bubon galbarmm,
Buckthorn,
Butter-nxiVk, nature of,
MATERIA
N° 8i6
816
526
3 !9
568
472
88
51°
398
855
680
764
446
411
8*
M E D I C A,
N,-946
869
&C.
Cabbage tree bark,
Calamine,
Calamus aromaticus,
Calomel,
Caloric, ,
Calx of mercury, white, _
Camphor,
Canella alba,
Cantharides,
Capjicum annuum.
Carbonate of ammonia,
of potalh,
of foda,
- „ impure,
of baryta,
of lime,
prepared,
of magnefia,
of zinc, impure,
prepared,
of iron,
precipitated,
Cardamine pratenlis,
Cardamom feeds, lelfer,
Cardinal flower, blue,
Carum carui,
Cafcarilla,
Cajjia bark,
fiftula,
fenna,
Cajlor
Cataplafm,
of cummin,
muftard,
alum,
Catechu,
Cenlaurca benedidfla,
Centaury, leffer,
Cephaelis ipecacuanha,
Cerate of fpermaceti,
white or Ample,
of cantharides,
refinous,
foap,
of impure carbonate of zinc,
of calamine,
epulotic brown, or Turner’s,
688
940
499
908
991
910
520
578
267
397
238
313
841
840
862
868
871
878
940
941
961
995
664
340
407
452
757
5<8
541
543
247
231
43 8
667
886
786
722
395
408
263
ib.
269
753
859
942
lb.
ib.
compound q£ aeetated litharge, 956
Ccrufje,
Chalk,
Chamomile flowers,
Cnarcoal,
Chemical remedies,
Chejnut, horfe,
Chironia centaureuai,
Cinchona officinalis^
caribcea,
Cinnamon,
Cijhts creticus,
Citrus aurantiurm
medica,
Clove julyflower,
Cloves,
Cochineal,
Cochlearia officinalis,
armoracia,
Colchicum autumnale,
Colocynth,
Colts foot,
Columho root,
Condiments, nature of,
Confection, aromatic,
opiate,
japonic,
ConfeCtions, general remarks on,
Conium maculatum,
Conferves, general remarks on,
Conferve of fquill,
wood forrel,
of floes,
of rofes,
of hips,
of orange peel*
of fea wornwood,
of arum,
Contrayei'va,
Convolvulus fcammonia,
jalapa,
Cookery, general remarks on,
Copaifera officinalis,
Copper, vitriolated,
Coriandrum fativum,
Cowhage, or cowitcb,
Crcjfes, water,
Crocus fativus,
of antimony,
Croton eleutheria,
Cubebs,
Cucumber, wild,
Cucumis colocynthis,
Culleii's materia medica,
arrangement,
Cuminum cyminum,
Curcuma longa,
Curd, alum,
Cynara fcolymus,
D.
Daphne mezereum,
Danvin's arrangement of remedies,
Datura ftramonium,
DecoCiion of barley,
compound,
of cinchona,
718
292
*88
5°4
3S5
401
406
511
625
691
696-
572
579
275
660
662
500
762
7I7
S32
103
5i7
618
619
224
434
225
494
575
592
599
604
695
710
726
375
38°
385
110
57i
980
45i
682
668
357
891
757
352
760
762
5
132
437
335
886
706
508
135
389
371
372
402
DecoCiion of elm bark,
of mezereon,
compound, of guaiacum,
for clyfters,
of marfhmallow’,
of feneka,
of cabbage-tree bark,
for fomentations,
of chamomile,
of farfaparilla,
compound,
of white hellebore,
Dianthus caryophyllus,
Diaphoretics,
Diet, writers on,
of the fick, remarks on,
Digitalis purpurea,
Diflillation,
Diuretics,
Dolichos pruriens,
Dorfenia cqntrajerva,
Dragon's blood,
Duncan’s New Difpenfatory
Earth, japan,
Elaterium,
Elder,
EleCiricity,
Electuaries, general remarks
- EleCiuary of fcammony,
aromatic,
of caffia,
of fenna,
opiate,
of catechu,
Elemi,
Elm bark,
Elutriation,
Emetics,
Emollients,
Emulfon of gum ammoniac,
of affafoetida,
camphorated,
almond,
arabic,
Errhines,
Eryngium maritimum,
Efcharotics,
Ether, fulphuric,
with alcohol
Index.,
N° 431
5°9
556
671
673
677
689
708
719
770
771
783
572
149
16
121
657
211
152
682
375
679
12
786
761
465
993
22«
384
517
542
548
618
619
505
430
200
vitriolic,
Evaporation, in pharmacy,
Eucaliptus refinifera,
Eugenia caryophyllata,
ExpeCiorants,
ExtraCi of valerian, refinous,
of jalap,
of cinchona,
of gentian,
of aloes,
of fenna,
of logw7ood,
of rue,
143
164
326
442
521
589
791
158
432
J93
298
> 299
aromatic, 583
298
209
585
579
146
356
387
405
429
484
549
552
561
ExtraCi
N°-<5i6
681
687
720
735
759
Index.
Extraci of opium,
of broom,
of liquorice,
of chamomile,
of oak bark,
of cafcarilla,
compound, of colocynth, 763
of fa vine, 77 ^
tlxtraSisznA refins, general remarks on, 226
F.
Fennel, fweet, 458
Fern root, 798
Filings of iron, purified, 959
Filtration, 202
Fijh confidered in general, 76
Flax, purging, 471
Flowers, efculent, lift of, 87
of benzoin, 570
of fulphur, 821
of zinc, 931
Food, confidered in general, 17
proper quantity of, 21
ftiould be fufficient to nourilh the
body, 22
manner of taking, 23
derived, from quadrupeds, 24
birds, 61
reptiles, 68
ferpents, 69
fifties, 70
infedts, 77
worms, 78
vegetable, confidered generally, 82
Foxglove, 65 7
Frankincenfe, 741
Fraxinus ornus, 794
Fungufes, efculent, lift of, 94
G.
Galbanum, 446
Gall nuts, 73^
Gahanifm, 994
Gamboge, 7 ^1
Garlic, 473
Gas, oxygenous, 986
hydrogen, 988
carbonated, 989
carbonic acid, 990
Gentian a lutea, 425
Geoffrcea inermis, 688
Geum urbanum, 609
Ginger, 336
Glyci/rrhi%a glabra, 686
Gmelin’s continuation of Murray, 8
Gorgonia nobilis, 288
Grains and feeds, efculent, lift of, 92
Granulation, 199
Graliola officinalis', 34^
Guaiacum ofacxnzXc, 5^5
Gum ammoniac, 324
tragacanth, 683
arabic, 789
H.
Hamatoxylum campeachianum, 55 r
MATERIA MEDIC A,
HartJljorn, N° 253
Hellebore, white, 782
Hell chorus niger, 631
HelUborus foetidus, ’ 633
Hemlock, 434
Henbane, 390
Hirudo medicinalis, 285
Honey, 276
acetated, 278
of fquill, 496
of rofes, 598
Hop, 768
Horehound, white, 652
Horferadijh, 662
Humulus lupulus, 768
Hydrofulphuret of ammonia, 241
Hyofcyamus niger, 390
634
hedge, ^ 345
Jalap, % 385
Jncilantia, catalogue of, 137
Infujion of cinchona, 40 2
compound, of gentian, 426
of rhubarb, 530
of fenna, fimple, 544
tartartized, 545
of tamarinds with fenna, 546
of rofes, 596
of foxglove, 658
of catechu, 787
Inverlentia, catalogue of, 140
Ipecacuan, 408
Iris florentina, 360
pfeudacorus, 361
Iron, vitriolated, 964
tartarized, 966
Juglans regia, 737
Juice, infpifiated, of henbane, 391
of deadly nightfhade 400
of hemlock, 433
of aconite, 629
lemon, 699
of wild lettuce, 704
of wild cucumber, 761
Juniperus communis, 772
tycj3. 775
fabina, 776
K.
Kcempferia, rotunda, 334
Kermes mineral, 894
Kino, 385
Kirby's tables, 13
LaEluca virofa, 703
Ladanum, 623
Laudanum, liquid, 620
Lauras cinnamomunt, 3 11
caflia, 51 8
camphora, 320
nobilis, 326
faffafras, 5 27
Leeches, 283
Leguminous plants, lift of, 91
Lemon, 696
&C.
Leopard's bane,
Lettuce, wild,
Levigation,
Lewis's materia medica,
Ley, mild,
cauftic,
Lichen iflandicus,
Light,
Lime,
with pure kali,
795
N° 7M
7°3
198
6
3*4
316
799
992
865
3l8
Liniments, ointments, and cerates, 23 2
Liniment of itmmonia, 242
volatile, 242, 244
fimple, 320
camphorated, 325
foap, 837
anodyne, 838
of lime water, 867
Linum ufitatiffimum, 469
catharticum, 471
Liquor of mild volatile alkali, 239
acetated volatile alkali, 240
volatile, of hartftiorn, 234
vitriolic, ethereal, 296
oily, ethereal, 302
Hoffman’s anodyne, ib.
ethereal nkrous, 830
Liquorice, 686
Litharge, 932
Lithontriptics, 192
Liverwort, Iceland, 799
Lobelia fyphilitica, 407
Logwood, 351
Lytta veficatoria, 267
M.
Madder, 374
Magnejia, 879
vitriolated, 877
calcined, 879
white, 878
Mahogany bark, 533
Malt liquors, charafter of, 99
Manna, 794
Marjhmallow, 672
Marrubium vulgare, 632
Majlich, 767
Materia medica, definition of, 1
writers on, 4
late foreign writers
on, 14
Meafures and weights, 206
Melaleuca leucodendron, 700
Meliffa officinalis, 636
Mentha viridis, 633
piperita, 638
pulegium, 642
Mercury, 904
purified, 9 >3
acetated, 906
muriated, corrofive, 907
mild, 909
calcined, 9 r 3
nitrated, red, 916
fubvitriolated, 9 * 8
with fulphur, 919
3 H 2 Me%ereum
79^ M
Me%ereum or mezereon, N® 508
Mimofa catechu, 786
Mimofa nilotica, 789
Mixture, mufk, 25 2
camphorated, 522
chalk, 872
Mixtures and emulfions, 228
Momordica elaterium, 760
Monro's medical chemiltiy, 9
Mofchus mofchiferus, 250
Mucilage of ftarch, 368
of quince feeds, 594
of gum tragacanth, 684
of gum arabic, 790
Mucilages, general remarks on, 227
Muriate of ammonia, 235
and iron, 971
of baryta, 863
of antimony, 896
of mercury, 907
mild, fublimed, 908
precipitated, 909
Murray's (Dr) apparatus medicaminum, 7
(Mr) elements of materia
medica, II
obfervations on the a<5h’on
of medicines, i 2
arrangement, 13
Mujk, 250
Mu/lard, white, 665
common, 666
Myriflica mofchata, 727
Myroxylon peruiferum, 536
Myrrh, 327
Myrtus pimento, 580
N.
Nicotiana tabacum,
Nightjhade, deadly,
Nitrate of potalh,
of filver,
Nitre,
Nuts, efculent, lift of,
Nutnentia, catalogue of,
Nutmeg,
■Nux vomica,
O.
Oak bark,
Oil, ufe of, as a condiment,
ammoniated,
of hart (horn,
animal, or Dippel’s,
of wine,
©live,
lintfeecf,
camphorated,
of almonds,
of mace,
caftor,
fulphurated,
©f amber,
of petroleum,
«f vitriol,
volatile, of rofemary,
393
399
844
985
844
93
136
727
396
734
108
242
257
258
300
344
470
524
588
728
756
823
830
834
835
347
ATERIA MEDICA,
Oil, volatile, of carraway, N° 453
of fennel, 460
of anifeed, 463
of faffafras, 528
of rue, j6o
of pimento, 582
of mint, 637
of peppermint, 640
of pennyroyal, 643
of lavender, 647
of origanum, 654
of cajeput, 700
of turpentine, 746
purified, 747
of juniper, 773
of fa vine, 777
pf fpermaceti, 262
cantharides, 272
powder, 274
infufion, 273
fimple, 321
wax, 322
elder, 467
of elemi, y06
749
relinous, 732
of white hellebore, 78 c
of fulphur, 825
of nitrous acid, 849
oxygenated, ib.
of white calx of mercury, 911
of cinereous oxide of mer-
cury> # 913
of red oxide of mercury, 917
mercurial, 922
of nitrated mercury, 928
milder, 9 29
of oxide of zinc, 93 2
of impure oxide of zinc, 030
tutty,. _ ib.
of white oxide of lead, 948
white, ib.
of acetite of lead, 930
of fubacetite of copper, 978
Olibanum, 77^
Opium, 612
Opodeldoc, 857
Opoponax, 4 r r
Orange, Seville, 691
Origanum vulgare, 653
majorana, 655
Orris root, florentine, 360
Oxalis acetofella, 374
Oxidation, 217
Oxide of arfenic, 888
of antimony with fulphur, 891
vitrified, 892
with wax, 893
with phofphate of
lime, 898
of mercury, cinereous, 912
red, 916
of zinc, 931
impure, 937
&c-. Index.
Oxide of lead, white, 9^ 5
red’- • . 951
ftmivitnfied, 952
of iron, black, purified, 960
re<l, 969
of azote, gafeous, 987
Oxymel, fimple, 278
of fquill, 49^
of colchicum, 502
of verdigris, 977
Papaver rhoeas,
fomniferum.
Parjley,
Pajhnaca opoponax,
Pearl-ajhes,
Pence a farcocolla,
Pepper, black,
long,
Cayenne,
Jamaica,
P.
610
612
461
455
312
373
35*
353
397
380
Percival's propolitions on the a&ion
of medicines, 122 r ^ e
fulphurated, 824
Pharmacy, definition of, 2
Phofphate of lime, 2C3
offoda, 843
Phofphorus, ^
Physeter macrocephalus, 261
Pills, general remarks on, 221
compound of affafoetida, 444
of galbanum, 449
aloetic, 4^0
of aloes and affafoetida, 481
colocynth, 482
R r , mrrrh. 483
Kurus’s, ib.
f(luill» 497
opiate, ^ 6is
compound antimonial, 903
Plummer’s, ' ib,
mercurial, 921
of ammoniaret of copper, 983
Pimento,
Pimpinella anifum, 462
Pink, Carolina, 378
Pinus abies, 733
balfamea, 743
rfh • 744
. fylveftns, 743
Piper mgxum, 3^
cubeba,
Ion gum, 353
Pi/lacia terebinthus, 765
lentifcus, 757
Plajler of cantharides, 270
compound, 271
fimple, 323
gum> . 326
cummin,
of affafoetida,
compound ladanum, 626
Plafer,
1
Index.
P/after, compound,
pitch,
M A
of Burgundy
N° 740
of frankincenfe, 742
754
M E D I C A, &c.
N° 562 Smi/ax farfaparilla,
refinous,
foap, 860
mercurial, _ 925
of gum ammoniac with mer¬
cury,
litharge with mercury,
of fenlivitrified oxide of lead,
common or diaclilon,
of red oxide of iron,
ftrengthening,
P/afters,
Poiftm oak,
Polygala fenega,
Polygonum bidorta,
Poly podium fiiix mas,
Pomegranate,
Poppy, red,
white,
Potafi,
with lime,
Potion, chalk,
Pot-herbs, lift of,
Powder, compound, of crabs claws,
of myrrh,
of contrayerva,
of fcammony,
compound, offcammo»y with
aloes,
of fcammony with calomel,
compound, of jalap,
of ipecacuan and opium,
Dover’s,
of aloes with canella, '
aloetic with guaiacum,
iron,
aromatic,
compound of fenna,
compound of afarabacca,
opiate,
compound of gum traga-
canth,
of carbonate of
lime,
of chalk,
of fulphate of a-
lumina,
ftyptic,
of algaroth,
antimonial, or James’s,
of tin,
compound, of cerufe, N
Powders, general remarks on,
Precipitate, white,
red,
Prunus domeftica,
fpinofa,
Pterocarpus fantalmus,
draco,
Punic a granatum,
Pyrus cydonia, ^
926
927
957
ib.
920
ib,
233
468
676
798
584
610
612
3*7
318
872
86
284
329
376
381
282
383
386
409
ib,
477
478
479
5i6
550
577
614
685
874
lb.
885
rb.
897
898
944
947
220
910
916
59°
591
678
679
584
593
563
T E R I A
-ftuajfta fimaruba,
Qisercus cerris, 73^
^uickji/ver, 9°4
with chalk, 9*4
feeds, 593
R‘
Rafpberry, 60 jf
Refrigerants, 1 ^7
Remedies, of, confidered, 122—126
Revertentia, catalogue of, 141
catharticus, 411
Rhubarb, 5 29
Rhododendron chryfanthum, 564
Rhus toxicodendron, 468
Ricinus communis, 755
Roots, efculent, catalogue of, 83
Rofa gallica, 595
centifolia, 600
canina, 603
Rofmarinus officinalis, 34^
Ruf of iron, 9^1
Ruta graveolens, 559
S.
Saffron, 357
Sagapenum, 33°
Sage, _ 349
Sal ammoniac, 233
polychreft, 839
Salix fragilis, 7^5
Salt, common, 104
of hartfttorn, 256
Rochelle, 4X7
of tartar, 4X8
of benzoin, 57°
of amber, 829
purified, 831
petre, 844
fea or common, 851
Glauber’s, 854
v. Epfom, 877
of fteel, 964
Sambucus nigra, 4^5
Sarfaparilla, 7^9
Sarcocol, 373
Saffafras, 5 27
Savine, 7 7 ^
Scammony, 38°
SciHa maritima, 489
Scurvy grafs, garden, 660
Secernentia, catalogue of, 138
Seneha root, 676
Senna, ^ 543
Shoots and (talks, efculent, lift of, 84
Sia/agogues, 161
Silver, nitrated, 985
Simarouba, 562
Simples, collodion and prefervation
of, 194
Sin apis alba, 665
nigra, 666
Sifymbrium nzHuxUnm, 667
Siam nodiflorum, 436
Skirret, creeping, ib.
Sloes, 591
Snakeroot, Virginian,
Soap, Caftile,
Solatium dulcamara,
Solution of volatile alkali, cauftic,
of mildeft vegetable- alkali,
of muriate of baryta,
of lime,
of fulphate of zinc,
of acetite of zinc,
compound, of fulphate of cop¬
per,
Sorbentia, catalogue of,
Southernwood,
Spartium fcoparium,
Spermaceti,
Spices, ufes of,
Spigelia marilandica,
Spirit, ardent, ufes pf,
of fal ammoniac, ftrong,
of volatile alkali,
of ammonia,
fuccinated,
Mindererus’s,
of ammonia, compound^
of hartfhorn,
of wine, redified,
of vitriolic ether,
compound,
proof,
of rofemary,
of carraway,
compound of anifeed,
of cinnamon,
camphorated,
of pimento,
of mint,
of peppermint,
of pennyroyal,
of lavender,.
compound,
compound of horfe-radifh,
of nutmeg,
of juniper,
of vitriol,
of nitre, fuming,
fweet,
of nitrous ether,,
of fea fait,
Sponge,
Squill,
St John’s wort,
Stalagmitis cambogioides,
Stavefacre,
Stimulants,
Stone-fruit, efculent, lift of,
Storax,
Strychnos nux vomica,
Styrax officinale,
benzoin,
Subacetate of copper,
Subborate of foda,
Subcarbonate of potafti,
797
N9 769
723
856
398
236
239
3'$
876
934
936
impure,
pureft,
981
!39
7°7
68©
261
107
378
102
226
237
ib.
245
24 a
243
254
294
297
301
3°4
348
454
464
523
583
63 7.c*
641
645
648
649
663
729
774
836
846
850
ib.
853
290
489
701
781
627
177
89
566
396
566
568
975
855
312
418
Submuriate
798
bubniiiriale of rnercm-v,
precipitated,
Subfufy/fate of mercury, yellow,
MATERIA M E D I C A, &c.
N° 908
Sugar, ufes of,
of lead,
Sulphate of potafh,
W'ith fulphur,
of foda,
• of baryta,
of magnefia,
of alumina, dried,
9°9
9x8
106, 362
949
838
8 39
854
861
877
882
933
964
968
980
821
827
894
826
889
895
919
920
949
881
4i5
553
554
10
of zinc,
of iron,
dried,
of copper,
Sulphur, fublimed,
precipitated,
antimonial brown,
Sulphuret of potalh,
of antimony,
precipitated,
of mercury, black,
red,
Superacetate of lead,
Superfulphate of alumina and potafh,
Supertartrate of potafh,
Swietenia mahagoni,
febrifuga,
Synopjis of materia medica,
of materia medica, arrange¬
ment of, 133
Syrup of acetous acid, 310
ginger, 338
faffron, ’ 338
buckthorn, 412
violets, 420
black currants, 424
garlic, 474
fquill, 492
colchicum, 501
Tolu, 540
clove julyflower, 573
red rofes, 397
damafk rofes, 602
rafpberry, 606
red poppy, 611
opium, 623
white poppy, 624
marfhmallowq 664
orange peel, 692
lemon juice, 698
mulberries, 732
manna, 795
Syrups, general remarks on, 229
T.
Tamarindus indica, 669
Tanacetum vulgare, 713
Tar, 748
Tartar, cryftals or cream of, 413
foluhle, 416
emetic, 889
of potafh, 416
and foda, 417
of antimony and potafh, 889
Thefaurus medicaminum,
Thi/ile, bluffed,
Thorn apple,
Tin,
TinSiure of caflor,
compound,
of mufk,
cantharides,
myrrh,
columbo,
ginger,
cardamom feeds,
valerian,
faffron,
jalap,
henbane,
cinchona,
N° 10
722
589
943
248
2 49
251
268
328
333
337
34i
compound, 342
355
ammoniated, 356
359
388
332
4°3
compound, 403, d.
ammoniated, 404
of bark, Huxham’s, 403,4.
compound of gentian, 427
bitter, jb.
of affafoetida, -443
galbanum, 448
aloes, 483;
and myrrh, 486
compound, ib.
etherial, 487
of fquill, 495
cinnamon, 514
compound, 515
aromatic, ib.
camphor, 323
rhubarb, 332
compound, 533
and aloes, 534
rum ra"d gentian> 535
or baliam or .Peru, 537
of Tolu, 539
compound, of fenna, 547
of guaiacum, 577
ammoniated, 558
compound of benzoin, 569
of kino, 586
opium, 620
camphorated, 621
ammoniated, 622
thebaic, 620
of black hellebore, 63 2
lavender, compound, 649
foxglove, 659
orange peel, 694
fnakeroot^ 724
cafcarilla, 758
compound of fa vine, 779
of white hellebore, 784
catechu, 788
foap, _ 857
and opium, 858
of muriate of iron, 965
ammoniacal iron, 972
acetated iron, 973
Tinciures, general remarks on, 230
I
Tobacco,
Toluifera balfamum,
Tomes,
Tormentilla erecla,
Torpentia, catalogue of,
Trituration,
Troches, general remarks on,
of ftarch,
of liquorice with opium,
gum,
of carbonate of lime,
chalk,
magnefia,
Turmeric root,
Turpentine, Venice,
common,
Chio,
Tutty,
Valeriana officinalis,
Veratrum album,
Verdigris,
Vinegar,
radical,
aromatic,
of fquill,
Vio/a odorata,
Vitis vinifera,
Vitriol, white,
green,
blue,
U/mus campeltris,
Vrtica dioica,
U,
Waberobin,
Walnut,
Water,
w.
of ammonia,
pure armnonia,
•carbonate of ammonia,
acetate of ammonia,
prepared kali,
carbonate of potaffi,
potaffi,
pure kali,
Hungary,
barley,
dill,
fweet fennel,
cinnamon,
caffia,
pimento,
rofe,
mint,
peppermint,
pennyroyal,
orange peel,
lemon peel,
fnow or rain pureft,
varieties of,
medical ufe of,
external ufe of
diltilled,
Index,
^T0 393
533
I74
607
142
197
222
3%
617
792
873
ib.
88o
335
• 745
75®
766
937
354
7812
975
1o5
3°7
308
491
419
413
953
967
98*
43®
733
723
737
802
236
ib.
239
240
3,4
3'5
316
ib.
348
371
457
459
512
5'9
581
601
636
639
643
693
697
8 jz
804
81 3
814
8 2©
Water
l
Index, M
Water of fupercarbonate of foda, N° 842
lime, 866
impregnated with fixed air, 875
compound alum, 884
of vitriolated zinc with cam¬
phor, 935
of acetated litharge, 954
compound, 95 5
of aerated iron, 962
of ammoniated copper, 979
fapphire,
WaLerSy mineral, 805
ATERIA MED
Whortle berry,
Willow bark,
Wine, ufes of,
tobacco,
ipecacuan,
compound of gentian, _
bitter,
of aloes,
rhubarb,
of tartrate of antimony,
antimonial,
of iron.
I c
100,
A,
565
765
4r3
394
409
428
ib.
488
531
900
901
963
Sec,
Win/era aromatica,
Wormfeed,
Wormwood, fea,
common,
Z,
Zedoary, round,
long,
Zinc,
calcined,
vitriolated,
799
N® 630
7ir
709
712
334
339
93°
93i
93.3,
•J- ^
END OF THE-TWELFTH VOLUME. .
DIRECTIONS for placing the PLATES of Vol. XII,
Part I.
Plate CCXCVI. to face
CCXCVH.
CCXCVIII.
CCXCVIII. 2d,
CCXCIX.
CCC<
}
page 60
62
264
39^
Part II.
CCCI—CCCXIV, - - 536
CCCXV. - - * 680
Jl'
I
■
,•' . • '<,. . - V -
VfK-=""'' 'r 'V ' ’' " V,
t * , t , r jf-
I /r' ^ ^ W ^ ; V' I ^ I ip ^
j *: ?§ Si , .
r? ^ ’ /t ' V*' ^ ih4 ^ ■
4fvv^.,
- , $ 14 >if
<^5S>
•s&j :
mm
ri.;
i'i
■ .
; -fc ■ ■ ', ■'■ . ■' ..frf, ' --. v.; 5»; .-...-!■ .
t • • ** l n ■ ,$%$ v*i■'j
J6 w v> 1 'rf* , ' ’ R& ««» WS^&^SBt w»Jn«i .'
* ^ 1 %J- 4
| ^ m 4^ “ ^ t
> m I I pS
tSr^r k/f:
, _.-' r y ;• 1 . -ty'v/-, f,
•'X+&IK 1 , ”-• i-jrtvi' W'&i'V'Hi' ' "'
>2 >& i. m « ,r >?-
'
jM% Vi, < 'J!'
I?, l'*.’ol/‘ ’ H
- 'i*1! ■• 'r-
' *'-x fes IP I
^ 4^ r ' fj' ^ * f J/. ^
, " * . J ^ ' , W1-* / J "/* 4 ^
>7# '- & ’* •,- > v-ir?*' • v -j?r,
. > V% ? 4 W£%
m 1 H 6 \I w ,r
-r _ r “ ^ >‘4 •" , > 5S ;vr',
i ' ** si , " -*ts g ip i, *
11 :$
15 fil ^^ 'v % ffl
I m , - .* ^ - / p «
t4.:.. •-» -i? - > ■«:- "■ .,'*. r. .»!..' i,** . r-'^'♦.'■'i.. ^..ri.#.«v*w>»rii
X'i ik
S ^ - S -'.'v ‘J fi .. A> l
. ..^.P *.. ,• . fe., 'P-
■ •• ;'y. • ''-"• 'f .-.^-
fe Si %: ^ f ^ ^ f H ^ % i# Sp
- - /t ^ ?v< ;i
-> Xv )
$,* '^:i- C ,
mstt
‘ ..\ r " '-1 . fk&sLrJ A VV- " ^ •f’i . >-
iuZ - < ^ ■•? *■*- - ' .-H » ;tw,. !->•' ^ vTy
S'. ■-•■>
:■
fj, I- 4^ ^ 4w&.'
" t-t' . s4
»I
.»r.. skm P *5,
'
,-“' »' > ,, . ( <
IS r® i ® ?.••-& :.
CW-W: #• -; /’i-l
'. ^,:vi;AfeV ^? '
'v’s 6%^^®
s i •v;',--
. If .
'^'•^='4'; V;/- 'Z^-i^'.f
■ m |y L .■
>&ViV$i3f’'--“.
S^; P
I IA 5 ; |
■ ■
’ hf m SSfi * ISS B § ‘4 Ul Pi !
i m Wm « f A ^ tefll | imm m : .
S '> , j »'1 % ’ •*' * |!Ar^ % ^ «•!' I p. i *
W m p:^P ^ ft > '■/ fiV
f -f ^ ' 'A ? *1 , s ^ \ vjl ‘ ’
! ... "« . .. ..\i ; .' 14 * . . ..!'.! A.. .-•.. ^ 4 r A .«..*... . 1 .», .<
. '■• ...•, ’ ''-■
J v • " 4* i
l \ 't&'< '2;hW*
i * 4 C, x ..Pi ''" T\ 4^4 *
: & , tswwp*
s> X*'<>‘’.-■^r',' 4 , ,
- -< V . /.w 5$. '- - '>/.r-P,' . *a ■■. j,1’ Mvp./4 ^
,w \&y 1 .i\ Pt km
,:S i” ■ l 4 - /^ ,“' '
•VP*. >;rp^4,
V, , , 0x.§
Jm
i ( <*■ > ^ |
, , m
mS s9M.:!Msik!,r"''"'
