&
M,. JE Ok rc "-
I
*
.
\
r
Encyclopedia Britannic a.
GOT
t&tWred, OTHOFRED, or Godfrey, Denis or Diony-
Gotten- Ijysius, an eminent civil lawyer, born of an illuftrious
burg- houfe at Paris in 1549. Finding his country invol-
ve(j jn the confufion of the leaguers, he accepted of a
profeflbr’s chair at Geneva, until he was patronized
and employed by Henry IV. j but being afterwards
{tripped of his employments as a Huguenot, he at
length retired to Heidelburg, from whence no offers
were able to detach him. He was, however, difap-
pointed of his intention to end his days there j for the
difturbances that broke out in the Palatinate obliged
him, in 1621, to take refuge in Strafburgh, where he
died the following year. He wrote a great number of
books j but his principal work is the Corpus Juris Ci-
vilis cum nods.
GothoFRED, Theodore, fon of the former, wTas
born at Geneva in 1580. As foon as he had finifhed
his ftudies, he went to Paris; where he conformed to
the Romilh religion, and applied with indefatigable in-
duftry to the ftudy of hiftory, that of France particu¬
larly, wherein he became very eminent, as appears by
his works. In 1632, the king made him one of his
hiftoriographers, with a ftipend of 3000 livres j and, in
1636, he was fent to Cologne,' to affid at the treaty of
peace negociating there, on the part of France, by the
cardinal of Lyons. This treaty being removed to
Munfter, Gothofred was fent thither, where he drew
up Memoirs on the fubjeft ; and continued in that city,
in the king’s fervice, to his death in 1649- Princ^"
pal work is his “ Account of the Ceremonial of the kings
of France.”
GOTTENBURG, a rich and ftrong town of Weft
Gothland, in Sweden, with a good harbour, at the
mouth of the river Gothelba •, which is the beft fityated
for foreign trade of any in Sweden, as it lies without
the Sound. It occupies the ftte of an ancient town,
named Lodefe, which was built by Guftavus Vafa ; and
being endowed with confiderable privileges, foon be¬
came the great emporium for the trade of the weftern
provinces. Charles IX when duke of Gothland, having
in 1604 laid the foundations of a new town in the illand
of Hiiingen at no great diftance from Lodefe, called it
Gothehorg (fince corrupted into Gottenburg^) in honour
of his duchy. Upon his acceffion to the throne, he ereffed
in his new town a trading company \ drew thither many
foreigners, particularly the Dutch, to whom he allowed
an exemption from all duties of export and import during
20 years ; a corps of Englifh and Scotch troops, un-
VoL. X. Part I.
GOT
der the command of William Stewart; and granted to Gotten*
the Calvinifts eftablilhed therein the free exercife of Go^rnSgeff,
their religion, the firft place in Sweden where this tole- 1—j
ration was permitted. The town being in 1611 re¬
duced to a(hes by the Danes, was rebuilt hr the reign
of Guftavus Adolphus in its prefent fituation, and ob¬
tained a confirmation of its ancient rights, with the
grant of feveral additional privileges.—It is built in a
very fingular fituation. At a fmall diftance from the
fea is a marfhy plain, fcarcely more than half a mile
in breadth, watered by the rivers Gotha and Moldal,
and almoft entirely enclofed with high ridges of rocks
fo bare and rugged, that they fcarcely produce a fingle
blade of grafs, and exhibit as barren an appearance as
the fummits of the loftieft Alps. Gottenburg ftands
partly upon the ridges, and partly in the plain j and
is divided from thefe different fituations into the Up¬
per and Lower Town. The latter is entirely level, in^
terfefted by feveral canals in the manner of the Dutch
towns 5 and its houfes are all conftrufted upon piles ;
the upper part hangs on the declivities j and row's of
buildings rife one above the other like the feats of an am¬
phitheatre. The whole is regularly fortified 5 and its cir¬
cumference is near three miles, exclufive of the fuburbs,
called Haga, which lie toward the harbour. The
ftreets are all uniformly ftraight: a few of the houfes
are of brick ; but the generality are conftrufted with
wmod painted red. The harbour is formed by two
chains of rocks, and is about a quarter of a mile in
breadth. Its entrance is defended by the fort of New
Elfsborg, which ftands upon a fmall rocky ifland, and
contains a garrifon of 250 men. There has been lately
eftablilhed at Gottenburg a Royal Society of Sciences
and Literature, upon the plan of that of Upfala.—Mr
Coxe was informed by a merchant who had refided 22
years at Gottenburg, that, during that period, its po¬
pulation had increafed confiderably, and that it now
contained about 30,000 inhabitant . This flourilhing
ftate is attributed to the extenr on of its commerce,
particularly its Eaft India Coro ny, and the fuccefs
of the herring-filhery. An Englilh conful and feve¬
ral merchants of our nation refide at Gottenburg : and
a chapel, with a regular chaplain, is appropriated to
their ufe. E. Long. 11. 50. N. Lat. 57. 44.
GOTTINGEN, a confiderable town of Lower
Saxony in Germany, and in the duchy of Brunfwick j
formerly free and imperial, but afterwards fubjefl to the
eleftor of Hanover. Here his late majefty George II.
A founded
1
G O U [2
founded an univerfity. It is feated on the river Leine,
in E. Long. 10. 5. N. Lat. 51. 32.
GOTTORP, a town of the duchy of Hefwic, in
Denmark, and capital of the duchy of Holftein Got-
torp, where the duke has a very fine palace.
GOUANIA, in Botany, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the polygamia clafs. See Botany Index.
GOUDA, or Turgow, a confiderable town of
South Holland, in the United Provinces, remarkable
for its ftately church. It is feated on the river Iffel,
in E. Long. 4. 37. N. Lat. 52. 2.
GOUDT, Henry, ufually called Count Goudt, was
born of a noble family at Utrecht, in 1570 •, and wras
a knight of the Palatinate. Being paflionately fond of
the arts, particularly painting and engraving, and de-
lirous of engaging in them, he applied himfelf diligent¬
ly to drawing, and made a great proficiency therein.
He went to Rome to examine the works of the great
mailers in that city. Here he contra61ed an intimacy
with that excellent artiil Adam Elfheimer; ftudied
his manner of penciling, defigning, and colouring j
and made his works models for his own imitation.
He pre-engaged all the piflures that his friend and
favourite could finilh, and even paid liberally for
them before-hand ; by which means he found himfelf
in pofleffion of a moll; defirable treafure. Thofe pic¬
tures wdiich Goudt himfelf painted were neatly and de¬
licately touched, in colour and pencil refembling El-
fheimer, though they were in no degree equal to the
paintings of that admirable mailer. On his return to
his native country, a young woman who was in love
with him, and defirous of fixing his affedlions upon
her, gave him in his drink a love philtre : which, how¬
ever, terminated in a very melancholy manner, by de¬
priving him totally of his fenfes j and in the dreadful
Rate of idiotifm he dragged on a miferable life to the
age of 69, his death happening in 1636. It is re¬
markable, that though loft to every other fubjeft, when
painting w^as fpoken of he would difcourfe upon it in a
very rational manner.
Goudt praftifed engraving as well as painting, and
made feven beautiful prints after the pi6tures of Ellhei-
mer, which are well known to the curious, and are to
be met with in moft choice colle£lions. He worked
with the graver only, in a very neat ftyle; and produ¬
ced a moft powerful effedl, not by ftrengthening the
ftrokes, according to the ufual method, but by crofting
them with additional ftrokes, equally neat, and that
five or fix times, one over another, in the deep Ihadow^s.
Confidering the precifion with which he executed his
engravings, the freedom of handling the graver which
may be difcovered in them is very aftonilhing. The
weeds and other parts of the fore-ground in that ad¬
mirable print of the Ceres, are very finely exprefied.
The heads of the figures are corredlly drawn, and the
other extremities are managed in a judicious manner.
The feven prints done by him, from Ellheimer, men¬
tioned above, are, 1. Ceres drinking from a pitcher.
An old w7oman appears holding a candle at the door of
the cottage, and a boy naked ftanding by her is laugh¬
ing and pointing at the goddefs} for which contempt
he was metamorphofed by her into a frog. The power¬
ful and ftriking effeft of this engraving cannot be pro¬
perly defcribed. This print is diftinguilhed alfo by the
name of ti\$forcery, a. The flight into Egypt; A
] GOV
night-fcene, in which the moon and ftars are introdu- Goverrf-
ced with great fuccefs. 3. The angel with Tobit, who ment
is drawing a filh by his fide. The back-ground is a
landfcape 5 the w'eeds in the fore-ground, and the . '^ A
branches of the trees in front, as well as the foliage
and weeds hanging from them, are beautifully expref-
fed. 4. The angel with Tobit, crofting a liream of
water : The back-ground, a landfcape. 5. Baucis and
Philemon entertaining Jupiter and Mercury. 6. A
landfcape, called the Aurora, reprefenting the dawn of
day. The effedt is very beautiful. 7. The beheading
of St John in prifon, a very fmall upright oval print,
which is by far the fcarceft.
GOVERNMENT, in general, is the polity of a
ftate, or an orderly power conftituted for the public
good.
Civil government wras inftituted for the prefervation
and advancement of mens civil interefts, and for the
better fecurity of their lives, liberties, and properties.
The ufe and neceflity of government is fuch, that there
never wras an age or country without fome fort of civil
authority : but as men are feldom unanimous in the
means of attaining their ends, fo their differences in
opinion in relation to government have produced a va¬
riety of forms of it. To enumerate them would be to
recapitulate the hiftory of the whole earth. But, ac¬
cording to Montefquieu, and moft other writers, they
may, in general, be reduced to one of thefe three kinds.
I. The republican. 2. The monarchical. 3. The def-
potic.—The firft is that, where the people in a body,
or only a part of the people, have the fovereign power j
the fecond, where one. alone governs, but by fixed and
eftabliftred laws $ but in the defpotic government, one
perfon alone, without law and without rule, diredls
every thing by his owm will and caprice. See the arti¬
cle Law, N° 1. 3—10.—On the fubjedf of govern¬
ment at large, fee Montefquieu’s DE/prit des Loixy
1. 2. c. 1. $ Locke, ii. 129, &c. quarto edition, 1768 j
Sidney on Government *, Sir Thomas Smith de Repub.
Angl. and Acherly’s Britannic Conftitution.—As to
Gothic government, its original and faults, &c. fee
Montefquieu’s iPEfprit des Loix, 1. 11. c. 8.—With re-
fpedl to the feudal policy, how it limited government,
fee Feodal System.
Government is alfo a poll or office, which gives a
perfon the power or right to rule over a place, a city,
or a province, either fupremely or by deputation.
Government is likewife ufed for the city, coun¬
try, or place to which the power of governing is ex¬
tended.
GOUGE, an inftrument ufed by divers artificers,
being a fort of round hollow chifel j ferving to cut
holes, channels, grooves, &c. in wTood, ftone, &c.
GOULART, Simon, a famous minifter of Geneva,
was born at Senlis in 1543 j and was one of the moft
indefatigable writers of his time. He made confider¬
able additions to the Catalogue of wdtneffes of the truth,
compofed by Ulyricus *, and acquired a great reputation
by his works ; the principal of which are, 1. A tranf-
lation of Seneca. 2. A colledtion of memorable hifto-
ries. 3. A tranllation of St Cyprian De lapjts. 4. Se¬
veral devotional and moral treatifes. He died at Ge¬
neva in 1628.
GOURD. See Cucurbita, Botany Index.
GOURGUES, Dominique de, an illuftrious French
patriot.
G O W [3
Gournay patriot, a private gentleman of Gafcony. The Spa¬
ll niards having inhumanly maffacred a colony of French-
Govvn* men who had fettled in Florida, Gourgues took a fe-
' 'r—J vere revenge on them, an account of which is given
under the article Florida. On his return he was re¬
ceived with acclamations by his countrymen, but was
forbidden to appear at court. Queen Elizabeth invited
him to command an Englifh fleet againfl: the Spaniards
in 1593 } but he died at lours in his way to Eng¬
land.
GOURNAY, a town of Frartce, in the duchy of
Normandy and territory of Bray, celebrated for its
butter-market. It is fituated on the river Ept, in E.
Long. o. 33. N. Lat. 49. 25.
Gournay, Mary de Jars de, a lady celebrated for
her learning, was the daughter of William de Jars, lord
of Neufvi and Gournay. After the death of her father,
fhe wTas protected by Montaigne and Cardinal Riche¬
lieu. To the daughter of the former the dedicated her
Nofegay of Pindus and compofed feveral other works,
the moft confiderable of which is Les Avis. She died
at Paris in 1685, aged 80. The critics are divided
concerning the reputation of this lady 1 by fome Ihe is
flyled the Syren of Trance ; others fay her works fliould
have been buried with her.
GOUT. See Medicine Index.
GOWER, John, one of our moil; ancient Englifli
poets, was contemporary with Chaucer, and his inti¬
mate friend. Of what family, or in wdiat country he
was born, is uncertain. He ftudied the law, and was
fome time a member of the fociety of Lincoln’s-inn,
where his acquaintance with Chaucer began. Some
have afferted that he was a judge 5 but this is by no
means certain. In the firil year of Henry IV. he be¬
came blind *, a misfortune which he laments in one of
his Latin poems. He died in the year 1402 j and was
buried in St Mary Overie, which church he had re¬
built chiefly at his own expence, fo that he mull have
lived in affluent circumftances. His tomb wras magni¬
ficent, and curioufly ornamented. It ftill remains, but
hath been repaired in later times. From the collar of
SS round the neck of his effigies, which lies upon the
tomb, it is conje&ured that he had been knighted.
As to his character as a man, it is impoflible, at this
diftance of time, to fay any thing with certainty.
With regard to his poetical talents, he was undoubt¬
edly admired at the time when he wrote, though a
modern reader may find it difficult to difcover much
harmony or genius in any of his compofitions. He
wrote, 1. Speculum meditantisy in French, in ten books.
There are two copies of this in the Bodleian library.
2. Vox clamant is, in Latin verfe, in feven books. Pre-
ferved alfo in the Bodleian library, and in that of All-
Souls. It is a chronicle of the infurreftion of the
commons in the reign of Richard II. 3. ConfeJJio
amantis ; printed at Weftminfter by Caxton in 1493.
Loud. 1532, 1554. It is a fort of poetical fyftem
of morality, interfperfed with a variety of moral tales.
4. De rege Henrico IV. Printed in Chaucer’s works.
There are likewife feveral hiftorical trafts, in manu-
fcript, written by our author, which are to be found
in different libraries j alfo fome fliort poems printed in
Chaucer’s works.
GOWN, robe, a long upper garment, worn by
Gown,
Gowrai:.
] G O W
lawyers, divines, and other graduates } w'ho are hence
called men of the gown, or gownmen. y
The gown is an ample fort of garment, worn over
the ordinary clothes, hanging down to the feet. It is
fafhioned differently for eccleiiaftics and for laymen.
At Rome they gave the name “ virile gown,” toga
virilis, to a plain kind of gown which their youth, af¬
firmed when arrived at puberty. This they particu¬
larly denominatedSee Hoga, PRjETEXTA,
&c.
“ The remarkable drefs of our Britifh anceflors ,
(Mr Whitaker obferves), which continued very nearly 'G
the fame to the commencement of the laft century
among the natives of Ireland, and has aftually defcend-
ed to the prefent among the mountaineers of Scotland,
and is therefore rendered very familiar to our ideas,
carried in it an aftonifhing appearance to the Romans.
And it feems to have been equally the drefs of the men
and women among the nobles of Britain. But in a
few years after the ere£Iion of the Roman Britifh towns
in the north, and in the progrefs of refinement among
them, this ancient habit began to be difefleemed by
the chiefs of the cities, and looked upon as the badge
of ancient barbarifm. And the growing prejudices
were foon fo greatly improved, that within 20 years
only after the conftruftion of the towns, the Britifh
fagum was actually religned, and the Roman toga or
gown affumed by many of them.
“ The gown, however, never became univerfal in
Britain: and it feems to have been adopted only by
the barons of the cities and the officers of the crown ;
and has therefore been tranfmitted to us as the robe of
reverence, the enfign of literature, and the mantle of
magiftracy. The woollen and plaided garments of the
chiefs having naturally fuperfeded the leathern vetlures
of their clients, the former were ftill wore by the ge¬
nerality of the Britons j and they were retained by
the gentlemen of the country, and by the commonalty
both in country and city. 1 hat this was the cafe,
appears evident from the correfpondent condudl of the
Gauls and Britons •, who kept their Virgata Sagula
to the laft, and communicated them to the Franks and
Saxons. The plaided drapery of the Britons ftill ap¬
peared general in the ftreets of Manchefter 5 and muft
have formed a ftriking contraft to the gown of the
chief, the dark mantle of Italy : and it and the orna¬
mented buttons on the ftioulder are preferved among
us even to the prefent moment, in the parti-coloured
clothing and the taffeled ftioulder knots of our foot¬
men. 7
In fome univerfities phyficians wear a fcarlet gown.
In the Sorbonne, the do&ors were always in gowns and
caps. Beadles, &c. wear gowns of two or more co-
lours.
Among the French officers, &c. they diftinguifli tbofe
of the Jhort gown or robe ; which are fuch as have not
been regularly examined. They have alfo barbers of
the Jhort gown, who are fuch as are obliged to practife
in an inferior way to thofe of the long robe.
Gown is alfo taken in the general for civil magiftra-
ture, or the profeflion oppofite to that of arms. In this
fenfe it was that Cicero faid cedant arma togce.
GOWRAN, a borough town, in the county of
Kilkenny and province of Leinfter, Ireland. N. Lat.
A 2 52.
G R A [4
feoyen, 52. 34. W. Long. 7. O. It is governed by a portrieve,
Graaf. recorder, and town clerk. Here are tbe ruins of an
o),] church, alfo tire handfome feat of the late Lord
Clifden 5 and three miles beyond Gewran the ruins of
Ballinabola callle.
GOYEN, John Van, painter of landfcapes, cattle,
and fea pieces, was born at Leyden in 1596 •, and was
for fome time inftrudted by Ifaac Nicholai, who was
reputed a good painter ; but afterwards he became the
difciple of Efaias Vandervelde, the moft celebrated
landicape painter of his time. Van Goyen very foon
rofe into general efteem ; and his works are more uni-
verfally fpread through all Europe than the works of
any other mafter, for he poffefi’ed an uncommon readi-
nefs of hand and freedom of pencil. It was his con-
llant pleafure and praftice to Iketch the views of vil¬
lages and towns fituated on the banks of rivers or
canals j of the fea-ports in the Low Countries; and
fometimes of inland villages, where the fcenes around
them appeared to him pleafing or pidlurefque. Thofe
he afterwards ufed as fubjedts for his future landfcapes $
enriching them with cattle, boats, and figures in cha-
xadler, juft as the livelinefs of his imagination diredled.
He underftood perfpedlive extremely well, and alfo
the principles of the chiaro-lcuro ; which branches of
knowledge enabled him to give his pidlures a ftrong
and agreeable effedt. He died in 1656, aged 60.—
His ufual fubjedls were fea-pieces, or landfcapes with
views of rivers, enlivened with figures of peafants either
ferrying over cattle, drawing their nets in ftill water, or
going to or returning from market. Sometimes he re-
prefented huts of boors on the banks of rivers, with
overhanging trees, and a beautiful refledlion of their
branches from the tranfparent furface of tbe waters.
Thefe were the fubjedls of his bell time, which he
generally marked with his name and the year; and the
high finilhed pidlures of Van Goyen will be for ever
eftimable. But as he painted abundance of pidlures,
fome are flight, fome too yellow, and fome negligently
fmilhed ; though all of them have merit, being marked
with a free, expeditious, and eafy pencil, and a light
touch. His pidlures frequently have a grayilh call $
which did not arife from any mifmanagement of the
tints, or any want of Ikill in laying on the colours $
but wras occafioned by his ufing a colour called Haerlem
Hue, much approved of at that time, though now en¬
tirely difufed, becaufe the artifts found it apt to fade
into that grayilh tint 5 and it hath alfo rendered the
pidlures of this mafter exceedingly difficult to be clean¬
ed without injuring the finer touches of the finiftiing.
His beft works are valued fo highly in moft parts of
Europe, and efpecially in the Low Countries, that they
deferyedly afford large prices, being ranked in Hol¬
land with the pidlures of Teniers j and at this time are
not eafily procured, particularly if they are undamaged,
though his {lighter performances are fufficiently com¬
mon.
GRAAF, Regnier be, a celebrated phyfician, born
at Schoonhaven, in Holland, in 1641. He ftudied
phyftc at Pruffia. He was educated in Leyden, where
he acquired great honour by publilhing a treatife De
Succo Pancreatico. He alfo publiffied three pieces up¬
on the organs of generation, both male and female j
upon which fubjedl he had a controverfy with Swam-
oietdam, . He died young, in 1673 5 and his works,
] G R A
with his life prefixed, were publiffied at Leyden in Gr^be
1677, in 8vo. ’ II
GRABE, John Ernest, a very learned writer in, Giace‘
the beginning of the 18th century, a native of Konigf-
berg, in Pruffia. He was educated in the Lutheran
religion 5 but the reading of the fathers led him into
doubts. He prefented to the electoral confiftory at
Sambia in Pruffia a memorial containing his doubts.
The elector gave orders to three eminent divines to an-
fwer them. Their anfwers {hook him a little in his re-
folution of embracing the Roman Catholic religion 5
and one of them, Spener, advifed him to go to Eng¬
land. He went 5 and King William gave him a pen-
fion, wffiich was continued by ()ueen Anne. He was
ordained a prieft of the chuich of England, and ho¬
noured with the degree of doclor of divinity by the uni-
verfity of Oxford 5 upon which occafion Dr George
Smalridge pronounced twm Latin orations, which w ere
afterwards printed. He wrote, 1. Spicelegium S. S. Pa~
trum, ut et Hereticorum fceculipojl Chri/ium natum, 8vo„
2. An edition of the Septuagint, from the Alexandrian
manufcript in St James’s library. 3. Notes on Juftin,
&c. 5 and other works, which are efteemed by the
learned.
GRACCHUS, Tiberius, eledled tribune of the
Roman people, demanded in the fenate, in their name,
the execution of the Agrarian law ; by which all per-
fons poffeffing above 200 acres of land wrere to be de¬
prived of the furplus, for the benefit of the poor citi¬
zens, amongft whom an equal diftribution of them was
to be made. Having carried his plan into execution
by violent meafures, he fell a viflim to his zeal, being
affaffinated by his own party, 133 B. C. Caius his
brother, purfuing the fame fteps, was killed by the
conful Opimius, 121 B. C. See (hiftory of) Rome.
GRACE, among divines, is taken, l. For the free
love and favour of God, wdiich is the fpring and
fource of all the benefits we receive from him. 2. For
the wxork of the Spirit renewing the foul after the
image of God 5 and continually guiding and ftrength-
ening the believer to obey his will, to refift and morti¬
fy fin, and overcome it.
Grace is alfo ufed, in a peculiar fenfe, for a fliort
prayer faid before and after meat.
The proofs of the moral obligation of this ceremony,
drawn from different paffages of the New Teftament,
are fo well known, that it is needlefs to infill on them
here. Some others, drawn from the praftice of dift'er-
ent nations, and of very remote antiquity, may not be
difagreeable to our readers.
1. Athenaeus tells us, in his Deipnofoph. lib. ii. that
in the famous regulation made by Amphiblyon king
of Athens with refpedl to the ufe of wine, both in fa-
crifices and at home, he required that the name of
Jupiter the Sujiainer ffiould be decently and reverently
pronounced. The fame writer, in lib. iv. p. 149,
quotes Hermeias, an author extant in his time, who
informs us of a people in Egypt, inhabitants of the
city of Naucratis, whofe cuftom it wras on certain oc-
cafions, after they had placed themfelves in the ufual
pofture of eating at the table, to rife again and kneel 5
when the prieft or precentor of the folemnity began
to chant a grace, according to a ftated form amongft
them; and when that was over, they joined in the
meal in a folemn facrificial manner. Heliodorus has a
paffage-
G R A L .
paffa^e in his TEtkiopics to the fame purpofe, that it
was the cuitom of the Egyptian philofophers to pour
out libations and put up ejaculations before they iat
down to meals. Porphyry, in his treatife De ab/hn.
lib. iv. p. 408. gives a great char after of the Samnean
pymnofophifts in Egypt for the ftriftnefs of their life :
as one article in their favour, he obferves, that at the
founding of a bell before their meals, which conhited
only of rice, bread, fruits, and herbs, they went to
prayers } which being ended, and not before, the be
founded again, and they fat down to eating. In ge¬
neral this was a religious ufage or rite among the an¬
cient Greeks 5 and^ derived from yet older ages, it
Clement of Alexandria rightly informs us. He men¬
tions, that thefe people when they met together to
refrefti themfelves with the juice of the grape, fung a
piece of mufic, in imitation of the Hebrew pfalms,
which they called a fchohon. Livy, lib. xxxix. fpeaks
of it as a fettled cuftom among the old Romans, that
they offered facrifice and prayer to the gods at their
meals and compotations. But one of. the. fulleft teili-
monies to our purpofe is given by Quintilian, Declam.
301. sbdyli menfam, fays he, ad quam cum venire crepi-
muSy Deos invocamus ; “ We approached the table (at
flipper together), and then invoked the gods.”
The Jefuit Trigautius, in his very elegant and in-
ftruftive narrative of the Chriftian expedition of . their
milfionaries into China, book i. p. 69. gives this ac¬
count of the people there in the particular now under
confideration. “ Before they place themfelves for
partaking of an entertainment, the perfon who makes
it fets a veffel, either of gold, or filver, or marble,, or
fome fuch valuable material, in a charger full of wine,
which he holds with both his hands, and then makes a
low bow to the perfon of chief quality or charafter at
the table. Then from the hall or dining-room, he
goes into the porch or entry, where he again makes
a very low bow, and turning his face to the fouth,
pours out this wine upon the ground as a thankful
oblation to the Lord of heaven. After this., repeat¬
ing his reverential obeifance, he returns into the
hall,” &c.
The Turks pray for a bleffing on their meat ; and
many more inftances might be produced of infidels who
have conftantly obferved the like cuftom in fome wTay or
other.
2. The faft, therefore, with refpeft: to the heathen
world, being thus evident, we proceed to the. fenti-
ments and behaviour of the Jews in this particular.
Their celebrated hiftorian Jofephus, giving a detail of
the rites and cuftoms of the Effenes, who were con-
fefiedly the ftrifteft and moft pious profeffors of the
Jewifti religion, has this remarkable paffage to the pre-
fent purpofe : “ The prieft,” fays he, “ begs a blefting
before they prefume to take any nouriftiment ; and it is
looked upon as a great fin to take or tafte before.”
Then follows the thankfgiving before meat : and “ when
the meal,” proceeds he, “ is over, the prieft prays again ;
and the company with him blefs and praife God as
their preferver, and the donor of their life and nourifh-
ment.”
Philo, in his book De vita contemplativa, gives an
account of a body of men and women ftrifter than
even the Effenes themfelves. He diftinguifties them by
] G It A
no particular name, though his relation is very accu¬
rate and circumftantial} namely, that on certain fpe-
cial occafions, before “ they took their meals, they
placed themfelves in a proper decent order ; when, lift¬
ing up their hands and eyes to heaven, they prayed to
God that he would be pleafed to be propitious to them
in the ufe of thofe his good creatures.”
From the Hebrew ritual it appears, that the Jews,
had their hymns and pfalms of thankfgiving, not only
after eating their paflbver, but ou a variety of other
occaftons, at and after meals, and even between their
feveral courfes and dilhesj as when thebeft of their wine
was brought upon the table, or their aromatic confec¬
tions, or the fruit of the garden, &c. On the day of
the paflbver w'as fung Plalm cxiv. “ When Ifrael came
out of Egypt,” &.c.
Ariftieus has a paffage full on the prefent fubjeft.
“ Mofes,” fays he, “ commands that when the Jews
are going to eat or drink, the company fhould immedi¬
ately join in facrifice or prayer.” Where Rabbi Elea-
zar (upon that author) met with this fentence, has
been controverted. But fuppofing it not to be found
in feriptis, it is fufficient for us to know that the Jews-
did conftantly praftife this cuftom, upon the foundation
of an ancient and general tradition and ufage. jlhat
the prophet Daniel gave thanks before meat, is evident
from the Apocryphal book concerning Bel and the
Dragon, where, ver. 38, 39, we find, that “ Daniel faid,
Thou haft remembered me, O God ! neither haft thou
forfaken them who feek thee and love thee. So Daniel
arofe, and did eat.” Of this text Prudentia takes
notice in Cathemirin, hymn iv.
His fumptis Danielis excitavit
In ctzlum faciem, ciboque fort is,
Amen reddidit, allelujah dixit.
The much-belov’d took the repaft,
And up to heav’n his eyes he caft j
By which refrefti’d, he fung aloud.
Amen, and allelujah to his God.
Where, by the way, it may be obferved, that the poet
is a little miftaken in making the prophet give thanks
after meat j whereas, according to the text, he did it
before.
Grace, or Gracefulnefs, in the human charafter ; an
aggreeable attribute, infeparable from motion as oppofed
to reft, and as comprehending fpeech, looks, gefture,
and loco-motion.
As fome motions are homely, the oppofite to grace¬
ful •, it is to be inquired, With what motions is this
attribute connefted i1 No man appears graceful in a
malk •, and therefore, laying afide the expreflions of the
countenance, the other motions may be genteel, may
be elegant, but of themfelves never are graceful. A'
motion adjufted in the moft perfeft manner to anfwer
its end, is elegant; but ftill fomewhat more is required
to complete our idea of grace or gracefulnefs..
What this unknown more may be, is the nice point.
One thing is clear from what is faid, that this more mull
arife from the expreflions of the countenance : and
from what expreflions lb naturally as from thofe which
indicate mental qualities, fuch as fweetnefs, benevolence,
elevation, dignity ? This promifes to be a fair analyfts:
becaufe of all objefts mental qualities affeft us the moft j
Co
G R A [6
and tlie impteffion made by graceful appearance upon
laces- , every fpeftator of tafte, is too deep for any caufe purely
^ corporeal.
The next ftep is, to examine what are the mental
qualities, that, in conjunction with elegance of motion,
produce a graceful appearance. Sweetnefs, cheerful-
nefs, affability, are not feparately fufficient, nor even
in conjunction. Dignity alone, with elegant motion,
produce a graceful appearance j but Hill more graceful
with the aid of other qualities, thofe efpecially that are
the molt exalted. See Dignity.
But this is not all. The molt exalted virtues may
be the lot of a perfon whofe countenance has little ex-
preffion : fuch a perfon cannot be graceful. Therefore
•to produce this appearance, we muft add another cir-
cumftance, viz. an expreflive countenance, difplaying
to every fpeftator of tafte, with life and energy, every
thing that paffes in the mind.
Collecting thefe circumftances together, grace may
be defined, “ that agreeable appearance which arifes
from elegance of motion and from a countenance ex¬
preflive of dignity.” Expreflions of other mental
qualities are not effential to that appearance, but they
heighten it greatly.
Of all external objeCts, a graceful perfon is the moft
agreeable.
Dancing affords great opportunity for difplaying
grace, and haranguing ftill more. See Dancing, De¬
clamation, and Oratory.
But in vain will a perfon attempt to be graceful who
is deficient in amiable qualities. A man, it is true,
may form an idea of qualities he is deftitute of j and,
by means of that idea, may endeavour to exprefs thefe
qualities by looks and geftures : but fuch itudied ex-
preflion will be too faint and obfcure to be graceful.
AB of Grjce, the appellation given to the ad; of
parliament 1696, c. 32. which allows prifoners for
civil debts to be fet at liberty, upon making oath that
they have not wherewithal to fupport themfelves in
prifon, unlefs they are alimented by the creditors on
whofe diligences they were imprifoned, within ten days
after intimation made for that purpofe.
Days of Grace, three days immediately following
the term of payment of a bill, within which the cre¬
ditor muft proteft it if payment is not obtained, in or¬
der to intitle him to recourfe againft the drawer.
Grace is alfo a title of dignity given to dukes,
archbifhops, and in Germany to barons and other infe¬
rior princes.
GRACES, Gratis, Charites, in the heathen theo-
logy, were fabulous deities, three in number, who at¬
tended on Venus. Their names are, Aglia, Thalia, and
Euphrofyne ; i. e. fhining, flourifhing, and gay j or, ac¬
cording to fome authors, Pafithea, Euphrofyne, and At-
giale. They were fuppofed by fome to be the daugh¬
ters of Jupiter and Eurynome the daughter of Ocea-
nus } and by others, to be the daughters of Bacchus
and Venus.
Some will have the Graces to have been four •, and
make them the fame with the Horce “ hours”, or rather
with the four feafons of the year. A marble in the
king of Pruflia’s cabinet reprefents the three Graces
in the ufual manner, with a fourth feated and covered
with a large veil, with the words underneath, Ad So-
i'ores IIII. But this groupe we may underhand to be
3
] G R A
the three Graces, and Venus, who was their fiher, as Gracilis
being daughter of Jupiter and Dione. II.
The graces are always fuppofed to have hold nf, GiatUng-,
each other’s hands, and never parted. They were
painted naked, to fhow that the Graces borrow nothing
from art, and that they have no other beauties than
what are natural.
Yet in the nrft ages they ivere not reprefented na¬
ked, as appears from Paufanias, lib. vi. and lib. ix. who
defcribes their temple and ftatues. They w^ere of
wood, all but their head, feet, and hands, which w^ere-
wrhite marble. Their robe or gown was gilt : one of
them held in her hand a rofe, another a dye, and the
third a fprig of myrtle.
GRACILIS, a mufcle of the leg, thus called
from its flender fliape. See Anatomy, Table of the
Mufcles.
GRACULA, the Grakle, a genus of birds be-
longing to the order of picse. See Ornithology
Index.
GRACUI.US. See Corvus, Ornithology Index.
GRAD Ad ION, in general, the afeending ftep by
ftep, or in a regular and uniform manner.
Gradation, in Logic, a form of reafoning, other-
wife called Sorites.
Gradation, in Painting, a gradual and infenfiblc
change of colour, by the diminution of the tints and
Ihades.
Gradation, in Rhetoric, the fame with Climax.
GR A DISK A, a ftrong towm of Hungary in Scla-
vonia, on the frontiers of Croatia, taken by the Turks
in 1691. It is feated on the river Save, in E. Long.
17. 55. N. Lat. 4j. 38.
Gradiska, a ftrong towm of Italy, in a fmall ifland
of the fame name on the frontiers of Friuli, in E.
Long. 13. 37. N. Lat. 46. 6. It is fubjeft to the houfe
of Auftria.
GRADO, a ftrong town of Italy, in a fmall ifland
of the fame name, on the coaft of Friuli, and in the
teritory of Venice. E. Long. 13. 35. N. Lat.
43- 52.
GRADUATE, a perfon who has taken a degree in
the univerfity. See Degree.
GR At, VI US, John George, one of the moft learn¬
ed waiters in the 17th century. In the 24th year of
his age, the eleftor of Brandenburg made him pro-
fefibr at Doifbourg. In 1658, he was invited to De¬
venter to fucceed his former mafter Gronovius. In
1661, he w7as appointed profeffor of eloquence at
Utrecht ; and 12 years after he had the profefibrfliip
of politics and hiftory conferred on him. He fixed
his thoughts here, and refufed feveral advantageous
offers. He had, however, the fatisfaftion to be fought
after by divers princes, and to fee feveral of them come
from Germany to lludy under him. He died in 1703,
aged 71. His Thefaurus antiquitatum et hiftoriarum
Italics, &c. and other works are well known.
GRAFTING, or Engrafting, in Gardening, is
the taking a fhoot from one tree, and inferting it into
another, in fuch a manner that both may unite clofely
and become one tree. By the ancient writers on
hufbandry and gardening, this operation is called in-
cifon, to diftinguilh it from inoculation or budding,
which they call inferere oculos.
Grafting has been praftifed from the moft remote
antiquity's
G It A [7
Graham, antiquity; but its origin and invention is differently
related by naturalifts. Tlieophraffus tells us, tbat a bird
having fwallowed a fruit whole, caff it forth into a cleft
or cavity of a rotten tree •, where mixing with fome ot
the putrified parts of the wood, and being walhed
with the rains, it budded, and produced within this
tree another tree of a difterent kind. I his led the
hufbandman to certain refleaions, from which foon
afterwards arofe the art of engrafting.. For the dif¬
ferent methods of performing this operation, fee Gar¬
dening Index.
GRAHAM, James, Marquis of Montrofe, was
comparable to the greateft heroes of antiquity. He
undertook, againft almoft every obftacle that could ter¬
rify a lefs enterprifing genius, to reduce the kingdom
of Scotland to the obedience of the king •, and his
fuccefs was anfwerable to the greatnefs of the under¬
taking. By valour, he in a few months, almoft effec¬
tuated his defign 5 but, for want of fupphes, was for¬
ced to abandon his conquefts. After the death of
Charles I. he, with a few men, made a fecond attempt,
but was immediately defeated by a numerous army.
As he was leaving the kingdom in difguife, he was
betrayed into the hands of his enemy, by the Lord
Afton, his intimate friend. He was carried to his ex¬
ecution with every circumftance of indignity that wan¬
ton cruelty could invent j and hanged upon a gibbet
30 feet high, with the book of his exploits appended
to his neck. He bore this reverfe of fortune with his
ufual greatnefs of mind, and exprefled a juft fcorn at
the rage and the infult of his enemies. We meet with
many inftances of valour in this aftive reign 5 but
Montrofe is the only inftance of heroifm. He was ex¬
ecuted May 21. 1650. See Britain, N° 137, 138,
143, 165.
Graham, Sir Richard, lord vifcount Prefton, eldeft
fon of Sir George Graham of Netherby, in Cum¬
berland, Bart, was born in 1648. He was fent ambaf-
fador by Charles II. to Louis XIV. and was mafter of
the wardrobe and fecretary of ftate under James II.
But when the revolution took place, he was tried and
condemned, on an accufation of attempting the refto-
ration of that prince 5 though he obtained a pardon by
the queen’s interceflion. He fpent the remainder of
his days in retirement, and publiihed an elegant tranf-
lation of “ Boethius on the confolation of philofophy.”
He died in 1695.
Graham, George, clock and watch-maker, the
moft ingenious and accurate artift in his time, was
born in 1675. After his apprenticeftiip, Mr Tom-
pion received him into his family, purely on account
of his merit *, and treated him with a kind of parental
affeftion as long as he lived. Befides his univerfaily ac¬
knowledged Ikill in his profeffion, he was a complete
mechanic and aftronomer; the great mural arch in the
obfervatory at Greenwich was made for Dr Halley,
under his immediate infpeclion, and divided by his own
hand : and from this incomparable original, the beft
foreign inftruments of the kind are copies made by
Engliih artifts. The fe£tor by which Dr Bradley firft
difcovered two new motions in the fixed ftars, was of
his invention and fabric : and when the French acade¬
micians were fent to the north to afcertain the figure
of the earth, Mr Graham was thought the fitteft per-
fon in Europe to fupply them with inftruments j thofe
] G R A
who went to the fouth were not fo well furnifhed. _ He Graham
was for many years a member of the Royal Society, Gratn;na#
to which he communicated feveral ingenious anc, im-y n „
portant difcoveries j and regarded the advancement of
fcience more than the accumulation of wealth. He
died in 1751.
Graham's Dyie. See Antoninus's Wall.
GRAIN, corn of all forts, as barley, oats, rye, &c.
See Corn, Wheat, &c.
Grain is alfo the name of a fmall weight, the
twentieth part of a fcruple in apothecaries weight, and-
the twenty-fourth of a pennyweight troy.
A grain-weight of gold-bullion is worth twTo-pence,
and that of filver but half a farthing.
Grain alfo denotes the component particles of ftones
and metals, the veins of wood, &c. Hence crofs-
grained, or againft the grain, means contrary to the
fibres of wood, &c.
GRALLiE, in Ornithology, is an order of birds
analogous to the hruta in the clafs of mammalia in the
Linnaean fyftem. See ORNITHOLOGY.
GR AMINA, GRASSES-, one of the feven tribes or
natural families, into which all vegetables are diftn-
buted by Linnaeus in his PJulofophia Botamca, I hey
are defined to be plants which have very fimple leaves,
a jointed Item, a bulky calyx termed gluma, and a
fingle feed. This defcription includes the feveral lorts
of corn as well as grafles. In Fournefort they con-
ftitute a part of the fifteenth clafs, termed apetah / and
in Linnaeus’s fexual method, they are moftly contained
in the fecond order of the third clafs, called triandt ta
digynia.
This numerous and natural family of the graffes has
engaged the attention and refearches of feveral emi¬
nent botanifts. The principal of thefe are, Ray*
Monti, Micheli, and Linnaeus.
M. Monti, in his Catalogue Jlirpium agri Bononienjts
gramina ac hujus modi affinia compleclens, printed at Bo-
nonia in 1719, divides the graffes from the difpofition
of their flowers, as Theophraftus and Ray have divided
them before him, into three fe&ions or orders.—Thefe
Graffes having flowers collefted in a fpike.
are,   0 -
2. Grafles having their flowers collefted in a panicle or
loofe fpike. 3. Plants that in their habit and exter¬
nal appearance are allied to the grafles.
This clafs would have been natural if the author had
not improperly introduced fweet-rufh, juncus, and ar¬
row-headed grafs, into the third feftion. Monti enu¬
merates about 306 fpecies of the grafles, which he re¬
duces under Tournefort’s genera j to thefe he has
added three new genera.
Scheuchzer, in his Arijlagraphia, publilhed likewife
in 1719, divides the graffes, as Monti, from the dif¬
pofition of their flowers, into the five following fec-
tions : 1. Graffes with flowers in a fpike, as phalaris,
anthoxanthum, and frumentum. 2. Irregular grafles,
as fchoenanthus, and cornucopiae- 3. Graffes with
flowers growing in a fimple panicle or loofe fpike, as
reed and millet. 4. Graffes with flowers growing in
a compound panicle, or diffufed fpike, as oats and
poa. 5. Plants by their habit nearly allied to the
grafl'es, as cyprefs-grafs, feirpus, linagroftis, rufli, and
fcheuchzeria.
Scheuchzer has enumerated about four hundred fpe¬
cies, which he. deferibes with amazing exa&nefs.
Micheli
G U A [8
Gramma. MIclieli lias divided tlie graffes into fix fe&ions,
ivliich contain in all 44 genera, and are arranged from
the fituation and number of the flowers.
Gramina, the name of the fourth order in Linnaeus’s
Fragments of a Natural Method, confifting of the nu¬
merous and natural family of the graffes, viz. agroftis,
aira, alopecurus or fox-tail grafs, anthoxanthum or ver¬
nal grafs, ariftida, arundo or reed, avena or oats, bo-
bartia, briza, bromus, cinna, cornucopiae or horn of
plenty grafs, cynofurus, da&ylis, elymus, feftuca or
fbfcue-grafs, hordeum or barley, lagurus or hare’s-tail
] G R A
grafs, lolium or darnel, lygeum or hooded matweed, Gramma,
melica, milium or millet, nardus, oryza or rice, panicum •—v—-
or panic-grafs, pafpalum, phalaris or canary-grafs, phle-
um, poa, faccharum or fugar-cane, fecale or rye, flipa
or winged fpike-grafs, triticum or wheat, uniola or fea-
fide oats of Carolina, coix or Job’s tears, olyra, pharus,
tripfacum, zea, Indian Turkey wheat or.Indian corn,
zizania, ae.gilops or wild fefcue-grafs, andropognn, ap-
luda, cenchrus, holcus or Indian millet, ifchsemum.
See Botany.
GRAMMAR.
Definition 1. /'N RAMMAR is the art of [peaking or of writing
any language with propriety ; and the purpofe
of language is to communicate our thoughts.
2. Grammar, conlidered as an art, neceflarily fup-
pofes the previous exiflence of language •, and as its
defign is to teach any language to thofe who are igno¬
rant of it, it mufl: be adapted to the genius of that par¬
ticular language of which it treats. A juft method of
grammar, therefore, without attempting any altera¬
tions in a language already introduced, furnilhes cer¬
tain obfervations called rules, to which the methods of
fpeaking ufed in that language may be reduced j and
2 this collection of rules is celled the grammar of that
Grammar particular language. For the greater diftinftnefs wdth
particular, regar(j t0 thefe rules, grammarians have ufually divided
this fubjeft into four diftinCl heads, viz. Orthogra¬
phy, or the art of combining letters into fyltables, and
fyllables into words ; Etymology, or the art of dedu-
UNIVERSAL
4. THE origin of language is a fubjeCl which has
4 employed much learned inveftigation, and about which
The de- there is ftill a diverfity of opinion. The defign of
fig’1 fpeech is to communicate to others the thoughts and
^eeC ' perceptions of the mind of the fpeaker : but it is ob¬
vious, that between an internal idea and any external
found there is no natural relation j that the word fire,
for inftance, might have denominated the fubftance
which w’e call ice, and that the word ice might have
fignified fire. Some of the moft acute feelings of man,
as well as of every other animal, are indeed expreffed
by Ample inarticulate founds, wdiich as they tend to
the prefervation of the individual or the continuance
of the fpecies, and invariably indicate either pain or
plealure, are univerfally underftood ; but thefe inarti¬
culate and fignificant founds are very few in number 5
and if they can with any propriety be faid to conftitute
a natural and univerfai language, it is a language of
which man as a mere fenfitive being partakes in com-
5 mon with the other animals.
Language Man is endowed not only with fenfation, but alfo
confifts of wItrh' the faculty of reafoning; ami Ample inarticulate
Sant of founds are infufficient for exprefling all the various
ideas. modifications of thought, for communicating to_ others
* chain of argumentation, or even for diftinguitiling be*
3
cing one word from another, and the various modijica •
lions by which the fenfe of any one word can be diverji-
fied confifiently with its original meaning or its relation
to the theme whence it is derived; Syntax, or what re¬
lates to the confiruRion or due difpofition of the words of
a language into fcntences or phrfifes ; and Prosody, or
that which treats of the quantities and accents of fyl¬
lables, and the art of making verfes. . _ 3
3. But grammar, confidered as a fctence, views lan- Or univer-
guage only as it is fignificant of thought. Negle&ing fal.
particular and arbitrary modifications introduced for
the fake of beauty or elegance, it examines the analogy
and relation between words and ideas; diftinguiflies be¬
tween thofe particulars which are ejfential to language
and thofe which are only accidental; and thus furniflies
a certain ftandard, by which different languages may¬
be compared, and their feveral excellencies or defe&s
pointed out. This is wThat is called Philosophic or
G R AMMAR.
tw-een the different fenfations either of pain or of plea1
fure : a man fcorched with fire or unexpectedly plunged
among ice, might utter the cry naturally indicative of
fudden and violent pain ; the cry would be the fame,
or nearly the fame, but the fenfations of cold and heat
are wddely different. Articulation, by which thofe Am¬
ple founds are modified, and a particular meaning fixed
to each modification, is therefore abfolutely neceffary
to fuch a being as man, and forms the language which
diftinguiflies him from all other animals, and enables
him to communicate with facility all that diverfity of
ideas with which his mind is ftored, to make known
his particular wants, and to diftinguilh with accuracy
all his various fenfations. Ihofe lounds thus modified
are called WORDS j and as words have confeffedly no
natural relation to the ideas and perceptions of which
they are fignificant, the ufe of them muft either have
been the refult of human fagacity, or have been fug-
gefted to the firll man by the Author of nature.
6. Whether language be of divine or human origin,
is a quellion upon which, though it might perhaps be
foon xefolved, it is not neceffary here to enter. Upon
either fuppoiition, the firff language, compaied with
thofe which fucceeded it, or even wTith itfelf as after¬
wards enlarged, rauft have been extremely rude and
narrow.
%
V
r
i
language.
/
All Language is compofed
of WORDS j each of
which may be defined,
A SOUND SIGNiriCANT
OF SOME IDEA OR RELA¬
TION. Thefe words may
be arranged into four ge¬
neral divilions, called
A GRAMMATICAL TABLE,
EXHIBITING A SYSTEMATIC VIEW OF WORDS AS THEY ARE COMMONLY ARRANGED INTO DISTINCT CLASSES, WITH THEIR SUBDIVISIONS.
i      UUM    ^  .    - J
f SUBSTANTIVES;
which are all thole words
that are expreffive of
THINGS WHICH EXIST
OR ARE CONCEIVED TO
EXIST OF THEMSELVES,
AND NOT AS THE ENER¬
GIES OR QUALITIES OF
ANY THING ELSE. Thefe
may be divided into two
orders, viz<.
NOUNS, properly fo called, be¬
ing the NAMES OF ALL THOSE
THINGS WHICH EXIST, or are
CONCEIVED TO exist. Thefe
may be divided into three
kinds, each of which admits
of the fubdivifions after meh-
tioned, viz:
And
PRONOUNS, which arfe a fpe-
cies of word invented to sup¬
ply THE PLACE OF NOUNS
IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
They are of two kinds, viz.
k NATURAL, or thofe which are ufed as
the NAMES OF NATURAL SUBSTANCES;
fuch are
}]
ANIMAL,
ARTIFICIAL, or the feveral names of! 5 FniPirF H
ARTIFICIAL OBJECTS ; fuch as,
ABSTRACT, br thofe which are the names ^ ^
of qualities confidered as abstracted > j MOTION,
FROM THEIR substances ; fuch as, j |
THAN, lALfcXANDfeR, CYRUS, <b'c.
|DOG, ^CERBERUS, ARGUS,
CHOUSE, q THE VATICAN, 6*.
| CHURCH,> St PAUL’S, &c.
»—1
f FLIGHT, §THk FALCON’STllGHT, &c.
{COURSE. ^ The GRE-HOUND’s COURSE, 6’<
Nouns of all
kinds admit
of the fol¬
lowing Ac-
CIDENTS,
viz.
'GENDER, which is a certain affe£Uon of nouns denoting the fex of thofe fubftanceS of which they are the names. For as in nature every objeft
is either male or female, or neither the one nor the other, grammarians, following this idea, have divided the names of beings into three clajfes. Thofe
that denote males, are faid to be of the mascvunr gender} thofe that denote females, of the femininr gender; and thofe which denote neither the one
nor the other, of the neuter gender. The Englilh is the only language of which the nouns are, with refpeft to fex, an exaft copy of nature.
NUMBER. As there is no objeft in nature Angle and alone, and as by far the greater part of nouns are the names of whole ctaffes of objefts, it
is evident that every fuch noun ought to have tome variation, to denote whether it is one individual of the clafs which is meant, or rfiore than one.
Accordingly we find, that in every language nouns have fome method of exprelfing this. If one be mentioned, the noun is ufed in that form
which is called the singular number; if more than one, it is ufed in a different form, which is called the plural number.
CASES.. All nouns except proper names are general terms} but it is often neceffary to ufe Otuft general terms for the purpofe of exprelfing particular
ideas. This can be done o»ly by connecting the general term with fome word fignificant of a quality or circilmjlance peculiar to the individual in¬
tended. When that quality or circumftance is not expreffed by an adjeBive, it is in Englilh and molt modem languages commonly connefled with
the noun by the intervention of a prepoftion ; but in the Greek and Latin languages the noun has cases to a'nfwcr the fame end, and even in
Englilh the noun has, belides the nominative, one cafe to denote poffelfion.
PREPOSITIVE; fo called becaufe they
are capable of leading a Sentence.
Thefe are divided into three orders, call¬
ed the pronouns of the
And
“FIRST PERSON; in Englilh, 1. This pronoun denotes the speaker as characterized by tHe PRESENT act of speaking, in contradiftinClion to every other chara&er which he may bear. It is faid to be of the FIRST person, be¬
caufe there mull neceffarily be a fpeaher beiore there can be a hearer; and the fpeaher and hearer are the only perfons employed in difeourfe.
SECOND PERSON,—thou. This pronoun denotes, the person addressed as characterized by the present circumstance of being addressed, in contradillinCHon, <b'c. It is faid to be of the second person, becaufe in
difeourfe there cannot be s hearer till there be a Jpeaker. The pronouns of the firjl and fecond perfons have number and cafes, for the fame reafon that nouns have thefe accidents ; but in no language have they any variation denoting gender :
the reafon is, that sex, and all other properties and attributes whatever, except thofe juft mentioned as deferiptive of the nature of thefe pronouns, are foreign from the mind of the fpeaker when he utters / or thou in difeourfe.
THIRD PERSON,—HE, SHE, it ; which words are employed to denote any obje&t which may be the fubjeft of difeourfe different from the fpeaher and the hearer. They are improperly faid to be of any perfon ; for there can be but two
perfons employed in difeourfe, the fpeaher and the party addreffed. They are, however, pronouns ; lince they Hand by themfelves, and are the fubflitutes of NOUNS. He is the fubftitute of a noun denoting a male animal} she, of a noun,
denoting a female animal; and IT, of a noun denoting an objeB which has no fex. AH thefe, like the pronouns perfonal, admit of number and CASES; but there is this peculiarity attending them, that though in every cafe of the Jingular
number the diftintftion of gender is carefully preferved, in the plural it is totally loft; THEY, THEIRS, and THEM, being the nominative, pojfefjive, and accufative, cafes of HE, of SHE, and of IT.
SUBJUNCTIVE * fo Called beCaufe it f WHICH and WHO. This fubjundlive pronoun may be fubftituted in the place, of any noun whatever, whether it be exprelfive of a genus, a fpecies, or an individual; as the animal WHICH; the man WHO, Alexander WHO, fa'c. Nay, it may
cannot lead a fentence but onl ferves to ’ even become the fubftitute of the perfonal pronouns themfelves; as when we fay, / who now write, you who now read, thou WHO. readejl, he WHO wrote, Jhe who fpohe ; where it is obfervable, that the fubjunSive WHO adopts the PERSON
fuboin a claufe to another which was fe ^ of that prepojitive pronoun which it reprefents, and affedts the verb accordingly. Who and which therefore are real pronouns, from fubftitution; and they have this peculiarity belides, that they have not only the power of a pronoun,
- ^ q£ tjnd ar ^ ! ^ut: a^° a conne^ve ^ame import with that which in Englilh is expreffed by the prepofition of. The word that is fxovt ufed indifferently for who or WHICH* Us a fubjunBive pronoun } but it wUs originally ufed only as a
definitive, and as fuch it ought ftill to be ponfidered in philofophicalgrammar.
vious.
And
ATTRIBUTIVES',
which are thofe words
that are exprelfive of all
such things as arF
CONCEIVED TO EXIST
NOT OF THEMSELVES
BUT AS THE ATTRIBUTES
ofotherthings. Thefe
are divided into
VERBS, or thofe words which
are exprelfive of an attribute
and an assertion ; as, I write.
They all admit of the variations
after mentioned.
The attributes exprefled by VERBS
have their effence in motion or
its privation; and as motion
is always accompanied by
time, therefore verbs are liable
to certain variations called
TENSES, viz.
'THE PRESENT, which reprefents the adlion of the verb as going on, and as contemporary with
fomething elfe ; as, I write, or I am writing, either jz//? now, or when you are reading, &e.
THE PRiETER-lMPERFECT, which reprefents the aftion of the verb as having been go¬
ing on but not finifihed in fome portion of pafi time} as, I WAS writing, no matter when,
yefierdaif, lafi week, or lafi year.
THE AORIST OF THE PAST, which reprelents the adlion of the verb as finifhed in
fome indefinite portion of pafi time ; as I WROTE, or DID WRITE, yefierday, la ft week, &c.
THE PRATER-PERFECT, which reprefents the aft ion of the verb as juft now finijhed,
or as finiftied in fome portion of time, within which the prefent infiant is comprehended} as I
HAVE WRITTEN this day or this week.
THE JPEUSQUAM-PERFECT, which reprefents the aftion of the verb as having been
finijhed in fome portion of time, within which a determinate pafi infiant was comprehended} as,
I had WRITTEN lafi week before Ifaw you.
THE FIRST FUTURE, which reprefents the aftion of the verb as to be going on at fome
indefinite futtire time ; as I SHALL WRITE or BE WRITING to-morrow, next week, &c. 1
THE SECOND FUTURE, which reprefents the aftion of the verb as to be completed at fome
^ definite future time; as, I shall have WRITTEN when you come to-morrow, next week, &c.
AFFIRMATION is the es¬
sence of every verb ; info-
much that all verbs may be
refolved into the fubftantive
verb is, and another attri¬
butive. But a man may af¬
firm fomething of the ac¬
tion of the verb direBly}
fomething of his LIBERTY or
capacity to perform that
aftion; or fomething of his
wish that another Ihould per¬
form it. To denote thefe
feveral kinds of affirmation,
all verbs have what gram¬
marians call MODES, viz.
(“THE INDICATIVE, to denote the firfi kind of
affirmation; as, I WRITE.
THE SUBJUNCTIVE, to denote the fecond} as,
I may or CAN write.
THE IMPERATIVE, to denote the third} as, write
thou, or DO THOU write. * 0
Belides thefe, grammarians have given to every verb a
mode, called
THE INFINITIVE; as, to write. But this
feems, on every account, to be improperly ftyled a
mode. Nay, if affirmation be the effence of verb,
the infinitive cannot be confidered as any part of
the verb at all} for it expreffes no affirmation. It
is indeed nothing more than an abfiraB noun, de¬
noting the Jimple energy of the verb, in conjunction
with time.
VERBS have likewife been diftinguilhed into the following
kinds, according to the nature of the attribute of which they
are exprelfive.
\fi, ACTIVE-TRANSITIVE, or thofc which denote an aftion
that paffes from the agent to fome external objeB} as, Ccefar CON¬
QUERED Pompey.
2d, ACTIVE-INTRANSITIVE, or thofe which exprefs that
kind of aftion which has no effe3 upon any thing beyond the agent
himfelf } as Ccefar WALKED.
id, PASSIVE, or thofe which exprefs not aftion but paffon,
whether pleafing or painful; as, Portia was LOVED, Pompey
WAS CONQUERED.
\ih, NEUTER, or thofe which exprefs an Attribute that confifts
neither in aBion nor in paffon / as, Cafar stood.
PARTICIPLES, or thofe Words which are exprelfive of an attribute combined with TIME. In Englijh there are only, two participles: the prefent, as writing, which expreffes the aBion of the verb TO WRITE, as going on } and the pafi, as WRITTEN, which expreffes the aftion of the fame vefb as finijhed, and there¬
fore pajl in time: In Greek and Latin there is & future participle, by which the attribute is reprefented as to be in a ftate of exertion at fome future time ; as, fcripturus, “ about to write.”
ADJECTIVES, or thofe words which exprefs as inhering in their fubjlances the feveral qualities of things, of which the effence confifts not in motion or its privation; as, good, bad, BLACK, WHITE, LAfcGE, small, is'e. As attributes are the fame whether they belong to males or females, to one objeB or to many, adjeBives
ought in ftriftnefs to admit of no variation refpeftingy^a? or number; and in Englilh they aftually admit of none. Some qualities, however, are of fuch a nature, that one fubftance may have them in a greater degree than another ; and therefore the adjeBives denoting theft qualities admit in moft languages of a varia¬
tion, which grammarians call the degrees of comparifon. Thus Plafo was WISE, Socrates was wiser than he, hvA Solomon was THE wisest of men. There is a fpecies of adjeBives derived from nouns, and even from pronouns : for we fay, THE Pompeian party, a BRAZEN trumpet, and MY book ; which are phrafes equi¬
valent to the party of Pompey, a trumpet of brafs, and the book of pe.
~ I. Thofe that are common to all attributives of COf INTENSION and REMISSION, or of QUANTITY CONTINUOUS; as moderately, Vastly, exceedingly, isfe. Thefe, like adjeBives of a limilar nature, admit of
And j the first order ; i. e. which coalefce equally with J the different degrees of comparifon.
verbs, with participles, and with adjectives. " Of QUANTITY DISCRETE, as, once, twice, thrice, <bo. Thefe are not, in ftriftnefs of fpeech, adverbs, being in reality the possessive cases of one, tw<D, three, tec.
Thefe may be divided into adverbs (_Of RELATION; as more, most, less, least, equally, proportionally, <b'c.
ADVERBS, or thofe words which, as they denote the attributesjof at¬
tributes, have been called attributives of the second order j to di-
ftinguilh them from verbs, participles, and adjectives, whichdenote
the attributes of substance^, and are therefore called attributives
of the first ORDER. Adverbs are divided into two kinds, vizi
II. Thofe that are confined to VERBS properly fo called,
and which are of the following kinds :
Of TIME ; as, THEN, WHEN, AFTERWARD, NOW,
Of PL ACE ; as HERE, THERE, where, hence, whence, <&c. As alfo adverbs derived from prepofitions ; as, UPWARD, DOWNWARD, <b’c.
<> Of INTENSIONS and REMISSIONS PECULIAR TO MOTION; as, speedily, hastily, slowly,
J fary for the communication of thought; but it may be doubted whether they be entitled to this diftinftion.
{_ nouns, adjeBives, and verbs. See Chap. V. feft. 3.
iyc.—We have given ADVERBS a place among the parts of fpeech necef-
Englilh adverbs at leaft feem to be nothing more than corruptions of
)EFINITIVES; which'
are all thofe words that
ferve to DEFINE AND AS¬
CERTAIN ANY PARTICU¬
LAR OBJECT OR OBJECTS
AS SEPARATED FROM
OTHERS OF THE SAME
class. Thefe are com¬
monly called
And
CONNECTIVES, or
thofe words which are
employed to connect
OTHER WORDS, AND OF
SEVERAL DISTINCT
PARTS TO MAKE ONE
COMPLETE WHOLE.
Thefe may be divided
into two kinds, viz.
ARTICLES; which are divided
into two kinds, viz.
f* A or AB, which'is prefixed to a noun ox general term, to denote that but ONE individual is meant of that genus or fpecies of which the npun is the common name. This article, however, leaves the individual itfelf quite indeterminate. Thus man is the general name
TXrTVRVTMTTTT • J th^ whole human race ; a man is one individual, but that individual is unknown.
? ’ "l ANY ; vhich is prefixed to a noun either in the Angular or plural number, when it is indifferent as to the truth of the propofition what individual or individuals be fuppofed : Thus, “ ANY man will be virtuous when temptation is away.’’
(^SOME 5 which is prefixed to nouns in the plural number, to denote that only part of the fpecies ox genus is meant, leaving that part undetermined : Thus, “ some men are great cowards.”
And
DEFINITE
CTHE ; Vhich is prefixed to a noun, to denote one individual of the fpecies of which fomething is predicated that diftinguifties it from every other individual: Thus, “ THE man that hath not mufic in himfelf is fit for treafon.” It is ufed before nouns in both
1 numbers and for the fame purpofe ; for we may fay, “ THE MEN who have not mufic in themfelves are fit for treafons.”
j THIS; I’vhich prefixed to a noun in the ftn&ular number, denotes an individual as present and near at hand : as, “ this man befide me.” 1 r*n. r .•it / / . . . . ^  ,  _
I 'rxj a it i - 1 r j .. • ft / , , • j- -j i „ , t „ , . ’ „ J- Thele two articles have plurals: THESE is the plural 01 this, and those the plural 01 that.
(_!HAl;'; which prefaxed to a noun in theJmgular number, denotes, an individual as present but at a little distance; as, “ THAT man m the comer.” j r r . > r
The e are many other articles both definite isnd indefinite; for which fee Chap. II.
CONJUNCTIONS; by which
name are diftinguiihed all thofe
CONNECTIVES WHICH ARE COM¬
MONLY EMPLOYED TO CONJOIN
SENTENCES. Theft have been
divided into two kinds, called
And
CONJUNCTIVES, or thofe wip'ds which conjoin fentences and their meanings alfo ; and
DISJUNCTIVES, or thofe worts which, at the fame time that they conjoin fentences, disjoin their meanings. Each of thefe general
divifions has been again fubfttnded. The former into copulatives and continuatives, the latter into simple disjunctives
and adversative disjunctives. But the general divifton is abfurd, and the fubdivifions are ufelefs. Conjunctions never
disjoin the meanings of fentences, nor have any other effeft than to combine two or more fimple fentences into one compound fentence. If ■
thofe fimple fentences be of oppjite meanings before their combination, they w’ill continue fo after it, whatever conjunction be em¬
ployed to unite them. In npure, different truths are connefted, if they be connefted at all, by different relations ;
and therefore when the SENTENCES expreflivc of thofe truths are connefted in language, it muft be by words fignificant of thofe
NATURAL RELATIONS. Thu^
'Accidental addition is expreffed by the conjunction and ; as when we fay, “ Lyfippus was aftatuary and Prifcian was a grammarian.”
‘ The unexpected junction of contrary truths is expreffed by but ; as, “ Brutus was a patriot but Caefar was not.;”
The relation of an effect to its cause is expreffed by because ; as, “ Rome was enflaved because Caefar was ambitious.”
The relation of an effect to a cause of which the existence is doubtful, by if ; as, “ you will live happily if you live honeftly.”
The relation of a cause to its effect, by therefore ; as, “ Caefar was ambitious therefore Rome was enflaved.”
The idea of simple diversity is expreffed by either and or ; as, “ either it is day or it is night.”
Contrariety between two affirmations, which though each may be true by itself, cannot both be true at once, is expreffed by UNLESS j as,
“ Troy will be taken unless the Palladium be preferved.”
Coincidence of two affirmations apparently contrary to each other is expreffed by although ; as, “ Troy w’ill be taken although
Heftor defend it.”
PREPOSITIONS, or thofe connectives of which the commonIffice is to
conjoin words which refuse to coalesce ; and this they can do only by
signifying those relations by which the things expre^ed by the
united words are connected in nature. The firfi wordsf if men, like
their firft ideas, had an immediate reference to fenfible objefts ; aid therefore j
there can be no doubt but the original ufe of prepositions wasjt» denote the
various relations of body. Afterwards when men began to difeen with their
intelleB, they took thofe words which they found already made, piepositions
as well as others, and transferred them by metaphor to Intelle£lual conceptions.
Prepositions therefore are either
PROPER, or thofe which lite¬
rally denote the relations fub-
The Accidental junction of two things between which there is no necessary connection; as, “ a houfe with a party-wall.”
The separation of two things which we should expect to find united ; as, “ a houfe without a roof, a man without hands.”
The relation subsisting between any thing and that which supports it ; as, the ftatue Hands upon a pedeftal.”
The relations of higher and lower ; as, “ The fun is rifen above the hills To fupport uneafy fteps OVER the burning marie:—The fun is fet BELOW the hori¬
zon :—The fhepherd reclines under the fhade of a beech-tree.”
lifting among the objefts of j The relation between any thing in motion and that in which it moves ; as, “ the rays of light pafs through the air.”
fenfe. Such as
Or
Conjunction? and preposi¬
tions are indeed employed
only to cofmeft fentences
ana words; but it may be
doubted whether they be
parts of fpeech dHlinft from
nouns, verbs, and adjeBives.'
See Chap. VI.
The relation between any thing continued, whether motion or rest, and the point of its beginning ; as, “ The rays of light proceed FROM the fun:—Thefe
figs came FROM Turkey:—That lamp hangs FROM the ceiling.”
The relation between any thing continued and the point to which it tends ; as, “ He is going to ItalyHe flept till morning.”'
The relation between an effect and its cause ; as, “ I am lick of my hufband and for my gallant.”
METAPHORICAL. For as thofe who are above others in place have generally the advantage over them, the prepositions which denote the one kind of fuperiority of inferiority, are likewife employed to denote the othef. Thus we fay
of a king, “ he ruled OVER his people;” and of a foldier, “ he ferved under fuch a general.”
INTERJECTIONS are a fpecies of words which are found perhaps in all the languages on earth, but which cannot be included in any of the claffes above mentioned ; for they are not fubjeft to the rules or principles of grammar, as they contribute nothing to the communication of thought* They may be
called a part of that natural language with which man is endowed in common with other animals, to exprefs or allay feme very Jlrong fevfation; fuch as, ah ! when he feels pain. In this view the inteijeftion does not owe its ckaraBerifiical expreffion to the arbitrary form of articulation, but to the tone of voice,
and the modifications of countenance and of gejiurdiffidn. which it is uttered ; it is therefore univerfally underftood by all mankind. In difeourfe interjections are employed only when the fuddennefs or vehemence of fome affeftion returns men to their natural fate, and makes thc|U for' a moment forget
the ufe of fpeech. In books they are thrown into fentences without altering their form either in fyntax or in fignification; and in Englifh this is generally done with a very bad effeft^ though the writer no doubt employs them with a view to pathos or embe^ifbment.
i J1 jfc
tryAy* wMt
it-I’n .'yrx-
J&;iCND9^3MxvHl*t
hi ip v*
Ultna*'f* jim**#* w 'tmvxM 3»'I
^sw^V «u' b»^‘. ;fl*i- v$
wtmM 0
wm «L-fef '"to >v»W4-ft % ->vi«t.rr>s.<jb.<« tolw” -k'
iuri
' %lii ipi'\
o-:' ■ J®*X
n ':: : '» ;.III «. -i
Mll^ ^ ^5 lift :
■p'.0- it- '‘XT'.- .:»»/}?.
O’ ti.y/i'.-i- SCO tiftii lib
UB'l
'■<13.:
v0
».S*i
-kjiV.'J. 3LHT>.||kuOV Wk
■10 r.Af n if :-C> 3SO B3JB
'&vfT -Heja ri h .r tvrA.
'■ if.: o.im Mwb&d
X""i
J'toi/tr
USSmSm^i^
U | tlpM' if,iMp::.
mMWi HlTif { ■ ■*< -f--'^- -• ..• .i.:«J3,.-.g||||j| *•
»8
B Jk4 :^k & iium *43 f% .^te'X;
if
'- •■•■.■ , '•-.> B ( v; -!-^ :
' •- •:■•". ^ r.^v, . V'-.4?;;,-^- ;' ■ ! ..:■ ■■■ ■ -^'-
rli
,'.)NkU',v-*f'l
ite&i&yf dw'nl
^4yv;|^
Int'
■■■ -■ - f
^■p.' - ‘W.-v’*
'' ■ ■■ }■ -l I - .'>v .'< '.'S- v^- •• r-'-: m1 r': • v
K | • | uv X
wifvu ".*i »>«wi
|.« 1,:^|||p#4^iitS
* ®lw«!
i ka, t ,;i. lii
i pi^| ' Il ■■'•-v;>, |
. V' .■ •.•'■* 11
»k >.i.vi‘.- ^^Syipid' MS
■it. US
Ifet-r^-'.;$§$$ I -V‘ - - :' ^ ' \ ■■''t itfufij
mj.L»;|»JfjXMr.iJfi
I - ,„ ■,. ■
w.tnmjrx'si it
/I T03 IGA j -'?* aj#y i-a t.»* . j ^
ft ^ ‘4 'o^^t (-*8 ^u<| t^il l>sT*iMjr <Nf |; i
'• -^ ; -:h;';..r-| W^t> 'S.H.-::, ^
■'hrwn
i't A
I
im
• ■. ' A"''';‘’-^’'X'-X
SI Sm| ; ' \i .■ • - ( p
i
v ■ v
%l "■ . II ■
-. •- ■ i
< ,
■ii ••
■fe JS1 f $0
- .iv ;;
U
. v <
:>:m
■ jj A. • - .
,:is r fc:
r
-•'W-ol .7,
• ■' !<>*/{ . ;i,
’ '.-i;
• ...
’ 't '
f ! v * t • c. , ;
n ■ > /IH j/ >
= * ; •;
• f
' V-
?• ^ ■ w lor n. ..
1
I"! * f' ; • M : ; M : ? :
, ' "■ 1 ,
. ;'w , - . •• >
A
' • A ; .. ' ; ■ i
* j , ' . ■ '
idea.. modifications of thought, for communicating to otltBS thole which luccceded it, or-eveh w-TtinHclt as atteF
* chain of argumentation, or even for diflingu,flung be- wards eulargeu, mull have been estiemc y ^
G R A
IVivifion narrow. If it was of human contrivance, t! is will be
.of Words, readily granted", for what art was ever invented and
1     brought to a date of perfection by illiterate favages ?
If it was taught by God, which is at leal! the rnoie
probable fuppofition, we cannot imagine that it would
be more comprelienlive than the ideas of tho*e foi
whofe immediate ufe it was intended", that the hill
men (hould have been taught to exprefs pains or plea-
fures which they never felt, or to utter founds that
fiiould be afterwards fignificant of ideas which at the
time of utterance had not occurred to tne mind of the
fpeaker : man, taught the elements of language, would
be able himfelf to improve and enlarge it as his future
occafions ihould require.
*7. As all language is compofed of fignificant words
varioufly Combined, a knowledge of them is neceffary
previous to our acquiring an adequate idea of language
as contlrucled into fentences and phrafes. Kut as. it
6 is by words that we exprefs the various ideas w-hich
Origin of occur to the mind, it is neceffary to examine hovv ideas
themfelves are fuggetled, before we can alcertam the
various claffes into which words may be diftributed.
It is the province of logic to trace our ideas from their
origin, as well as to teach the art of reafoning . but it
is neceffary at prefent to obierve, that our earheil ideas
are all ideas of fenfation, excited by the impreflions
that are made upon our organs of fenfe by the various
obje<51s with which we are lurrounded. Let us there-
iore fuppofe a reafonable being, devoid of every pollible
prepofleflion, placed upon this globe ", and it is ob¬
vious, that his attention wTould in the^firlt place be
directed to the various obje£ls which he faw exiifing
around him. Xhefe he would naturally endeavour to
diftinguifh from one another ", and if he were either
learning or inventing a language, his firft effort would
be to give them namest by means of which the ideas of
7 them might be recalled when the objefls themfelves
Of nouns. {]louic} be abfent. This is one copious fource of words ;
and forms a natural clafs which mull: be common to
every language, and which is diftinguilhed by the name
of nouns •, and as thefe nouns are the names of the fe-
veral fubltances which exill, they have likewife been
called SUBSTANTIVES.
8. It would likewife be early difcovered, that every
8 one of thefe fubftances was endowed with certain qua-
Of attri- j;tjes or attributes ", to exprefs which another clafs of
butives. words would be requifite, fince it is only by their qua¬
lities that fubftances themfelves can attrad our atten¬
tion. Thus, to be weighty, is a quality of matter ", to
think, is an attribute of man. Therefore in every lan¬
guage words have been invented to exprefs the known
qualities or attributes of the feveral objeds which exift.
Vol. X. Part I.
M M A R. • . 9
Thefe may all be comprehended under tne general de-
nomination of attributives. * v >
o. Nouns and attributives mull: comprehend all
that is ejjential to language (a) : for every thing which
exifts, or of which we can form an idea, muft be either
a fubjtance or the attribute of fome fubftance ; and
therefore thofe two claffes which denominate fubftances
and attributes, muft comprehend all the words, that
are necejfary to communicate to the hearer the ideas
which are prefent to the mind of the fpeaker. . If any
other words occur, they can only have been invented
for the fake of difpatch, or introduced for the pur-
pofes of eafe and ornament, to avoid tedious circum¬
locutions or difagreeable tautologies. There are in¬
deed grammarians of great name, who have conftdered.
as effential to language an order of words, of which
the ufe is to conneft the nouns and attributives, and
which are faid to have no Jignification of themfelves, but
to become /ignifcant by relation. Hence all words which
can poflibly be invented are by thefe men divided into
two general claffes: thofe which are SIGN)Iicani Ot
themselves and thofe wdiich are NOT. Words fig¬
nificant of themfelves are either exprellive of the names
of fubftances, and therefore called substant: * v.s •, or
of attributes, and therefore called attribuiives. ^ q
Words which are not fignificant of themfelves, muft ^ dcfiui-
acquire a meaning either1 as defining or connefting
others 5 and are therefore arranged under the two lives,
claffes of definitives and connectives.
10. That in any language there can be words wh.ch
of themfelves have no fgnifcation, is a fupp.olition
which a man free from prejudice will not readily ad¬
mit ; for to what purpofe Ihould they have been in¬
vented ? as they are lignificant of no ideas, they can¬
not facilitate the communication of thought, and muft
therefore be only an incumbrance to the language in
which they are found. Hut in anfwer to this it has
been faid, that thefe words, though devoid of fignifica-
tion themfelves, acquire a fort of meaning when joined
with others, and that they are as neceffary to the llruc-
ture of a fentence as cement is to the ftrufture of an
edifice : for as fones cannot be arranged into a regular
building without a cement to bind and connedl them, fo
the original words fignificant of fubflances and attri¬
butes, cannot be made to exprefs all the variety of our
ideas without being defined and conne&ed by thole words
wftiich of themfelves fignify nothing.—It is wonderful,
that he who firft fuggefted this fimile did not perceive
that it tends to overthrow the dodftrine which it is
meant to illuftrate : for furely the cement is as much
the matter of the building as the fones themfelves; it
is equally folid and equally extended. By being united
B with
(a) This is the doftrine of many writers on the theory of language, for whofe judgment we have the higheft
Tefpeft : yet it is not eafy to conceive mankind fo far advanced in the art of abftraftion as to view attributes
by themfelves independent of particular fubstances, and to give one general name to each tf/ZnZwte wherefoeyer it
may be found, without having at the fame time words exprelfive of affirmation. . We never talk of any attribute,
a colour for inftance, without affirming fomething concerning it", as, either that it is bright or faint, or that it is
the colour of fome fiubstance. It will be feen afterwrards, that to denote affirmation is the proper office of what
is called the fubftantive verb j as, “Milk zj1 white.” lhat verb therefore appears to be as neceflary to the
communication of thought as any fpecies of words whatever ", and if we muft range words under a. few general
claffe.^ wre Ihould be inclined to fay, that nouns, attributives, and affirmatives, comprehend all that is effential to
language.
IO
Divifion
of Words.
IO
The com¬
mon divi¬
fion of the
parts of
fpeech the
molt pro¬
per.
GRAM
witTi the ftones, it neither acquires nor lofes any one of
the qualities ejjential to matter; it neither communicates
its own foftnefs, nor acquires their hardnefs. By this
mode or reafoning therefore it would appear, that the
words called dejinitives and conneflivcs, fo far from ha¬
ving of themfelves no fignification, are equally effen-
tial to language and equally lignificant with thofe
which are denominated fubftantives and attributives; and
upon invelligation it will be found that this is the truth.
For whatever is meant by the definition or conne8ion of
the words which all men confefs to be fignificant, that
meaning mult be the fenfe of the wrords of which the
purpofe is to define and connedt; and as there can be
no meaning where there are no ideas, every one of thefe
definitives and conneBives muft be fignificant of fame idea,
although it may not be always eafy or even pofiible to
exprefs that idea by another word.
11. Thefe different modes of dividing the parts of .
■fpeech we have juft mentioned, becaufe they have been
largely treated of by grammarians of high fame. But
it does not appear to us, that any man can feel him-
ielf much the wifer for having learned that all wrords
are either substantives or attributives, defini¬
tives » r connectives. The divifion of words into
thofe which are SIGNIFICANT OF THEMSELVES, and
thofe which are significant by relation, is abfb-
lute nonfenfe, and has been productive of much error
and much myftery in fome of the moft celebrated trfea-
aafes on grammar. It is indeed probable, that any at¬
tempt to eftablifh a different claflification of the parts
of fpeech from that which is commonly received, will
be found of little utility either in praBice or in /pecula¬
tion. As far as the former is concerned, the vulgar
divifion feems fufficiently commodious 5 for every man
who knows any thing, knows when he ufes a noun
and when a verb. With refpeft to the latter, not to
mention that all the grammarians from Aristotle to
Horne Tooke, have differed on the fubjeft, it fhould
feem to be of more importance, after having afcertain-
ed with precifion the nature of each fpecies of words,
to determine in what Tircumftances they differ than in
what they agree.
12. In moft languages, probably in all cultivated
languages, grammarians diftinguifh the following parts
of fpeech: Noun, pronoun, verb, participle, adverb, pre-
pofition, conjunBion. The Latin and Englijb gramma¬
rians admit the interjeBion among the parts of fpeech,
although it is confeffedly not neceffary to the conftruc-
tion of the fentence, being only thrown in to exprefs
the affeClion of the fpeaker : and in the Greek and
Englijh tongues there is the article prefixed to nouns,
when they fignify the common names of things, to
point them out, and to fhow how far their fignification
extends. In the method of arrangement commonly
followed in grammars, adjeBives are claffed with fub¬
ftantives, and both are denominated nouns; but it is cer¬
tain that, when examined philofophically, an effential
difference is difcovered between the fubftantive and the
adjeBive; and therefore fome writers of eminence, when
treating of this fubjeft, have lately given the following
claflification of words, which we (hall adopt : The
article, noun, pronoun, verb, participle, adjec¬
tive, adverb, preposition, conjunction, inter¬
jection. All thefe words are to be found in the En¬
glijh language; -and therefore we fhall examine each
MAR. Chap. I.
clafs, endeavour to afcerta’m its precife Import, and fhow Noun,
in what refpecfts it differs from every other clafs. It is ■—v—
impoflible to inveftigate the principles of grammar
without confining the invefligation in a great meafure
to fome particular language from which the illuftrations
muft be produced ; and that we fhould prefer the F.ng-
li/h language for this purpofe can excite no wonder, as
it is a preference which to every tongue is due from
thofe by whom it is fpokert. We truft, however, that
the principles which we fliall eftablifh will be found to
apply univerfalhj; and that our inquiry, though princi-
palhj illuftrated from the Englijh language, will be an
inquiry into philofophical or univerfal grammar.
Chap. I. Of the Noun or Subfiantive.
13. Nouns are all thofe words by which objeEis or The noun
fubftances are denominated, and which dijlinguijh them defined.
from one another, without marking either quantity, qua¬
lity, aBion, or relation. The fubstantive or noun is the
name of the thing fpoken of, and in Greek and Latin
is called name; for it is woyM in the one, and nomen in
the other •, and if in Englilh we had called it the
name rather than the noun, the appellation would per¬
haps have been more proper, as this laft word, being
ufed only in grammar, is more liable to be mifunder-
ftood than the other, which is in constant and familiar
ufe. That nouns or the names of things muft make a
part of every language, and that they muft have been
the words firft fuggefted to the human mind, will not
be difputed. . Men could not fpeak of themfelves or
of any thing elfe, without having names for themfelves
and the various objefts with which they are furrounded.
Now, as all the objefts which exift muft be either in
the fame ftate in which they were produced by nature,
or changed from their original ftate by art, or abstraB- 12
ed from fubftances by the powers of imagination, and Different
conceived by the mind as having at leaft the capacity kinds of
of being charaderized by qualities j this naturally fug-nouns-
gefls a divifion of nouns into natural, as man, vege¬
table, tree, &c. ARTIFICIAL, as houfe,fhip, watch, &c.
and abstract, as whitenefs, motion, temperance, &c.
14. But the diverfity of objeds is fo great, that had
each individual a distinti and proper name, it would be
impoflible for the moft tenacious memory, during the
courfe of the longeft life, to retain even the nouns of J3
the narroweft language. It has therefore been found Ncmns ge-
expedient, when a number of things referable each neral termsj
other in fome important particulars, to arrange them
all under one fpecies; to which is given a name that
belongs equally to the whole fpecies, and to each in¬
dividual comprehended under it. Thus the word man
denotes ts fpecies of animals, and is equally applicable to
every human being: The word horfe denotes another
fpecies of animals, and is equally applicable to every in¬
dividual of that fpecies of quadrupeds; but it cannot
be applied to the fpecies of men, or to any individual
comprehended under that fpecies. We find, however,
that there arc fome qualities in which feveral fpe¬
cies referable each other *, and therefore we refer
them to a higher order called a genus, to which we give
a name that is equally applicable to every fpecies and
every individual comprehended under it. Thus, men
and horfes and all living things on earth referable each
other in this refpeft, that they have life. We refer
theta
Chap.
Noun.
j GRAM
therefore to the genus called animal; and this
" world belongs to c\csy fpecies of animals, and to eac i
individual animal. The fame clarification is made both
of artificial and abstract fubttances j of each of which
there are genera, fpecies and individuals
tural fubftances, animal, vegetable, and /#/, deno
gfnera, horfe, tree, metal, a SPECIES j and Alex-
^Bucephalus, oak, gold, are individuals In arti-
ficial fubftances, edifice is a GENUS; houfie, church Lower
are species j and the Vatican, ^ PWV, and the Tower
of London, are individuals. In abstraii fubftances,
lion and virtue are GENERA •, flight and temperance are
SPECIES ; the flight of Mahomet and temperance in wi
are individual! By arranging fubftances in this man-
ner and giving a name to each genus and Jpecies, the
nouns neceffary to any language are c°mP^tlvel>b^
and eaiily acquired : and when we meet with an object
unknOTvn^to u\ we have only to exa^ne « wth aUen;
tion • and comparing it with other objefts, to reier
to the genus or fpecies which it moft nearly refembles.
By this contrivance we fupply the want of a proper
name for the indnidua!; and fo far ^‘he'efembknce
MAR.
I I
Noun.
fuch admits of a plural; as the Caflars the Howards,
the Pelhems, the Montagues, &c.: but Socrates can ne¬
ver become plural; fo long as we know of w than
one man of that name. The reafon ot all this will oe
obvious, if we confider, that every genus mzy be tounci
whole and entire in each of its Jpccics; for man, horje,
and dog, are each of them an entire and complete ani¬
mal: and every fpecies may be found whole and entire
in each of its individuals: for Socrates, 1 lato, and Xe¬
nophon, are each of them completely and entirely a
man. Hence it is, that every genus, though ONE, is
multiplied into MANY j and every fpecies, though one,
is alfo multiplied into MANY } by reference to thofe be¬
ings which are their fubordinates : But as no individual
has any fuch fubordinates, it can never in ftriftnels be
confidered as MANY } and fo, as well m nature as m
name, is truly an individual which cannot admit ot
”W™7?Befides number, another charaaeriftic, yifible in Of gender,
fubftances, is that of SEX. Every fubflance is either
male or female; or both male and female; or neither one
nor the other. So that with refpea to flexes and then
name for the individual; and fo far as the rdetnblance are comprehended un
■f “»rl«e “ «‘"d Ore ° d/r tKs’fifaS confiderxtion, which language wodr
is complete oetween ii. cw.v. — jr--- .
ferred, and of which we have given it the name, we
may converfe and reafon about it without danger of
error : Whereas had each individual m nature a distina
and proper name, words would be innumerable and m-
comprehenfible ; and to employ our labours in lan¬
guage, would be as idle as that ftudy of numberlefs
written fymbols which has been attributed to the
Chinefe.
negation, anjuudianted   r
der this fourfold confideration, which language would
be very imperfeft if it could_ not exprefs. Now the
exiftence of hermaphrodites being rare, ft not doubt u ,
and language being framed to anfwer the ordinary oc-
cafions of life, no provifion is made, m any of the
tongues with which we are acquainted, for exprelung,
otherwife than by a name made on purpofe, or by a peri-
phrafis, duplicity offlex. With regard to this great natural
1 - ~ •   r\n 1 \r n threernlci
^ „igi„ ffkhhough W axe thus adapted* expteft not cWaetiaic,
of the fin- the individual* but the genet a or^fWft into w 1C t0 be 0f mafeuline gender; thole which denote
I!—S^^^aUmenm^W
nouns ^ ^ ™ ^ ^
muft admit of fome variation in their form to denote
unity and plurality; and this variation is called number
Thus in the Englilh language, when we fpeak ot a
fingle place of habitation, we call it a houfe / but it o
more, le call them houfes. In the firft of thefe cafe
the noun is faid to be in the fngular, in the laft cafe .
* 1 1 . havp arm a
is in the plural, number. Greek nouns have alfo a
dual number to exprefs two individuals, as have like-
wlfe fome Hebrew nouns: but this variation is evident¬
ly not effential to language ; and it is perhaps doubt¬
ful whether it ought to be confidered as an elegance
or a deformity. 1 • j . r
16. But although number be a natural accident ot
nouns, it can only be confidered as effenhal to thofe
which denote genera or fpecies. Thus we may have
occafion to fpeak of one animal or ot many animals, ot
one man, or of many men ; and therefore the nouns ani¬
mal and man muft be capable of exprefling plurality as
well as unity. But this is not the cafe with refpeeft to
the proper names of individuals : for we can only lay
Xenophon, Aristotle, Plato, &c. in thtfingular; as, were
any one of thefe names to affume a plural rorrn, it
would ceafe to be the proper name of an individual and
become the common name of a fpecies. Or this, indeed,
we have fome examples in every language. Yv hen a
proper name is confidered as a general appellative un¬
der which many others are arranged, it is then no
longer the name of an individual but of a fpecies, and as
the names of all animals ftiould have gender. But the
fex of all is not equally obvious, nor equally worthy ot
attention. In thofe fpecies that are moft common, or
of which the male and fat female are, by fwwfrzeflorni,
colour, or other outward circumftances, eminently distin-
puifhed, the male is fometimes called by one name, which
gm bca, tne mate is lumeumca -.7 -  ’
is mafeuline; and fat female by a different name, which is
feminine. Thus in Englifti we fay, hujband, wife; king,
queen; father, mother ; fon, daughter, &-C.. In others
of fimilar difthnftion, the name of the male is applied to
the female only by prefixing a fyllable or by altering
the termination j as man, woman; lion, honefs; emperor,
emprefs, anciently emperefs; master, mist refs, .anciently
masterefs, &c. When fat fex of any animal is not ob¬
vious, or not material to be known, the lame name,
in fome languages, is applied, without variation, to all
the fpecies, and that name is faid to be of the common
gender. Thus in Latin bos albus is a white ox, and bos
alba a white cow. Diminutive infe£ts, though they
are doubtlefs male and female, feem to be confidered
in the Englifti language as if they were really creep¬
ing things. No man, fpeaking of a worm, would
fay he creeps, but it creeps, upon the ground. But
although the origin of genders is thus clear and obvi¬
ous j yet the Englifti is the only language, with which
we are acquainted, that deviates not, except m a very
few inftances, from the order of nature. Greek and
Latin, and many of the modern tongues, have nouns,
R 9. fome
Tome mafculine, fome
ftances where fex
gramma r.
16
Origin of
cafes.
feminine, which denote fub-
never had exiftence. Nay, fome
languages are fo particularly defedive in this refped,
as to clafs every objed, inanimate as well as animate,
undei either the tnafcuhne or the feminine gender, as they
have no neuter gender for thofe which are of neither fex.
1 his is the cafe with the Hebrew, French, Italian, and
Spanijh. Eat the Englijh, ftrickly following the order
ot nature, puts every noun which denotes a We ani¬
mal, and no other, in the mnfcuhne gender j every
name Oj. a female animal, in the feminine; and every
animal whofe lex is not obvious, or known, as well as
e^very inanimate objed whatever, in the neuter gender.
And this gives our language an advantage above moft
others m the poetical and rhetorical ftyle : for when
nouns naturally neuter are converted into mafculine
and feminine, the perfonifcation is more dilfindly and
more forcibly marked. (See Personification.) Some
v ~ry learned and ingenious men have endeavoured, by
Moat they call a more fubtle kind of reafoning, to dif-
cern even in things without fex a diftant analogy to that
natural distinction, and to account for the names
of inanimate fubflances being, in Greek and Latin,
Tdafculine wvl feminine. But fuch fpeculations are wholly
fanciful 5 and the principles upon which they proceed
are overturned by an appeal to fads. Many of the
jubilances tuat, in one language, have mafculine names,
have in others names that are feminine ; which could
not be the cafe were this matter regulated by reafon or
nature. . Indeed for this, as well as many other ano¬
malies in language, no other reafon can be affigned
than that custom——
Ouem penes arbitrium ell, et jus, et norma, loquendi.
18. It has been already obferved that moll nouns
are the names, not of individuals, but of whole clalfes of
objeds termed genera and fpecies (b). In clalfmg a num¬
ber of individuals under one fpecies, we contemplate only
thofe qualities which appear to be important, and in
which the feveral individuals are found to agree, ab-
llrading the mind from the conlideration of all thofe
which appear to be lefs efiential, and wdiich in one in¬
dividual may be fucli as have nothing exadly limilar
in any other individual upon earth. Thus, in clafling
the individuals which are comprehended under the fpe¬
cies denominated horfe, we pay no regard to their co¬
lour ox \\\zf%e; becaufe experience teaches us, that no
particular colour or fize is effential to that individual
living creature, and that there are not perhaps upon
earth two horfes whofe colour and lize are exatthj alike.
But the qualities which in this procefs we take into
view, are foe. general fhape, the fymmetry, and proportion
ot the parts; and in Ihort every thing which appears
evidently ejfential to the life of the individual and the
propagation of the race. All thefe qualities are llrikingly
umilar m all the individuals which we call horfes, and as
llrikingly diflimilar from the correfponding qualities of
every other individual animal. The colour of a horfe is of-
. Chap. I.
ten the fame with that of an ox; but the (hape of the one Noun.
an1l1raa}?nthe fymmetry and proportion of his parts, are to- ' 
tally different from thofe of the other ; nor could any
man be led to clafs the two individuals under the fame
fpecies. It is by a fimilar procefs that we afcend from one
fpecies to another, and through all the fpecies to the
higheil £-e«/zr. In each fpecies or genus in the afcending
ienes fewer particular qualities are attended to than were
conhdered as ejfential to the genus or fpecies immediately
below it; and our conceptions become more and more
general as the particular qualities, which are the objefts
of them, become/earr in number. The ufe of a general
term, therefore, can recal to the mind only the common
qualities of the clafs, the genus or Ipecies which it re-
piefents. But we have frequent occalion to fpeak of
individual objeefs. In doing this, we annex to the ge¬
neral term certain words fignificant ofparticular qualities,
which diferiminate the objed of which we fpeak, from
every other individual of the clafs to which it belongs,
and of which the general term is the common name. For
mftance, in advertifing a thief, we are obliged to men¬
tion his height, complexion, gait, and whatever may ferve
to dillinguilh him from all other men.
X he procefs of tne mind in rendering her concep¬
tions particular, is indeed exactly the reverfe of that
by which {he generalises them. For as in the pro¬
cefs of generalisation, ihe abstracts from her ideas of any
number of fpecies certain qualities in which they differ
from each other, and of the remaining qualities in
which they agree, conftitutes the firft genus in the
afcending leries 3 fo when file wiihes to make her con¬
ceptions more, particular, {lie annexes to her idea of any
genus thofe qualities or circumftances which were be¬
fore abftracled from it 3 and the genus, wuth this annexa¬
tion, conflitutes the firil fpecies in the defending feries.
In like manner, when ihe willies to defeend from any
fpecies to an individual, fhe has only to annex to the
idea of the fpecies thofe particular qualities which dif¬
eriminate the individual intended from the other indivi¬
duals of the fame kind.
This particularising operation of the mind points out
the manner of applying the general terms of language
for the purpoie of exprefhng particular ideas. For as
the mind, to limit a general idea, connects that idea with
the idea of fome particular circumfance ; fo language, as
we have already obferved, in order to limit a general
term, connects that term with the word denoting the
particular circumflance. Thus, in order to particula¬
rize the idea of horfe, the mind connects that general idea
with the circumfance, fuppofe, of whitenefs; and in
order to particularize the word horfe, language connects
that word with the term white : and fo in other inltan-
ces.—Annexation, therefore, or the connecting of ge¬
neral words or terms in language, fits it for exprefling
particular conceptions ; and this mull hold alike good
in all languages. But the methods of denoting this an¬
nexations are various in various tongues. In Englifh and
moll modern languages we commonly ufe for this pur-
pofe
(B) It is almoft needlefs to obferve that the words genus fpecies, and the phrafes higher genus and lower
geaes are taken here m the /open/ fenfe ; and not as the words genus, fpecies, order, clnfs, are often employed
fcy naturanits. Xor a farther account of the mental procefs of generalization, fee Logic and Metaphysics.
Chap. I.
Noun.
nofe little words, which we have chofen to flyle par¬
ticles ; and in the Greek and Latin languages, the cajes
of nouns anfwer the fame end. ., p
iq. Cafes, therefore, though they are accidents o
nouns not abfo lately necejfanj, have been often con tide red
as fuch 5 and they are certainly worthy of our exami¬
nation, fince there is perhaps no language m w me r
fame cafes are not to be found, as indeed without
or their various powers no language could readily an¬
fwer the purpofes of life. ^ ,
AH the oblique cafes of nouns (if we except the vo-
native) are merely marks of annexation ; but as the
annexation. conne^ons or relations fubfiftmg among objelhpxe very
various, fame cafes denote one kind of _ relation, and
fame another. We {hall endeavour to mvelhgate the
connexion which each cafe denotes beginning with
the genitive.—This is the mojl general cn ^ ^ cafes,
and gives notice fox fame conneaion indeed fubfifls be¬
tween two objefts, but does not point out ^particular
kind of conneaion. That we mud infer not from our
nature or termination of the genitive itfe/fhvX from our
18 previous knowledge of the objects conneBed. _ 1 nat the
The imk a endive denotes merely relation in general, might be pro-
’ the . . . • ^vcimnlpQ- in WHICH tilC
r?
Cafes, the
marks of
port of
genitive
cafe.
Penuive ucnuica ■ —  o ' . ^ -I
ved by adducing innumerable examples, in which the
relations expreffed by this cafe are different; but we
{hall content ourfelves with one obfervation, from which
the truth of our opinion will appear beyond dilpute.
If an expreilion be ufed in which are, connected by
the genitive cafe, two words iigmficant of objeft^ be¬
tween which a twofold relation may fubfift, it will be
found impoflible, from the expreffon, to determine which
of thefe two relations is the true one, which mult be
gathered wholly from the context. J bus, for examp e,
from the phrafe injuria regis, no man can know whe¬
ther the injury mentioned be an injury fuffered or an in¬
jury infiaed by the king : but if the genitive cale no¬
tified my particular relation, no fuch ambiguity could
exift. This cafe therefore gives notice, that two ob¬
jects are, fomehow or other (c), connefted, but it maiks
not the particular fort of connexion. Hence it may
be tianilated by our particle of, which will be leen
afterwards to be of a fignification equally general.
Of the da- dative and accusative cafes appear to have nearly
tivc acd ac-tlie meanlng . each of them denoting apportion, or
6 the junaion of one objeB with another. Thus when any
one fays, Compare Virgilium Homero, Homer and Virgil
are conceived to be placed befule one another, m order
to their being compared •, and this fort of connection
is denoted by the dative cafe. In like manner, when it
is faid latus humeros, breadth is conceived as joined to
or conneaed in apportion with {boulders •, and the ex-
preffion may be tranflated “ broad at the {boulders.”
This appojition of two objeas may happen either
without previous motion, or in confequence of it. In the
foregoing inftances no motion is prefuppofed; but if
one fay, Miff aliquos fubfidio corum, the apportion is
there in confequence motion. In like manner, when
GRAMMAR- . <
it is faid, ProfeBus ejl Rornam, Ins appofimn with Rome
is conceived as the effeB of his motion thither. _ .
From this idea of the accufative, the reafon is obvious
why the obiea after the aaive verb is often put m that
cafe ; it is becaufe the aaion is (uppofed to procee
from the agent to the patient. But the fame thing
happens with refpea to the dative cafe, and for
fame reafon. Thus, Antonins luff Cicerunem and An o-
nius nocuit Ciceroni, are expreflions of the fame import,
and in each the aaion of hurting is conceived as pro¬
ceeding from Antony to Cicero*, whic i r> me y i
ftrated by the paflive form of fuch expretlions, where
the procedure above mentioned is exprefsly marked by
the prepolition ab: Cicero nocetur, Cicero Iceditur ab An¬
tonio. It is therefore not true, that “ the accufativi is
that cafe, at leaft the o«/y cafe, which to an efficient
nominative and a verb of aaion fubjoms either the et-
fea or the paflive fubjea *, nor is Cswdative the only
cafe which is formed to exprefs relations tending to
itfelf.” The only thing ejjential to thefe two cales is
to denote the appoffion ox junB ion of one objeB with ano¬
ther; and this they do nearly, if not altogether, in the
fame manner, although from the cufiom of language they
may not be indifferently fubjoined to the fame vero.
A..- it 1   1* Li. ^ /-“'ilia • nil
I3
Noun.
IQ
cafes.
iy nut uc luumtiv-imj    . of the ab«
The Greek language has no ablative caie: but in latlve cafeo
the Latin, where it is ufed, it denotes concomitancy, or
that one thing accompanies another. From this concomi-
tancy we fometimes draw an inference, and (ometimes
not. For example, when it is faid, Templum clamore
petebant, clamour is reprefented as concomitant^ with their
going to the temple *, and here no inference is drawn : but
from the phrafe palleo metu, although nothing 1S
expreffed than that palenefs is a concomitant ot the tear,
yet we inffantly infer that it is al(o the effeB ot it. n
moft inftances where the ablative is ufed, an inference
is drawn, of which the foundation is fome natural con¬
nection obferved to fubfift between the objeBs thus con-
nefted in language. When this inference is not meant
to be drawn, the prepoffion is commonly added *, as,
interfeBus eft cum gladio, “ he was {lain with a {word
about him *,” interfeBus ejl gladio, “ he was flam wit i a
fword as the inftrument of his death.” . , oftheno-
The remaining cafes, which have not been noticed,
are the nominative and the vocative. Ihele are m m°ffarKi Voca-
inftances alike in termination, which makes it probable tive cafes,
that they were originally one and the fame cafe, i he
foundation of this conjefture will appear from conu-
dering the ufe to which each of thefe cafes is applied.
The nominative is employed to call up the idea of any
objeB in the mind of the hearer.. But when m man
hears his own name mentioned, his attention is inftant-
ly roufed, and he is naturally led to Hjlen to what is to
be faid. Flence, when a man meant particularly to
folicit one’s attention, he would naturally pronounce
that perfen’s name; and thus the nominative cafe would
pafs into a vocative, of which the ufe is always x.o folicit
attention (d).
fed The Greek grammarians feem to have been aware of the nature of this cafe when they called it
or the general cafe ; of which name the Latin grammarians evidently miftook the meaning when they tia
fated it cafus genitivus, or xht generative cafe ; a name totally foreign from its nature. .
(D) The chief objeftion to this conjeaure, that the nominative and were^ origmally the
taken from the Latin tongue, in which the nouns of the fecond declenfion endmg m terminate their voca
Import of
the Greek
an.I Latin
cafes.
23
One cafe
in Englifli
to denote
pofleflion.
GRAM
20. The Greek and Latin among the ancient, and the
German, among the modern languages, exprefs different
connections or relations of one thing with another by
cafes. In Englijh this is done for the moft part by
prepofitions; but the Englith, being derived from the
lame origin as the German, that is, from the Teutonic,
has at leaft one variation of the fubftantive to anfwer
the^ fame purpofe. For inftance, the relation of pof-
JjL/ion, or belonging, is often expreffed by a different end¬
ing of the fubftantive, which may be well called a cafe.
1 his cafe anfwers nearly to the genitive cafe in Latin \
but as that is not a denomination lignificant of the. na¬
ture of the cafe in any language, it may perhaps in
Englifli be more properly called thepqflefwe cafe. Thus,
God's grace, anciently Godis grace, is the grace belong¬
ing to or in the pojfejjion of God : and may be likewife
expreffed by means of the prepofition ; thus,—the grace
of God.
_ Although the word Godis is as evidently an inflexion
of the noun God as the word Dei is an inflexion of
Dens, there are grammarians who have denied that in
Englijh there is any true inflexion of the original noun,
-and who have laid that the noun with the addition of
that fy liable, which we confider as the fign of a cafe,
ceafes to be a noun, and becomes a definitive ; a word
which with them is devoid of lignification. Thus, in
the expreflion Alexander's houfe, the word Alexander's
Hands not as a noun, but as an article or definitive, fer-
ving to afeertain and point out the individuality of the
houfe. But this is a palpable miftake: the word
Alexander's ferves not to point out the individuality of
the houfe, but to Ihow to whom the houfe belongs ; and
is therefore beyond difpute, not an article, but a noun
in the pofiefijive cafe. Again, when we fay St Peter's at
Rome and St Paul's at London, the words St Peter's
and St Paul's are neither articles, nor, as has been ab-
lurdly imagined, the proper names of edifices, like the
Rotunda or the Circus; but they are in the pojfefjive
cafe, the names of the twTo apoftles to whom the
churches were dedicated, and to whom they are fuppofed
to belong.
But that this, which we have called the pofieffive cafe,
is really not fo, muft be evident, it is faid, becaufe there
are certain circumftances in which it cannot be fubfti-
tuted for the noun with the prepofition prefixed. Thus,
though a man may fay, I fpeak of Alexander, I write
qf Ccefar, I think of Pompey; he cannot fay, I fpeak
Alexander's, I write Ccefar's, or I think Pompeij's. This
is indeed true, but it is nothing to the purpofe : for
though I may fay, Loquor df. Alexandra, Scribo dr
Cafare, Cogito ds Pompcio; I cannot fay, Loswor A-
lexandm, Scribo Cafans, or Cogito Pompeii: and there¬
fore all that can be inferred from this argument is,
that as the Latin genitive is not always of the fame im¬
port with the prepofition de, fo the Englilh poffejfive is
not always of the fame import with the prepofition of.
Upon the whole, then, we may conclude, that Englilh
nouns admit of one inflexion ; and that though cafes
M Chap. II.
are not fo effential to nouns as gender and number, no Article,
language can be wholly without them or their various1 ‘\
powers.
Chap. II. Oj Articles or Definitives.
2i. I he intention of language is to communicate
thought, or to exprefs thole ideas which are fuggefted
to us by our fenfes external and internal. The ideas
firfi fuggefted to us are thofe of pain and pleafure, and
oi the objefts with wfliich we are lurrounded; and
therefore the words firfi learned muft be nouns, or thd
names of objedls natural, artificial, and abftracft. Every
objeft about which the human mind can be converfant
is ftridlly and properly fpeaking particular; for all
. things in nature differ from one another in numberlefis
refpefts, which, not to mention the idea of feparate
exiftence, fo circumftance and individuate them, that
no one thing can be faid to be another. Now the ufe
of language being to exprefs our ideas or conceptions
of thefe objefts, it might naturally be expefled that
every objeeft ftiould be diftinguiftied by a proper name.
I his would indeed be agreeable to the truth of things,
but we have already feen that it is altogether imprac¬
ticable. Objedls have therefore been claffed into genera
and fpecies ; and names given, not to each individual, but
to each genus and fpecies. By this contrivance of language,
we are enabled to afeertain in fome meafure any indivi¬
dual that may occur, and of which we know not the
proper name, only by referring it to the genus or fpecies
to which it belongs, and calling it by the general or
fpecific name ; but as there is frequent occafion to di-
ftinguilh individuals of the fame fpecies from one ano¬
ther, it became neceffary to fall upon fome expedient
to mark this diftindtion. In many languages general
and fpecific terms are modified and reftridled by three
orders of words ; the article, the adjective, and
the oblique cases of nouns. The cafes of nouns we The necet-
have already confidered : the adjedlive will employ our fity and ufe
attention afterwards: at prefent our obfervations are °f ar.
confined to the article ; a word fo very neceffary,ticle*
that without it or fome equivalent invention men could
not employ nouns to any of the purpofes of life, or in¬
deed communicate their thoughts at all. As the bu-
finefs of articles is to enable us, upon occafion, to em¬
ploy general terms to denote particular objects, they muft
be confidered, in combination with the general terms, as
merely fubftitutes for proper names. They have, how¬
ever, been commonly called definitives ; becaufe they
ferve to define and afeertain any particular objeB,fo as to
dijlingui/h it from the other objects of the general c/afs to
which it belongs, and, of courfe to denote its individuality.
Of wmrds framed for this purpofe, whether they have
by grammarians been termed articles or not, we know
of no language that is wholly deftitute. The nature
of them may be explained as follow’s.
22. An objecl occurs with which, as an individual,
we are totally unacquainted ; it has a head and limbs,
and
*4
live in e. But this is eafily accounted for. The s in fuch words was often dropt, as appears from the fcan-
ning of old Latin poetry •, and when this w?as done, the u being fhort, would naturally in pronunciation pafs into
e, a like Ihort vowTel j and thus, in the vocative cafe, e would in time be written inftead of u.
I
Chap.
Article.
25
Two ar¬
ticles.
n G K A M
and appears to poiTefs the powers of felf-mot.on and
^ lenfation : we therefore refer it to proper^m^a d
call it a dov, a horfe, a lion, or the nke. ' . h
ta none of the fpecies with which we are «'l“a“te •
it cannot be called by any of the.r names , we then
fer it to the penus, and call it an amnia .
Cthis is not enough. The obrnfl a. winch we
are looking, and which we want to d.fttn u fh, ,
a fl'ccim or a genus, but an individual. f
£oZ, or JLZf Seen ^forthefrjl -
befm-e and now remembered ? This is one of the m-
ftances in which we (hall difcover the tTe of thetwo
articles A and THE : for, in the cafe f“rPofed>
tide A refpeds our primary perception, and denot.
individual as uninown; whereas the refpeas o^xfmn-
tjary perception, and denotes ind.v.duals as io
explain this by an example : I fee an obj V
which I never faw till now: What do I fay . ihere
goes a beggar with a long beard. The man departs, and
‘returns a week after : What do I then fay ? There goes
IT beggar with the long beard. Here the article only
[s chanfed, the reft remains unaltered. Yet mark th
force of this apparently minute change. The md-
vidual once vague Is now recogmfed fame thing known,
andthatxnerefy by the efficacy of this latter article
which tacitly inlinuates a kind ofacquaintance
by referring a prelent perception to a like perceptio
^"Thfs islhe explanation of the articles A and THE as
given by the learned Mr Harris, and thus, far what he
fays on the fubjed is certainly juft j but it is not true
that the article THE always mfmuates a. ac¬
quaintance, or refers a prefent perception to a like
perception already paft.-I am m a room crowded w h
company, of which the greater part is to me totalhy
unknown. I feel it difficult to breathe from the grofl-
nefsof the inclofed atmofphere •, and looking ton aids
the window, I fee in it a perfon whom I never law be¬
fore. I inftantly fend my compliments to the gentle¬
man in the window, and requeft, that, if it be not incon¬
venient, be will have the goodnefs to let into the room
a little freffi air. Of this gentleman I have no previous
acquaintance; my prefent.perception ot um i» my pi i
mani perception, and yet it would have been extreme y
improper to fend my compliments, &c. to A gentleman
in the window.—Again, there would be no impropriety
in faying—“ A man whom 1 faw yefterday exhibiting
a (how to the rabble, was this morning committed to
iail charged with the crime of houfebreaking. ^ot;
withftanding the authority, therefore, of Mr Hams
and his mailer Apollonius, we may venture to affirm,
that it is not ejfential to the article A to refpeft a pri¬
mary perception, or to the article the to indicate a pre-
e/lablijhed acquaintance. Such may indeed be the manner
in which thefe words are moft frequently ufed ; but we
fee that there are inftances in which they may be uied
differently. What then, it .may be alked, is the im¬
port of each article, and in what refpetls do tney
differ ?
23. We anfwer, that the articles A and THE are
both of them definitives, as by being prefixed to the
names of genera zn&fipecies they fo circumfcnbe the la¬
titude of thofe names as to make them for the. molt
part denote individuals. A noun os fubfiantive, without
M A Pi, 1 ^
any article to limit it, is taken.in its wideft fenfe. Thus,
the word man means all mankind j
Xhe proper ftudy of mankind is man .
where mankind and man may change places without
making any alteration in the fenfe. But let ett/ier
the articles of which we are treating be prefixed to the
word man, and that word is immediately reduced from
the name of a whole genus to denote only p Jingle indi¬
vidual; and inftead of the noble truth which this line
afferts, the poet will be made to fay, that the proper
ftudy of mankind is not the common nature which is
diffufed through the whole human race, but the man¬
ners and caprice oi one individual. Thus far therefo
the two articles agree : but they differ in this, that
though they both limit the fpecific name Xo fiome indi¬
vidual, the article A leaves the individual itfielfi unaficci-
tained; whereas the article THE aficertains the individual *6
//■ an(i can be prefixed to the fpecific name only The inde-
when an individual is.intend.ed, of which fomething may the definite*
be predicated that diftinguiffies it from the other indi¬
viduals of the fpecies. Thus, if I fay-^ man is fit for
treafons, my affertion may appear ftrange and vague ,
but the fentence is complete, and wants nothing to
make it intelligible : but if I fay—™* man is fit for
treafons, I fpeak nonfenfe ; for as the article THE ffioWs
that 1 mean fiome particular man, it will be impoffib
to difcover my meaning till I complete the fentence,.
and predicate' fomething of the.individual intended to
diftinguilh him from other individuals.
<« The man that hath not mufic in Inmfielf , &c.
“ Is fit for treafons.”- *
A man, therefore, means fome one or other of the hu¬
man race indefinitely; the man definitely, that
particular man who is fpoken of: the. former is called
the indefinite, the latter the definite, article. . 27
The two articles differ likewife in this .refpea that The d.f-
as the article A ferves only to feparate one individual ob-
jed from the general clafs to which it belongs, it cannot
be applied to plurals. It has indeed the fame ligmfi-
cation nearly with the numerical word one; and in
French and Italian, the fame word that denotes omty
is alfo the article of which we now treat. But the el-
fence of the article THE being to define objetts, by
pointing them out as thofe of which fomethi.ng is af¬
firmed or denied which is not affirmed or denied of the
other obi efts of the fame clafs, it is equally applicable
to both numbers ; for things may be predicated ot one
of men, as well as of ^fingle man, which cannot be
predicated of other men. The ufe and import of each
article will appear from the following example .. Man
was made for Society, and ought to extend his good¬
will to all men ; but a man will naturally entertain a
more particular regard for the men with whom he has
the moft frequent intercourfe, and enter into a Itill
dofer union with the man whofe temper and difpolition
fuit belt with his own.” _
We have faid, that the article. A cannot be applied
to plurals, becaufe it denotes unity : but to. this rule
there is apparently a remarkable exception m the uie
of the adjectivesyHu and many (the latter chiefly with
the vior<lgreat before it), which, though joined with
pluralfubfiantives, yet admit of \hofingular article A .
SIS a. *
i(5
Articli
17
A greater
number of
articles in
the Englifli
language
than is
commonly
fuppofed.
ns, afeiv tnen, a great many men. ^cwvyil LIlia ia
manifeft from the effeft which the article has in thefe
phrafes : it means a fmall or a great number collec-
tjve/y taken, to which it gives the idea of a whole,
that is, ot unity. Thus likewile a hundred, a thoufand,
is one whole number, an aggregate of many collectively
taken, and therefore dill retains the article A though
joined as an adjedive to a plural fubdanyive ; as, a
hundred years. I he exception therefore is only appa¬
rent ; and we may affirm, that the article A univcrfally
denotes unity. J
«-4" The indefinite article is much lefs ufeful than the
othei; and therefore the Greek and Hebrew languages
have it not, though they both have a definite article.
In languages of which the nouns, adjedhves, and verbs,
have inflexion, no midake can arife from the want of the
mdejinite article 5 becaufe it can always be known by
the terminations ot the noun and the verb, and by the
circumdances predicated of the noun, whether a whole
fpecies or one individual be intended. But this is not
the cafe in Englifli. In that language, the adjedives
having no variation with refped to gender or number,
and the tenles of the verbs being for the mod part the
fame in both numbers, it might be often doubtful, had
we not the indefinite article, whether dtie, fpeciSc name
was intended to exprefs the whole fpecies or only one in¬
dividual J bus, if we fay in Engliffi, “ Man was born
fent from God,'1'1 we mud be underdood to mean that
the birth of every man is from God, becaufe to the
Ipecific term the indefinite article is not prefixed. Yet
the words Eysyelo uvOgMTros &'/n5-cthfx,i)i6$ ©6*1; convey
no fuch meaning to any perfon acquainted with the
Greek language j as the word without any
article, is rellrided to an individual by its concord
with the verb and the participle j and the fenfe of the
paflage is, a man was born (or exi/led) fent from God.
But though the Greeks have no article correfpondent
to the aiticle a, yet nothing can be more nearly rela¬
ted than their o’ to our THE, O’ (3x<riteu<;—THE king ;
Fa ^eav—THE gift. In one refped:, indeed, the Greek
and Englidi articles differ. The former is varied accord¬
ing to the gender and number of the noun with which it
Is affociated, being a—mafeuline, v,—feminine, ra—neu¬
ter ; and oi, xl, rx, in the plural number: whereas the
Engliffi article differs no change, being invariably the
before nouns of every gender and in both numbers.
1 here are, however, fome modern languages which, in
imitation of the Greek, admit of a variation of their ar¬
ticle which relates to gender j but this cannot be confi-
dered as ejjential to this fpecies of words, and it may be
queflioned whether it be any improvement to the lan¬
guage. In tongues of which the nouns have no in¬
flexion, it can only ferve to perplex and confufe, as it
always prefents a particular idea of fex where in many
cafes it is not neceffary.
articles already mentioned are allowed to
be dridtly and properly fuch by every grammarian j
but there are fome wmrds, fuch as this, that, any, fome,
all, other, &c. which are generally faid to be fome-
times articles and fometimes pronouns, according to the
different modes of ufmg them. That words ihould
change their nature in this manner, fo as to belong
fometimes to one part of fpeech, and fometimes to ano¬
ther , mud to every unprejudiced perfon appear very
S; j1 A M M A It. Chap. II.
Lhe reafon of this is be a thing fo equivocal, that all inquiries Into its na- Ankle.
tme upon principles of fcience and reafon would be h....-
vam. But we cannot perceive any fuch flu&uation in
any word whatever •, though we know it to be a gene¬
ral charge brought againfl words of alrnofl every de¬
nomination, of w'iiich wre have already ieen one indance
in the pqfejfive cafe of nouns, and dial! now fee another
in thole words which are commonly called pronominal
articles.
It it be true, as we acknowledge it to be, that the I
genuine pronoun always funds by itfelf affuming the
power of a noun, and {applying its place, then is uncer¬
tain that the words this, that, any, fome, &c. can never
be pronouns. We are indeed told, that when we fay
THIS is virtue, give me THAT, the words this and that
are pronouns ; but that when we fay, this Habit is vir¬
tue, THAT MAN defrauded me, then are they articles or
definitives.. This, however, is evidently a midake oc-
cafioned by overlooking thole abbreviations in con
flrucHon which are frequent in every language, and
which, on account of that very frequency, have per¬
haps elcaped the attention of grammarians whole fa-
gacity has been fuccefsfully employed on matters
lefs obvious.—When we fay this is virtue, it is evi¬
dent that we communicate no intelligence till we add
afubfantive to the word this, and declare what is vir¬
tue. The word this can therefore in no indance af-
fume the power of a noun, flnee the noun to which it
relates, though for the fake of difpatch it may be omit¬
ted in writing or converfation, mult always be fupphed
by the mind of the reader or hearer, to make the fen-
tence intelligible, or this itfelf of any importance. 
“ When we have viewed fpeech analyfed, we may then
condder it as compounded. And here, in the firfl place,
we may contemplate xdvsx fjnihefis, which by combining
Ample terms produces a truth ; then by combining two
truths produces a third j and thus others and others in
continued demonflration, till we are led, as by a road
to the regions of fcience. Now this is that fuperior
and mod excellent fyntheds which alone applies itfelf to
our intelleiff or reafon, and which to conduit according
to rule conflitutes the art of logic. After this we may
turn to thofe inferior compodtions which are produitive
of the pathetic,” &c.—Here, if any where, the word
this may be thought to f and by itfelf, and to affume
the power of a noun; but let any man complete the
condruition of each fentence, and he will perceive that
THIS is no more than a definite article. Thus, “ we
may contemplate that fyntheds which by combining
limple terms produces a truth } then by combining two
truths produces a third truth ; and thus other truths and
other truths in continued demonflration, till we are led,
as by a road into the regions of fcience. Now this
combination of truths is that fuperior and mod excellent
fynthefis which alone applies itfelf to our intelleft or
reafon, and which to conduft according to rule confli-
tutes the art of logic. After we have contemplated this
art, we may turn,” &c.
The word that is generally conddered as dill more
equivocal than this; for it is faid to be fometimes an
article, fometimes a pronoun, and fometimes a conjunction.
In the following extract it appears in all thefe capaci¬
ties ; and yet, upon refolving the paffage into parts and
completing the conftruiAion, it will be found to be in-
   . 1-1    ll TT *   nr .7
extraordinary j and if it were a fall, language would variably a definite article.—
2
■“ It is neceffary to that per¬
fection,
G R A
Chap. II.
Articles, fe&ion, of which ouf prefent ftate is capable, that the
V—' raind and body {hould Both be kept in action ; that neh
ther the faculties of the one nor of the other be fuffered
to grow lax or torpid for want of ufe : but neither
Ibould health be purchafed by voluntary fubmiffion to
ignorance, nor (hould knowledge be cultivated at the
expence of health ; for that muft enable it either to give
pleafure to its potTeffor, or affiftance to others.’* If this
long fentence be refolved into its conftituent parts, and
the words be fupplied which complete the conftruftion,
we (kail fee the import of the word THAT to be precxfe*
ly the fame in each claufe, “ The mind and body
(hould both be kept in action 5 THAT action is neceffary
to THAT perfection of which our prefent (late is capa¬
ble : neither the faculties of the one nor of the other
ihould be fuffered to grow lax or torpid for want ot
ufe ; the degree of aciion proper to prevent THAT laxnef-
is necelfary : but neither (hould health be purchafed by
voluntary fubmiffion to ignorance, nor (hould know¬
ledge be cultivated at the expence of health •, for that
health muft enable it either to give pleafure to its pof-
ieffor, or affiftance to others.” Again ;
“ He that’s unlkilful will not tofs a ball
“ A man unikilful (he is that) will not tofs a ball.”
Here the word that, though fubftituted for what is
called the relative pronoun (e), (till prefeives unchan¬
ged its definitive import j and in every inftance, except
where it may be ufed very improperly, it will be found
to be neither more nor lei’s than a definite article.
26. It appears then, that if the effence of an article
be to define and afeertain, the words this and that as
well as any, fame, all, &c. which are commonly called
pronominal articles, are much more properly articles than
any thing elfe, and as fuch (hould be cpnfidered in uni-
verfal grammar. Thus, when we fay, THIS piBure I
approve, but THAT 1 dijlike; what do we perform by
the help of the words this and that, but bring down
the common appellative to denote two individuals j the
one as the more near, the other as the more difiant ? So
when we fay, SOME men are virtuous, but all men are
mortal; what is the natural effeCl of this ALL and some,
but to define that univerfiality and particularity which
would remain indefinite were we to take them away ?
The fame is evident in fuch fentences as, some fub-
fiances havefienfation, others want it; Choofie ANY way
of acting, and some men willfind fault, &c. : for here
SOME, other, and ANY, ferve all of them to define dif¬
ferent parts of a given whole ^ SOME, to denote any in¬
determinate part; any, to denote an indefinite mode of
a&ing, no matter what; and other, to denote the re¬
maining part, when a part has been affumed already.
27. We have laid that the article is a part of fpeech
fo very neceffary, that -without it, or fome equivalent
invention (f), mankind could not communicate their
thoughts; and that of words falling under this deferip-
48 tion, we know of no language which is wholly deftitute.
Articles in We are aware that thefe pofitions may be controvert-
the Latin e£j. an(j the Latin may be inftanced as a language
k"S“»Se- Vol. X. Part I.
M M A R.
which, without articles, is not only capable of commu¬
nicating the ordinary thoughts of the fpeakec to the
mind of the hearer, but which, in the hands of Cicero,
Virgil, and Lucretius, was made to ferve all the pur-
pofes of the molt profound philofopher, the moft im-
paffioned orator, and the fublimeft poet. That the
Latin has been made to ferve all thefe purpofes cannot
be denied, although Lucretius and Cicero both com¬
plain, that on the fubjeft of philofopky, where the ufe
of articles is moft confpicuous, it is a deficient lan¬
guage. But Ihould we grant what cannot be demand¬
ed, that thofe two great men were unacquainted with
the powers of their native tongue, our pofitions would
(till remain unftiaken j for we deny that the Latin is
wholly without articles. It has indeed no word of pre-
cifely the fame import with our the or the Greek 0 j
but the place of the indefinite article A might be al¬
ways fupplied, if neceffary, with the numerical word
unUs. It may be fo even in Englilh j for we believe
there is not a (ingle inftance where the words one man,
one horfe, one virtue, might not be fubftituted for the
words a man, a horfie, a virtue, &c. without in the
flighteft degree altering the fenfe of the paffage where
fuch wTords occur. This fubftitution, however, can be
but very feldom if ever neceffary in the Latin tongue,
of which the precifion is much greater than that of
the Eng/ijh would be without articles j becaufe the
oblique cafes of the Latin nouns, and the inflexion of
its verbs, will almoft always enable the reader to deter¬
mine whether an appellative reprefents a whole fpecies
or a Angle individual.—The want of the definite article
the feems to be a greater defeat 5 yet there are few in-
ftances in which its place might not be fupplied by this
or by that without obfeuring the fenfe ; and the La¬
tin tongue is by no means deficient of articles corre-
fponding to thefe two. Let us fubftitute the words ONE
and THAT for a and THE in fome of the foregoing ex¬
amples, and we (hall find, though the found may be
uncouth, the fenfe will remain. Thus,
“ That man who hath not mufic in himfelf, &c.
“ Is fit for treafons,”——
conveys to the mind of the reader the very fame fenti-
ment which the poet expreffes by the w7ords “ THE
man that hath not mufic,” &c. Again, “ Man was
made for fociety, and ought to extend his good-will to
all men ; but one man wfill naturally entertain a more
particular regard for thofe men with whom he has the
moft frequent intercourfe, and enter into a (fill clofer
union with that man whofe temper and difpofition fuit
beft with his own.” Now the words Hie and ILLE be¬
ing exactly of the fame import with the words this and
that $ it follows, that wherever the place of the article
THE may in Englifb be fupplied by THIS or by THAT,
it may in Latin be fupplied by Hie or by ille. This
is the cafe with refpett to Nathan’s reproof of Da¬
vid, where the definite article is indeed moft empha-
tical. The original words might have been tranflated
into Englifh, “ thou art that man,” as well as “ thow
C art
(e) See more of this afterwards.
(f) As in the Perfian and other eaftern languages, in which the place of our indefinite article is fupplied by a
termination to thofe nouns which are meant to be particularized.
J $ GUAM M A R. Chan. II.
Articles, ail: the man and in Latin tHey may with the utmoft
v 1 propriety be rendered, “ Tu es ille homo.” Indeed
the words Hie and ille, and we might inftance many
more, though they are commonly called pronouns, are
in truth nothing but definite articles ; HIC is evidently
<?*£ j and ille is moft probably derived from the He¬
brew word ai, in the plural ale ; which may be tranf-
lated indilferently, either THE or that. But what
proves beyond difpute that thefe two words are not
P' 'onouns taut articles, is, that in no lingle inftance will
they be found to Hand by themfelves and aft'ume the
power of nouns. For the fake of difpatch, or to avoid
difagreeable repetitions, the noun may indeed be often
omitted ; but it is always fapplied by the reader or
hearer, when Hie and ille appear in their proper
place, and are feen to be invariably defnite articles.
We lhall give an example of the ufe of each word, and
di'mifs the lubjeft.
In the firft oration againft Catiline, Cicero begins
with addrefling himfelf in a very impafiioned ftyle to
the traitor, who was prefent in the fenate-houfe. He
then exclaims pathetically againft the manners of the
Wic arc! agcj and proceeds in thefe words : Senatus hcec intelh-
lile arti- S^i conful videt: hic tamen vivit. Vivit ? immo vere
cies. etiam in fenatum venit: fit publici confilii particeps.
In this paifage Hic cannot be a pronoun *, for from
the beginning of the oration there occurs not a Angle
roan of which it can poflibly fupply the place. When
the orator uttered it, he was probablv pointing with
his finger at Catiline, and every one of his audience
would fupply the tioun in his own mind, as we do when
we tranflate it, “ Yet this traitor lives.” When Vir¬
gil fays,
Ille ego, qui quondam gracih modulatus avena
Carmen,
it is obvious that he means, I am THAT MAN, or THAT
TOET, who filing, &c. •, and though we may tranflate
the words “ I am he who tuned his fong,” &c. yet when
we conftrue the paffage, wre are under the neceflity of
fupplying either votes or vir, which thows that ille is
nothing more than a definite article fignifying THAT or
THE. ' It appears then, that the Latin tongue is not
wholly deftitute of articles, as few cafes can occur where
the Greek c and our THE may not be fupplied by the
words Hic and ILLE ; which have in our opinion been
very improperly termed pronouns. If there be any
Inch cafes, we can only confefs that the Latin language
is defe&ive; whereas, had it no articles,^ it is not eafy
to conceive how it could anfwer, to a cultivated people,
the ordinary purpofes of fpeech.
28. The articles THIS and THAT, unlike A and THE,
are varied according as the noun, with wThich they are
affociated, is in the Angular or in the plural number.
Thus wTe fay—this and that man in the Angular, and
thefe and thofie men in the plural. The Litfdn articles
hic and ille, for fuch we will call them, are varied like
the Greek %, not only with the number, but alfo with
» the gender of their nouns. In languages*, where the
ftrufture of a fentence may be fo changed from the or¬
der of nature, as it commonly is in Greek and Latin,
and where the reader is guided, not by the pofition but
by the terminations of the words, to thofe which are in
concord and thofe which are not, thefe variations of the
article have their ufe; but in Englifh they are of no
importance. Were it not that the cuftom 01 the lan- Articles,
guage—the forma loquendi, as Horace calls it—lias de- y~—'
termined otherwife, there woukl be no more impro¬
priety in faying this, or that men, than in faying fame
men, or the men. 7,9
29. As articles are by their nature definitives, it fol- With what
lows of courfe, that they cannot be united with fuch wo,rc*s ar"
, . , . ^ 1 r ■ 7 . tides c an-
words as are m tiieir own nature as definite as they may not unj_
be; nor with fuch words as, being undcfinable, cannot pro- ted.
perlq be made otherwife; but only with thofe words
which, though indefinite, are yet capable through the ar¬
ticle of becoming definite. Hence the reafon why it is
abfurcl to fay, THE I, or THE Thou ; becaufe nothing,
as will be feen afterwards, can make thefe pronouns
more definite than they are ol themlelves j and the fame
may be laid of proper names. Neither can we fay, THE
Both, becaufe the word Both is in its own nature per¬
fectly defined. Thus if it be faid—“ I have read both
poets,”—this plainly indicates a definite pair, of whom
fbme mention has been made already. On the con¬
trary, if it be faid, “ I have read two poets,” this may
mean any pair out of all that ever exifted. And hence
this numeral being in this fenfe indefinite (as indeed
are all others as well as itfelf), is forced to affume the
article whenever it would become definite. Hence alio
it is, that as two, when taken alone, has reference to
fome primary and indefinite perception, while the article
THE has reference to fome perception fecondary and
definite, it is bad language to fay, two the men, as this
would be blending of incompatibles, that is, it would be
reprefenting two men as defined and undefined at the
fame time. On the contrary, to fay BOTH the MEN, is
good language ; becaufe the fubftantive cannot poflibly
be lefs apt, by being defined, to coalefce with a nume¬
ral adjeCfive which is defined as well as itfelf. So like-
wife it is correCl to fay, THE two men, these tivo
MEN, or those two men ; becaufe here the article,
being placed at the beginning, extends its power, as
well through the numeral adjeCHvt as the fubftantive,
and tends equally to define them both.
30. As fome of the above words admit of no article,
becaufe they are by nature as definite as mhy be; fo
there are others which admit it not, becaufe they are not
to be defined at all. Of this fort are all interroga-
tives. If we queftion aboutfiubfiances^vit cannot fay,
the who is this, but who is this ? And the fame as
to qualities and both quantities: for we fay, without an
article, what sort of, how many, howt great ?
The reafon is, the article the refpefts beings of which
we can predicate fiomething: but interrogatives refpeft
beings about which we are ignorant, and of which we
can therefore predicate nothing ; for as to what we know, 30
interrogation is fuperfluous. In a word, the natural of- With what
fociators with articles are ALL those common appel- words ^ey
v naturallY
LAT1VES WHICH DENOTE THE SEVERAL GENERA AND a{pocjate>
species OF BEINGS : and it may be queftioned whe¬
ther, in ftriftnefs of fpeech, they are ever affociated
with any other words.
31. We have faid that proper names admit not of
the article, being, in their own nature, definite. This
is true, whilft each name is confined to one individual;
but as different perfons often go by the fame name, it
is neceflary to diftinguifti thefe from one another, to
prevent the ambiguity which this identity of name
would otherwife occafion. For this purpofe we are
obliged
Chap. II.
Articles, obliged to have recourfe to a^eBiws or epithets, b or
  y ' example, there were two Grecian chiefs who bore the
name of Ajax; and it was not without reafon that
Mneflheus ufed epithets when his intention was to di-
ftinguifh the one from the other: “ If bo\\\ Ajaxes
cannot be feared (faid he), at lead let mighty le/amo-
nian Ajax come.” But as epithets are diffufed through
various fubje&s, in as much as the fame adje&ive may
be referred to many fubftantives, it has been laid to be
neceffary, in order to render _ both parts of fpeech
equally definite, that the adjeaive itfelf alTume an ar¬
ticle before it, which may indicate a reference to fame
fingle perfon only. It is thus we fay—/ ryphoruR
Grammarian ; Apollodorus ‘the Cyreman, &c i his is
the doclrine of Mr Harris; from which though we
have the higheft refpeft for the learning of the author,
we feel ourfelves obliged to dilfent. In the examples
given, the article THE is certainly not affociated with
the words Grammarian and Cyrenian, in the fame man¬
ner in which it is aflbeiated with the word man in the
fentence—“ The man that hath not mufic m himielt,
&c. When we fay Apollodorus the Cyrenian, we may,
without folly or impertinence, be alked—-the Gy reman
rHjir (g) ? And the moment this queftion is anlwer-
- ' ed it will be feen that the article defines, not an adjec¬
tive, but a fubflantive. If the anfwer be, the Cyrenian
philofopher, the article THE is affociated with the word
phifofopher, and the phrafe Apollodorus the Cyrenian, is
an abbreviation oi Apollodorus the philosopher of Cyrene.
In like manner, Trypho the grammarian, is Trypho the
grammarian writer, or Trypho the writer of grammar.
Such abbreviations are very common. We familiarly
fav THE SPEAKER, and are underilood to mean a high
officer in the Britifh parliament; yet, as fpeaher is a
name common to many men, we may, vnthout impro¬
priety, be alked, what fpeaker we mean ? and if fo, we
muff reply, the fpeaher of the houfe of commons. But that
which is eminent is fuppofed to be generally known;
and therefore, in common language, THE SPEAKER is
deemed a fufficient defignation of him who prefides over
the lower houfe of parliament. Hence, by an eafy tran-
fition, the definite article, from denoting reference, comes
to denote eminence alfo : that is to fay, from Implying
an ordinary pre-acquaintance, to prefume a kind of ge¬
neral and univerfal notoriety. Thus A KING is any king j
but the king is that perfon whom we acknowledge
for our fovereign, the hing of Great Britain. In Greek
too, as in Engliih, the article is often a mark of emi¬
nence ; for the poet meant Homer, and THE STAGY-
RITE meant Arifiotle; not but that there were many
poets befides Homer, and many Stagyrites betides Ari/Iot/e,
but none equally illuffrious.
32. Before we difmifs the article, we fhall pro-
1,1111 duce one example to {how the utility of this fpecies of
thf wPrdseS words i which, although they may feem to be of fmall
o won s. importance^ yetj w]ien properly applied, ferve to make
a few general terms fufficient for expreffing, with ac¬
curacy, all the various obje&s about which mankind can
have occafion to converie. Let man be the general
term, which I have occafion to employ for the purpofe
of denoting fome particular. Let it be required to
c R A M M A R.
exprefs this particular as unknown; I fay A man
Known; I fay the man:—Definite; a certain man:
Indefinite; ant man :—Prefent, and near; this man:—
Prefent, and at fome difiance; that man -.—Like to fome
other; svch a man :—Different from fome other; AN0'
ther man:—An indefinite multitude; mani men.
definite multitude; a thousand men: rlhe ones of a
multitude, taken throughout; evert man:—The fame
ones taken with dfiinBion ; each man: Vaken in or¬
der; first man, second man, &.c.:^—'lhe_ whole multi¬
tude of particulars taken colleBivciy; Ait men . -Tie
negation of that multitude ; no man:—A number oj pat-
ticulars prefent and near; these men: At fome di-^
fiance, or oppofed to others; those men: A number oj
individuals feparatedfrom another number; other men.
—A fmall indefinite number; few men:—A proportional¬
ly greater number; more men :—A f nailer number >
feiver men:—And fo on we might go almojt to infini¬
tude. But not to dwell longer upon this iubjeft, we
ffiall only remark, “that minute changes in PRINCIPLES
lead to mighty changes in effefts j fo that principles
are well entitled to regard, however trivial they may
appear.”
31
The great
utility of
Chap. III. Of Pronouns, or Subfiantives of the fe-
cond order.
33. To men who are neither intoxicated with their
owm abilities, nor ambitious of the honour of building
new fyftems, little plealure can accrue from differing
upon points of fcience from writers of great and de-
ferved reputation. In fuch circumftances a man of
modefty, although he will not upon the authority of a
celebrated name adopt an opinion cf which he per¬
ceives not the truth, muff always advance his own no¬
tions with fome degree of diffidence, as being confci-
ous that the truth which he cannot perceive, may be
vifible to a keener and more perfpicacious eye. In
thefe circumftances we feel ourfelves with regard to fome
of the moft celebrated writers on grammar, from whom,
concerning one or two points, comparatively indeed of
but little ^importance, we have already been compelled
relu&antly to differ. In treating of pronouns we are
likely to deviate ftill farther from the beaten track j but
that we may not be ac-cufed of acting the part ot dog-
matifts in literature, and of claiming from others that
implicit confidence which we refufe to give, we ftiall
ftate with fairnefs the commonly received opinions, point
out in what refpe&s we think them erroneous, aflign
our reafons for calling them in queftion, and leave our
readers to judge for themfelves. The moft celebrated
writer m Englilh who has treated of pronouns, and
whom, fince the publication of his Hermes, moft other
writers have implicitly followed, is Mr Harris, whp,
after a (hort introduction, proceeds thus : 32
34. “ All converfation paffes between individuals The com-
who will often happen to be till that inftant unacquaintedm0.n 1Y .luP-
with each other. What then is to be done ? How {hall
the fpeaker addrefs the other, wheri he knowTS not his perfonal
': ' or how explain himfelf by his own name, of pronouns.
name
which the other is wholly ignorant ?
C 2
Nouns, as they
have
(g) Man or child, philofopher, orator, poet, or foldier, &c.?
20 GRAM
, Pionouns.^ have been defcribed, cannot anfwer this purpofe. The
firft expedient upon this occalion feems to have been
pointing, or indicating by the finger or hand; fome traces
of which are ftill to be obferved, as a part of that a£Hon
which naturally attends our fpeaking. But the au¬
thors of language were not content with this : they
invented a race of words to fupply this pointing^ which
w°rds, as they always food for ft bfof! lives or nouns,
were characterized by the name of pronouns. Thefe
alfo they dillinguilhed into three feveral forts, calling
them pronouns of the frf , the fccond, and the thirdpcr-
fon, with a view to certain diltinclions, which may be
explained as follows.
“ Suppofe the parties converfing to be wholly unac¬
quainted, neither name nor countenance on either fide
known, and the fubjeCf of the converfation to be the
fpeaher himfelf. Here to fupply the place of pointing,
by a word of equal power, the inventors of language
furnilhed the fpeaker with the pronoun I j I write, \fay,
I defre, &c.: and as the fpeaker is always principal
with refpeCl to his own difcourfe, this they called, for
that reafon, the pronoun of the frf perfon.
“ Again, fuppofe the fubjed of the converfation to
be the party addrejfed. Here, for fimilar reafons, they
invented the pronoun thou ; thou writefgtHOM walkef,
&c.: and as the party addreffed is next in dignity to
the fpeaker, or at leaft comes next with reference to
the difcourfe, this pronoun they therefore called the
pronoun of the fecondperfon.
“ Laitly, fuppofe the fubjeCl of converfation neither
the fpeaker nor the party addreffed, but fome third ob-
jeB different from both. Here they provided another
pronoun, HE, SHE, or it j which, in diftinClion to the
two former, was called the pronoun of the third perfon :
And thus it w^as that pronouns came to be diftinguilhed
by their refpeCtive persons.”
36. The defcription of the different persons here
given is taken, wTe are told, from Priscian, who took
it from Apollonius. But whatever be the deference
due to thefe ancient mafters, their learned pupil, though
guided by them, feems not to have hit upon the true
and difinguijbing chara&eriftic of the perfonal pronouns.
He fuppofes, that when the names of two perfons
converfing together are known to each other, they
may, by the ufe of thefe names, exprefs all that the
perfonal pronouns exprefs : but this is certainly not
true. To us, at leaft, there appears to be a very ma¬
terial difference between faying, “ George did this.”
and “ I did this j” nor do we think that the power of
the pronoun would be completely fupplied by the name,
even with the additional aid of indication by the hand.
So when one man fays to another, with whom he is
converfing, “ James did fo and fo it is furely not
equivalent to his faying, “ you did fo and fo.” If
fuch were the cafe, one might pertinently alk, when
both perfons are known to each other. Why do they
ufe the perfonal pronouns? Mr Harris tells us, that
4‘ when the fubjecl of converfation is the fpeaker him-
he ufes I j and when it is the party addreffed, he
ufes thou.” But in faft the nature of the perjona lpro¬
nouns has no fort of connexion with the fubjett of ccn-
verfation, whether that converfation relate to the fpeaker,
the party addreffed, or a Greek book. In this fentence,
**■ I fay that the three angles of every triangle are equal
to two right angles,” the fpeaker is furely not the fib-
. M ,A R- Chap, HI.
jeB of the difcourfe j nor is the party addreffed, but the Pronouns.
truth of his affertion, thzfubjeft of difcourfe in the follow¬
ing fentence ; “ Tou fay, that Horne Tooke's Diverfons
of Pur ley is the moft maiterly treatife on grammar, fo
far as it goes, that you have ever feen.” Mr Harris
ufes the phrafe, becoming the fubjeB of converfation, in no
other fenle than that when the fpeaker has occafion to
mention himself, he ufes I; when the party addreffed,
THOU; and when fome other perfon or thing, he, SHE, or
IT . but we knowT that he may ufe other words, by no
means equivalent to the two frf of thefe pronouns, which
will fufficiently mark himfelf and the party addreffed;
and that he may ufe indifferently, and without the
fmalleft injury to the fenfe, either the third pronoun, or
the word for which it is merely z fubfitute. A man
who bears various characters, may defign himsele' by
any one of them. Thus Mr Pitt may fpeak of him-
fclf -ns frf lord of the treafury, chancellor of the exche¬
quer, or member for the umverfty of Cambridge; and in
each cafe he would be what Mr Harris calls the fubjeB
of converfation: yet every one feels that none of thefe
defignations is equivalent to/. What then is the force
of the perfonal pronouns ?
37. It appears to be fimply this ; The frft denotes the The real
fpeaker, AS CHARACTERIZED By THE PRESI^NT act Opiroportof
speaking, in contradifindion to every other charaBer^^
which he may bear. The fecond denotes the party ad-
dreffed, as CHARACTERIZED BY THE PRESENT CIRCUM¬
STANCE of BEING ADDRESSED, in contradf itiBion to
every other charaBer,&c.: And what is called the pronoun
third perfon is merely a negation of the other
TWO, as the neuter gender is a negation of the mafeuline
feminine. If this account of the perfonal pronouns be
true, and we flatter ourfelves that its truth will be obvi¬
ous to every body, there is but one w'ay of exprefling by
other w'ords the force of the pronouns of the frf and fe¬
cond perfon. Thus, “ The perfon who now fpeaks to you
did fo and fo,” is equivalent to “ I did fo and fo }” and
“ I he perfon to whom I now addrefs myfelf did fo and
fo,” is equivalent to “ Tou did fo and fo.”
Hence we fee why it is improper to fay the I or the
THOU ; for each of thefe pronouns has of itfelf the force
of a noun with the definite article prefixed, and denotes a
perfon of whomfomething is predicated, which diflinguifhes
him from aJl other perfons. I is the perfon who now
fpeaks, thou is the perfon who is now addreffed by the
fpeaker. Hence too we fee the reafon why the pronoun
/ is faid to be of the firfi, and the pronoun thou of the
fecond perfon. Thefe pronouns can have place only
in converfation, or when a man, in the character of a
public fpeaker, addreffes himfelf to an audience j but it
is obvious, that there mufi be a fpeaker before there can
be a hearer; and therefore, that the pronouns may fol¬
low the order of nature, I, which denotes the perfon of
Pciz fpeaker, muft take place of thou, which denotes
the perfon of the hearer. Now the fpeaker and the
hearer being the only perfons engaged in converfation
or declamation, / is with great propriety called the
pronoun of the firft, and thou the pronoun of the fe¬
cond perfon. We have faid, that, with refpeCI to pro¬
nouns, the third perfon, as it is called, is merely a nega¬
tion of the other two. This is evident from the flighteft
attention to the import of thofe words which are call¬
ed pronouns of the third perfon. He, she, or it, denotes
not the perfon either of the fpeaker br of the hearer;
and
Cliap. III.
Pronouns, and, as we have juft obferved, no other perfon can have
i n—v i..'-- a ^are in converfation or declamation. An ablent per¬
fon or an abfent thing may be the fubjeB of converfation,
but cannot be ^t fpeaher or the perfon addreffed. He,
she, and it, however, as they [land by themfelves,, and
affume the power of nouns,‘Ate. very properly denominated
pronouns; but they are notperfonalpronouns in any other
fenfe than as the negation of fex is the neuter gender.
a8. We have already feen that nouns admit of num¬
ber j pronouns, which are their fubftitutes, likewife ad¬
mit of number. There may be MANY fpeakers at once
of the fame fentiment, as well as one, who, including
himfelf, fpeaks the fentiment of MANY j fpeech may
likewife be addreffed to MANY at a time, as well as to
one •, and the fubjecl of the difcourfe may likewife be
MANY. The pronoun, therefore, of every one of the
perfons muft admit of number to exprefs this Jingula-
rity or plurality. Hence the pronoun of the fin! per¬
fon I, has the plural WE *, that of the fecond perfon
THOU, has the plural YE or YOU} and that of the third
perfon HE, SHE, or it, has the plural THEY, which is
equally applied to all the three genders.
The Greeks and Romans, when addrefling one per¬
fon, ufed the pronoun in the Angular number thou }
whereas, in the polite and even in the familiar flyle,
we, and many other modem nations, ufe the plural
The fecond you. Although in this cafe we apply you to ^. jingle
perfonal perfon, yet the verb muft agree with it in the plural
pronoun ^ mmber; it muft neceffarily be, you have, not you hajl.
ufed in the _r  , /irnno/yw nlaced
GRAMMAR. 21
all other properties and attributes whatever, except Pronouns.^
thofe mentioned above as defcriptive of the nature of
thefe pronouns, are foreign from the intention ot the
fpeaker, who, when he ufes the pronoun /, means the
person WHO now SPEAKS—no matter whether man
or woman : and when the pronoun THOU—THE per¬
son—no matter whether man or woman—TO WHOM 3g
HE NOW ADDRESSES HIMSELF—and nothing more.In this re-
But the pronoun of the third perfon denoting neither fpeftthe^
the fpeaker nor the hearer, but the fubjeB ot the dii-^ third
courfe, and being merely the fubftitute of a noun which pPrfon
may be either mafculine, feminine, or neuter, muft of ne-differs from
ceflity agree with the noun which it reprelents, and Hie ^ an
admit of a triple diftinflion fignificant of gender. In
Englifti, which allows its adjectives no genders, this
pronoun is he in the mafculine, SHE in xhe feminine, and
IT in the neuter ; the utility of which ditlinction may
be better found in fuppofing it away. Suppofe, for
example, that we ftiould in hiftory read thefe words :
He caufed him to defray Aim—and were informed that
the pronoun, which is here thrice repeated, flood each
time for fomething different} that is to fay, for a
man, for a woman, and for a city, whofe names were
Alexander, Thais, and Perfepolis. Taking the pro¬
noun in this manner—diverted of its gender how
would it appear which was deftroyed, which the de-
ftroyer, and which the caufe that moved to the deftruc-
tion ? But there is no ambiguity when we hear the
genders diftinguUhed: when we are told, with the
  ♦t.nt cuv rmiPed HIM to
Prr°" . number; it muft neceflanly be, you nave, nor you naji. r, , n IT
ufed in the v the Cecondberfon d/«/Wof the pronoun placed proper diftmaions, that SHE caujed HIM to aejtroy n,
pl,,ral»um.yo“WA^ P V F know with certainty, that At prompter was he wo-
ber when
enly one
pei fon is
addielfed.
in agreement wdth the frf or third perfon fngular of
the verb, is an enormous, though common, folecifm,
which ought to be carefully avoided. In very folemn
ftyle, as when we addrefs the Supreme Being, we ufe
thou—perhaps to indicate that he is God alone, and that
there is none like unto him; and wre fometimes ufe the
fame form of the pronoun in contemptuous or very
familiar language, to intimate that the perfon to whom
we fpeak is the meanef of human beings, or the dear-
ef and mof familiar of our friends. A king, exerting
his authority on a folemn occafion, adopts the plural
of the firft perfon, “ WE ftriftly command and
charge }” meaning, that he afts by the advice of coun-
fellors, or rather as the reprefentative of a whole people.
But in all cafes in which the ufe of the pronoun deviates
from the nature of things, the verb in concord deviates
with it; for, as will be feen afterwards, thefe two
words univerfally agree in number and perfon.
Aucyiu- 39. But though all thefe pronouns have number,
nouns of the neither in Greek, Latin, or any modern language, do
firft and thofe of the frf and fecond perfon carry the diftincftions
fonshaviT" of rex- The reafon is obvious (H)> namely, that/e* and
35
The pro-
we know with certainty, that the prompter was the wo¬
man ; that her infrument was the hero ; and that the
fubjeB of their cruelty was the unfortunate <%.—From
this example we would be furprifed how the Italians,
French, and Spaniards, could exprefs themfelves with
precifion or elegance with no more than two variations
of this pronoun. 37r
40. Although in every language with which we are 1 he cafes
acquainted, there is but but one pronoun for each of the^Fo-
firft and fecond perfons } and although it is obvious
from the nature and import of thofe words, that no
more can be neceffary } yet the mere Englijh reader
may perhaps be puzzled with finding three diltinrt
words applied to each } I, MINE, and ME, for the frf
perfon } THOU, THINE, and THEE, for tiut fecond. The>
learned reader will fee at once that the words MINE
and ME, thine and THEE, are equivalent to the genitive
and accufative cafes of the Latin pronouns of the firft-
and fecond perfons. That MINE is a pronoun in
the poffeflive cafe, is obvious} for if I were alked
« whofe book is that before me ?” I fhould reply—
“ It is MINE (1) }” meaning that it belongs to me.
That
no varia¬
tions to de¬
note fex,
and why.
00 The reafon afligned by Mr Harris and his followers is, that “ the fpeaker and hearer being generally
prefent to each other, it would have been fuperfluous to have marked a diftmftion by art, which from na¬
ture and even drefs was commonly apparent on both fides.” This is perhaps the beft reafon which their de-
fcription of the perfonal pronouns admits, but jt is not fatisfa&ory } for the fpeaker and hearer may meet in the
dark, when different dreffes cannot be diftinguilhed. ej •
CO If we miftake not, Dr Johnfon has fomewhere affe&ed to ridicule Biftiop Lowth for confidering the
word mine as the poffeffive cafe of the pronoun of the firft perfon. According to the doftor, mine is the fame-
word with the pronominal adjeftive MY } and was anciently ufed before a vowel, as my was before a confonant.
This is-not faid with the great Lexicographer’s ufual precifion. That mine was anciently ufed before a vowel is
certain} but it does not therefore follow, that it is the fame word with MY. If it were, we migit
33
The firft
and fecond
perfonal
pronouns
coalefce
with the
thud.
GRAM
1 liat the v.'urd ATE is the fame pronoun in the cafe
which the Latin grammarians call the accufative,
is evident from the import of that word in the len¬
ience HE ADMIRES ate, where the adtniration is lup-
pofed to proceed from (k) the perfon fpoken of to the
perfon who fpcaks. It appears therefore, that though
Englilh nouns have only two cafes, the nominative and
pojfejjive, the pronouns of that language have three, as
/, MINE, ME } THOU, THINE, THEE; HE, HIS, HIM, &C.
I hat thefe are cafes, can be quellioned by no man w’ho
admits that mei, mihi, me, are cafes of the Latin pronoun
EGO. Both pronouns, the Latin and the Englifh, are ir¬
regularly indexed: and perhaps thofe words which are
called the oblique cafes of each may have originally
been derived from nominatives different frorfi ego and
I ; but thefe nominatives are now loft, and tnei and
mine have, beyond all difpute, the effedl of the geni¬
tives of the Latin and Englifh pronouns of the firft per-
ion. Thefe variations, however, cannot be looked
upon as an effential part of language, but only as a par¬
ticular^ refinement invented to prevent the difagreeable
repetition of the pronoun, which muft frequently have
happened without fuch a contrivance. This feems
to have been the only reafon why pronouns have been
endowed with a greater variety of cafes than nouns.
Nouns are in themfelves greatly diverfified.- Every
genus and every fpecies of obje&s has a di ft in ft name,
and therefore the famenefs of found does not fo often
occur among them as it wrould among the pronouns,
without cafes, where the fame I, thou, he, she, or
it, anfwers for every objeft which occurs in nature :
but by this diverfity in the form of the words, the caco-
phonia, which would be otherwife difgufting, is in a great
meafure avoided. It is, probably, for the fame reafon,
that the plural of each of thefe pronouns is fo very dif¬
ferent from the fngular. Thus from I, mine, me,
in the lingular, is formed, in the plural, WE, ours, us ;
from THOU, THINE, and THEE, YE or YOU, YOURS,
you; and from HE, she, it, his, hers, its, him, her,
it, in the fingular, they, theirs, them, in the plural.
In all of which there is not the leaft refemblance be¬
tween the lingular and plural of any one word : and
except in he, his, him ; it, its ; they, theirs,
them ; there is not any fimilarity between the difterent
cafes of the fame wmrd in the fame number.
41. From the account here given of the perfonal
pronouns, it appears that the firft or fecond will, either
of them, coalefce with the third, but not with each
other. For example, it is good fenfe, as wTell as good
grammar, to fay in any language, I am he—thou art
he—we were they—YOU WERE they ; butwe cannot
fay—I am thou—nor thou art I—nor we are you,
&c. The reafon is, there is no abfurdity for the
fpeaher to be the fuhjeSl alfo of the difcourfe, as when
it is faid—/ am he; or for the perfon addreffcd, as when
we fay, thou art he. But for the fame perfon, in the
fame circumftances, to be at once the fpeaker and the
party addreffed, is impoffible ; for which reafon the
M A R- Chap. III.
coalefcence of the pronouns of the firft and fecond Pronouns,
perfons is likewife impoffible.
39
42.1, thou, he, she, and it, are all that are ufuallyp,
called perfonal pronouns. I here is another clats ofnal adjec-
vvords, which are called fometimes pronominal adjectives; fives,
fometimes adjective pronouns, fometimes poffefjive pro-
nouns ; and by one writer of grammar they have been
moft abfurdly termed pronominal articles. It is not
worth vyhile to difpute about a name ; but the words
in queftion are MY, THY, HER, our, YOUR, their. Thefe
w°rds are evidently in the form of adjectives : for, like
other Englilli adjectives, they have no variation to in¬
dicate either gender, number, or cafe; and yet they are
put in concord with nouns of every gender and both num¬
bers, as MY WIFE, AIY SON, AIY BOOK HER HUSBAND,
HER SONS, HER DAUGHTERS, &c. But, though in the form
of adjedhves, they have the power of the perfonalpronouns
in the pojfejjive cafe: MY BOOK is the book o/me, or the
book of him who now speaks; our house is the houfe
of us, or the houfe oecupied by the PERSONS WHO NOW
speak; HER husband, is the hufoand of a woman who
can be known only fromfometlnng precedmginthe difcourfe;
and THEIR PROPERTY is the property of them—of any
perfons, whether men or women, or both, who have been
previouily mentioned. Words which have the form of
adjeCtives, with the power of pronouns, may, without im¬
propriety, be called pronominal adjeCiives ; and fuch is
the name by which we lhall henceforth diftinguilh
them. To thefe pronominal adjeftives as w^ell as to
the perfonal pronouns, are fubjoined the words own
and felf-—in the plural felves: in which cafe they are
emphatical, and imply a filent contrariety or oppoli-
tion. Thus, I live in my own houfe ; that is, not in a
hired houfe. This I did with my own hand; that is, not
by proxy. This was done by myself; that is, not by an¬
other . I he wrord felf fubjoined to a perfonal pronoun The'reci-
forms alfo the reciprocal pronoun ; as we hurt ourfelves^'wscA pro-
by vain rage; he blamed himfelf for his misfortune.™™'
Himfelf, iff elf, themfelves, are fuppofed by Wallis to be
put, by corruption, for his felf, its felf, their felves; fg
that felf is always a fubfantive or noun, and not a pro¬
noun. This feems to be a juft obfervation; for we fay,
the man came himfelf; they went themfelves; where the
words himfelf and themfelves cannot be accufatives but
nominatives, and were anciently written his felf, their
felves.
There are other words which are ufually ranked
under the clafs of pronouns; as who, which, what.
Thefe, when employed in afking queftions, are called
interrogative pronouns; though a name morecharafteriftic
might furely be found for them. Their import,
however, will be more eafily afcertained after we have
confidered another fpecies of pronouns, which have
been denominated relatives, and with which they are
intimately connefted.
43. The pronouns already mentioned may be called The iela-
prepofitive, as may indeed all fubftantives, becaufetlv,i Pr°-
they are capable of introducing or leading a fentence :noun*
but
occafion fubftitute either of thefe for the other, without offending againft grammar, however we might injure the
found \ but we apprehend that this is not the cafe. “ That book is MINE,” is good Engliih ; but “ that
book is my'1'1 would be a grofs folecifm : the reafon is, that mine is a genuine pronoun, and ftands by if elf with
the power of a noun ; but my, being an adjeftive, cannot ftand by itfelf.
(k) See Chap. I. 18, 19. on the Cafes of Nouns.
1
f
Chap. HI.
G R A
or prepo
i’.tive pro
•noun;
Fronoun^. but tliere is another pronoun which has a charaacr
—v peculiar to itfelf j and which, as it is never employed
but to conned fentences, and muft therebre have al-
vvays a reference to fomething preceding, is called the
fubjunBive or relative pronoun. This pronoun is m
Greek, W, i,« in Latin, QU1, QUA2, QUOD j and in Eng-
lifh, WHO, WHICH, WHAT.
^ 44. In order to determine with precifion toe nature
and imoort of the relative pronoun, it will be neceffary
to afeertain the powers which it contains, or the parts
41 offpeech into which it is capable of being refolved.
Repretents N ^ [s obvious, that there is not a. Angle noun, or
any noun, pronoun, which the relative is not capable ol
representing : for we fey, I, WO /aw hm yejl'rdmj
cannot be mifialen ; YOU, WHO ddmtjee hm, may have
been mifinfortne/l; they, who neither Jaw nor heard, can
know nothing of the matter; THE THINGS, WHICH he ex¬
hibited, were wonderful. From thefe examples it is ap¬
parent, in tbe firft place, that the relative contains m
itfelf the force of any other pronoun ; but it contains
fbmething more. . ,. , .
45. If from any fentence in which there is a^re¬
lative, that relative be taken away, and the prepofitive
pronoun, which it reprefents, be fubftituted in its
{lead, the fentence will lofe its bond of union, and Hand
quite Icofe and unconnecled. Thus, it inftead oi lay¬
ing the man is wife who fpeaks little, we Ihould lay
the man is wife HE fpeaks little, the fentence would be
refolved into two-, and what is affirmed of the_man s
wifdom, would have no conr.ecfion with the circum-
ftance of his [peaking Utile. Hence it is evident, m the
fecond place', that the relative contains the force ol a
conncElive as well as of the prepofitive pronoun. \\ hat
kind of connection it denote*, is next to be aicer-
tained. . . • ,
46. It may be laid down as a general principle,
« that, bv means of the relative pronoun, a claufe of a
fentence, in which there is a verb, is converted into the
nature of an adjeBive, and made to denote feme attribute
of a fuhjlance, or fome property or circunfa nee be longing
to the antecedent noun.'1'1 Thus, when it is faid, homo
qui prudenlia preeditus ejl, the relative claufe—yw pru-
dentia preeditus efl, expreffes nothing more than the qua¬
lity of prudence in concrete with fubjecl homo, which
might have been equally well expreffed by the adjeftive
prudens. In like manner, when we fay, virfapit qui
pauca loquitur, the relative claufe exprefles the property
offpeaking little as belonging to the man, and as being
that quality which conftitutes, or from which we m-
43
And con¬
tains be-
fides the
force of a
conuedlive.
M M A R. 2r
fer his wifdom ; but if there were fuch a word pau- ,
ciloquens, that quality might very properly be ex- v~
preifed by it, and the phrafe vir Japit pauciloquens
would exprefs the fame affertion with virfapit qui pauca
^Now’if a relative claufe expreffes that which might
be expreffed by an adjeaive, the prefumption is, that
it may be refolved into the fame conftituent parts. But
every adieCtive contains the powers of an abflraEi fub-
fantive, together with an expreffion of connection;
and may be refolved into the genitive cafe of that fub- 44
ftantive" or into the nominative with the particle of pre-Of the
fixed, which, in Englilh, correfponds to the termina-
tion of,the genitive in the ancient languages. theEnglhh
the member of a fentence, in which there is a relative, prepofition
may, in every inftance, be analyfed in the lame man- of.
ner, will be apparent from the following examples.
Vir qui fa pit, vir fapiens, and vir fa pi entice ; “ a man
who is wife, a wife man, and a man of wifdom are
certainly phrafes of the fame import. Again, homo,
cui ingratus efl animus, mains ft amicus, may be tranflated
into Greek, en^co7r»i ax.&^i<fltxs khkos ytvtlui cpi^of} and into
Englilh, “ the man of ingratitude is a bad friend.”
47. Thus then it appears, that the relative pronoun
contains in itfelf the force of the prepoftive pronoun,
together with that conncBion implied in Englifti by the
prepofition of, and in the ancient-languages by the
genitive cafe. When one fays virfapit qui pauca loquitur,
"the relative claufe qui pauca loquitur expreffes that attri¬
bute of the man from which his wifdom is inferred : it
is conceived by the mind, as ftript of its propofitional
form, and Handing in the place of a fubftantive noun
governed in the genitive cafe by vir. The whole fen¬
tence might be thus tranflated, “ the man oj little
fpeaking is wife or, did the ufe of the Englifli lan¬
guage admit of it, “ the man of he fpeaks little is wife.”
In like manner, when it is faid, “ Man who is born oi
a woman is of few days and full of trouble —the re¬
lative claufe is equivalent to an abfraSl noun in the ge¬
nitive cafe, and the whole might be exprefled in the
following manner, “ man of he is born of a woman is of
few days and full of trouble.”
We are fehfible, that thefe expreflions into which,
in the inftances adduced, we have refolved the relative
claufes, will appear extremely uncouth and offenfive 5
but we mean not to recommend them as common modes
of phrafeology. Againft their being employed as fuch,
prefent ufe loudly remonftrates (l). -they are intro¬
duced only with a view to fhow the true impoit of the
relative
(x ) It is worthy of obfervation, however, that, repugnant as fuch expreffions are to the prefent idiom of the
Enelifli language, there is nothing in the nature of the thing that could render the ufe of them improper All
prefohtions "as will be feen afterwards, are expreffive of relations fubfifting between thofe objeds of which they
conned the figns in difeourfe. Thofe objeds may be denoted, either by fingle words and then the prepoftion
will govern ^noun; or by offertions, and then it will govern « nominative and a verb. I bus, when it is laid
I came after his departure •” the prepofition after expreffes the relation between two events—w// ccming^d
his departure, and governs a fubftantive noun : but if it be faid, “ I came after he departed, the prepofition
in this cafe (for as {hall be fhown afterwards, it is abfurd to call it, in the one inftance, a prepofition, and
in the other a co’r.jundion) expreffes the fame relation as before, but governs a nominative and a verb.
This laft expreffion is exadly firqilar to thofe employed above. When one fays for example, the man
he fpeaks little is wife however uncouth the expreffion may appear from its not being fupported by the au¬
thority of cuftom, the prepofition 0/is ufed precifely in the fame manner, and ferves the very fame purpole, >
as when it is faid, “ the man of little fpeaking is wife.” In both cafes it denotes the relation between tne two
24 GRAM
^ Pronouns, relative pronoun; and for that purpofe they are well
adapted. 1 hat pronoun teems to be of ufe only when
there is a deficiency of adjectives orfubstantives to denote
fome complex attribute by which w-e want to limit a gene¬
ral term, or exprejfion. Where fuch adjeftives or fubftan-
tives exift in language, w e may indeed ufe the relative
or not at pleafure. .1 hus we may lay, homo qui gran-
dia loquitur, or homo grandiloquus ; becaufe the adjeciive
and the relative claufe areprecifely of the fame meaning.
Eut if the Latins were called upon to tranllate
avlod/detxlef, we believe they muft have made ufe of the
relative pronoun^ as we know not any correfpondent ad-
jeftive in their language.
48. The learned and ingenious Mr Harris has, in
his T-reatife on Univerfal Grammar, given an analyfisof
the relative pronoun very different from that which has
Mr Har- been given by us* The refult of his inquiry is, that
tis’s mif- the relative is equivalent to another pronoun, together
fubietf thl<! With an exPrefli°n of connection of that kind which is
J ’ denoted bv the particle and. This analyfis he exem¬
plifies, and endeavours to confirm by the following fen-
tence : “ Light is a body which moves with great ce¬
lerity.” Now, fays he, inftead of which fubftitute
the w'ords and it, and in their united powers you fee
the force and chara&er of the pronoun here treated.
But let any one attentively confider thefe two expref-
fions,—“ Light is a body which moves with great ce¬
lerity,”—and “ Light is a body and it moves with
great celerity and he will find that they are not pre-
cifely equivalent. For to fpeak in the language of lo¬
gic, there is in the first but one propofition, of which
thtfiubjetf is light, and the predicate a complex term ex-
preffed by the words^—-body which moves with great cele¬
rity. In the fiecond there are two propofitions, or two
predications concerning light:—firft, that it is a body; and
Secondly, that it moves with great celerity. The relative
claufe, in the firft cafe, exprefles a property of the ante¬
cedent body, wdrich with that property is predicated of
the fubjed light; in the fecond cafe, this property is
removed from the predicate of which it was an effential
part, and is improperly converted into a new predication
^ ^ Cliap. III.
of#the JubjeSl. . The fentence thay be refolved upon our Pronouns,
principles, and its precile import prefervedj as—“ Light1"""1
is a body of it moves with great celerity;” the claufe “ it
moves with great celerity,” is conceived by the mind
as having the force of an abstractfubstantive, and is con*
heded with the antecedent body by the prepofition of,
anfwering to the termination of the genitive cafe. This
abftrad fubftantive thus conneded expreffes a quality of
the body light. But by this example Mr" Harris’s
dodrine is not exhibited in all its abfurdity : let us try
it by another.
Suppofe the following affertion to be true;
“ Charles XII. was the only monarch who conquer-
ed kingdoms to beftow them on his friends.” Here it
is evident there is but one propofition, of which the
predicate is expreffed by the words—“ only monarch
who conquered kingdoms to beftow them on his
friends lb that the relative claufe is a neceffary part of
the predicate, and has, like an abstract noun in the ge¬
nitive cafe^the effed of modifying the general term
monarch. Refolve this fentence on Mr Harris’s prin¬
ciples, and you have txvo propofitions of which the
firft is a notorious falfehood “ Charles XII. w'as
the only monarch; and he conquered kingdoms to be¬
ftow them on his friends.” But inftead of and fubfti¬
tute ©/“^faying, “ Charles XII. w'as the only mo¬
narch of ht conquered kingdoms to bestow them on his
friends,” and you preferve the true import of the ex-
preftion (m).
49. Are there no cafes, then, in which the relative
may be refolved into the connedive and with a prepo-
fitive pronoun ? Undoubtedly there are, and we lhall
now endeavour to afeertain them.
Adjedives in language have two different effeds up- g
on the fubftantives to wdiich they belong, according in f0tne
to the nature of the attribute which they exprefs. If cafes Mr
the attribute expreffed by the adjedive be competent toHarris’s
all the fpecies of which the fubftantive is the fpecific of
name, it is plain that the adjedive does modify ox
limit the fubftantive, for this obvious reafon, that no- admitted,
thing can modify which is not diferiminative. Thus,
when
objeds man and little fpeaking ; only in the one it is prefixed to a noun, in the other to an affertory claufe of a
fentence, the import of wdiich is to be taken as a noun. Cuftom hath indeed determined that prepofitions fliall
more frequently govern a noun than a nominative and a verb ; but they are, in their own nature, equally wTell
adapted to anfwer both purpofes. * J
But, as the pronoun of the third perfon is merely the fubftitute of fome noun, an objedor may alk, What noun
is here reprefented by he? “ The man of he fpeak s little is wife!” Who is meant by the pronoun he? We an¬
fwer, the man who is declared to be wife. The objedion proceeds from inattention to the radical fignification
of the word of, which a late ingenious writer has ftiown to be the fragment of a Gothic or Anglo-Saxon word
fignifying confequence or offspring. If this be admitted, and, after the proofs which he has given, we think it
cannot be denied, the uncouth phrafe, “ Theman of he fpcaks little is wife,” may be thus refolved, « The
man, a confequence (ol bis mind is) he fpeak s little, is wife-,” or, in other words, “ The man, in confequence of
his fpeaking little, is wife.” 1 he lame acute w-riter, Mr Horne Tooke, has IhovVn that of and for, though of
different radical meanings, may often be fubftituted the one for the other without injury to the fenfe. Let this
fubftitution be made^ in the prefent inftance, and the propriety of the phrafe will be apparent : “ The man is
wile, for he fpeaks little.” It muft be remembered, however, that fuch a fubftitution cannot be made in every
inftance, becaufe yor fignifies caufe, and 0/dignifies confequence.
(ivl) Mr Harris was probably led into his opinion, from confidering the Latin qui or quis as compounded of
y7/e and is (fee. Hermes, page 81, 82. edit. 3d.) But the notion of Peri%onius is perhaps better founded, who
in his notes ad.SanB. Minerv. confiders it as immediately taken from the Greek ti5, which in the Doric made
and in the Latin quis. For it feems highly probable, as fome ingenious writers have endeavoured to fhow, that
the Latin is a dialedl of the Greek. Of this at leaft we are certain, that many words in the former are imme¬
diately adopted from the latter. 2
Chap.
Pronoun
1TL
When Horace fays,
adjective
G K A
Prata earns albicant pruinis,”
the adjective cams denotes a quality common to all
hoarfroll; and therefore cannot modify fubjlantvae,
becaufe it adds nothing to the conception of which that
fubftantiye is the name. But when the attribute ex-
p-effed by the adjective is competent to fome individuals
only of the fpecies of which the fubftantive is the
name, the adje&ive has then the eftea or modifying ox
limiting the fubftantive. Thus, when one fays
nus, he makes ufe of an adjeaive which modities the
fubftantive vir, becaufe it expreffes a quality or attr -
bute which does not belong to ai men. #
The claufe of a fentence, in which there is a rela¬
tive, as it is in every other refpea, fo is it in this,
equivalent to an adjeaive; it either modifies, or does not
modify, the antecedent, according as ^ attribute whic
it exprefies is or is not charaaenftic of the to
which the antecedent belongs. 1 bus, when it is faid
u Man, who is born tif a woman is of few days and
full of trouble,” the relative claufe—m/io is born oj a
woman, expreffes an attribute common to all men, and
therefore cannot modify. In like manner when we fay
Socrates, who taught moral philofophy was
virtuous,”—the claufe, who taught moral philofophy,
does not modify. In both thefe inftances the relative
claufe might be omitted-, and it might be faid with
equal truth, “ Man is of few days and full of trouble,
—and “ Socrates was virtuous.” .
But if it be fald, vir fapit quipauca loquitur, the re-
lative c\mdz—qui pauca loquitur, modifies the antecedent
vir; for it is not affirmed of every man, that he is wile,
but only offuch men asfpeah little. So-“ Charles XII.
was the only monarch who conquered kingdoms to be-
flow then on his friendsand, “ the man that endu-
reth to the end ftiall be faved •” with many more ex¬
amples that will occur to every reader.
What'thefe Now it will be found, that it is only when the icia-
fcafes are. tive claufe expreffes fuch a property or circumi ance o
the antecedent as does not limit its figmfication, that
the relative pronoun can be refolved into a prepofitive pi o-
noun with the conjunaion and, and that m thele ca.es
the relative claufe itfelf is of very little importance.
Thus in the affertion,—“ Charles XII. was the only
monarch who conquered kingdoms to beftow them on
his friends,”—where the relative claufe is refiticiive, the
who cannot be refolved into and he cbniirtently with
truth or common fenfe. But in the expreffion, Man
who is born of a woman, is of few days and full of
trouble,” the relative who may be fo refolved, at lead
without violating truth Man is of few days and
full of trouble, and he is born of a woman. ’ I he only
difference between the fentence with the relative who,
■and the fame fentence thus re/o/tW,—is—that, m the
former cafe, it contains but one predication-; in the lat¬
ter two. and thefe but loofely conneaed.
CO. Thus then it appears that the general analyhs.
of the relative pronoun is into the particle of, and a pie-
pofitive pronoun ; but that there are alfo^ occafions on
which it may be refolved into a prepofitive pronoun
and the particle and, without materially altering the
fenfe. Now what is the reafon of this diftmtlion .
If the relative claufe be equivalent to an adjective, or
to an abfiraB fubfiantive in the genitive cafe, it is ealy
to fee that the relative itfelf may, in every mftance, be
fefolved into another pronoun and the particle oj ) but
Vol. X. Part I.
25
M MAR.
it will not perhaps be quite fo evident how it ftioulu. in Pro^om^
any infiance be refolved by and. This laft analysis has
its foundation in the nature of the particles oj and and ;
to fpeak more properly, in the nature of the attn-
47
Or, IU IjJcaiv  — , ,
bute which the relative claufe exprefles. Both the par¬
ticles 0/ and and are ufed to link or join conceptions
together -, but with this difference, that of has the ef¬
fect of making the conceptions it conneffs figure m
the mind as one objeB; whereas the conceptions connec¬
ted by and are ftill conceived feparately as bejore. 1 o
explain ourfelves by an example : fuppofe we take two
words, man and virtue, which denote two diftina ideas
or conceptions, and join them together by the particle
of faying man of virtue; the mind no longer views
them feparately as figniticant of two conceptions, but
of one. Take the fame words, and join them toge¬
ther by the particle and, faying man W-wr/we;. the con¬
ceptions denoted by man and virtue are ftill viewed ie-
parately as two ; notice is only given that they are col¬
laterally connected.
This being the cafe, it follows, that when tne rela¬
tive modifies the antecedent, or, in other words, when
the relative claufe and the antecedent denote but one
conception, the relative muft then be refolved by 0/*
in order to preferve this unity of conception. But when
the relative does not modify the antecedent; that is,
when its claufe does not exprefs any necejfary part of a
complex conception, then the conceptions or ideas de¬
noted by the relative claufe and the antecedent may be
viewed feparately as two; and therefore the relative may
be refolved into the correfponding prepofitive pronoun
and the particle >
To ftate this reafoning in a light fomewhat difterent.
As every relative claufe, which expreffes an attribute
that is not applicable to a whole genus or ipecies, muL
neceffarily modify fome general term, that is, reft net its
fignification and as that general term muft belong ei¬
ther to the fubjeS or to the predicate of a propofition 5 it
is evident, that every fuch relative claufe is a necefiary
part of that fubjeci or predicate in which its antecedent
Hands, If therefore a relative claufe, which modifies,
be taken away either from xhefubjett or the predicate of
a propofition or if that connection, in confequence oj which
it modifies, be difiblved (which is always done when
the relative is refolved by and) ; the propofition itfelt
will not hold true. The reafon is, that the fubjeci or
the predicate becomes then too general : for, in the one
cafe, fomething is predicated of a whole genus ox fpecies,
which can be predicated only of fome individuals of that
genus or fpecies 5 and in doe. other, a general predication
is made where only a particular one can be app .cu.
Thus if it be faid, “ All men who tranfgrefs the laws
are deferving of punifhinenf” SsofubjeB of the propofi¬
tion is expreffed by the words, “ all men who tranfgrefs
the laws.” Take the claufe of the relative “who tranf-
grefs the laws”—away, and fay, “all men are deferving
of punifhmentand you have a propofition which is not
true, becaufe that is affirmed of the whole fpecies which
can be affirmed only of fome individuals. Retaining now
the claufe of the relative, but refolving it by and, you
have the fame propofttion as before \ and together with
it, in this inftance, another which is equally falfe . •
“ All men, and they tranfgrefs the laws, are deferving
of puniffiment •” that is, “ all men are deferving of pu-
nilhment, and -all men tranfgrefs the laws.
X> But
Pronouns.
48
Gonclufion
refpeeflinjr
26 GRAM
) But when the attribute exprerTed by the claufe of
the relative is chara&eriitic of the genus or fpecies of the
antecedent, and confequently applicable to even/ indivi¬
dual which that genus or fpecies comprehends, the re¬
lative claufe may be entirely omitted without affedfing
the truth of the propofition, which is already as gene¬
ral as it can be. As in this cafe the import of the re¬
lative claufe is not reJlriBive of the fignification of the
antecedent, it is of little confequence whether the at¬
tribute be reprefented by the conneftive part of the re¬
lative, as of the antecedent, or be affirmed to belong to
the antecedent in a feparate affertion. Thus it matters
not much, whether we fay, “ Man, who is fubject to
death, ought not to be too much elated j” that is, ac¬
cording to our analyfis,—“ Man of he is fubjetl to death,
ought not to be too much elated or, forming the
relative claufe into a feparate aflertion, and connedting
the two by the particle and, we fay, “ Man, and he
is fubject to death, ought not to be too much elated.”
In the one fentence, indeed, the reafon is implied why
man fhould not be too much elated, viz. his being fubjeli
to death: in-the other, no reafon is afligned for this •, we
only affirm that man is fubjeft to death, and likewife
that he Ihould not be too much elated : but as both af¬
firmations are equally true and evident, it is of little con-
f'equence, in fuch a cafe as this, whether the reafon upon
which either is founded be implied or not.
51. From the whole of this tedious inveftigation, we
1 0 flatter ourfelves that the following conclufions are dedu-
the relative ced and fufficiently eftabliffied : iff, That the relative
pronoun, pronoun contains in itfelf the united powders of a connec¬
tive and another pronoun. 2dly That of is the connec¬
tive of which, together with another pronoun, it contains
the powers, as in every poffible inffance it may be re-
folved into thefe conftituent parts, and the import of the
fentence in which it has place remain unaltered. 3dly,
That the relative claufe of a fentence has the import of
an abflraB fibjlantive, in the ancient languages, in the
genitive cafe ; in Englifli, with the particle of prefixed.
4thly, That the relative pronoun is of neceffary ufe only
where there is a deficiency of adjeBives or fubjlantives to
denote fome complex attribute, by which we want to limit a
general term or exprefjion; but that where fuch adjeftives
or fubftantives exift in language, we may ufe the rela¬
tive or not at pleafure. And, 5thly, That though, in
cafes wffiere the relative claufe does not limit a general
term, the relative pronoun may, without violating truth,
be analyfed by and; yet fuch analyfis is never proper,
as it gives two predicates to the fame fubjeB, which, in
the original propofition, had but one predicate.
52. If the claufe of the relative be equivalent to an
adjeflive, as in every in fiance it feems to be, it will
naturally occur, that in the ancient languages, the
relative fhould agree with its antecedent in gender, num¬
ber, and cafe. They do agree for the moff part in
gender and number; in cafe they cannot often, becaufe
the very intention of introducing a relative into lan¬
guage is to reprefent the antecedent in a different cafe.
Whenever we have occafion to ufe a fubflantive or noun
in a claufe of a fentence, and afterwards to exprefs by
M A R. Chap. III.
another claufe, in which there is a verb, an attribute of Pronouns,
the objeB denoted by that fibjlantive, we then employ ' 1111 y~—™*'
the relative pronoun. r'Jow it feldom happens that the
two claufes admit of the fame regimen ; and hence the
cafe ol the relative is often ncceffarily different from that
of the antecedent, as the cafe of each mult be accom¬
modated to the claufe in which it is found. Thus we
cannot fay, “Deus yaf colimus bonus eft 5” but, “ Deus
que?7i' colimus bonus eft 5” becaufe the regimen of the verb
golo is always the accufative. ^
I his (hows the neceffity of introducing a relative in-Wh\ the
to thofe languages which give inflexions to their nouns. reiarive.is
Were all the nouns of a language indeclinable, there ™0tr^eu<efu*
would be little occafion for a relative 5 and accordingly learned lan-
in Engliffi it is often omitted. Examples are frequent in yuagesthan
our beft authors. Suffice it to quote the following. ’n the Er.gw
“ For I have bufinefs would employ an age.”
fane Shore.
“ I had feveral men died in my ftiip of calentures.”
SwTIFT.
“ They who affedl to guefs at the objeB they cannot fee.”
Bolinbroke.
We are not ignorant that our moft eminent gramma¬
rians confider fuch expreflions as chargeable wflth im¬
propriety j and w7e are far from recommending them
in any dignified or folemn compofition. But in the
inftances adduced there is not the fmalleft degree of
ohfeurity ; at leaf! there is none occafioned by the omif-
Jion of the relative. The reafon feems to be, that the
mind can eaiily, by an effort of its own, make the an¬
tecedent unite, firft with the one claufe, and then with the
other. Thus when it is faid—“ I have bufinefs would
employ an age :” the mind can, without any difficulty,
as the word bufinefs has no inflexions, confider it firft
as the objedlive cafe after have, and then as the nomi¬
native to would employ; but this cannot be fo eafily
done in the ancient languages, where the termination
of the noun is changed by the variation of its cafes.
53. Both in the learned and in the living languages
the relative has different forms, correfponding to the
different genders of nouns ; and by thefe it gives notice
whether it is applied to perfons, or to things without life.
Thus in the Englifh language we fay, The man or the
woman who went to Rome; The tree which fands on
yonder plain. It admits likewife, when applied to males
or females, a variation of cafes fimilar to that of the
perfonalpronouns. Thus w e fay, The man whose booh is
now before me; The man or woman whom Ifaw yefer-
day: but the neuter admits of no fuch diflindlion (n) j
as we fay the tree which Ifaw, as well as the tree which
fands on yonder plain. In modern languages the rela¬
tive admits not of any diftindhen to denote number;
for we fay, The man or the men who came yeferday;
The man or the men of whom I fpeak. ^
54. In Englilh, the word that, which by fome hasThe word
been called a demonfrativepronoun, by others a pronomi-that often
nal article, and by us a definite article, is often uied in- iuPPiies
Head of the relative, as in the following examples:
“ He is the fame man that I faw yefterday :—He was U0un.
the
(k) “ Whofe is by fome authors made the poffeflive cafe of which, and applied to things as well as perfons
1 think, improperly.” Lowtlu
Chap. III. C R A
Pronouns, the ableft prince that ever filled a throned’ With regard
' v 1 to the principle upon which this acceptation of the word
that depends, we offer the following conje&ure.
AtuTwhy In Englifli, from the cool and phlegmatic arrange-
« does fo. ment of the language, occafioned by the want of in¬
flexions and conjugations, the place of every part of a
fentence is almoft uniformly determined, and very little
variety is allowed in the collocation of the words. The
adje&ive is almoft always placed in appofition with its
JubJlantive, and the nominative with its verb. In confe-
quence of this uniformity in the collocation of the
words, the mind acquires a habit of connecting in idea
any kind of word with the place in which it is ufed to
Jland; and is naturally led to confider every word that
{lands in fuch a place as belonging to fuch a clafs. Hence
it is, we imagine, that the definitive that paffes into
the nature of the relative pronoun ; as in thofe inftances
in which it occupies the place of the relative, it was
natural to confider it as having the fame import. Yet
the word that has undoubtedly in itfelf no more the
force of the relative pronoun than the or this, or any
ether definitive whatever. In fuch expreffions as the
foregoing, it is not improbable that originally the
claufe of the definitive that, which we now call the
relative claufe, was thrown in as a kind of modifying
eircumftance in the following manner : “ I he book
(I read that) is elegant j” where the fpeaker, finding
the word book too general for his purpofe, throws in a
claufe to qualify and reftriCl it, or to confine his affir¬
mation to that particular book which he is then read¬
ing. We can eafily fuppofe, that through time the
definitive that in fuch an expreffion might be tranfpo-
fed or removed from its own place to that of the rela¬
tive : fb that the expreffion would run thus, “ The book
that I read is elegant which would be confidered as
precifely equivalent to “ The book which I read is ele¬
gant.” This opinion is not a little confirmed by a fi-
milar ufe of the article in Greek, which, though un -
doubtedly a definitive like the Englifh the, is often ufed
inftead of the relative pronoun. Numberlefs examples
may be found in Homer and Herodotus, efpecially in the
latter, who feldom ufes what is properly called the rela¬
tive. We fhall produce one inftance from each.
Eto-tcit Ar^si^y Ayxfti/xvoyx TON yreg;
Zeus eysjjxe ttovouti Iliad x. 88.
Ogxtourt yacg ftiyccXcict xcik/^o/Jo (A$»iV0S<«<fcill) $ix,x
filet >cgi)crir8xi vofttin TOTS xv trlptri S»A«y Oflxi,
Herod. Clio.
InteiTo a 55- We have faid that the interrogative pronouns, as
tive pm-3 they are called, who, which, what, are intimately con-
nouns nefted with relatives ; we now affirm, that the two firjl
of tbefe words are nothing but relatives, and that the
lajl contains in itfelf the united powers of a relative and
definitive. With refpect to cafes, number, and gender,
the words who and which, when employed as interroga-
tives, differ not from the fame words when employed
as relatives ; and we hold it as a maxim, without which
fcience could not be applied to the fubjeft of language,
that the fame word has always the fame radical import
in whatever different fituations it may be placed. To
underftand this, it is neceffary to obferve, that all men
have a natural propenfity to communicate their thoughts
in'the feweft words poffible: hence it follows, that words
sire often omitted which are neceffary to complete the
M M A Pi,
conftruftion of the fentehce ‘, and this nowhere hap- Pronouns,
pens more frequently than in the ufe of who and which.'
In fentences where thefe words are confeffedly relatives,
we often find them without an antecedent; as,
“ Who fteals my purfe ftcals trafh.” Shakespeare.
“ Which who would learn, as foon may tell the fands.”
Dryden.
“ Qui Bavium non odd, amettua carmina, Mcevi. Virg.
“ That is, “ He who fteals my purfe, &c.“ Which
he who would learn, as foon, &c.and “ Ille qui Bavi¬
um non odit. See. Such abbreviations occafion no obfeu-
rity, becaufe from previous circumftances the hearer
knows the mind of the fpeaker and the perfons to wThom
he refers. But it is not with refpeft to the relative and
antecedent only that fuch abbreviations have place : in
fentences of a different form, whole claufes are fome-
times omitted, while the meaning of the fpeaker is made
fufficiently plain. Thus when King Richard III. hav¬
ing loft his horfe in battle, exclaims,
A horfe! a horfe ! my kingdom for a horfe !
there is no complete thought exprefed; but the circum-
ftances in which the king then was, enabled thofe about
him to underftand that he wanted a horfe. Accordingly
Catefby anfwers him,
“ Withdraw, my lord, I’ll help you to a horfe.”
In like manner, when a perfon afks a queftion, his
expreffion is frequently incomplete $ but the tone of his
voice, or fome other circumftance, enables us to afeer-
tain his meaning, and to fupply, if we pleafe, the words
that are omitted. Thus when it is faid, An fecifii?
nothing more is exprejfed than, If you did it (the La¬
tin an being nothing elfe but the Greek «y, fi)i but
fome circumftance enables the perfon who hears it to
know that the meaning is, “ Say if you did it.” Let
us apply thefe obfervations to the words who and
which. If thefe words be relatives, and if our analyfis
of the relative be juft, it is obvious, that no complete
meaning can be contained in the claufe, “ Who is
your principal friend ?” for that claufe contains nothing
more than the circumftance of being your principal friend
predicated of fome unknown perfon j “ of he is your
principal friend.” That this is indeed the cafe, every ^
man may be convinced, by alking himfelf what he are merely
means by the interrogative who in fuch a fentence j relative;
for he will find it impoffible to affix to it any meaning aild
without fupplying an antecedent claufe, by which that
which is called an interrogative will be immediately
converted into the relative promun. The cuftom, how¬
ever, of language, and the tone of voice with which
the relative claufe is uttered, intimates, without the
help of the antecedent, the wifh of the fpeaker to be in¬
formed by the perfon addrefled of the name and de-
fignation of his principal friend j and we know that the
fentence when completed is, “ Tell me the name and
defignation of the perfon who is your principal friend.”
Again, when the prophet fays, “ who is this that
cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Boz-
rah ?” he utters but part of a fentence, which when
completed will run thus : “ Defcribe the perfon who
cometh from Edom (this is that perfon), with dyed
garments from Bozrah.” He fees a perfon coming
from Edom, of whofe name and defignation he i$ ig-
1) 2 norant $
G R A M
norant j he calls upon Tome one for information con¬
cerning thefe particulars ; and that there may be no
millake, he deferibes the unknown perfon as having
dyed garments from Bozra/i ; but left even that deferip-
tion ihould not be fufficiently accurate, he throws in the
definitive claufe, t/us is that perfon, pointing at him, we
may fuppofe, with his finger.—Which, ufed as an inter-
indicates a wilh of knowing a particular per-
ion or thing out of more than one mentioned ; as
Which of the two did. it?” that is, “ Tell me the
one of the two which did it?” for in old Engliih
which as a relative is often ufed, where in modern
Englifli we fhould fay who; and that mode of fpeech
is ftill retained when the antecedent is omitted, and
t-.e relative claufe employed to indicate fuch a wifti as
that before us. What includes in itfelf the fignifica-
tion of a definitive and a relative pronoun ; as, “ from
what has gone before, what follows may eafily be
guelfed 5” w’here the word what is equivalent to that
which. When therefore w7e fay, “ W7hat rude fellow
is that ?” our meaning is, “ Defcribe that perfon who is
that rude fellow.” Upon the whole, then, it is evident,
t‘lat: t^ie words called interrogatives are merely relative
tences xz\?,.Pronouns > and that interrogative fentences are relative
tive clau- claufes uttered in fuch circumftances as to enable the
M A R.
54
Interroga
tive fen
hearer to fupply the antecedents neceffary to complete
the meaning.
56. To conclude : We havefeen that substantives
are either primary or fecondary ; or, in other words,
NOUNS or PRONOUNS. Nouns denote fubfiances, and
thofe either natural, artificial, or abfiract. They more¬
over denote things either general, or fpecial, or particu¬
lar ; and a general or fpecific name is made to denote an
individually means of words called articles or definitives.
Pronouns are the fubftitutes of nouns, and are either
prepofitive orfubjunclive. The Prepositive is diftin-
guiftied into three orders, called the firfi, the fecond,
and the third perfon.. The subjunctive, otherwife’
called tne.relative, includes the powers of all thofe
three, having fuperadded as of its owm the peculiar force
of a conne&ive.
Chap. IV. Of Verbs,
57. THE words which we have hitherto confidered
are commonly caWed fubfianfives primary or fecondary,
and definitives ; becaufe nouns are lignificant offulfian-
ces ; pronouns are the fubftitutes of nouns ; and the ar¬
ticle ferves to afeertain the extent of the noun, and to
determine wTether on any occalion it be figmficant ofa
whole clafs of fubftances, or only of one individual. But
55 fubftances are of importance to mankind only on ac-
Subftances count of their various qualities or attributes; for their
ance only jnterna^ texture is a thing of which we are profoundly
for their ignorant, and with which W'e have no manner of con-
qualities or cern. Thus, experience teaches us, that certain vege-
attributes. tables are pleafant to the tafte, and wholefome food •
whilft others are unpleafant and poifonous. The for¬
mer kinds are valuable only for their qualities or attri¬
butes ; and they are the qualities or attributes of the lat¬
ter that make them worthlefs or hurtful. A horfe is
ftrong, and fwift, and docile } and may be trained to
carry.a man on a journey, or to drag a plough. It is
for his Jlrength, fwiftnefs, and docility, that’he is the
moft valuable oi all quadrupeds. One man is brave,
t Chap. IV.
another learned, and another eloquent j and by poffef- Verbs.
img thefe different qualities, or attributes, each is fitted '   '
for a.different ftation in fociety. It is plain, therefore,T,
that in contemplating lubftances, our attention muft beckfio/51
principally bellowed upon their qualities, and that the word sc all.
words which ferve to denote thefe qualities muft be aned attri-
eiiential part of language. Such words are in general brflves:
called attributives ; and are of three forts Verbs Par r '! e are
ticiples, and AdjeSHves. s> 1 ar-verbs,far-
53-. Of all the conftituent parts of fpeech none^W^
Has given the grammarians greater trouble than the
verb. i he vaft variety of circumftances which it
biends together in one word, throws very confiderable
dilhculties in the way of him who attempts to analyfe
it and. afcertain. its nature ; at the fame time, that byThediffi-
its eminent ule in language, it is intitled to all the at-culty of at¬
tention which can be bellowed upon it. To the dif cert3inirig
cuftion of the verb, Mr Harris, whofe notions of thisStr^t
as of the other parts of Ipeech have been generally ^ ^
adopted by the lubfequent writers on grammar, has
dedicated a large proportion of his book, in which he
has thrown out many excellent obfervations, mixed, as
it appears to us, with feveral errors. We have already
obieryed, that no man is ignorant when he ufes what
is called a verb and when a noun. Every fchoolboy
knows, that the words is, loveth, walketh, stand-
eth, m Engli/h; and EST, AMAT, AMATUR, ambulat,
STAT m Latin, are verbs: he knows likewife that they
are of different kinds; that fome of them are faid to be
arhve, fome pafiive, and fome neuter. But it fhould
tern that the firlt objedl of our inveftigation ought to
be the chara&erifiic of the verb, or that which all thefe
words have in common, and which conftitutes them
verbs, diftmguilhing them from every other fpecies oPru Sl
Tfi N0W,lt ‘f 01bvi0“ ‘t* flighteft attention,raifteriftic
that every verb, whether achve, pafiive, or neuter, may of the verb,
be refolved into the fubftantive verb is, and another
attributive : for loveth is of the fame import with is
loving; WALKETH, with is walking; and AMAT, with
amans est. But loving, walking, and amans, are not
verbs : whence it follows, that the charaBerifiic of the
verb, that which confiitutes it what it is, and cannot be
expreffed by other words, muft be that which is fiv-
mfied by the woid is j and to us that appears to be
neither more nor lefs than afiertion.
Assertion therefore, or predication, is certainly
the very essence of the verb, as being that part of its
office, and that part only, which cannot be difeharged by
other kinds of words. Every other circumftance which
the verb includes, fuch as attribute, mode, time, &c. it
may be poftible to exprefs by adjeblives, participles, and
adverbs ; but without a verb it is impolfible to predicate
to affirm or deny, any one thing of any other thing!
I he office of the verb, then, when ftript of all acciden¬
tal circumftances, feems to be merely this, “ To join
together the fubje£l and predicate of a propofition :”
its powers are analogous to thofe of the fign -f- in
udlgebra, which does not affeft the feparate value of
the quantities between which it is placed, but only in¬
dicates their union or coaleficence. To explain by an ex¬
ample : When we fay, Cicero eloquens, Cicero wife; thefe
are imperfeff fentences, though they denote a fubftance
and an attribute. The reafon is, that they want an
afiertion, to ftiow that fuch an attribute appertains to
fuch a fubftance. But when we infert the word was.
*
IV. G R A.
we loin tie fubftancc and attribute together; we pve
notice that the wiflcm and eloquence f°
Cicero, and we do nothing more : we neither more
the ivifdom nor dimiuith it, we neither make rea^
nor imaginary; for it was fuppofed m all its ex
tent when the words' Cicero and wtje Hood inde¬
pendent of each other. We may indeed life the «
in a form which implies not an <#rtlo» ^ ’
wife an a::r,b,„e; as when we fay George i
George 10011011, ■. But K whtenejs or f X ot^r P?",
ctilar colour is not of the offence of a hwfe, an animal
which is found of all colours fo in the phrafes quoted
the aurihu,,, though implied, ,s not of the of the
verb ■ for it may be equally well expretled by
wotdJ - Georoe Is oonCng, and George is u-alhng, ™
phraihs of the^ very fame import with George vonieih
-"'^TreMvbg every verb, whether a?ive, palT.ve,
or neuter, into the fubftantive-verb is and another at¬
tributive, we have the honour to agree with all the
grammarians-, but to the word is itfelf the karned au¬
thor of Hermes has given a meaning which, as a ie ,
it does not admit. He oblerves, that hetore an> tin g
can be the fubjea of a proportion, it mu.t 1
all exigence is either abfolute or qualified, mutable or i-
muiable:' that the verb IS can by itfelf exprefs abfiolute
6-xifience, but never the qualified, without fubjoinmg v.
particular form and that it figmfies both and
immutable exiftence, having in there cafes different mean-
ings: although the fentences which he gives aS exam¬
ples are evidently conftmaed in the fame manner and
confift of the fame parts of fpeech. His examples are
of exiftence, B IS j of qualified, B l? an*nim° ’
of mutable. This orange is ripe; ot immutable, The dia¬
gonal of the fiquare is incommenfiurable veith itsJides.
If predication be the effence of verb, all this is nothing
to the purpofe, and part of it is not true It is not
true that the verb is ever varies its iignification , lor
it hath as verb no conn eft ion with exiftence ol any
kind. All fuch circumftances are fuperadded to its
verbal nature-, or, to fpeak more accurately, we m er
fuch circumftances from our previous knowledge ol
the obiefts concerning which the predication is made.
When we fav, “ this orange is ripe,” we do indeed
mean, as Mr Harris obferves, that it rr /o now at this
prefent in oppofition to pajl and time : but it is
not the verb is, but the definitive this which fixes
the time of maturity, as well as the place oi the orange *,
for had we faid, oranges ARE ripe, we might have been
properly alked, When and where are they ripe ? although
the fame verb is ufed in both fentences. Even in the
fentence “ B is,” abfiolute exiftence (the moft iimple oi
all) is inferred, and not exprejjed, by the verb; and the
inference is made from this obvious principle, “ 1 hat
when one utters a mark of predication, we naturally
conclude that he means to predicate fiomething oi the
fubjea.” If he adds no fipecific predication, as B is
M M A R.
round, we apply to B the moll g^nhatwe can,
29
Verbs.
59
and what other fpecies is fo general as e fence?
That the idea of exiftence, confidered f
immutable is not contained in the verb IS nieli, but
derived from our knowledge of the ohjeas concetmng
which the predication is made, appears mamfeftly irom
this • That if a perfon be fuppoled ignorant ot the mea -
ing of the words God and MAN, whilft he knows that of
isf the uttering of the two propofitions God is hapf ,
and this man is happy, will give him no n01ce ° y ’
ence confidered as mutable or immutable, temporary o\
eternal (o). His conclufion with refped to
of exiftence, if any fuch conclufion be drawn at a^ mu
be derived entirely from his previous knowledge or the
nature of God and the nature of man.
Some of our readers may poflibly think this notion
of verb too abHraft and metaphyfical; yet what other
circumftance than mere predication is effential to that
fpecies of words? We fay ejfential; for we are here in-
quiring, not what is expreffed by t*c\i individua lerb,
Z wL it is which is equally expreffed by all verbs
and which diftinguifhes them from the other ffif
fpeech. And if i? be true, that every thing which the
verb implies, predication alone excepted, may be expid
by other pam of fpeech, and that «« other parts of fpeech
An predicate; then we think ourfelves warranted to ai-
firm, that fihnple predication is the ejfential charatterijhc
of VERB, that every word which predicates is a \ R ,
and that nothing is fo which does d j An 0bjec-
It muft not, however, be concealed that a rion J ou„
very different from this has been lately maintained oy theoryr
a writer of diftinguilhed abilities. “ We have energy
expreffed” fays Dr Gregory (r), “ of com e a
verb coniiituted without affirmation, when we wilh or
command without command, when we affirm or wi ,
without wifi), when we command or affirm . vet m all
thefe cafes we have equally and mdifputably a verb _
That in all thefe cafes we have a verb is indeed m-
difputable but we hold it to be equally indiipuUble,
that in all thefe cafes we have affirmation. lae inge¬
nious author has given no direft example of a wijh or
command uttered without affirmation; and a feeling or
fentiment which is not uttered has nothing to do with
language : but he has given a fentence in winch there
are three verbs, that in his opinion denote no affirma¬
tion, but a very plain fiuppojitwn. \l n fuppojition can
be expreffed without affirmation, we ftvall very readi y
allow that a wifih or command may be fo exprefled h e-
wife. The Doftor’s fuppofition is thus exprefled :
« Had any puniffiment ever overtaken you tor your
broken vows-, -mm- but one of your teeth growing
black, or even ^ but one of your nails growing lefs
beautiful, I ffiould believe you.” It is almoft iuper-
fluous to obferve, that to every verb not m the infi¬
nitive mode there muft be a nominative, and to every
naive verb an objeB, whatever be the arrangement ot
the fentence in which fuch verbs are found, ihete
are
(0) The truth of this obfervation may be proved by wWcf he^doeTTrunder!
IT U a man unacquainted with the Latin tongue,
°fe,c ^ wr er
Edinburgh.
Verbs
60
.anfwered
G R A M
are truths known to every fdioolboy 5 the reafons of
them aiall be given afterwards. It is likewife unde¬
niable, .that in the fentence before us, the nominative
to //ad is ant/ punijhment; to the firft were, one of your
teeth; and to the fecond, one of your nails. But the
fentence arranged in grammatical order, with the fe-
veral nominatives before their refpedtive verbs, is evi¬
dently elliptical; and the conjunction if mult be fup-
phed as well to complete the conftruaion as to make
fenfe of the paflage. If any punithment had ever
overtaken you 5 if but one of your teeth were gnnv-
ing black, or even z/'but one of your nails were grow¬
ing lefs beautiful, I fhould believe you.” Now it has
lately been proved, by fuch evidence as leaves no room
for doubt, that if though called a conjunlhon, is in fadt
a yet b in the imperative mode, of the fame import with
give, fo that we may fubftitute the one for the other
without in the/mallefl degree altering the fenfe. The
fentence will then run thus : “ Give any puniihment
had ever overtaken you j give but one of your teeth
were growing black, &c. I fhould believe you.” It
is^therefore fo far from being true, that had and were,
tyhen the fentence is completed, exprefs no affirma¬
tion ; that it is only upon granting the truth of the
affirmation which they denote, that the fpeaker fays, “ I
ffiould believe.you.” “ Any puniffiment had ever over¬
taken you,” is plainly an affirmation j if give that
affirmation, admit its truth, “ I ffiould believe you.”
Tut it cannot be fuppofed that had and were change
their fignifications by a mere change of place, or that
by being removed from the middle to the beginning of
a claufe, they lofe their original import, and come to
denote fomething entirely different. Were this the cafe,
evety attempt to afcertain and fix the general princi¬
ples of grammar would be as ridiculous as an attempt
to arreft the courfe of time. For what purpofe then,
it may be afked, if the verb always denotes affirmation,
is it removed from the middle to the beginning of the
clauie, vAww fuppojition is implied as in the prefent in-
flance ? W'e anfwer, that fuppofition is neither more
nor lefs than conditional affirmation; that when fuch
affirmation is completely exprelfed, the verb is not remo¬
ved to the beginning of the claufe 5 and that fuch remo-
^ al takes place only when the claufe is elliptical, being
merely an artificial contrivance in language, to ffiow
the reader or hearer that fome fuch word, as if de¬
manding the truth of the affirmation, is omitted for the
hike of difpatch. This is evident 5 for when the
word requiring the affirmation to be granted is fupplied,
the verb muft be reftored to its place in the middle of
the claufe. Such abbreviations, and fuch contrivances
to mark them, are frequent in all languages, as will be
feen more clearly when we come to treat of modes.
nM , A, P'' . Chap. IV.
L pon the whole, notwithftanding the deference which we Vei bs.
willingly pay to this very mafterly writer, we are compell-1 
ed Yeludtantly to differ from him, and ftill to think that
Ji/nple predication is the cffence of the vrrb .
Should we be required to exemplify our theory by The theory
Ltnguage, and to produce inftances of this fimplifieditfelf exem-
vevb m praftice, we might anfwer, that the not beingp!lfled*
able to produce fuch inltances would be no good argu-
ment againft the truth of our principles. It is the
nature of language to expreis many circumftances by
the.lame word, all of which however are not effiential to
diffinguiffi tiiefpecies to which that word belongs from
the other fpecies of words j and it is the nature of man
to infer from difcourfe many things which are not
adually exprefed. Perhaps, however, fomething nearly
approaching, to an exemplification of cur idea of zjim-
/>/<? verb will be found in the following propofition :
“ T he. three angles of every plane triangle are equal to
two right angles.” What other office the verb are
here performs than fimply to join the fubjed and predi-
cate, it is difficult to perceive. It does not give notice
of time ; or fuch notice, if. given, is an impe’ sbaion j
for.the truth of the propofition is independent on time.
Neither ought it to imply exijlence; for the propofition
would be true, were there neither a triangle nor a
right angle in nature.
1 his. idea of verb^ when it is w7ell confidered, we
hope will be found juft j but ffiould any of our readers
fufpefl it of novelty, and on that account be difpofed
to condemn it, we have only to requeft that he will re-
ftrain his cenfure till he has examined the writings of
otheis, and nicely obferved the feveral poftures of his
own mind in difcourfe; for meditation may perhaps
ffiow him that our theory is not falfe, and inquiry will
fatisfy him that it is not novel (Q_). g-j
60. But although it is certain that affertion, and af-The great-
fertion only, is effential to the verb, yet the greater parter Part of
of that fpecies of words which grammarians call verbs'll
are ufed to denote an attribute as well as an affertion ; r. ibute
or, in the language of logic, they exprefs both the c»y>zr-combined
la and the predicate of a monofirion • tbn« ha lta,ath J.„" ith an af-
la and the predicate of a propofition : thus, he liveth he" it.h ai
writeth, he walketh, are phrafes equivalent in all refpe6tsfemon*
to—-he is living, he is writing, he is walking. Now, of
attributesyottze have their eifence in motion, as walking ;
fome in the privation of motion, as rejling; and others
have nothing to do with either motion or its privation as
white and black. But all motion and nlW. privation of
motion imply time as their concomitant; and a fubjlance
may have an attribute to-day which it had not ijeftcrday,
and will not have to-morrow. This is felf evident; for
a man may be at reft to-day who yejlerday was walking,
and to-morrow will be on horfeback; and a ffieet of pa¬
per may have been white yefterday, which to-day is
black,
®e^ic^es yvhich are.names of ideas in the mind, there are a great many others that are made ufe of
V° ^ econneion t at the mind gives to ideas or propofitions one with another. The mind in communicating
its thoughts to others, does not only noedffins of the ideas it has then before it, but others alfo to ffiow or intimate
ome partocu ar at ion o its own at that time relating to thofe ideas. This it does feveral ways; as is and is NOT
are ffie general war&r ot the. mind affirming or denying.” Locke on Human Undemanding.
et um e pars orationis variabilis, aliquid de re aliqua dici feu affirmari fignificans. Vulgaris verbi definitio
e , quo , it pars orationis, quae agere, pati, aut efle fignificet. Sed noftra accuratior, magifque ex ipfa verbi cu-
jufvis natura petita videtur. Caeterum rc affirmari laxiore hie fenfu accipimus, pro eo quod prmdicari Dialeclici
A>PP/,/-ent’ n°n affirmationes ftriftius fic didlae, fed negationes etiam interrogatlonefque includuntur.”
ttuddimanm Grammatics Ifflitutiones. See alfo Dr Beattie's Theory of Language.
/
,xr GRAMMAR-
Cll3-P* 1 i r i-rr * r-r, tnts kind than to raife, as might eafily be done, new
Verbs, black, and at feme future time will be of a ‘ d hyp0’thetical theories ‘on the fubjeft.
    1 lour. As, therefore, all motions ^ pnvatwn imp. d 1 y? d obferved tbat allthe tenfes muft
1°-: “ » .T>Tay be "W, at ~ ^ relLe „W. In one fenfe, this is ex-
as thofe which - - '
denote an action only, come to denote time alfo :
<’5C Hence the origin and u!e of tenfes, which are fo ma y
J11 different forms affigned to each verb, to (how, without
Sknce altering its principal lignification, the various times m
ihs tvijji. l1;cl, the afferutm expreffed by it may be t™?' ,
vtwnlea " er thefc ^'rious forms of the verb be effenttn! to lan-
„lm„ it is vain to difpute. They have place in every
fanguage with which we are acquainted ; and as the
ufe of the verb is to afem one thing of another it is
abfolutely neceffary that the time, when fuch or luch
an affirmation is true, be marked by tenfes, or fome^r
contrivance. Concerning tenles, therefore, we (hall throw
together fome obfervations equally applicable to every
language, after premifing a general remark or two which
feem neceffary in order to proceed with precifion.
61. Time, although its effence confills in fuccelTion
continued and unbroken, may yet be conf.dered by the
mind as divided into an infinite number of parts. I here
is, however, one grand divifion which neceffarn? oc-
, curs and to which the different tenfes of verbs are in all
.nuL languages adapted.-Computing from feme portion
paft. pre- conceived to be frefinl, nil time is eit et A''/"r
65
of veibs
are three¬
fold.
naft, pre- conceived to oe prejeni, ms ‘ . 1S _
fent, orfu Hence the tenfes of verbs are threeiold *, forne denoti g
Lu:e 5 brCe time prefent, fome time paf, and others tune Juture
the tenfes from the yery nature of turte, it muft be ob¬
vious, that all its parts are relative ; i.e. that no por¬
tion of it can be afeertained by any thing
itfclf but only by referring it to fome other poition,
With refpeft to which it is paji, prefent, or to come. In
this refpeft time is perfedly analogous to fpace: for as
the [pace in which any objeft exifts, cannot be ddcri-
bed but by ftating its relation to fome other fpace; io
neither can the time of any attribute or adion be deter¬
mined, but by ftating its relation to fome other time.
When, therefore, we would mark the time of any ac¬
tion or event, we muft previoufty fix \xyor\ fame point to
which we may refer it. If this point be known, the
time referred to it will be known alfo ; but if the former
be not known, neither will the latter.
Laftly, in contemplating an aElion, we may have oc-
cafion to confider it as going on, or zsfimjhed. i Ins di-
ftinaion is likewife denoted by the different tenfes of
verbs. In treating, therefore, of the tenfes, there are
two things to which attention ought principally to be
turned •,—the relation which the feveral tenfes have to
one another in refpeft oi time; and the notice which they
give of an aaion’s being completed or not completed.
62. Having premifed theie remarks, we proceed
now to the tenfes themfelves *, of which Mr Harris has
umereni enumerated no fewer than twelve. Ot this enumera-
giamma- t}on we can by no means approve ; for, without enter-
nans have in into a minute examination of it, nothing can be
Sew move obvious, titan that his inceptive present-/
ZlLsoittm going to wrhs-K a FUTURE TENSE ; and hts covu
tenfes. pletive PRESENT—/ have written—a YtsSTtenJe. iiui.,
as was before obferved of the claffification oj words, we
cannot help being of opinion, that, to take the tenjes
as they are commonly received, and endeavour to a -
certain their nature and their differences, is a much more
useful exercife, as well as more proper for a work of
tremely obvious. ’She prefent tenfe is ufed m contra-
diftinaion to both the pajl wA future, and marks an
attribute or aaion as exiiting in neither. The ^ and
the future are in like manner ufed in contradiftmaion
to the prefent *, and mark an attribute or adion which
exifts not now, but which m the one cafe has exijled
formerly, in the other will exift at fome time commg.
But befides this relation of contradif inchon fubfiftmg
among the tenfes, there is another of co-exiflence, as we
may call it, to which it is of great confequence to attend
—Specially in examining the nature of the prejent. ^ ^
6t. The PRESENT tense refers not only to iomethmg ^
which is pajl or future, but alfo to fomethmg with
which the attribute or adtion of the verb contempo¬
rary This reference is neceffarily implied in its very
name ; for we cannot fay of any thing that it prefent,
without implying at the fame time that there is fome-
thing elfe with which it is prefent. Hence it appears
with how little reafon Mr Harris and others have given
us an aorift of the prefent, as marking prefent time
definitely in contradiftinftion to OTHER prefents, vihwh
have been called inceptive, extended, and completive pre¬
fent s. For from what has been laid it follows,^ that the
Different
prelent tenfe is necejfarihj and from its very nature per-
fedly indefinite, and can of itfelf give notice of 00 pre-
cife or determinate portion or point of time whatever. A
thing may have been prefent fifty years ago, may be pre-
fent /mu, or at any future period. This tenfe implies
the relation oi co-exifence between two or more things*
but, without fome auxiliary circumftance, it cannot in
anv language mark the particular portion of timem which
thofe things exi/l. The indefinite nature of this tenfe is
indeed molt clearly feen in that ufe of it in which Mr
Harris has ftvled it the aorifi of the prefent * that is, m
cafes where it is employed to denote the repetition oj an
aEiion which the agent is accufomedfrequently to perjorm,
or to expreis propofitions of which the truth is evinced by,
general experience; as in the following examples :
(t pjypocrify- tlie only evil tliRt 'Wdlks
“ Invifible, except to God alone.”
“ Adpcenitendum properat qui cito judicat f &c.
In thefe initances it is plain there is no particular time-
pointed out : the propofitions are true, or apprehended
as true, at all times. Although the aftions, therefore,
of walking and hafening are expreffed as prefent, it is
impoffible from the expreffwns to determine any preciie
point of time when they are prefent.
But if the prefent tenfe be thus indefinite, howr, it
may be afked, are we to afeertain the particular time
which is intended ? We anfwer, it is to be afeertamed,
either by fating the aEiion of the verb as exifting in fome
time already known, or by inference. If, for example, we
fayi “ Millions of fpiritual creatures walk the earth
unfeen,”—the propofition is general, and the time of
walking undetermined. But it we add-—“ both when
we wake and when we fieepf—the time is by this ad 1-
tion afeertained and fpecified * for if the time when men
wake and deep be known, the time when thefe [pints
walk the earth is known alfo.—When no Specifying
claufe is given by which to determine the tim& ot the
prefent tenfe, it is very commonly determinedly///-
1 tercnce.-
GRAM
35. 'fetencv. Thus, i£ one ufe fuch an expreffion as—“ He
Jeeps while I am /peaking to him”—the time of his
feeping is afeertained by the fubfequent claufe of the
fentence 5 but if it be faid limply—“ he lleeps”—with¬
out afligning any data from which it may be concluded
’when his fleeping is prefent, we very naturally infer
that it is at the mjiant we receive the information of his
lleeping. Such inferences as this are common in lan¬
guage. The mind is defxrous to obtain complete in¬
formation on every fubjeft j and therefore frequently
/applies to itfelf what is not exprejfed in the fpeech of
others.
Both thefe ways of afeertaining the precife time of
the prefent tenfe, are excellently illullrated by the ufe
of the word prefent as applied to /pace. Take a familiar
example :—“ His brother and he were prefent when I
read the letter.” It is at firft fight evident that this
expreflion is perfeftly inde/nite. But if it be faid—
“ His brother and he were prefent at your houfe when I
read the letter,”—the place of a&ion is then detennined
by being referred to a portion of /pace which is known*
If no fuch reference be made, the perfon who hears
the fpeech uttered muff either remain ignorant of the
place intended, or he muft afeertain it to himfelf by in¬
ference ; and he will probably infer it to be that in which
the fpeaker is at the time of his uttering the indefinite
fentence. This leads us to obferve, that fuch infe¬
rences are not often made without fufficient foundation.
Various circumftances may affift the reader or hearer
in making them, and prevent all danger of miftake.
He may have the evidence of fenfe, or of fomething
preceding in the difeourfe, and a number of other par¬
ticulars, to juftify and warrant his conclufion.' Thus,
if when fitting by a large fire, one pronounce the words
—“ I am too warm thofe to whom he addreffes his
fpeech are authorifed to conclude, that he is too warm
■at the time of /peaking, unlefs he exprefsly prevent the
drawing of that conclufion by adding fome fuch claufe
as—“ When I wear a great coat.”
It is ftridlly demonftrablej and hath by Mr Harris
been in fa£t demonilrated, that there is no fuch thing
as prefent time. Yet do we not only conceive time as
prefent and exijling, but frequently as extended to a very
great degree. We fpeak not only of the prefent infant,
or the prefent day, but alfo of the prefent year, and even
of the prefent century. This manner of conceiving time
is indeed loofe and unphilofophical; but it is fufficient
for the ordinary purpofes of language. To exprefs
time as it really is, we ought to fay, the paffing day,
the pqfjing year, and the paffing century ; but in com¬
mon difeourfe we denominate any portion of time pre¬
fent, in which the prefent now or infant is included, al¬
though it is obvious that part of that portion is paf,
and the remainder of it future. From the very nature
of time thus conceived to be prefent, the tenfe now un¬
der confideration muft reprefent the aftion of the verb
t as commenced, and not finifhed: for as time is in conti¬
nued fucceffion, and accompanies every aftion 5 when
any a&ion is not commenced, it exifts not in any time,
though it may exift hereafter in time which is now fu¬
ture ; and when it is finifhed, it exifts no longer in time
prefent, but in time paf. Hence the abfurdity of intro¬
ducing into a theory of the tenfes an inceptive prefent arid
a completive prefent ; for thefe terms imply each p dire ft
contradiftion.
3
ivl A R. Chap. IV.
64. After having faid fb much of the prefent tenfe, Verbs,
we ihall have but little to fay of the pr^eter imper- -—y——
PECT. It ftates an aftion in refpeft of time as paf;
and in refpeft of progrefs, as unfinifhed. Legebam-—I
was reading at fame paf time^ but my reading was then The pix-
incomplete ; I had not finilhed the book or the letter. We t’r-|mper-
muft here obferve, however, as we did with refpeft to^e<^”
the prefent tenfe, that although the prmter-imperfell re-
p relents the aftion as paf, it does not inform us in what
precife portion of pqfl time the unfinilhed aftion was go¬
ing on : this circumllance muft either be given in fepa-
rate words, or be inferred by the hearer. If one fav
fimply—Legebami the perfon to whom he addreffes his
fpeech will conclude, that the time of his reading is paf
with refpeft to the prefent time of his /peaking. But if
he fay,—Legebam antequam venfii, he exprefsly ftates
the aftion of reading as paf with refpeft to the time in
which his hearer came to the place where they both are
at the time of /peaking. The time of the prwter-imperfeSi is
always paf with refpeft to the prefent infant when the
imperfelt is ufed, and of this the tenfe gives notice j
but it may alfo be paft with refpeft to lome other time,
and of this it conveys no information.
If we join twoprceter- imperfebls together, theexpref-
fion will ftate the co-exiftence of two progreffive ac¬
tions, both of -which were going on at a time paf in
refpeft of fome determinate time given orfuppofed. 11 Cum
tu feribebas ego legebam 5” “ when you were writing
I was reading.” Hence the praeter-imperfeft has by
fome grammarians been called the relative prefent; a
name which, however, is by no means exclufively appli¬
cable to this tenfe. When thepreeter-imperfecl is by the
conjunftion and joined in the fame fentence with a
plufquam-perfeEl, the two tenfes exprefs two aftions,
both prior to the time of /peaking ; but the one as having
continued alter the other wasfimjhed. Thus, (peak¬
ing of the deftruftion of Troy, fays, that after having
efcaped with his father and followers, he returned to
the city in quell of his wife, and went direftly to his
own houfe 5 but there, continues he, “ irruerant Da-
nai, et teftum omne tenebant—“ the Greeks/fod'/'a/fr-
ed inf that aftion was over and completed before his
arrival; but the aft of “ poffeffing the whole houfe,”
tenebant, was not over, but fill continuing.
65. But it is neceffary that the verb denote aftions The orift
wffiich were complete or perfeft in paf time, as well as and pr$-
thofe which w-ere incomplete or imperfeci. For this pur-ter-ljertecF»
pofe, Greek and Engli/h verbs have an aorifi, a preeter-
perfeB, and a plufquam-perfeB. Of thefe the Latin has
only the two laft. The prceter-perfeB in that language
fuftains a twofold charadter : it performs the office of
the Greek and Eng/ifh aorif, as rvell as of the prccter-
perfeB properly fo called j that is, it denotes a finifhed
aftion at fome indefinite paf time, as well as at fome
time which is both paf and definite.
In attempting to analyfe the fignification of complex
terms, by which we here mean words that include in
their fignification a variety of particulars, it is of great
advantage to have thefe particulars feparately expreffed
by different words in another language. Now the En-
glifh has refolved the tenfes, which in the Greek and
Latin languages are denominated the aorif and the
prceter-perfeB, by means of what are commonly called
auxiliary verbs, expreffing the former by the verb did,
and the latter by the verb have. In examining there-
Chap. IV. ° 11 rA. M
Verbs, fore the aorift and prater perfeB, it will be of uxe to m-
u—y--—j qUjre into the import of thefe verbs.
Did ig evidently the aoriji of the verb to do;' a verb
of the moft general fignification, as it denotes aBwn of
every kind. It expreffes ihcfinijhcdperformance oifome
aBion, the completion of which mull of courie have ta¬
ken place in fome portion oipaji time. “ I did 'write,
or I wrote (thefe expreflions being equivalent) yelter-
day, a month, a year ago,” &c. But the import ot
did being io very general, it can convey no determinate
meaning without being limited by the addition or lome
particular aBion ; a.-d this addition, however exprelled,
is to be confidered in the fame light as an accufative
cafe, governed by the aftive verb did; for it produces
exactly the fame effeB. ^y^fit, feripf, I did WRITE •,
that is, “ at fome paft time I performed the action of
writing, and finijhed itB
The verb have, which is included m the prater-per-
feB, is plainly a verb of the prefent tenfe denoting poff
/ion. But a man may poffefs one thing as well as
another; and therefore have requires limitation, for the
very fame reafon that did requires it, namely, becaule
its fignification is perfeBly general. , Now this limita¬
tion, whatever it is, mult be conceived as_ the thing
pojfeffed; and in inftances where have is limited by a
noun, this is obvious, and univerially acknowledged :
“ I have a gold watch,” is, “ Ipofefs a gold watch.”
But to annex the fame meaning to the word have,
when ufed as an auxiliary verb, is an idea we believe
not common, and which may perhaps be thought
whimfical j yet what other meaning can be affixe-d to
it ? To fuppofe that words have not each a radical and
determinate figniiication, is to fuppofe. language a fub-
iect incapable of philoiophical invefligation and to
fuppofe, with Mr Harris, that there are words.entirely
devoid of fignification, is at once to render all inquiries
after the principles of grammar nugatory and ridicu¬
lous. We conceive, then, that each of the phrafes,
iwoxwjcripjiepijlolam, Ihavp. written a letter,
is equivalent to the phrafe, “ I poffefs at preient the
finijhed aBion of writing a letter.” Such an expreflion
may found harp) to the ear, becaufe it is not in ufe.
but wTe often employ expreffions, to the precife and pro¬
per meaning of w’hich we do not attend \ and if the
above be attentively confidered, however .awkward it
may at firft appear, nothing will be found in it either
improper or abfurd.
The aorift, then, we conceive to Hate an action, as
performed and fnifioedva {ovnepafl portion of time ; whiln
the prater-perfeB reprefents the pajl performance and
completion of that action as now poffefled. And. here
we may hazard a conjecture why have, when ufed as
an auxiliary verb, is always joined with a paf participle ;
whereas did is joined to a word expreffing the fimple
aBion of the verb, or, as it is called, prefent infini¬
tive. Of the expreflion, “ I have written a letter,”
as one part, viz. the verb have, &e\\o\.es prefent time ; the
the other part, viz. written., mult denote paf time,
to give notice that the aCtion is performed md. finijhed.
Did, on the other hand, implying paf time, has no oc-
cafion for the paf part of another verb to give.notice of
this circumftance •, for ll\did write a letter,’ is equiva¬
lent to, “ at fome pad time I performed and finilhed the
fimple aBion of writing a letter.”
Vol. X. Part I.
M A R.
The principal diftin&ion in praCticc between the
aorif and prater-perfeB (for. the difference feems little ^
in their real import) confifts in the time by which the rlie prjn.
performance of the aftion admits of being particularly CxyAd-
fpecified. The prater-perfeB is always joined with a
portion of time which includes the prefent now or w-thefeten.
fant; for othenvife it could not flgnify, as it alwaysfes.
does, the prefent poffcffion of fnijhing^ of an action.
But the aorif, which fignifies nofuch pojfcfion, is as con-
ftantly joined with a portion of time which excludes
the prefent now or inf ant. Thus we fay, “ I have w> it-
ten a letter this day, this week,” &c; but, “ I wrote a
letter yeferday, lad week,” &c.-, and to interchange
thefe expreflions of time in Greek and Enghfh, where
the aorif and prater perfeB have different forms, would
be improper. In Latin, indeed, where they have but
one form, the impropriety does not appear. 7^
66. Befides the tenfes already examined, which are
expreflive oipaf time, in mod languages, the verb has^.
another tenfe CdX\t6.\h.tpliifqucini~pcrJre6}^ in which, how-
ever, no difficulty occurs to detain our attention. ^ What
the preter-imperfeB is to the prefent tenfe, that ti.e plufi
quam-perfeB is to the prater-perfeB. ^ J he .vero had,
by which it is refolved in Enghlh, being evidently the
pad time of have, fufficiently explains its. meaning and
relation to the other tenfes: “ I had written a letter,’
is equivalent to the phrafe, “ I poffeffed at iomzpajl time,
the finifhed a&ion of writing a letter.”
It is juftly obferved by Dr Beattie, that the imper-
feft and plufquam-perfeft are very ufeful, and may be
the fources of much elegant expreflion •, and that if one
were not taught to diflinguifh, in refpeCf of meaning as
well as of form, thefe tenfes from each other, and tLe
praeterite from both, one could not pretend to under-
dand, far lefs to tranflate, any good claflic author. . 71
67. Having confidered the tenfes which imply Pfi-^l
fent and paf time, it now remains that wx examine
the import of thofe which are expreflive of time, future.
In Latin and Englifh there are two tenfes for this, pur-
pofe 5 of which the frf reprefents an aaion in point of
time as not yet exifing, but as about to exifi at fome pe¬
riod to come; but it does not bring the completion 01 the
a&ion into view. The other aflerts the futuitty of an
a£tion together wdth its completion. Scribam, “ I (hall
be writing,” denotes future time and complete aBion;
for it doet not fay whether I am to write for a long or
for a fliort time, or whether I thall finif) what I pro-
mifed to begin. This part of the verb, therefore, to which
the Greek correfponds, is an imperfeB futui e, and
likewife an aorif. The futurity of any adlion, it diould
feem, may alw’ays be computed from the time of fpeak-
ing j for every adlion mud be future with refpeft to the
time at which its futurity is declared; but the time of
its futurity may be more precifely fpecifie.d by fixing on
fome other future time to which to refer it: “I lhall be
writing after he (hall have departed.” Shall or will
refers to future time indefinitely; and write or writing ■
refers to an adlion which is indeed to begin and fo far to
proceed, but of which nothing is laid concerning the
completion.
On the other \am&,fcripfero, “I fhall have written,”
is a perfeB future denoting complete aftion 5 for Jhall de-
notes future time ; written,finijhed aBion; and have, pre¬
fent pojfejjion. So that the meaning of the whole affertion
E is.
34
GRAM
Verbs.
ra
Of the
renfes of
the fub-
janiflive
mode.
73
The pee-
Eeiit,
is, that “ at feme future period of time I fliall poflefs
the finidied aflion of writing. The completion of the ac¬
tion, together with the poJJ'eJJion of it, is always future
with refpedl to the time of affcrtion; but, with refpedt
to fome other time expreffed or underitood, the completion
of the action is to be pajl: Promitt is te feripturum f ro-
gavero, “you promife to write if I fhall have afked you.”
In this fentence the aftion oiafking is future with relation
to the time ofpromiftng, but it is pajl with relation to
that of writing. This tenfe the Latin grammarians call
the future of the fubjuriSlive mode; but very improperly.
The notice which it communicates, refpefts not the
power or liberty of afling, w’hich, as will be feen by and
bye, is the charafferiilic of that mode; but the aBion it-
ielf. It ought therefore to be ranked among the tenfes
of the indicative mode; for feripfero is, in every fenfe,
as really indicative as feribam or feripturus ero.
68. Thefe are all the tenfes, eifentially different from
each other, which have place in the indicative mode of
any language with which we are acquainted (r) \ but
as there are tenfes in the mode called Subjunflive, which
bear the fame names with thofe already examined, and
which have yet a different import, it will be neceffary to
confider them before we difmifs the fubjefl of tenfes.
Of modes in general fomething muft be faid here¬
after j at prefent we fhall only obferve, that the mode
with which we are now concerned, is not very properly
diflinguifhed by the name afligned to it by the Latin
grammarians. They call it the fubjunBive, becaufe it
is often fubjoined to another verb, and forms the fe-
condary claufe of a fentence : but the mode called in¬
dicative frequently appears in the fame circumftances.
The difference between thefe twm modes appears to us to
conlift in this, that the indicative afferts fomething di-
reSlly concerning the aBion; the fibjunElive, fomething
concerning the power or liberty of the agent to perform
it : for that the latter afferts as well as the former, ad¬
mits not of difpute.
69. The prefent tenfe of the fubjunBive mode, in the
learned languages, anfwers to the Englifh auxiliaries
may and can. Let us confider thefe a little.—May is
evidently a verb of the prefent tenfe denoting liberty.
When I affert that I may write, I give notice that “ I
am under no compulfion to abfain from writing*,” that
there is no impediment from without by which I am
Yef rained from writing. Can is alfo a verb of the prefent
M A R. Chap. IV.
tenfe, expreffive of internal power orfill. “ I can write” Verbs,
is equvalent to —“ There is nothing in myfelf which >
incapacitates me for performing the operation of wri¬
ting.” This verb feems oiiginally to have denoted
knowledge or fkill, and to have been afterwards extended
to fignify power or ability of any kind. There is little
doubt of its being the fame with the old Englifh verb
to con, which fignifies to know.—The difference between
the import of thefe two verbs may and can will be beft
perceived in a familiar example. Suppofe we fay to one
of our tranferibers, “ You may write a treatife on gram¬
mar, to wrhich he returns for anfwer “ I cannot d'1 our
affertion evidently fuppofes him at liberty to write the
treatife } his anfvver implies, that he is unable ox unjkilled
to do it. We may conclude, then, that the prefent tenfe
of this mode contains a declaration of prefent liberty,
ability, or fkill; and its other tenfes will be found to
have reference to the fame capacities.
The obfervation i$ here to be repeated which was en¬
larged upon under the prefent of the indicative. The
liberty or ability fignified by this tenfe is always repre-
fented as prefent; l et the time of this prefence is inde-
fniie. If no particular time be fpecifed, w e generally
refer it to the time offpeaking; but another point may
be given from which we are to compute. “ When he
fliall have finilhed, you may then proceed as you pro-
pofe.” Here the liberty of proceeding is Hated as pre¬
fent, not at the time oifpeaking, but at the time of his
fnifhing, which is future to the time of fpeaking. But
though the liberty, ability, or Jkill, denoted by this tenfe,
be reprefented prefent, the aBion ilfelfis Hated as con¬
tingent; for it is not neceffary that a man Ihouldperform
an action becaufe he has the capacity to perform it.
From this idea of the prefent of the fubjunBive fome
of its mofl peculiar ufes feem capable of being explained.
—And, in the firH place, it appears to have a near af¬
finity with the future of the indicative ; infomuch that
in many inflances they may be ufed promilcuoufly.
Without materially altering the effeft of the expreflion,
we may fay, “ Dico me fa ft u rum effe quae imperetf or
“ quae imperabiiThe reafon of this, perhaps, may be,
that with refpeft to us, futurity and contingency are in
mofl cafes nearly the fame, both being involved in equal
obfeurity 5 and therefore it is often of little confequence
which mode of expreflion we employ.
Secondly, The prefent of the fubjunSive is ufed to de¬
note
(r) On this point we fubferibe to the opinion of the elegant and ingenious Dr Beattie.—“ It will perhaps
occur (fays he), that there are two Greek tenfes, of which I have given no account; namely, tiwfecondaorif, and
the fecondfuture. The truth is, that I confider them as unneceflary. Their place, for any thing 1 know to the
contrary, might at all times be fupplied by the frfl aorifl and Che fifi future. Some grammarians are of opinion,
that the frf aorifl fignifies time pajl in general, and Che fecond, indefinite time pafi ; and that Che fir ft future denotes
a nearer, and the fecond a more remote, futurity. But this, I apprehend, is mere conjefture, unfupported by proof:
and therefore I incline rather to the fentiments of thofe w7ho teach, that the fecond future and the fecond aorifl
have no meaning different from the fifl future and the frfl aorifi 5 and that they are xhe prefer t awA. imperfeB of
fome obfolete theme of the verb; and, w'hen the other theme came into ufe, happened to be retained for the fake
of variety perhaps, or by accident, with a preterite and future fignificaticn. Be this as it w7ill, as thefe tenfes are
peculiar to the Greek, and have nothing correfponding to them in other tongues, we need not fcruple to overlook
them as fuperfluous.”—The Theory of Language, Part II. Chap. ii.
To thefe judicious obfervations we have nothing to add, but that they acquire no fmall degree of confirma¬
tion from this circumflance, that there are many Greek verbs which have no fecond future, and which are yet
employed to denote every poflible modification of future time. Of the paulo-pofifuturutn of the Greeks we have
r R A M M A R< ,
Cv T 1Vt; the rlSU of which a P«fo„ is poffeM. “ / ^ ^
™ I L, fell this book.” This application, w nch t;l of fpeatog,'is feppofed u, be
nr Triejlley confiders as the primary figmfication of the 'dieted. What then is the import of the phrafe .
tenfe, is eafily deduced, or rather follows immediate y, ^ perfuaded that it is elliptical, and that the
from the fcareeoing account of its import. 01 , „ — ^o nrwWftnod : “ 1 may ( ay
be wider no rejlraint, either external or ^erna ,^0 pre-
vent him from performing an aftion, he has fure y
' ^Thirdlyfxhe prefent of the fubjunBive is often ufed
to fignify command or rey^ as when oneway ,
may ?ive my compliments to fuch a perfon. Ihis ule
ofthe tenfe under confideration feems to have anfen
from a defire to /often xht harfhnefs of a comma y
avoiding the appearance of claiming fuperiority. W hen
avoiding rue tr he certainly utters
a man
We are nerfuaded that it is eiupuc^, a— ---
word fay or affirm is underftood : “ 1 may (%/^at
I\ have ^done fuch or fuch a thing m my time , for
liberty or contingency can relate to aftions only as t icy ^
are conceived to be prefeiu 01 jii ui • ^^ ^ /,/„/: The phif-
*7 2 Of all the tenfes, the mo., co* P • quatn-per-
Jam/rfea of this mode. It comb.nes a pajl and a/»- ^
C iime with a fnijhed aftion. It may be confidered
“ the pall lime both of the perfeB future and of the prat-
ter perfeB of the ftbjunBhe: for it reprefents an action,
ter-perjecton j j as fimfhed before
avoiding the appearance of cluing fupetiotity When paj, time, Med before
a man utters the above fentence, he certainly nttem /eci/f^; which period therefore though
„o command, but only affert, that the perfen to whom was future with refped
he fpeaks has hberU) or pimer to do him a favour. ! ^ PJ ^ ^ th(. futurity or contingency of the
nflertion however, may contain no new information, •« ; “ Promififti te feripturum fuiffe fi rogaf-
and therefore the perfon addrejfed, refleamg upon t m a Y^u promifed that you would write, it
intention of \\ie fpeaker in making it, infers that it mdi- J ’ „ Here the futurity or the ac-
cates a wi/h o, defire that “ his compliments ftiould be is reprefented as complete^
made to fuch a perfonP’ . • 1 ed ;s ftated^s co-exifing with the paf promfe; but t ic
T. 7o. Of the fubjunBive as well as of the indicative, t ft b p^ior to that promife: it is how-
prceter-imperfeB is e^dently ^ et ^0^ to £ paf with refpea to the aftion of
a c thd latter afferts liberty, or ability, to pe.torm lome . . 1 • b • alf0 poflenor to the promife. 77
aftion, as exifting at prefent, the former afferts the fame wn g^J^ ^ the fubjea of tenfes, it may ornumber
liberty or ability to have exifed in time paf, but 73 - r ,:uft t0 mention number and perfon ; for -
precife portion of time pall, in which thefe caserne tenfe 0f the verb in the
exifted, mull be fpecified by other words, or it will ^ P and in manv tenfes even of xXiz Engh/h
remain unknown. Thus in the following fentence, ^ STKey cannot, however, be deemed efentialto the
- Dixi me faftmum effe qum imperaret, the time of verb^ ^ J ion js the faiae, whether it be made
imperaret is referred to that of thxi: the perfon having ve , i Jfi a t/nrd per{0n, or whether it be
the right to command, is fuppofed to have had it at by you, by ^, 0 _y The moft that
feci
or by a thoufand. The moll that
can be faid is, that verbs in the more elegant languages
are provided with a variety of terminations which re-
fpe£l the number and perfon of estry fubfantive, that
we may know with more Precifion,_ m a complex fen¬
tence, each particular fubllance with its attendant verbal
attributes. The fame may be faid oi fex with refpea
to adieBives. They have terminations which vary as
they "refpea beings male or female, though it is pall
difpute that fubfances alone are fufceptible otfex. We
therefore pafs over thefe matters, and all of like kind,
as being rather among the elegancies of particular Ian-
the right to commanu, • -
the time when the other>V/ that he would obey. 1 his
tenfe, as well as the prefent, Hates the aaion as ^
on and incomplete; and alfo as future with refpea to the
liberty or ability to perform it. It is r^dered into
Englifh by the verbs could or might; oi which the fij
is the pail time of can, the fecond of may.
From the near affinity which the prefent of the Ju -
junBive has to tho future of xht indicative,^0 tenle
now under confideration appears, in many inltances, as
the pall time of the latter as well as xht former. I bus
Dixi me faBurum qua; imperaret, may be rendered
faid that 1 would do whatever he mig it, or w atev guages, and tnererore lu uc ik.axc.cv.     - ‘ . .
„ he fhould, command.1’ . . . _ . , r nf each tongue, than among the ejfentials ol
Thepne- 71. Of the preeter-perfeB, it is fufficient to 00 erve, | which efjentials alone are the fubjea of in-
ter-perfea. that as the prefent Hates the agent as at 1 ^ ° ® f ^ a’treatife on univerfal grammar.
oerformitig an unfinifhed aaion •, fo this tenfe Hates him H11 X „ „ , r  ;n everv tongu
as at liberty to perform the aaion confidered as fimfhed.
« I may be writing a letter when you come, 1. e. I am
at liberty to be writing a letter when you come. 1 may
have written a letter when you come 1. e. I am at
liberty to be in poffefion of the fimfhed aBion of writing
a letter when you come.” - „ T „
It is a common mode of expreffion to fay, I may
have done fuch or fuch a thing in my time, when
he who fpeaks can have little doubt whether he das
done the thing or not. In that cafe, the words may
78
irv in a treatile on umve/jup of * ,
74. Befides tenfes, number, and perfon, m every tongue
with which we are acquainted, verbs axo fubjea to ano¬
ther variation, which grammarians have agreed to call
Modes. Of modes, as of tenfes, it has been warmly de¬
puted whether or not they be effential to language
The truth feems to be, that the only part of the verb
obfolutely necejfary for the purpofe of communicating
thought is the indicative mode; for all the others, as
has been well obferved by Dr Gregory, are refolvab e,
bv means of additional verbs and a word denoting the
J . „ « • . ..u * 4.~ Ynrpllions
done the thing or not. In that cafe, tlie words map „ Lon'of tiieVimary verb,-into circuitous expreffions
hmc done, cannot be confidered as the prceter-perfeB of aftion ot the pr.ma y ^ ^ whkh
taken no notice, hecaufe it is found only in the pfVe voice ; to ^ ^
it would be neceffary in all voices, as a man may be about to aB as well as Xojutje turn 7
36 G R A M
Verbs, which fully convey their meaning (s). But fuch ex-
^ “J prefhons continually repeated would make language
very prolix and wholly inanimated ; for which reafon,
the import of each of the commonly received modes is
a fubjedt worthy of the philologift’s inveftigaticn. A-
79 bout the number of modes, whether neceffary or only
Different expedient, as well as about the import of each, the wri-
bo^t'th5 tCrS °n Sramiriar have differed in opinion. Mr Harris,
number of one of the mold celebrated of thofe writers, has enu-
modes. merated four inodes of the verb, befides the infinitive;
viz. The indicative or declarative, to affert what
we thinh certain; the POTENTIAL or SUBJUNCTIVE, for
the purpofcs of whatever we think contingent; the INTER¬
ROGATIVE, when we are doubtful, to procure us informa¬
tion ; and the REQUisiTiVE, to affifl us in the gratification
of our volitions. The requilitive too, according to him,
appears under two dillindf fpecies 5 either as it is im¬
perative to inferiors, or precative to fuperiors.
For edablifhing fuch a variety of modes as this, no
fort of foundation whatever appears. The fame rea-
foning which induced the author to give us an interro¬
gative and requifitive mode, might-have made him give
us a hortative, a dijfuafive, a volitive, and innumerable
other modes, with which no language is acquainted.
But belides perplexing his reader with ufelefs diftinc-
tions, we cannot help thinking that Mr Harris has
fallen into fome miflakes with regard to the import oi
thofe modes which are univerfally acknowledged. Ac¬
cording to him, affertion is the charaderiftic of the indi¬
cative, and that which diflingukhes it from the fubjunc-
tive or potential: but this is certainly not true, for with¬
out an affertion, the verb cannot he ufed in any mode.
Of this the learned author, indeed, feems to have been
awTare, when he obferved of the fubjunBive mode, that it
is employed “when we do not JlriBIy alfert,” and that
“it implies but a dubious and conjeBural affertion.” The
MAR. Chap. IV.
truth is, that the affertion implied in this mode, though Verbs,
it is not concerning the fiame thing, is equally pofitive ”—\ >
and abfolute with that conveyed by the indicative. An
example quoted by himfelf fliould have fet him right
as to^this matter :
Sed tacitus pafci fit poffet corvus, haberet
Plus dapis, is'c.
Who does not feel that the affertion contained in ha¬
beret, is as abfolute and pofitive as any affertion what¬
ever ?
75. Perhaps we may be afked to define what wfe
' mean by a mode. We know not that wre can define
it to univerfal fatisfa&ion. Thus much, however,
feems to be obvious, that thofe variations which are
called modes do not imply different modifications
of the action of the verb. Amo, Aihem, Aiua, do
not fignify modes of loving \ for modes of loving are,
loving much, loving little, loving long, &c.—Shall
wTe then get over the difficulty by faying, with Mr
Harris, that “ modes exhibit fome way or other the
foul and its affeBionsP’1 This is certainly true : but it
is nothing to the purpofe 5 for it does not diftinguilh
the meaning of mode from the objecl of language in ge¬
neral, all languages being intended to exhibit the foul
and its affeBions. So
Grammatical modes of verbs have been defined by Mode de-
Dr Gregory to be “ concife modes of exprefling fome fined-
of thofe combinations of thoughts which occur molt
frequently, and are moll important and linking.” This
is a juft obfervation ; but perhaps he would have given
a more complete definition had he faid, that gramma¬
tical modes of verbs are concife modes of expreffing fome of
thofe combinations of thoughts which occur mofi frequently,
and of which assertion is an effientialpart (t). This
indeed feems to be the real account of the matter,
efpecially if our notion of the nature of verb be well
founded,
(s) The imperative, for inftance, may be refolved into a verb of commanding in the firft perfon of the prefent
of the indicative, and a wrord denoting the aBwn of the primary verb, commonly called the infinitive mode of
that verb. Ihus, / nunc et verfus tecum meditare canoros, and “ fubeo te nunc ire et tecum meditari,” &c. are
fentences of the very fame import. The fubjunBive may be refolved in the fame manner by means of a verb de¬
noting power or capacity ; for credam, and poffium credere, may be often ufed indifferently. The indicative mode,
however, is not thus convertible with another verb of affirming in the firfi perfon of the prefent of the indicative,
and a word denoting the aftion of the primary verb; for Titiusficribit, “ Titius writes,” is not of the fame
import with dice Titium ficribere, quod Titius feribat, “ I fay that Titius writes.” The firft of thefe fentences,
as has been already fliovvn, contains but one affertion; the fecond obvioufly contains two. Titius writes, is equi¬
valent to Titius is writing; I fay that Titius writes, is equivalent to / am faying that Titius is writing. The
reafon why the imperative and fubjunBive are refolvable into expreflions into which the indicative cannot be re¬
folved, will be feen when the import of each of thofe modes is afeertained.
* (t) livery verb, except the fimple verb am, art, is, &c. expreffes without modes a combination of thoughts,
v:z. affirmation and an attribute. The affirmation, however, alone is effential to the verb, for the attribute may
be expreffed by other words. It is indeed extremely probable, that, in the earlieft ages of the world, the affir¬
mation and attribute w’ere always expreffed by different wmrds; and that afterwards, for the fake of concife-
nefs, one word, compounded perhaps of thefe two, was made to exprefs both the affirmation and the attribute :
hence arofe the various clafies of verbs, aBive, pafifive, and neuter. Of a procefs of this kind there are evident
figns in the Greek and fome other tongues. But the improvers of language flopped not here. The fame love
of concifenefs induced them to modify the compound verb itfelf, that it might exprefs various combinations of
thought flill more complex : but in all thefe combinations affertion was of neceflity included ; for if the wrord
had ceafed to affert, it would have ceafed to be a verb of any kind.
Soon after this flrort note was written, and the wdiole article finifhed for the prefs, w7e accidentally met with
Pichbourn's Differtation on the Englifh Verb. Of that work it belongs not to us to give a character. Such of
our readers as thall perule it, w7ill fee that on many points we differ widely in opinion from the author ; but we
have no painful apprehenfion of any comparifon which may be made. It gives us pleafure, however, to find,
that
grammar.
8l
AH modes
equally in
dicative.
Chap. IV, . .
Verbs, founded,—that its ejjence confifts in affirmation. And m
this opinion we are the more confirmed, from a convic¬
tion that no man ever employs language on any occafion
but for the purpofe of affirming fotnetlung. The fpeak-
er may affirm fomethir.g directly of the. aclion ijeij ;
fomething of the agent’s poxver or capacity to perform
it 5 or fomething of his own defire that it ffiould be per¬
formed, See.—but ftill he muft affirm. .
If this be fo, then are all the modes equally indica¬
tive. Some may be indicative of perceptions, and others
of volitions ; but ftill they all contain indications On
this idea the three foregoing modes of amo will be thus
diltinguiffied. When a man indicates his prefent feeling
of the paffion of love, he ufes the firft j when he indi¬
cates his prefent capacity of feeling it, he ufes the Je-
cond; and when he indicates his prefent defire that the
perfon to whom he is fpeaking would entertain that
paffion, he ufes the third, . .
-,6. As to what Mr Harris calls the interrogative
mode* he himfelf obferves that it has a near affinity to
the indicative. It has in faft not only a near affinity
to it, but, as far as language is concerned, there is not
between the one and the other the flighted: diflerench;.
For, in written language, take aw'ay the mark of in¬
terrogation, and, in fpoken language, the peculiar tone oj
voice and the interrogative and indicative modes appear
precifely the fame. That fuch ffiould be the cafe is ex¬
tremely natural. . , -
To illuftrate this, let us for once fpeak in the iingu-
37
lar number, and conceive one of our readers to be pre- ^
fent. I affiert a thing, taking the Jr uth of it for grant¬
ed i but if you know me to be wrong, I prefume that
you will fet me right: in this cafe, affertion produces
the fame effect as 'interrogation. Inftances perpetually
occur in common converfation. An acquaintance ays
tome “You took a ride this morning:” I anfwer
yes or no according to the cafe . and the lame effect is
produced as if he had laid—“ Did you take a ride this
morning ?” In this way, at firft, would iimple affm-
(ions be employed to procure information wanted. Fe-
ci/li—you did fuch a thing ; fecifti ne—you did it not;
—either would produce the proper reply, and the infor¬
mation wanted would be gained (u). I his being ob-
ferved as language improved, men would accompany
fuch a fentence with a peculiar tone of voice, or other
marks, to fignify more unequivocally that they wanted
information, or that fuch information was the only object
of their fpeech. Farther progrefs in refinement would
lead them to alter the pofition of the words of a fentence
when they meant to ajk a quejhon, as wre do in Eng-
Verbs.
lifh, fayin
des
(when we affert),
You have read Euripi-
•” (wSen we interrogate), “ Have you read Euri-
pidcs
In Greek and Latin queftions are afked commonly
enough by the particles &< and an. Ihefe particies we
know to be exaftly equivalent to the Engliffi particle
if at leaft to the fenfe in which that particle is com¬
monly taken. Hn JeciJh is “ If you did it j and the fen-
that his notions relpefting the origin of fuch verbs as exprefs at once affertion and an attribute, are the fame with
The'Jopult Tappets(hyTm Pickbourn) to have been coeval with language itfelf. But we have not the
fame evidence to convince us, that that muft neceffarily have been the cafe of any other finite verb ; ^r the c°-
rula is containing only an affirmation, is much more Ample than a verb which unites in one word both an attri¬
bute and an affirmation! Since therefore people, in their firft attempts to exprefs their ideas by words, would
fcarcely think of any thing more than what was abfolutely neceffary, it is probable they would be fome time be-
forethey invented any other word containing in itfelf an affertion or affirmation; for they would not very early
think of contriving words fo complex in their nature as to include in them both the name of an aEtion and an affer-
I coniedffure, that the firft mode of expreffing aBions ox paffons would be by participles ox verbal nouns i. e.
words fignifying the names of the aBions or paffions they wanted to defenbe *, and thefe words conneftec w
rerfobieaT/the copula ri, might in thofe rude beginnings of language tolerably well fupply the place of
verbs • e g from obferving the operations of nature, fuch words as rain or raining, thunder or thundenng, \ou d
foon be invented ; and by Idding'the copula it, they would fay, or » or » ««.
by the rapidity of pronunciation-, might in time form the verbs raiiw, thunders,. &c. Iheoblena
tion of their own aRions, or the aRion, of the animals around them, would Toon mcreafe their Hock of ideas, and
put them upon contriving fuitable expreffions for them. Hence might anfe fuch words as thefe , jlecp orpeping,
TnlTjIanJing, run or running, bite or biting, hurt or hurting ; and by joining thefe to fubftanuves by means of
the copula is they might form fuch fentences as -Lion ispeping, or ItonJUep ts, Jtand,, &c.
which ruldfoon^e comrafted into lion Pep,, ./lands, runs, bites, hurts, &c. Thus our little miniated family
might become poffeffed of verbs including an attribute and an affirmation in one. word. . .
This account of the origin of aBive, paffive, and neuter verbs, is certainly ingenious ; and m our opinion, it
is not moreTngenious than juft when applied to the Greek and other ancient languages though it is not applica¬
ble to the EiJlllh : but it Lms to be quite irrecondleable with the definition of per* which the author has
adopted l-orrCBilhop Lowth ; and indeed with every other definition except that which makes the effence of "
0 (u'f of a queftion put in the form of an aflertion we have a remarkable inftance in the Gofpel of St Matthew.
When Chrift flood before Pilate, the governor aiked him, faying, Zv » o fanXm r^ Ufxim. I hat this ientence
was pronounced with a view to obtain fome anfwer, is evident from the context ; yet it is as plainly an affirmation,
though uttered probably in a fcoffing tone, as the ferious confeffion of Nathaniel, Z, f* 0 Hctcttevs rev WpX Had
not the queftion been put in this form, which ajerts Chrift to be the kmg of the Jews the reply coiftd not W
been Sv Myut ; for without an a(fertion the governor would have/av/nothing. See Di Campb.il s i ■ J
the Goff els, where the form ufed in the original is with great propriety retained m the ver.ion.
Verbs.
82
■Of the op-
-tative
mode.
CRAM
tence may either be an abbreviation for die an fecijli,
“ tell me if you did it $” or an may perhaps be, as if
certainly is, the imperative mode of fome obfolete verb
equivalent to give ; and in that cafe, an fecijli will be a
complete interrogative fentence, fignifying, “ you did
it, give that?'—But of the interrogative mode of Mr
Harris we have faid enough •, perhaps our readers will
think, too much, fince it is a ufelefs diftin£lion not found
in any language. It will, however, be proper to fay fome-
thing of his precative mode, as far as it is the fame with
the optative mode of the Greek grammarians. And,
77. Nothing, we think, can be clearer, than that
the Greek optative conftitutes no difhnB mode of the
verb, whatever meaning be annexed to the word mode.
The different tenfes of the optative are evidently nothing
but the paji tenfes of the correfponding tenfes of the fub-
juiiftive. Prsef. fub. tutHu, I map ftrike. Pref. opt.
Tvirlttfu, I might ftrike, &c. This is proved to be in¬
dubitably the cafe by the uniform praftice of the
Greek writers. Examples might be found without
number \Vere one to read in fearch of them. The fol-
Idwing fentence will illuftrate our meaning : ’E^ovrxi
*A(v]vctiot itot /3oy)6cZ<ri ra<5 A^yuotf, ii the Athenians come
that they may ajfijl the Argives.” Here the leading
verb ig%ov\xt being of the prefent tenfe, the dependent
verb fiorfurt is the prefent fubjun&ive. But change the
former to the pajl time, and the latter muft alfo be
changed. ’Hgxoflo ’AQnvxtet tva fioinQoiw To/?’Agy£/fl<j, “ the
Athenians came that they might ajfijl the Argives.
Here it is plain that /3on6o7iy, the prefent of the optative,
is the pajl time of (leqiuo-i, the prefent of fubjunBive ;
and the fame in other inftances.
It is almoft unneceffary to add, that when this mode
is employed to denote a wifh, the wilh is not expreffed
by the verb, but is underjlood. Such abbreviated ex-
preflions to denote a wilh are common in all languages.
Thus, in Greek,
'Tjtnv (ttsv hot 5«n», oXv/ATTict ^opoxT s^ovres
’YLx.7rt^a-xi Tl^ixy.010 ttoXiv, &C.
ftgnifies, “ The gods might give you (or, as we fay in
Englilh, changing the polition of the verb, might the
gods give you) to deftroy,” &.c. So in Latin, Ut te
omnes dii deceque perdant, “ That all the gods and god-
deffes may curfe you !” Again, in Englilh, “ O that
my head were waters !” &c. In all thefe, and fuch
like fentences, the words equivalent to / wi/b, I pray,
are underftood. In Greek a wifb is fometimes intro¬
duced by the particle \t or Lit, if; as in Homer.
’£<0’ opeXe; rxyovo; r’euivxi, xyofto; rxxoXtrdxi.
« //Tt had been your fate not to be born, or to die
unmarried ! The fupplement is, “ It woula have been
happy for your country,” or fome fuch thing. In
like manner, a poor perfon not uncommonly intreats
a favour by faying, “ Sir, if you would be fo good !”
Here he flops ; but the completion of his fentence is,
It would make me happy.” In all thefe cafes a wifi}
M A R. Chap. IV.
is not formally exprejfcd by the fpeaker, but inferred by i v er^s- <
the hearer. They are therefore inftances of that ten- v
dency which mankind univerfally difeover to abbreviate
their language, efpecially in cafes where the paflions or
feelings are interefted.
78. The interrogative and optative modes being fet
afide as fuperfluous, it would appear from our inveftiga- ^
tion, that the real diJlinB modes of the verb, which are Only three
found in the moft copious and varied language, are on-modes ne-
ly three; the indicative, the JubjunBive, and the fw/>f-«flary,jhe
native : and that thefe are all that can be confidered asj-^ff^^
necefary ; the firjl to indicate the ipeaker’s feeling oran<j mipera-
aSting, the fecond to indicate his capacity of feeling ortive.
a61ing, and the third to indicate his dejire that the per¬
fon to whom he fpeaks Jljould feel or aB.
Here again we have the misfortune to find ourfelves
differ in opinion with Dr Gregory ; "ho^ feems to
think, that a greater number of modes, if not abfo-
lutely neceffary, would, however, be highly ufeful.
His words are : “ All languages, I believe, are defec¬
tive in refpeft of that variety and accuracy of combi¬
nation and of diftindlion, which we know with infalli¬
ble certainty take place in thought. Nor do 1 know
of any particular in wfhich language is more deficient
than in the expreffing of thofe energies or modifications
of thought} • fome of which always are, and all of wrhich
might be, expreffed by the grammatical moods of verbs.
Of this there cannot be a clearer proof than the well-
known fa£f, that we are obliged to exprefs by the
fame mood very different modifications or energies of
thought. As, for inftance, in the cafe of the gram¬
matical mood called the imperative, by which we ex¬
prefs occafionally prayer to God, command to a Have,
requeft to a fuperior, advice to an equal or to any one,
order as from an officer to his fubaltern, fupplication
to one whom we cannot refill.”—Tf thefe be, as the
author calls them, fpecijic differences of thought, he
will not furely objeft to their being all ranked under
one genus, which may be called dejire (x).
internal feelings, which prompt us to pray to Gf*d, to
command a Have, to requeft a fuperior, to advife an
equal, to give an order to an inferior, and to fuppli-
cate one whom wre cannot refill, are all different in de¬
gree, cannot be denied. Each of them, however, is
dejire ; and the predication, by which the defire is made
known to the perfon whom we addrefs, is the lame in
all, when we utter a prayer as w7hen we utter a com¬
mand, when we requeft as when we fupplicate. But
predication alone is that w'hich conftitutes the verb . for
dejire by itfelf, however modified, can be expreffed only
by an abJlraB noun ; and the mere energy oi defire, when
not applied to a particular energifer, can be expreffed
only by a participle, or by what is commonly,, though
improperly, called the infinitive mode. Now it is cer¬
tainly conceivable, that a few Jhades of meaning, or a
few ( y) degrees of one general energy, might be marked
by
fxl “Desire;—wifh ; with eagernefs to obtain or enjoy.” Jolinfon. _ .
“ The uneaf "s a man finds in himfelf upon the abfence of any thing, whofe pre en enjoymen carries 1
Idea of delight with it, is that we call DESIRE. Good and evil, prefent and abfent, work , upon the mind ; but
that which immediately determines the will, from time to time, to every voluntary achon, is the uneafine o de¬
sire, fixed upon fome abfent good.” Locke. a j a
This whether it be found philofophy or not, is furely fufficient authority for ufing toe vv°5 j/' . ^
genus ; of which prayer, command, advice, fupplication, &c. may be confidered as fo many oillindt
' (Y) Dr Gregory feems to think, that not barely a/exo, but a vajl number, of thefe energies might marked.
Chap. IV.
G R A M
Verbs, by comfponiing variations of fuel) ve[jS,as t
lorvy^prcdkamn; and there could be uo great
imofopriety in calling thofe variations modes, or rather
JdeLi modes: but that fuch a of mode
would be an improvement m language, is by no mens
”°dent. The verb, with the modes and tenfes which
it has in all languages, is already a very complex pai
of fpeech which few are able, and Hill fewer inclined
to analyze : and it would furely be of 'i0 a.dvant?f>a ‘
make it more complex by the introduaion ot new
modes, efpecially when thofe degrees «/ ^1'*
could be marked by them are with equal and perh p
greater precifion marked, m the Iwmgfpeeeh, by the
different tones of voice adapted to them by nature,
and in written language, by the readei s geneia
ledge of the fubjeh, and “f ^ Perfens ',ho m.y ^be
occalionally introduced, it there De any 1 ,
Th^idicadvt^Lakc, and imperative, are there-
M A R.
fore all the modes of the Verb which to us appear *o,
be in any degree necejjary or expedient j and they are m
faft all the modes that are really found m any language
'^ForlhflTFimTTvTr^hts been already obferved.xhe
feems on every account to be ^^^0^
mode. To that name it has no title which we can^^
nerceive except that its termination fotnetimes (lor even bu, an zbr
this is not true univerfally) differs m the learned Ian-ftra<a nourt.
guages from the terminations of the other parts o e
verb Nay, if affirmation be, as it has been proved t
be the very effience of verb, it will follow, that the in-
nniZ is no pit of the verb at all 5 for it expreffes ««
'affirmation. It forms no complete fentence by itfelffi
nor even when joined to a noun, unlefs it be aided by
fome real part of a verb either expreffed or underftood.
Scribojcnbcbam, feripffiferipferarn, JcribamJcr ipfeio
“I am writing, I was writing, I have written I had
written, I (hall write, I lhall have written, do each
of them contain an affirmation, and. conftitute a com¬
plete fentence : feribere “ to write, fcnpfiffie to
have written,” affirm nothing, and are not more appli¬
cable to any one perfon than to another. In a word, the
infinitive is nothing more than an abjlratl noun {z)fie-
noting thefimple Enmesr of tie verb,™ conjundUon
.. Anting (fays he), denying, tefiifiying, foretelling, affdng, Bering, wijUng, loptng, e^tng, behevmg,
knowing, doubting, fuppoffng, fllpulating, being able, commanding, teeing, fnpfitcattng, ovmg,
hating, fearing, defpairing, being accnftomed, wondering, admiring, wavering, fwearmg, ^, -^,
exhorting, them' haZ bS^expifel"^ all languages
b/vSonilsftrikLg r.hofe o^vl./vwl^, and vvwl., they tnufi have been acknowledged as dtftma moods
of the verb.”. . r tVtnncrht which however, may be doubted, and if all thofe
If all thefe words denote different energy of t :uftly obferves, it is not eafy to find names,
different energies, with many others for which, \ ^ ^ ^ ofow verb ; and if thofe combinations
could, like capacity and defineM comb’n^ W1^ tlia/Verb : we ffiould indeed acknowledge fuch variations^ to be
could be marked by correfponding variations oi .f aU this be pofflble. We are certain that
diftina modes, or modes of modes of the verb. ^ “ i h that in fome of the modes, the radical letters
it would be no improvement : for it feems « ^ be ;he fame verb ; or that many of the modes
of the original verb muff be changed, an * , . not to mention that the additional complication m-
muftbe expreffed by words “ t of feech already exceedingly complex would render the import
troduced by fo many minute diftmttions mto a p. j ftyled the learned.
of the verb abfolutely unintelligible to nine-tenths eve J tL learned and excellent Ruddiman;
(z) Incur idea of the we have * N0MEN eft appellatum. Eft enim (ft
whofe worSs are, “ Non inepte h.c modus a veter b f S b , figniticatione certh ei maximii affims; ejufque
non vere ac Temper, quod nonmdh volunt, n0™eil fubftantivum videtur, cum adjeBivum ei additur neutn
vices fuftinet per omnes cafus. Et quidem manifefte ubftantnum ^ ^ fJn cuique ^_Cic. Fin. i. Iv
generis: utfVc. An. xm. 2 . Meum intelligere nulla pecunia vendo. Item, abfque adjeBivo ut,
Totum hoc dijjphcet philofophan. Petrom • 5 • jnmiendi —Plaut. Bacch. i. 2. 50. Hie veren perdukt, 1. e.
0\id Met. ii. 483- P?/f loquienpitur, 1. ^ J cu{ vkere ej} ffigitare, i. e. cuius vita eji coglia-
: Tar, fecunda^fi. cap. 2. w here the reader will find examples of
the infinitive ufed by the heft R-0"1™. wrlt'r.*^ “ ^mariaM'h™ bet'n'iatt'ly 'controverted with much ingenuity
This opinion of Ruddmian and is m.c ^ we flicultl look for d efence of the verb di-
by Dr Gregory ; who teems to think, that ted if this be indeed the cafe, almoft every thing
:fe &
to beerat'mX^^cftutre 'co'rrecft notions of the fubjea : he has ftudied the writings of others; he
40 G R A M
Verbs, with time, and is not a mode, as far as we can con-
ceive, of any thing. Thus, Scire tuum nihil ejl, is the
fame with Scientia tua nihil eft; and, “ {Death is cer-
tain,” with “ To is certain.”
Ofexpref- 79. Before wre difmifs the fubjeft of modes, it may
fmg com- not be improper to take notice of the connexion ■which
mands^by ]\Jr Harris, after Hpolio nius, has found between com-
fenfe manding and futurity. “Intreating and commanding
(lie fays) have a neceffary refpetl to the future only.
For what have they to do with the prefent and the pujl,
the natures of which are immutable and neceffhry.”
This is furely confounding commands with the execution
of commands. But the learned writer proceeds to in¬
form us, that “ it is from the conneBion offuturity with
commands, that the future of the indicative is fometimes
ufed for the imperative mode.''' The conneBion, of which
he fpeaks, appears to us entirely imaginary 5 for futu¬
rity has nothing to do with commands, though it may
M A K. Chap. IV.
with the execution of them. The prefent t'n:c is the time Vem*.
of commanding, the future of obeying. But fuppoling v'~'
the connexion real, it would not account for the fu¬
ture tenfes being ufed imperatively. For although it
w!ere true, as it is evidently falfe, that commands are
future, it would not follow that the relation is con¬
vertible, or that employing the future Ihould imply a
command. The principle upon which luch exprelTions
as, Thou shai.t not kill, come to have the force
of a command, feems to be this. When a perfon, efpe-
cially one poffeiTed of authority, aiTerts that an action,
depending on the will of a free agent, and therefore in
its own nature contingent, foall or lhall not actually take
place ; what are we to conclude from fuch an affertion t
Why finely it is natural to conclude, that it is his will,
his command, that his aOfertion be verified. The Eng-
lilh word Jhall, if we be wrell informed, denoted origi¬
nally obligation ; a fenfe in w'hich its pait tenie fhould is
ftill
has confulted feveral perfons of undoubted learning, who have devoted a great part of their time to gramma¬
tical inveffigations 5 and he is extremely unwilling to fuppofe, that all his inquiries refpefting the moll im¬
portant part of fpeech have ended in error. He trulls, therefore, that he lhall not be deemed a petulant ca¬
viller, though he examine with fome feverity the principal obfervations and arguments upon which the L'oflor
has built bis theory. Upon that examination he enters with diffidence : for the learned Profeflbr’s knowledge
of the various powers of the mind appears, even in this effay, to be fuch as eminently qualilies him for
afeertaining the precife import of every fpecies of words employed for the purpofe of communicating
thought) and with fuch a man the prefent writer wrould be much happier to agree than to differ in opinion.
The Dodlor acknowledges (Tranf. of the Royal Society, Edinburgh, vol. ii. lit. clals, p. 195), that the
infinitive is moll improperly called a mode : and on that account he thinks we ought to turn our thoughts
exclujively to it, “ when we endeavour to invelligate the general import of the verb, with a view to afeertain
the accident which it denotes : and be led, Hep by Hep, to form a dillinbt notion of w'hat is common in the acci¬
dents of all verbs, and what is peculiar m the accidents of the feveral claffes of them, and thereby be enabled to
give good definitions, fpecifying the ejfence of the verb,” &c. It may be true, that to the infinitive exclufvely
we Ihould turn our attention, when we wilh to afeertain the accident denoted by a particular verb or clafs of
verbs ; i. e. the hind of aBion, paffion, or fate of being, of which, fuperadded to affirmation, that verb or clafs of
verbs is expreflive : but in accidents of this kind it may be doubted if there be any thing that with propriety
can be faid to be common to all verbs. There feems indeed to be nothing common to all verbs but that which
is efential to them, and by which they are diffinguilhed from every other part of fpeech ; but every kind of
aBion, pafjion, and fate of being, may be completely exprefled by participles and abfraB nouns ; and therefore in
liich accidents we cannot find the ejfence of the verb, becaufe fuch accidents dillinguilh it not from other parts of
fpeech. Were a man called upon to fpecify the fence of verfe or metre, he would not fay, that it confiils in the
meaning of the words, or in the ufing of thefe words according to the rules of fyntax. In every kind of verfe
where words are ufed they have indeed a meaning, and in all good verfes they are grammatically conllrufted ; but
this is likewife the cafe in profe, and therefore it cannot be the efence of verfe. The efence of verfe mull con-
iill in fomething which is not to be found in profe, viz. a certain harmonic fuccellion of founds and num¬
ber of fyllables : and the efence of the verb mult likewife conlilt in fomething which is not to be found in any
other part of fpeech ; and that, we are perfuaded, is nothing but affirmation. But if affirmation be the very efence oi
the verb, it would furely be improper, when we endeavour to afeertain the general import of that part of
fpeech, to turn our thoughts exclufively to a word which implies no affirmation j for wrhat does i?ot affirm,
cannot in liritffnefs of truth be either a verb or the mode of a verb.
In the fame page it is faid, that “ the infinitive denotes that kind of thought or combination of thoughts
which is common to all the other modes.” In what fenfe this is true, \ye are unable to conceive : it denotes
indeed the fame accident, but certainly not the fame thought or combination of thoughts. In the examples
quoted, Non ef fivere, fed falrre vita, Sec. the infinitives have evidently the effect of abfraB nouns, and not
of verbs; for though vivere and valere exprefs the lame fates of being with vivo and valeo, they by no means
exprefs the fame combination of thoughts. Vivo and VALEO affirm that / am living, and that / am well; and he
who utters thefe words muff think not of life and health in the abf raB, but of life and health as belonging to himfelfi
Vivere and valere, on the other hand, affirm nothing; and he who utters them thinks only of the fates of
living and of being in health, without applying them to any particular perfon.
The exquilitely learned author of The Origin and Progrefs of Language, having faid that the infinitive is ufed
either as a noun, or that it ferves to ccnneft the verb with another verb or a noun, and fo is ufeful in fyntax,
the Do£tcr combats this opinion and ^infers the infinitive to be truly a verb ; becaufe “ the thought exprefled
by
2
i
85
Of verb'
they are
tive, paf-
five,' or
meuter.
j-y Q U J\. Tvl
ftill commonly employed. In EngliHi, therefore, the
foregoing procefs of inferring a command from an a^ci-
tion futurity feems to have been reverfed; and the
word fail, from denoting a command or obligation, has
come to Aawott futurity umply. . .
as 8o. Having confidered the verb m its offence, XS ten-
K-fes, and its modes, we might feem to have exhaufted the
fubiecl; but there is dill fomething more to be done.
Grammarians have diftinguiihed verbs into levera jpe¬
des : and it remains with us to inquire upon what prin¬
ciple in nature this diilinftion is made, and how tar it
proceeds. Now it mutt be obvious, that it predication
be the ehence of verb, all verbs, as fuch, muft be o
the famefbecies; iox predication is defame m every/.ra-
pJtion, under every pojfible circumfance, and whom-
foever it is made. But the greater part of verbs con¬
tain the predicate as well as the predication of a pro-
Vol. X. Part I.
MAR.
petition; or, to fpeak in common language, they denote
an attribute as well as an affirmation. Ihus, lego is
“ I am reading f ambulo, “ I am walking;” Jlo, 1 am
/landing;” verb era, “ I zmjlriking;” verberor, “ I am
Brick end But the attributes expreffed by thefe verbs
are evidently of different kinds 5 fome confiding in ac¬
tion, tome in fifering, and fome in a date of being
which is neither aShve nor paffive. _ Hence the didinc-
tion of verbs, according to the attributes which they de¬
note, into aclive, paffive, and neuter. Lego which is
an affertion that I am employed in the aB of reading, is
an aBive verb; verberor, which is an aflertion that i
am ruffering under the rod, is a paffive verb,, becaute it
denotes a paffion; zx\&fo, which is an aflertion that l
am /landingJlill, is faid to be a neuter verb, becaule it
denotes neither aBion nor paffion. But it is felf-evident
that there cannot be aBign without an agent, noi paffion
jr without
by means of it, may be exprefM jn ecofv”^ iy’erS' examples,
w Hamlet’s fol^oy. “ ^ ^^uaded'he"t
equivalent in meaning to, “The quedion is, ftion diking, whether we (hall exiit at {overt future
midaken. “ Whether we (hall be or (ha! not be » a quedion g, wheth .f his confcious exidence
and indefnile time? but the (object of Hamle. s e indefinite lime rejlored? but whether it was to
fliould be interrupted, it would be afterwar s a °meip, • wg muft be felf-evident to every reader of the
continue uninterrupted by bis exit from this wot 1 ’ , . . d rentence does not (ignify interrogatory, but
Soliloquy. 1« is Hkeu-lfe v^ry obvtous, that the word pJpJ tlmn * cotipkte
fubjeB of debate ox affair to be examined, and • • fo important. “ To be or not to be, that \s the
the verfe, and give additional tmphajn, Per aP®> contbuiance or non-continuance of my exidence, is the
quedion,” is therefore equivalent m all refpect , f . r . abltraid noun in the nominative cafe,
matter to be examined and the infinitive is he^ with the fubjeB of
Should it be faid, that the Do-dor may have aken Sentence by ^ unco ^ ^ of ^ circum.
"Hamlet's JoUnquy; we beg leaVC ^rds “Tribe ox not to bed have no perfed meaning. Were it not
dances with which they are connede , j r .-.Upc wVnt is wanting to complete the fenfe, it might
fdr the fubied of the foliloquy, from which every rea ei upp ‘ or a dead man! Quedions all equally
be afked, “ To be or not to be—What? A coward, a murderer, a king, or a dead man .
reafonable, and which in that cafe could not be anfwered. Dodor proceeds to remark upon the
l the radical import of the verb with tenfe, like the proper moods^, but the Ju^ ^ ^ obferVati0n
peculiar meaning as moods, and hgm J u° ^ t^b^the truth. The infinitives, as thus ufed, acquire, at
leaTin ^^h^ « like the pmver of
:t;trth^hdnr^t feS
Turns to ex jl, to be well, to ^ along ; a mode of jbmh, t gh g Warburton at the
the bed writers in the days of Shakefpeare, and is frequently ^V j} tbink, that
prefent day. Dico, credo, puto, quod Titius exiftat, ^icXe mode rom tlm former fet of phrafes,
Tutus may exfl, may lie along, &c. Remove the verbs in the whh them, which they have not
-d it wiH be found that the infinitives^ acquired ameamng, ^ „ have ^ complete meaning,
when left by themfelves •, fox Titium e\i.ere,jace , indicative Verbs are removed, together with the won-
becaufe dey affirm nothing. C n tie o mr an , w - fubjunBives remains in all refpeds as it was
Snrn thc‘accu'l]Cve cafe^ denoting, in co^junaion with one contplex
Titius: Dico, credo, puto;. I fay, believe, think*” and the of my fpeech, belief, thought, is I mum
i/lere, “ the exidence of Titius.” jn
G II A M
without a pa (Jive being; neither can we make a predica¬
tion of any kind, though it denote neither aBion nor paf-
All verbs J'LOrii without'predicating of fomething. Ail verbs, there-
have a ne- fore, whether aBive, pajjive, or neuter, have a necei-
eeflary re- fary reference to fome noun expreflive of the fub-
ference to ^J}ance^ 0f ^vhich the attribute, denoted by the verb,
nominative Pred'lcateii- This noun, which in all languages mull
cafe. io nominative cafe, is faid to be the nominative
to the verb; and in thofe languages in which the verb
has perfon and number, it muft in thefe refpeBs agree
with its nominative.
Of aBion, and confequently of verbs denoting aftion,
there are obviouily two kinds. There is a» aBion which
paiTes from the agent to fome fubjeB, upon which he is
employed ; and there is an aBion which refpedts no ob-
jeB beyond the agent himfe/f Thus lego and ambulo
are verbs which equally denote aBion; but the aftion of
lego refers to fome external objeB as well as to the agent;
for when a man is reading, he mult be reading fome--
thing, a book, a newfpaper, or a letter, &c. whereas,
the action ofambulo is confined wholly to the agent; for
when a man is walking, he is employed upon nothing
beyond him/elf,—his aBion produces no effeB upon any
thing external. Thefe twro fpecies of verbs have been
denominated tranjitive and intranjitive; a defignation ex¬
tremely proper, as the diftin&ion which gave rife to it
S8
A&ive
verbs tran-
fitive or in-
tranfitive.
MAR. Chap. V.
is philofophically juft. Verbs of both fpecies are aBive; Participles,
but the aftion of thofe only which are called tran/itive , ^c‘
refpe&s an external objecl; and therefore in thofe lan-
guages of wrhich the nouns have cafes, it is only after The for-
verbs which are tran/itive as well as aBive, that the mer only
noun denoting the fubjeB of the action is put in the ac- govern
cufative or objeBive cafe. Verbs which are iniranfitive,
though they be really aBive, are in the ftrudture of t:ve cafe.W
fentences confidered as neuter, and govern no cafe.
And fo much for that moft important ef all words
the verb. We proceed now to the confideration of
participles, adjeBives, and adverbs; which as they have
a near relation to one another, wTe lhall treat of in the
fame chapter.
Chap. V. Of Participles, AdjeBives, and Adverbs.
Sect. I. Of Participles.
90
81. The nature of VERBS being underftood, that of Participles
participles is not of difficult comprehenfion. Every ('en?te an
verb, except that wdiich is called theytt/yfow/zW verb, is ex- ^rTinerl
preflive of an attribute, of time, and of an ajfertion. Now w;th time>
if wre take away the ajfertion, and thus deftroy the verb,
there will remain the attribute and the time; and thefe
combined make the efience of that fpecies of words call¬
ed
In confirmation of the fame idea, that the infinitive is truly a verb, the author quotes from Horace a paffage,
which, had we thought quotations neceffary, we fhould have urged in fupport of our own opinion :
— Ncc quicquam tibi prodefi
Acrias tentassb domos, ammoque rotundum
Percurrissk polum, monturo.
To our apprehenfion, nothing can be clearer than that tentasse and percurrisse are here ufed as nouns; for ir
they be not, where (hall wre find a nominative to the verb prodejl ? It was certainly what wTas fignified by tentasse
aerias doihos, animoque rotundum percurrisse polum, that is faid to have' been no advantage to Archytas at his
death. This indeed, if there could be any doubt about it, would be made evident by the two prole yerfions,
which the profefibr fubjoins to thefe beautiful lines. The firft of which is as follow's : Nec quicquam tibi prodfil
quod aerias domos tent a peris, et ammo percurreris polum; which muft be thus conftructed : Tenta peris aerias
domos, et percurreris ammo polum {ejl id} quod nec quicquam tibi prodefi. I his veifion, however, is not perfeBly
accurate 5 for it contains two propojitions, while Horace’s lines contain but one. Ehe fecond, which, though it
may be a crabbed inelegant fentence, expreffes the poet’s fenfe wdth more precilion, is in the.fe rvords : bsec
quicquam tibi prodejl morituro tua tent at 10 domuum aenarum, et cursus tuus circa polum. Having obferved, with
truth, that this fentence has the very fame meaning with the lines of Horace, Dr Gregory alks, “ Why are
not tentatio &n&.curfus reckoned verbs as wrell as tentajfe and percurrijfe P' Let thofe anfwer this queftion who
believe that any of thefe words are truly verbs \ for they are furely, as he adds, all very near akin •, indeed, fo
near, that the mind, when contemplating the import of each, cannot perceive the difference. Meanwdiile,
we beg leave in our turn to alk, Why are not tentajfe and percurrijfe reckoned abJlraB nouns as well as tentatio
•and curfus ? To this queftion it is not eafy to conceive what anfwer can be returned upon the I)o£f or’s
principles. In his theory there is nothing fatisfaflory } and what has not been done by himfelf, we expefl
not from his followers. On the other hand, our principles furnilh a very obvious reafon for excluding
tentatio and curfus from the clafs of verbs; it is, becaufe thefe words exprefs no predication. Tentaffe and
percurrijfe indeed denote predication no more than tentatio and curfus \ and therefore upon the lame principle^ ■we
exclude them likewife from a clafs to which, if words are to be arranged accordiag to their import, they certainly
do not belong. - • c-
Should the reader be inclined to think that we have dwelt too long on this point, we beg him to refletfl, that if
our ideas of the alienee of the verb and of the nature of the infinitive be erroneous, every thing which we have
faid of modes and tenfes is erroneous likewife. We w7ere therefore walling to try the folidity of thofe principles
w'hich hold the efience of the verb to confift in energy : and we felefted Dr Gregory’s theory for the iubjedt of
examination, not from any difrefpeifl to the author, whom the waiter of this article never faw} but becaufe w7e be¬
lieve his abilities to be fuch, that
 — Si Pergama dextrd
Defendipojfent, etiarn hac defenfa fuijfent.
Chap. V.
OKA M
Participles, ed PARTICIPLES. Thus, ta*e away ajfertwn from the
—v ' verb yo*<pu writeth, and there remains the participle
ypcccpw writing; which, without the afertion, denotes
tie fame attribute and the fame tune. After the lame
manner, by withdrawing the afertion, we difcover
written in ^ote; about to write in y^u
fall be writing. This is Mr Harris's doftrine relpeft-
'mg participles; which, in our opinion is equally ele¬
gant, perspicuous, and juft. It has however, been
controverted by an author, whofe rank in the republic
of letters is fuch, that we fliould be wanting m refpedl
to him, and in duty to our readers, were we to pals his
obieclions wholly unnoticed. . ,
82 It is acknowledged by Hr Beattie, that this,
which we have taken, is the moft convenient light in
which the participle can be confidered in umverfal gram¬
mar • and yet he affirms that prefent participles do not
always exprefs prefent time, nor preterite participles pyjt
time) nay, that participles have often no connexion with
time at all. He thus exemplifies his affertion, in hreek,
in Latin, and in Englijh.
“ When Cebes fays, Erw/^vo^v vi^Trurovvitf sv t*>
rev Xrwv he» ‘ We WERE WALKING in the temple of Sa-
the participle of the prefent walking, is by means
of the verb WERE, applied to time pajl; and therefore
of itfelf cannot be underftood to figmfy any fort ot
time ” Again, after obferving, that m Englilh we
have but two fimple participles, fuch as writing and
written, of which t\se former is generally confidered as
the prefent and the latter as the paf, the Doctor adds,
' But “the participle writing, joined to a vero ot dil-
ferent tenfes, may denote either pajl or future action
for we may fay not only, / am writing, but alio /
WAS writing yefterday, and / shall BE writing to¬
morrow •” whence he infers that no time whatever. ^de¬
noted by the prefent participle. But furely this is a
hafty inference, drawn from the doanne of abfolute tune
and a definite prefent, which we have already ffiown to be
groundlefs and contradiaory. When we fpeak limply
of an aaion as prefent, we mufi mean that it is prefent
with refpea to fomething befides itfelj, or we ipeak a jai-
gon which is unintelligible, but we do not afeertam
the time of its prefence. From the very nature of tune,
-an aaion may be prefent now, it may have been prefent
formerly, or it may be prefent at fame future periodp but
the prccife time of its prefence cannot be afeertamed
even by the prefent of the indicative of the verb itfelf
yet who ever fuppofed that the prefent of the indicative
' denotes no time? The participle of the prefent reprefents
the aBion of the verb as going on ; but an aaion can¬
not be going on without being prefent in time with
fomething. When, therefore, Cebes fays, “ We were
walking in the temple of Saturn,” he reprefents the
aaion of the verb walk as prefent with fomething ; but
by ufinp the verb expreffive of his affertion in a pafi tenfe,
he gives us to underhand that the aBion was not prefent
with any thing at the period of Vis fpeaking, but at fome
portion of time prior to that period: what that portion of
time was, muft be colleaed from the fubfequent part? of
his difeourfe. The fame is to be faid of the phrafes 1 was
Writing yefierday, and 1fball be writing to-morrow. They
indicate, that the aBion of the verb ifkite was prefent
with me yefierday, and will again be prefent with me to¬
morrow. The aBion, and the time of aaion, are denoted
by the participle', that action is affirmed to belong to me
MAR. . 4-5
by means of the verb ; and the lime at which it belong- *'lieaives;
dy means oi uie vciu ? ~ 0 ^
ed to me is pointed out by the tenfes of that verb, am,
was, and Jhall be. All this is io plain, that it come
not have efcaped Dr Beattie’s penetration, had he not
haftily adopted the abfurd And contradiaory notion of
a definite prejent. .
Of the truth of his affertion refpeaing pafi^ participles,
he gives a Greek and a Latin example. The former
is taken from St Mark : 0 nic-ivirau; rafariUti 5 mid the
latter is that which is commonly called the perfeB future
of the paffive verb amor, atnatus fuero. In the fiift m-
ftance, he fays that the participle, though belonging to
the aorift of the pajl tune, muft be rendered eitner y
the indefinite prefent, “ he who believethor by the
future, “he who will believe •” and thereafon which
he gives for this rendering of the word is, that “ tnc
believing here fpoken of is confidered as^ pofienor m
time to the enunciation of the promife." I tiis is indeed
true, but it is not to the purpofe ; for with the enun¬
ciation of the promife, the time of the pdrticiple has no
manner of concern. The time of rnfavrcK depends en¬
tirely upon the time of with relpea to which
it muft undeniably be pafi. Our Lord is not here afferting,
that he who Jhall believe at the day of final retribution,
be faved; but that he who ffiall on that day be found
to have believed V time pafi, ffiall be faved: and if the
participle had not been expreffive of nfiiiifhed aBion and
a pafi time, the whole fentence would have conveyed
a meaning not friendly to the intereils 01 the gofpel.
In like manner, the time of amatus is referred, wo/ to tin.
time of/peaking, but to the time of fuero, with refpect
to which, who fees not that it is pafi? I he two words,
taken together, contain a declaration, that he whu
utters them Jhall, at fome time pofienor to that ot
fpeaking, have BEEN loved; (hall have been loved denotes
two times, hotb futurt with refped to the time of fpeak¬
ing ; but when the time, denoted by Jhall have, comes
to be prefent, that of the participle loved muft be pafi,
for it is declared that the aBion of it fliall then be com¬
plete and finifihed. .
We conclude, then, that it is effential to a participle
to exprels both an attribute and time; and that luch
words as denote no time, though they may be in the
form of participles, as doBus “ learned,” eloquent^ ^ elo¬
quent,” &c. belong to another part offpeech, which we
now proceed to confider.
Sect. II. Of AdjeBives.
91
83. The nature of verbs and participles being un-Adjectives
derttood, that of ADJECTIVES becomes eafy. A denote at-
implies (as we have faid) an attribute, time, and an as
tion ; a participle implies only an attribute and time; andto lubSftan]
an adjective implies only an attribute as belonging toces>
fome fubfiance. In other words, an adjective has
no affertion, and it denotes only fuch an attribute as has
not its effence either in motion or its privation. Thus,
in general, the attributes of quantity, quality, and relation,
fuch as many, few, great, little, black, white, good, bad,
double, treble, &c. are all denoted by adjectives. ^
84. To underftand the import and the ufe of tbisTheyhave
fpecies of words, it muft be obferved that every adjeftive^™?™^
is refolvable into a fubfiantive and an exprefiion of co««<?c-.lounSjtog(S
tion equivalent to of. Thus, a good man is a man oftber with
goodnefs; where we fee the attribute denoted by xhe ad- fiz power
jeBive fully expreffed by an abfiraB noun. But it
Y 2 evident llecuve•
44
GRAMMA R.
Chap. V.
Adjectives.
93
The ui’.ial
effect of ad.
jectives is
to modify
a general
term.
94
The re¬
vel fe of
this is
fometsmes
the cafe.
evident that the noun goodnefs does not exprefs the whole
meaning of the adjeFiive good; for every adjechve expref-
fes not only an attribute, but alfo the conneBion between
the attribute and its fubjlance; whereas in the abJIraB
noun, the attribute is conlidered as a fubjlance unconneBed
with any other fubftance. ,
In the next place, it is to be obferved, that the con-
neBion exprefied by adjeBives, like that expveffed by of,
is of a nature fo general and indefinite, that the particu¬
lar hind of connedfion muft, in fome languages, be infer¬
red from our previous knowledge of the objefts be¬
tween which it fubfifts, or it will for ever remain un¬
known. This might be proved by a variety of ex¬
amples, but will perhaps be fufficiently evident from
the following. Color falubris lignifies colour that in¬
dicates health; exercitatio falubris, exercife that preferves
health; viBusfalubris, food that improves health; medi-
cina falubris, medicine that rejlores health. In all thefe
examples the conneBion expreffed by the adjedlive form
of falubris is different ; and though it may be known
from previous experience, there is nothing in any of the
exprefiions themfelves by which it can be afeertain-
ed. Thus, adjedlives are each lignificant of an attri¬
bute and conneBion ; but the particular kind of connec¬
tion is afeertained by experience.—The ufual effect of
adjeBives in language, is to modify or particularife a ge¬
neral term, by adding fome quality or circumjlartce which
may diftinguiih. the objedt meant by that term, from
the other objedts of the fame fpecies. I have cccafion,
for example, to fpeak of a particular man, of whofe
name I am ignorant. The word man is too general
for my purpole, it being applicable to every individual
of the human fpecies. In what way then do I pro¬
ceed, in order to particularize it, fo as to make it de¬
note that very man whom I mean to fpecify ? I annex or
conjoin to it fuch words as are fignificant of objeBs and
qualities with which he is conneBed, and which are not
equally applicable to others from whom I mean to
dijlinguijh him. Thus I can fay, a man of prudence or a
prudent man, a wife man, a good man, a brave man, &c.
By thefe additions the general term man is limited, or
modified, and can be applied only to certain men to
whom belong the attributes expreffed by the adjeBives
prudent, wife, good, and brave. If it be ftill too gene¬
ral for my purpofe, I can add to it other qualities and
circumflances, till I make it fo particular as to be ap¬
plicable to but one individual man in the univerfe.
85. This is the way in which adjectives are com¬
monly ufed, but this is not the only way. Inftead of be¬
ing employed to modify a fubjlantive, they fometimes ap¬
pear as the principal words in the fentence, when the foie
ufe of the fubfiantnie feems to be to modify the abfiraB
noun, contained under the adjeBive to which that fub-
flantive \s joined. In order to underftand this, it will be
neceffary to attend to the following obfervations.
It may be laid down as a general propofition, that
when any term or pbrafe is employed to denote a com¬
plex conception-, the mind has a power of confidering, in
what order it pleafes, ihe firnple ideas oi which the com¬
plex conception is cempofed. To illullrate this obferva-
tion by an example: The word eques in Latin denotes a
complex conception, of which the conjlituentfimple ideas
are thofe of a man and a horfe; with this conneBion fub-
fifting between them, that the man is conceived as on
the, back of the horfe. In the ufe of this word, it is
w7ell known that the idea firfi in order, as being the Adjectives.
principalfubjeB of the propofition, is commonly the man v
on the back of the horfe; but it is not lo always, for the
mind may confider the horse as the principal object.
Thus when Virgil fays,
Tran a Pelethronii Lapithce gyrofque dedere,
Impofiti dorfo ; atque eqjjitem docuere fub armis
Insultare solo, et gressuF glomerare fuperbos—
the energies attributed to the objeft fignified by equi-
tem, make it evident that the horfe and not the man
is meant ; for it is not the property of a man, infultare
folo, et grejfus glomerare fuperbos.
The fame obfetvation holds true where the complex
objeB is denoted by two or more wmrds; an adjeUive, for
inftance, and a fubjlantive. Thus in the phrafe fummus
mansfe inter nubila condit, the words fummus mans repre-
fent a complex conception, of which the conftituent ideas
are thofe of height and mountain, connected together by
the adjeBive form of fummus. Either of thefe ideas may
be the fubjeft of the propofition ; and the expreflion
will accordingly admit of two different fignifications.
If mans be made the fubjedf of the propofition, the mean¬
ing will be, “ the higheft mountain hides itfelf among
the clouds.” If the fubjlantive included in the radical
part of fummus be made the fubjedl of the propofition,
the expreffion will fignify, “ the fummit, or higheft part
of the mountain, hides itielf among the clouds.” I he
latter is the true import of the fentence. ^,
86. From thefe obfervations and examples, wTe (hall Two ufes
be enabled to underftand the two vfes of the adjeBive. of the ad¬
it is either employed, as has been already obferved,
to refiriB or modify, a general term ; or the abflraB
fubjlantive contained in the adjeBive is modified by
the noun, with which, in the concrete or adjevdive form,
that abfiraB fubjlantive is joined. The firft may be
called the direB, the fecond the inverfe, acceptation of
adjedlives.
The inverfe acceptation of adjeBives and participles
(for both are ufed in the fame manner) has not, ex¬
cept in a very few inftances, been noticed by any
grammarian; yet the principle is of great extent in lan¬
guage. In order to explain it, we ftiall produce a few
examples; which on any other principle it is impoflible
to underftand.
Livy, fpeaking of the abolition of the regal autho¬
rity at Rome, fays, Regnatum ejl Romce ab urbe condita
ad liberatam annos ducentos quadraginta quatuor,
“ Monarchy fubfifted at Rome, not from the city built
(which would convey no meaning), but from the build¬
ing of the city, to its deliverance f &c. Both the parti¬
ciples condita and liberatam are here ufed inverfely; that
is, the abfiraB fubjlantives contained in qondita and libe¬
ratam are modified or reftri&ed by the fubftantives urbe
and urbem, with which they unite. Again, Ovid, Ipeak-
ing of the conteft between Ajax and Ulyffes for the
arms of Ac Julies, has thefe lines:
Qui, licet eloquio fidum quoque Nejlora vincat,
liaud tamen ejficiet, desertvm ut Nest ora crimen
Nullum ejfe rear. 
Here alfo the adjeBive or participle desertum is taken
inverfely, and the general notion of defertion contained
in it is modified or rendered particular by being joined
with the fub.ftan.tiye Nestqra. The meaning .of the
paffage
Chap. V.
gram
MAR. _
V^liau. V - .. . , ,t 88 It has been already obferved,'and mull DC <WV1-
Adjeaive, paffage is, “ I vM "ever be induced to UW th«t ^ al, that alone are fufcepuble of ;
1 defertion ofNe/lor was not a crime. Vleiedejertum w therefore fubflantive nouns alone Ihould have
b/taken c6're% as an modifying its. refpeaing gender. The fame is true with
the fentence mull be tranllated, “ I cannot believe diitmthons re p g* , . A_ admits
that Nejlor deferted was not a crime.” But it isevi
dent that this is nonfenfe : as Nestor, whether defer,ed
or not deferted, could not be a crime, c r i
It were eafy to produce many more ex^PleS
kaives taken iriverfely ; but tbefe may fuibce to illu-
if is ifi?o(r,blet„under,la„d the an
cient authors. We (hall adduce one mftance of from
Shakefneare, to evince that it is not confined to the an-
del: languages, though in thefe it.s certainly more fre-
quent than in the modern .
4< Freeze, freeze, thou bitter iky j
“ Thou canft not bite fo nigh
“ As benefits forgot :
u Though thou the waters warp,
“ Thy fling is not fo (harp
“ As friends remember'd not,.
Here it is evident, that the adjedhe FORGOT is taken
biverfely ; for it is not a benefit, but x\,eforgeUmg of a
Wefit,'which bites more than the bitter (ky 1 and
therefore, in this paffage, the ferves no/ to mo¬
dify the noun ; bn. the noun '
dillinSions retpeCtmg genuer.   
refpeft to number and perfon. An ATTRIBUTE admit Aajea;ve9
of no change m its nature, whether it belong to YOU from their
^r to ME, ^o a MAN or a WOMAN, ^ S have
many ; and therefore the words expreffive of attributes, ^
ought on all occafions, and in- every fituation, to be tion de,
fixed and invariable. _ Foe » U»
b/acksfii‘white, ire the fame, whether ^e^e ap^edaamhlr,or
to a man or a woman, to many or to few , io the word L
which expreffes any one of thefe attributes ought m
flrianefsto admit of no alteration with
fianthe it may be joined. Such is the order of natur ,
and that order, on this as on other occafions, the isne
li(h language moll ftriaiy obferves: for we fay edua-/
ly a good\„m or » good woman; good men or good
women; a goodhoufe ox goodhmfes. In fome language*,
indeed, fuch as Greek and Lam of which the no im
admit of cafes, and toe Sentences ot an
it has been found neceffary to endow "f f™"'_
the threefold dillincTion oi gender, number, and fe
fon; but as tills is only an accidental variation, o •
cafioned by particular circumllances, and not m the
kail effential to language, it Wongs not to our n -
dify the man; but the noun benefits iymnl..yedtonio^ Ira grammars of thefe tongues. „
dify the abfiraEt fubjlantroe contained m the adjeCti J ’ . h0„ever, one variation of the They have
^ ^ . i - i. ■ rtf t-bp nroDofition, and the 1 nere m the na-however
hty the aojiraci juu/iunncwn    - ,
forgot, which is the fubjeft of the propofition, and the
principal word in the fentence. . . . j
Had Mr Harris attended to this principle, and re-
flefted upon what he could not ^ut know, that a a -
jeclives denote fubfances ; not voteeA fubjifting by them-
Jfelves, as thofe expreffed by nouns, hot concretely, as the
attributes of other fubftances •, he would not have elm
adjeRives with verbs, or have palled fo fevere a cenfu
upon the grammarians for claffing them with nouns I
matters very little how adjeRwes are clajfed, provided
their nature and effeR be underftood ; but they have at
lead as good a title to be ranked with nouns^s with
verbs, and in our opinion a better. -U adopt Air
Harris's language, they are homogeneous witn relpedtto
nouns, as both denote fubfances; they are heterogeneous
with refpecT to verbs, as they never do denote ailertion,
87 Befides original adjectives, there is another clals,
which is formed from fubftantives Thus, when we
fay, the party of Pompey, thefyle of Cicero, the philofophy
of Socrates ; in theie cates, the party, the ,1///?, and -
philofophy fpoken of, receive a damp and character trom
the perfons whom they refpea : Lhote pertons, there¬
fore, perform the part of attributes. Hence they aJu-
allu pafs into attributives, and aflame as fuch the torm ot
adieRives. It is thus we fay, the Pompeian party, the Ci¬
ceronian f yle, and the Socratic philofophy. In like man¬
ner, for a trumpet of brafs, we fay a bra%en trumpet,
and for a crown of gold, a golden exov.w, 6ec.
pronominalfubdantives admit the like mutation. 1 bus,
indead of faying, the book oj me, and of thee, we lay
pr0n0l'nS- my book, and thy bock j and indead ot faying, the
country of us, and of you, we fay our country, and your
country. Thefe words my, thyt \ , - - avc
therefore been properly called pronominal adjectives.
A6.
AtijeAives
formed
from fub-
ifintives,
97
anti trem
T herp is nowever, ouc vaviavw — - J
Whkhhas’p’lace in all languages, is founded tnAe "a-hewe,^
Hire of tilings, and properly belongs to unnerf g " io„ fc„n<|.
mar. It is occafmned by comparing the atmbute of ,ln thc
fubdance with a fmilar attribute of nature ot
falls naturally to be explained under the next ^10 ., t. * 0 •
Sect. III. Of Adverbs, and the Comparifon of AdjeRives.
80 As adjeRives denote the attributes of fubfances, to
there is an inferior clafs of words which denotef The^pon *
difications of thefe attributes. 1 bus, when w e lay 1 q{ advelbs,
cero and Pliny were both of them eloquent ; Statius and
Virgil both of them wrotethe attributes expreflei
bv the words eloquent and wrote are immediately reter-
red to Cicero, Virgil, &c. j and as denoting the attri¬
butes of fubfances, thefe words, the one an adjcRive, and
the other a verb, have been both called ATTRIBUTIVES
of THE FIRST order. But when we lay, Pliny was
moderately eloquent, but Cicero exceedingly eloquent 5
Statius wrote indifferently, but Virgiljxo^ admiraoly,
the words moderately, exceedingly, indifferently, anu admi¬
rably, are not referable to fubfantives, but to other •
attributes; that is, to the words eloquent^nd wrote,
the fignification- of which they modify. Such words,
therefore, having the fame effect upon adjeRives thdt
adjectives have upon fubfantives, have been calle
attributives of the second order. By gram- 10?
marians they have been called ADVERBS q and u The readnl
we take the word VERB in its mod comprehenfveftg- ofthm
nfcation (a), as including not only verbs properly fo ‘
called, but alio every fpecies of words, which, whe¬
ther effentially or accidentally, are figmheant oi the
attributes of iubdances, we diall End the name ADVERB
to
cladification was certainly abfurd , for t contou bpnee the name of adverb, though that word attaches
46
, 102
Adverbs
denoting
ihtenfion
nnd remif-
fion.
103
Attributes
kind com¬
pared by
means of
fuch ad¬
verbs.
Adverbs, to be a Very juft appellation, as denoting a part of
, &CC' SPEECH, THE NATURAL APPENDAGE OF SUCH VERBS.
So great is this dependence in grammatical fyntax, that
an adverb can no more fubfift without its verb, i. e. with¬
out fame word fignificant of an attribute, than a verb or
adjeciive can fubfifl: ivitbout its fubjlantive. It is the
fame here as in certain natural fubjeefs. Every colour,
for its exiftence, as much requires a fuperjicies, as the
fuperficies for its exiftence requires a folid body.
90. Among the attributes of fubftances are reckoned
quantity and quality: thus we fay a white garment, a high
mountain, &c. Novv fofne of thefe quantities and qualities
are capable of intenjion or remijjion ; or, in other words,
one fubjlance may have them in a greater or lefs decree
than another. Thus we fay, agarment exceedinglt white,
a mountain tolerablitoxmoderatelf high. Hence, then,
one copious fource offecondary attributives or adverbs to
denote thefe twTo, that is, intenjion and remijjion ; fuch as
greatly, tolerably, vajlly, extremely, indifferently, &c.
But where there are different intentions of the fame at-
of the tame tribute, they may be compared together ; Thus, if the
garment A be exceedingly white, and the garment Bbe
moderately white, wre may fay, the garment A is more
white than the garment B. This paper is white, and
/now is white; but fnow is more white than this paper.
In thefe inftances, the adverb more not only denotes in¬
tenjion, but relative intenjion: nay, wre flop not here, as we
not only denote intetifion merely relative, but relativeinten-
on than which there is none greater. Thus we fay, Sophocles
was wife, Socrates was more wife than he, but Solomon
was the most wifcoimen. Even verbs, properly fo called,
which denote an attribute as well as an affection, muft ad¬
mit both of fmple and alfo of comparative intenjions; but
the fmple verb to be admits of neither the one nor the
other. Thus, in the following example, Fame he lo-
veth more than riches ; but virtue of all things he loveth
most ; the wmrds more and most ^denote the different
comparative intenfons of the attribute included under the
verb loveth ; but the affection itfelf, which is the effential
part of the verb, admits neither of intenfon nor remffion,
but is the fame in all pofliblc propofitions.
91. From this circumftance of quantities and quali¬
ties being capable of intenfon and remffion, arife the co'M-
adjedtiveq parison oiadjcBives, and its different DEGREES, which
either by cannot wen be more than the two fpecies above men¬
tioned $ one to denote fmple excefs, and one to denote
fuperlative. Were we indeed to introduce more degrees
than thefe, we ought perhaps to introduce infinite,
which is abfurd. For why flop at a limited number,
when in all fubjecls fufceptible of intenfion, the inter¬
mediate exceffes are in a manner infinite ? Between
the firft fmple white and the fuperlative whitef, there
are infinite degrees of more white; and the fame may
be faid of more great, more ftrong, more minute, &c.
The doctrine of grammarians about three fuch degrees
of comparifon, which they call the poftive, the compa¬
rative, and the fuperlative, muft be abfurd ; both becaufe
in their poftive there is no comparifon at all, and becaufe
their fuperlative is a comparative as much as their compa¬
rative itfelf. Examples to evince this may be met with
everywhere: Socrates was the most jvise of all the Athe¬
nians; Homer was the most sublime of all poets, &c. In
GRAMMAR, Chap, V,
this fentence Socrates is evidently compared with the Adverbs,
Athenians, and Homer with all other poets. Again, if, &c-
104
The com¬
parifon of
adverbs,
it be faid that Socrates was more miss than any other
Athenian, but that Solomon wasjlie most irisE of men; is
not a comparifon of Solomon with mankind in genera], as
plainly implied in the laft claufe of the fentence, as a com¬
parifon of Socrates with the other Athenians in the firft ?
But if both imply comparifon, it may be afked, In
what coniifts the difference between the comparative and
fuperlative? Does the fuperlative always exprefs a greater
excefs than the comparative ? No : for though Socrates
was the mofi wife of the Athenians, yet is Solomon af¬
firmed to have been more wife than he ; fo that here a
higher fuperiority is denoted by the comparative more
than by the fuperlative mofi. Is this then the difference
between thefe two degrees, that the fuperlative implies
a comparifon of one with many, while the comparative
implies only a comparifon of one with one? No : this is
not always the cafe neither. The Pfalmift fays, that
“ he is wifer (or more wife) than all his teachers ;
where, though the comparative is ufed, there is a com¬
parifon of one with many. The real difference between
thefe two degrees of comparifon may be explained thus :
When we ufe the fuperlalive, it is in confequence of
having compared individuals with the fpecies to which
they belong, or one or more fpecies with the genus un¬
der which they are comprehended. Thus, Socrates was
the most wise of the Athenians, and the Athenians were
the most enlightened of ancient nations. In the firft
claufe of this fentence, Socrates, although compared
with the Athenians, is at the fame time confidered as
one of them 5 and in the laft, the Athenians, although
compared with ancient nations, are yet confidered as one
of thofe nations. Hence it is that in Englifh the fuper¬
lative is followed by the prepontion of, and in Greek
and Latin by the genitive cafe of the plural number \ to
fhow, that the object which has the pre-eminence is
confidered as belonging to that clafs of things with which
it is compared.
But when we ufe the comparative degree, the obje£l$
compared are fet in dire ft oppoftion ; and the one is con¬
fidered not as a part of the other, or as comprehended
under it, but as fomething altogether difiinB and be¬
longing to a different clafs. Thus, were one to fay,
“ Cicero was more eloquent than the Romans,” he would
fpeak abfurdly j becaufe every body knows, that of
the clafs of men expreffed by the word Romans Cicero
was one, and fuch a fentence would affirm that orator
to have been more eloquent than himfelf. But when
it is faid that Cicero was more eloquent than all the
other Romans, or than any other Roman,” the language
is proper, and the affirmation true : for though the
perfons fpoken of were all of the fame clafs or city,
yet Cicero is here fet in contradiftinftion to the reft
of his countrymen, and is not confidered as one of the
perfons with whom he is compared. It is for this
reafon that in Englith the comparative degree is follow¬
ed by a noun governed by the word of contradiftinc-
tion than, and in Latin by a noun in the ablative cafe
governed by the prepofiticn pree (b) either expieffed
or underftood. We have already obferved, that the
ablative cafe denotes concoraitancy: and therefore when
(b) See Ruddimanni Grammaticce Infitutiones, Pars fecunda, lib. i. cap. 2.
Although it is certainly true, that when we ufe the fuperlative, we ought in propriety to confider the things
com-
Chap. V.
G R A M M A R.
Adverbs
t &c.
105
Or by in¬
flexion.
an adieaive in the comparative degree is prefixed to a
noun,''that noun is put m the ablative cafe, to denote tha
two things are compared together m company ; but by
means of the prepofition, expreffed or underdood, that
which is denoted by the comparative adjective ieen to
be preferred before that which is denoted by the noun.
0 2. We have hitherto confidered comparatives as ex-
prehed by the words more and mojl; but the authors,
or improvers of language, have contrived a method to
retrench the ufe of thefe adverbs, by exprellmg their
force by an infection of the adjethve. Thus mfteadof
more fair, they fay fairer j mftead ol mojl fair, fair-
1,st - and the fame method of companfon takes place
both in the Greek and Latin languages; with this dif¬
ference, however, between the genius of thefe langua¬
ges and ours, that we are at liberty to form the co -
parifon either in the one method or m _ the other ,
whereas in thofe languages the companfon ^ feldom 1
ever formed by the adiftance of the adverb, but aln ays
by the indedion of the adjedive. Hence this infledion
is by the Greek and Latin grammarians confidered as
a necef'ary accident of the adjetlive; but it has reached
no farther than to adjectives, participles (haring the
nature of adjeaives. The attributes expreffed by verbs
are as fufceptible of comparifon as thofe expreffed by
adjeaives ; but they are always compared by means o
adverbs, the verb being too much diverfified already to
A admit of more variations without perplexity.
Comoara- 03. It muff be confeffed that comparatives, as well
tivesPfome- the 'fimple as the fuperlative, leem fometimes to part
times lofe tlie;r relative nature, and to retain only their in-
their rela- r Thus in the degree denotingexcels :
tive nature.‘ "
Tristior, et lacrymis oculos fujfufa mtentes. v IRG.
Trifior means nothing more than that Venus was very
fad. In the degree called \htfuperlativejtos is more
ufual. Phrafes extremely common are, Vir doaijjtmus,^
vir fortifjimus, “ a mod learned man, a molt brave man;
,* e not the bravejl and mof learned man that ever ex-
ifted but a man poffeffing thofe qualities in an eminent
degree In Englilh, when we intimate that a certain
quality is poffeffed in an eminent degree, without mak¬
ing any direct comparifon between it and a fnnnar qua¬
lity we do it by the intenfve word very, more common¬
ly than by mojl: as, Cicero was very eloquent; the mind
oflohnfon was VERY vigorous. This mode of exprei-
fion has been called the fuperlative of eminence to di-
ftinguifh it from the other fuperlative, which \%juperta-
tive upon comparifon. Yet it may be faid, that even m
the fuperlative of eminence fomething of comparifon mull
be remotely or indirealy intimated, as we cannot lea on-
abiy call a man very eloquent without comparing his
eloquence with the eloquence of other men. I his is in¬
deed true ; but we cannot therefore affirm that compari¬
fon is more clearly intimated in this fuperlative than in
the fimple adjeaive eloquent: for when we fay that a man
is eloquent, we mark between his eloquence and that of
other men a diftin&ion of the fame hind, though not m
the fame degree, as when we fay that he is very eloquent.
In Engliffi we diftinguiffi the two fuperlatives, by
prefixing to the one the definite article the, to ihow that
fomething is predicated of the objeft expreffed by it,
which cannot be predicated of any other dapSt', and by
fubioining the prepofition of, to ffiow that the objeds
with which it is compared are of the fame clals with it-
felf • as, “ Solomon was the wifeft of men ; Hector w as
the moil valiant o/the Trojans.” To the other (c) fu¬
perlative we only prefix the indefinite article a: as, he
was a very good man : he was « mof valiant foldier. ™7.^
04. As there are fome qualities winch admit of corn- ^
parifon, fo there are others which admit of none, luc , mjt not
for example, are thofe which denote that quality of bodies degrees of
arifing from their figure; as when we fay, a circular compan-
table, a quadrangular court, a conical piece of meta , or.
&c. The reafon is, that a million of things participat- ’
ing the fame figure, participate it equally, if they do it
at all. To fay, therefore that while A and B are both
quadrangular, A is more or lefs quadrangular than B,
is abfurd. The fame holds true in all attributives de¬
noting definite quantities of whatever nature . for as
there can be no comparifon without intenfion or remijfion,
and as there can be no intenfion or remiffion m things
always definite, therefore thefe attributives can admit ol
no comparifon. By the fame method of reafonmg, we
difcover the caufe why no fubjlantive is fiuficeptible of
thefe degrees of comparifon. A mountain cannot be 'aid
MORE 70 RE or to exist than a mole-hill; .but the more
or lefs muff be fought for in their quantities. In like
manner, when we refer many individuals to one Ipecies,
the lion A cannot be called more a lion than the lion
B (D) ; but if more any thing, he is more fierce, more
fiwift, or exceeding in iome fuch attribute. So again,
in referring many fpecies to one genus, a crocodile is
not more an animal than a lizard ; nor a. tiger more
than a cat : but, if any thing, the crocodile, and tiger
are more bulky, moreJlrong, &c. than the animals with
which they are compared ; the excefs, as before, being
derived from their attributes.
compared as of the fame clafs; and when we ufe the “fomelSX
always attended to - the Gofpe! it is faid, that
where in Enghffi we ffiould ufe as 7 / erown up it is the greater (^) of
S: ^tole L reafon is to be found in the nature of things ; they are errors made
PTxr Enkifli the termination cjlh peculiar to the fuperlative of comparifon, to which the definite ^rjlcle ^
prefixed T^e mayTy, “ Homer was thefublimejl of poets but we cannot fay, “ Homer was.« fublmieft
noet ” Aaam we may fa> “ Homer was « very fublime poetbut not, “ Homer was the wry fublime poet.
(D) When Pope fayl of a certain perfon, that he is “ a tradefman meek, and ^ liar; the lad p* .
the fame with much given to lying, the word liar having the effett of an attributive.
43
grammar
Adverbs,
&c.
ic 8
Adverbs
divided in¬
to claffes.
top'1
The mean¬
ing of ad¬
verbs to be
afcertained
by etymo-
logy.
no
Many of
them mere
abbrevia¬
tions.
Of the adverbs' or fecondary attributives already
mentioned, thofe denoting intenjion and remiffion may be
called ADVERBS of quantity continuous, as greatly,
vaftly, tolerably, &c. once, twice, thrice, &c. (e) are
ADVERBS of QUANTITY DISCRETE j more and mod, lefs
and lead, to which may be added equally, proportionally,
&c. are adverbs of relation. There are others of
Duality : as when we fay, fioNP.STtr indujlrious, pru-
jjkNTir brave ; they fought Pg. At elt, he painted finely .
And here it may be worth while to obierve, how the
fame thing, participating the lame eflence, affumes dif¬
ferent grammatical forms from its difterent relations.'
For example, fuppofe it fhould be afked, How differ
honejl, honcjlly, and honejhy ? The anfwer is, They are m
ejfence the lame : but they differ in as much as hone[) is
the attributive of a noun ; honejlly, of verb or adjeciive ;
and honedy bfcing diverted of thefe its attributive rela¬
tions, a flumes the power of a noun or fubjlantive, fo as
to ftand by itfelf.
96. The adverbs hitherto mentioned are common to
verbs of everyJpecies ; but there are fome which are con¬
fined to verbs properly fo called, that is, to fuch verbs as
denote motions or energies with their privations. -All
motion and ref imply time and place as a kind of necef-
fary coincidence. Hence, when we would exprefs the
place or time of either, rve have recourfe to adverbs form¬
ed for this purpofe •, of PLACE, as when we fay, he food
sthere, he went hence, he came hither i of time, as
when we fay, he food then, he went aft erw ards , he
travelled formerly . 1 o thefe may be added the adverbs
which denote the intenfons and rcmi/Jions peculiar to mo¬
tion, fuch as fpeedily, hafi/y, fwiftly, fowly, &c.^ as
alfo adverbs of place made out of prepofttons, fucn as
upward and downward from up and down. It may,
however, be doubted whether fome of thefe words, as
well as many others, which do not fo properly modify
attributes, as mark fome remote circum/fance attending
an attribute or our way of conceiving it, are truly ad¬
verbs, though fo called by the grammarians. The fimple
affirmative and negative YES and NO are called adverbs,
though they furely do not fignify that which we hold
to be the very effence of the adverb, a modification of
attributes. “ Is he learned ? No. “ Is he brave ? _ Yes.”
Here the two adverbs, as they are called, fignify not
any modification of the attributes and learned, but
a total negation of the attribute in the one caie, and in
the other a declaration that the attribute belongs to the
perfon fpoken of.
Adverbs are indeed applied to many purpofes *, and
their general nature may be better underftood by read¬
ing a lift of them, and attending to their etymology,
than by any general defcription or definition. Many of
them feem to have been introduced into language in or¬
der to exprefs by one word the meaning of two or three;
and are mere abbreviations of nouns, verbs, and adjec¬
tives. Thus, the import of the phrafe, in what place, is
expreffed by the fingle w'ord WHERE •, to what place,
by WHITHER } from this place, by hence in a direction
afcending, by UPWARDS j at the prefent time, by now ;
at what time, by when ; at that time, by THEN; marry
times, by often ; not many times, by seldom, &c.
Chap. V.
97. Mr Horne Toohe has, with great induftry and Adverbs,
accuracy, traced many of the Englifh adveros from
their origin in the ancient Saxon and other northern
tongues, and fhown them to be either corruptions of
other words or abbreviations of phrafes and fentences.
He obferves, “ that all adverbs ending in LY, the mod
prolific branch of the family, are fufficiently under¬
ftood : the termination being only the word like cor¬
rupted ; and the corruption fo much the more eafily and
certainly difcovered, as the termination remains more
pure and diftinguithable in the other fitter languages, in
which it is written lick, lyk, lig, ligert.” He might have
addfjl, that in Scotland the word like is, at this day,
frequently ufed inftead of the Englifh termination ly ;
as for a goodly figure, the common people fay a good-like
figure. Upon this principle the greater part of adverbs
are refolved into thofe parts of fpeech which we have
already confidered, as honefly into honef-hke, vafiiy in¬
to vafdike, &c, fo that when we fay of a man he is
honefly indufirwus, we affirm that he is honef-hke :n-
dufiriotis, or that his indufry has the appearance of be¬
ing honefi. Adverbs of a different termination the fame
acute writer refolves thus 5 Aghast into the part parti¬
ciple AGAZED ;
“ The French exclaimed,—the devil was in arms.
“ All the whole army flood agazedon him.” Shakesp.
Ago, into the part: participle agone or gone. Asun¬
der he derives from asundred, the part
participle of the Anglo-Saxon verb afundnan : a word
which, in all its varieties, is to be found, he fays, in all
the northern tongues 5 and is originally from fond, i. e.
[and. To wit, from wittan to know ; as videlicet and
fcilicet, in Latin, are abbreviations of videre-licet and
fcire-licet. Needs, he refolves into need is, ufed pa¬
renthetically } as, “ I muft needs do iuch a thing.” “ I
muff (need is) do fuch a thing 5” i. e. “ I mufi do it,
there is need ot it.” Anon, wffiich our old authors ufe
for immediately, infantly, means, he fays, in one / i. e.
in one infant, moment, minute. As,
“ And right anon withouten more abode.”
“ Anon in all the hafte I can.1.
Alone and only are refolved into all one, and oNE-
LlKE. In the Dutch, EEN is one ; and ALL EEN alone ;
and ALL-EEN-L1KE, only, anciently alonely. Alive is
on live, or in life. Thus,
“ Chrift eterne on live.” Chaucer.
Aught or ought •, a whit or o whit ; o being for¬
merly written for the article a, or for the numeral ONE >
and whit or hwit, in Saxon, fignifying a fmall thing, a
a point ox jot. Awhile, which is ufually claffed with
adverbs, is evidently a noun with the indefinite article
prefixed; a while, i. e. a time. Whilst, anciently
and more properly whiles, is plainly the Saxon HWILE-
es, time that. Aloft was formerly written on-loft :
As,
“ And ye, my mother, my foveregne pleafance
Over al thing, out take Chrift ON LOFTE. Chaucer.
Now, fays Mr Horne Tooke, lyft, in the Anglo Saxon,
Thefe words were anciently written one's, twie's, thrie's ; and are merely the genitives, of one,Jwo, t. ree,
the fubftantive time or turn being omitted. Thus, How often did you write ? Anfwer, Once, 1. e. one s time.
Horne Tooke's Diverfons of Turley. 3
Chap. VI. G R A
Verbs, is the air or the clouds, as IN LYFTE cummende, coming
' v 1 in the clouds (St Luke). In the Danitti, EUFT is air;
and “ at fpronge i luften^ to blow up into the air, or
aloft. So in the Dutch, de loef hebben, to fail be¬
fore the wind j loeven, to ply to windward } loef, the
weather gage, &c. From the lame root are our other
words •, Loft, lofty, to luff, lee, leeward, lift, &c. It
would be needlels, as the ingenious author obferves, to
notice fuch adverbs as, afoot, adays, afhore, of ray,
afope, aright, abed, aback, abreaf, afloat, aloud, afide,
afield, aground, aland, &c. Theie are at firft view
feen for what they are. Nor lhall we follow him
through the analylis which he has given of many other
adverbs, of which the origin is not fo obvious, as of
thefe. Of the truth of his principles we are.fatisfied ;
and have not a doubt, but that upon thefe principles a
man converfant with our earlieft writers, and thorough¬
ly (killed in the prefent languages, may trace every
Englifh (s) adverb to its fource, and.(how that it is no
part of fpeech feparate from thole which we have alrea¬
dy confidered. The adverbs, however, of affirmation
and negation, are of too much importance to be thus
palled over } and as we have never feen an account of
them at all fatisfadfory, except that wdrich has been gi¬
ven by Horne Tooke, we (hall tranferibe the fubflance
of what he fays concerning AYE, YEA, YES, and NO.
To us thefe words have always appeared improperly
claffed with adverbs upon every definition which has
been given of that part of fpeech. Accordingly, our
author fays, that aye or yea is the imperative of a
verb of northern extradlion ; and means, have, poffefs,
enjoy. And YES is a contraftion of AY-ES, have, pof¬
fefs, enjoy, that. Thus, when it is alked whether a
man be learned, if the anfwer be’by the wmrd yes, it is
equivalent to have that, enjoy that, belief or that prepo-
frtion. (See what wras faid of the nature of interroga¬
tion, Chap. IV. N° 76.)
The northern verb of which yea is the imperative,
is in Danifh ejer, to pojfefs, have, enjoy. JL]K, aye or
yea ; eje, pofleffion ; ejer, pojfeffor. In Swedilh it is
EGA, to poffefs; of which the imperative is JA, aye,
yea : Eg are, pojfeffor. In German, JA fignifies aye,
or yea ; y.igksy.k, pojfeflbr, owner; EIGEN, own. In
Dutch, Eigenen is/o; JA, yea.
Greenwood derives not and its abbreviate NO from
the Latin; Minfhow, from the Hebrew; and Junius,
from the Greek. Oar author very properly obferves,
that the inhabitants of the north could not wait for a
word expreflive of dilfent till the eflablifiiment of thofe
nations and languages : and adds, that we need not be
inquifitive nor doubtful concerning the origin and figni-
Vol. X. Part I.
M M A R.
fication of NOT and NO; fince we find that, in tue Da-
nilh, nodig, in the Swedilh nodig, and in the Dutch,
NOODE, NODE, and NO, mean averfe, unwilling. So that
when it is alked whether a man be brave, if the anfwer
be NO, it is a declaration that he who makes it is averfe
from or unwilling to admit that proposition.
98. Moll writers on grammar have mentioned a
fpecies of adverbs, which they call adverbs of interroga ¬
tion, fuch as where, whence, whither, how, &c. But
the truth is, that there is no part of Ipeech, which, of
itfelf, denotes interrogation. A queftion is never alk¬
ed other wife than by abbreviation, by a flngle word,
whether that wrord be a noun, a pronoun, a verb, or an
adverb. The word WHERE is equivalent to—in what
place ; WHENCE to—from what place ; and how to—in
what manner, &.c. In thefe phrafes, IN what place,
from what place, and IN what manner, the only word
that can be fuppofed to have the force of an interroga¬
tive, is what, which is refolvable into that which. But
we have already explained, in the chapter ot Pronouns,
the principles upon which the relative is made to denote
interrogation, and the fame reafoning will account for
the adverbs where, whence, whither, how, &c. being
employed as interrogatives. When we fay, where were
you yeflerday ? whence have you come ? whither ai e you.
going ? how do you perform your journey ? We merely
ufe fo many abbreviations for the following fentences }
tell us, or deferibe to us, THE PLACE where (or in which)
you were yeflerday; the place whence (or from which )
you have come; THE place to which you are going ;
THE manner in which you perform your journey ? And
fo much for adverbs. We now proceed to thofe paits
of fpeech which are ufually called prepofltions and con-
junclions, and of which the ufe is to connect the other
words a fentence, and to combine two or vwoxeflmple
fentences into one compound fentence.
Chap. VI. Of Prepofltions, ConjunElions, and In-
terjedlicns.
m
99. It has been obferved, that a man while awake Obje<fts,
is confcious of a continued train of perceptions and^r£-deas
ideas palling in his mind, which depends little upon [inked t0_ ’
his own will; that he cannot to the train add a newgether.
idea 5 and that he can but very feldom break its con¬
nexion. To the flighted refleflion thefe truths mull
be apparent. Our firft ideas are thofe which we de¬
rive from external obje&s making impreflions on the
fenfes ; but all the external obje&s which fall under our
obfervation are linked together in fuch a manner as
indicates them to be parts of one great and regular
G fyftem.
(s) The fame refolution might probably be made of the Greek and Latin adverbs, were we as intimately ac¬
quainted with the fources of thofe tongues as Mr Horne Tooke is with the fources of the Englilh language.
“ Many of the Latin adverbs (fays the learned Ruddiman) are nothing elfe but adjetftve nouns or pronouns, hav¬
ing the prepofltion and fubflantive underftood 5 as, quo, eo, eodem, for ad qua:, ea, eadem (loca) or cut, ei, eidem
(loco); for of old thefe datives ended in 0. Thus, qua, hac, iliac, &c. are plainly adjeftives in the abl.fling,
femin. the word via, “ a way,” and the prepofition in, being underftood. . Many ot them are compounds^; as,
quomodo, i. e. quo modo ; quemadmodum, i. e. ad quern modum ; quamobrem, i. e. ob quam rem ; quare, 1. e. ^pro)
qua re; quorfum, i. e. v erf us quern (locum) ; fcilicet, i. e. fare licet; videlicet, i. e. vulerefleet; ilicet, 1. e. ire licet;
illico, L e. in loco ; magnopere, \. e. magno opere; nimirum, i. e. m (efl) mirum ; hodie, \. e.hoc die ; poflridie, e.
poflero die; pridie, i.e.prcedie. Profcfio, certefflane, male, bene, plane, are obvioufly adjectives. Forte is the ab¬
lative of fors; and if we had leifure to purfue the fubjea, and were mailers of all the languages from vyhich the
Latin is derived, we doubt not but we Ihould be able to refolve every adverb into * fubflantive or adjedtive.
c^o G R A M
Frrpofi-"' fyllem. When we take a view of the things by which
t;un% Sec. we are furrounded, and which are the archetypes of
v. -v ' our their inherent qualities are not more re-
bv various markable than the various relations by which they are
relations: connc&ed. Caufe and ejfd8, contiguity, in time or in
. place, high and low, prior and pojlerior, refemblance and
contra/}, with a thoufand other relations, conned things
together without end. There is not a fmgle thing
which appears folitary and altogether devoid of con-
nexion. The only difference is, that lome are inti¬
mately and fome ilightly conneded, fome nearly and
fome at a diftance. That the relations by which exter¬
nal objeds are thus linked together muff have great
influence in direding the train of human thought, fo
that not one perception or idea can appear to the mind
wholly unconneded with all other perceptions or ideas,
will be admitted by every man who believes that his
fenfes and intelled rejirefent things as they are.
This being the cafe, it is neceffary, if the purpofe
of language be to communicate thought, that the
ipeaker be furnifhed with words, not only to exprefs
the ideas of fubflances and attributes which he may
have in his mind, but aifo to indicate the order in
which he view's them, and to point out the various re¬
lations by which they are conneded. In many inftan-
ecs all this may be done by the parts of fpeech which
we have already confidered. The clofeft connexion
which we can conceive is that which iubfifts between
a fubftance and its qualities ; and in every language
with which we are acquainted, that connexion is indi¬
cated by the immediate coalefcence of the ac/yeBive
with the fubjlantive ; as we fay, a good man, a learned
man ; vir bonus, vtr dochis. Again, there is a connec¬
tion equally intimate, though not fo permanent, be¬
tween an agent and his adlwn : for the adion is really
an attribute of the agent ; and therefore we. fay, the
boy reads, the man writes; the noun coalefcing with
the verb fo naturally, that no other tvord is requifite to
unite them. IVIoreover, an adlion and that which is
adled upon being contiguous in nature, and mutually
affeding each other, the words w’hich denote them
ihould in language be mutually attradive, and capable
of coalefcing wdthout external aid •, as, he reads a booh,
he builds a houfe, he breaks a Jlone. Further j becaufe
an attribute and its modifications are infeparably united,
an adjecl'we or a verb is naturally conneded with the
adverb which illuftrates or modifies its fignification; and
therefore, when we fay, he walks fiowly, he is prudently
brave, it is plain that no other word is neceffary to pro¬
mote the coalefcence of the attributes walking and bra-
ven/ with their modifications of Jlownefs and prudence.
The agreement between the terms of any propofition
which conflitutex truth is abfolutely perfed j but as
either of the terms may agree with many other things
befides its correlate, fome word is requifite in every pro¬
pofition to conned the particular predicate with the
particular fubjeB: and that is the office of the fimple
verb TO BE j as, the three angles of every triangle are
equal to two right angles.
Thus we fee, that many of the relations fubfifting
between our ideas may be clearly exprefled by means
-of nouns, adjectives, verbs, and adverbs ; and in thofe
languages of which the nouns have cafes, there is per¬
haps no relation of much importance which might not
be thus pointed out, without being, under the neceffity
©f employing the aid of aqy additional part of fpeech.
MAR. Chap. VI.
In Englifh, however, the cafe is cthenvife •, for were Prepofi-
we to fay, “ He rode Edinburgh, went the parliament- ltionVl '^c‘,
houfe, walked his counfel the court met,” we ffiould
fpeak unintelligibly j as in thefe expreffions there is
either a total want of connexion, or fuch a connec¬
tion as produces falfehood and nonfenfe. In order to
give meaning to the paffage, the feveral gaps mull be
filled up by words fignfficant of the various relations
by which the different ideas arc conneded in the mind j ri^
as, “ He rode to Edinburgh, went to the parliament- Jtxprefled
houfe, <7//*/walked with his counfel till the court met.”by prepofi-
Of thefe conn cell tig words, TO and WITH are called pre-Uon^ an(l
pojitions, and and till are ufually called conjun£lions.c™^ac~
Although thefe prepofitions and conjunctions are not fo
abfolutely necejfary in Greek and Latin as they are in
Englith ; yet as there is no language wholly without
them, nor any language in which it is not of import¬
ance to underhand their force, they well deferve a place
in univerfal grammar. ir^
loo. The foie ufe of conjunctions and prepofitions inThefe con-
language is to conned either fentences or other uwv/r ;ne6t either
but the theory of thefe connectives themfelves has certain-Sentences or
ly never been underftood, unlefs Horne Tooke hasw0,ds-
at la It hit upon the truth. Mr Harris writes about
them and about them, quoting paffages from Greek and
Latin authors, and produces at laft no information.
His defnit ions of both, as parts offpeech void offignfi-
cation, are highly abfurd ; and even the principal di-
Jlindiion which he makes between them feems not to be
well founded. Prepojitions and conjunit ions denote the
relations fubfifting between the ideas expreffed by thofe
words or fentences which they ferve to conned *, and
as relations are contemplated by the mind as well as/>0-
jitive ideas themfelves, the words which denote thofe re¬
lations cannot be injignificant. The effential difterence
between the conjunction and prepofition, according to
the fame author, eonfifts in this, that the former con-
neds fentences, and the latter words: but the fad is
often otherwife. An obvious example occurs where the
eonjundion AND conneds not fentences but words. “ A
man of wisdom and riRTVR is a perfed charader.1
Here it is not meant to be afferted, “ that the man of
wisdom is a perfed charader, and that the man of
virtue is a perfed charader both thefe aflertions
would be falfe. This fentence therefore (and many
fuch will occur) is not refolvable into two ; whence it
follows, that the conjundion AND does not always con¬
ned fentences ; and the fame is frequently the cafe with
other conjunctions.
Horne Tooke's idea of prepofitions and conjunctions is,
that they do not form diflinCl claffes of words, but are
merely abbreviations of nouns and verbs : and with re-
fped to the Englifh language, he has been remarkably
fuccefsful in proving his pofition. But though fuch
be undeniably the cafe in Engliffi, it would be rafli to
conclude a priori that it is fo in all other tongues, d o
eftabliffi this general conclufion would require a long
and tedious dedudion in each particular language :
and how much learning, leifure, induftry, and acute-
nefs, fuch an undertaking would require, even in one
tongue, it is not eafy to determine. In the languages
with which we are beft acquainted, many conjunctions,
and moft prepojitions, have the appearance at leaft of ori¬
ginal words ; and though this moft acute grammarian,
frotn his knowledge of the northern tongues, has been
able to trace the moft important of thofe in Englifti to
very
Chap. VI.
G R A
very plaufible fource!, tire fame thing would be diffi-
tions. cutt in other languages of which the fources are ob-
V—V 1 {'cure, and abfolutely impoflible in tbofe 01 which they
are wholly unknown. It is, however, a ftrong pre-
fumption in favour of his opinion, that grammarians
have never been able to afllgn any general charaderjtic
of thofe fpecies of words ; which, did they conilitute
ditlinB parts olfpeech, one would think could not nave
fo long remained undifeovered. It is a farther pre-
M M A R. , . .,
denoted by the conjunaion BECAUSE (h), which would
be improperly ufed to connett two fentences between
which the relation ef an effect to its caufe exifts not. Bu
if it be faid, manners mnjl be reformed, or liberty will be
loff; here the conjunaion OR, though it join Jen-
fences, yet as to their meaning is a pet-fed disjundive.
Between the reformation of manners and the lofs off libei -
tn there is certainly a natural relation ; but it is not t e
relation of contiguity ox fimihtude, or of caufe and tfe ,
JO Jong    . r , - , h\\t oicontrarietu. The relation of contrariety therefore
fumption in bis favour, that many words in Greek a . , (• nification Gf the word OR (l). And thus it
Latin, as well as in Enghlh, which have been ca e- S that t}loucb all conjunaions may combine
conjunBions, are obvioufly refolvable upon bis princip e., P* > ^ - f refpea to the fenfe, fome are CON-
and indeed difeover their meaning and origin upon ^ others a e msTUKCTn4.
mere infpeaion. We fliall therefore content ourfelves J^cnvE and others ^ ^ ^ fente„Ces^c
with reding .be ^
parts of fpeech fo fai a ^ Horne NUAT1VES. The principal copulative in Englijh is0r continu-
which we have already confidered. The conti-ative.
”7
IT.5
]-)efinition
of conjunc
tions.
the bottom of the page the analyfis given by Horne
Tooke of the mofl important EngUJh conjunBions and
prepofitions; and requefting our readers, who would un¬
derhand the fubjea, to attend more to the relations
between their various ideas, than to the frivolous di-
hindions which, in compliance with cuftom, 've are
compelled to lay before them. We (hall treat firll of
the conjun£lion.
Sect. I. Of ConjunBions.
i oi. A coniunBion is a part of fpeech of which, as its
name indicated, the ufe is to conneB either two or more
words in a fentence, or to make of two fimple fentences one
compound fentence. It is ufually faid, that conjundions
never conned words, but fenfcences only, and that this
is the circumftance which diftinguifhes them from pre-
pofitions. We have already given one example which
proves this diftinaion to be ill founded ; we thall now
give from Horne Tooke one or two more, which will
place its abfurdity in a hill clearer light : Two aud
two are four; John and Jane are a handfome couple;
AB and BC and C A form a triangle. Are two four i is
John a couple and Jane a couple ? Does one freight line
form a triangle ? From the fubjoined note it appears,
that and (g) may conned any two things which can
be conneded, as it fignifies addition.
. ConjunBions conneding fentencesfometimes conneB
Which are their meaning, mb fometimes not. For example, let us
either con- take thefe two fentences, Rome ivas enjlaved, La-Jar
jun&ive or UVJJ. amlitious, and conned them together by the con-
disjun&ive ■ n(ajon because } Rome was enfaved because La:-
A . .;/  . ns well as th(
AND, --    ^
nuatives are much more numerous IF, AN,^because,
therefore, wherefore, hence, &C. T ne dilier-
ence between them is this: The copulative does no
more than barely couple words or fentences, and is
therefore applicable to all fubjeds of which the natures
are not incompatible (k). The relation which it denotes
is that of juxtapoftion, or of one thing added to another.
Continuatives, on the contrary, by a more intimate con-
nedion, confolidate fentences into one continuous whole ;
and are therefore applicable only to fubjeds which
have an effential relation to each other, fuch as that of
an ejfeB 'to its caufe or of a caufe to its effeB. 1'or ex¬
ample, it is no way improper to fay, Lyfippus was a
flatuary, and Prifcian a grammarian ; the Jun Jhineth,
and the Iky is clear; becaufe thefe are things that may
coexift, and yet imply no abfurdity. But it would
be abfurd to fay, Lyfippus was affatuary because PnJ-
cian was a grammarian ; though not to lay, the jun
fhineth because the /by is clear. With refped to the
fir ft, the reafon is, that the word because denotes the
relation which an ejfeB bears to its caufe: but the ikiL
of Prifcian in grammar could not poflibly be the cauje
of Lyfippus'1 s {kill in Jlatuary ; the coincidence between
the fkill of the one and that of the other, in arts fo very-
different, was merely accidental. With refped to the
fhining of the fun and the clearnefs of thefky, the cafe is
widely different *, for the clearnefs of thefky is the CAUSE
of the fun's fhining, at leaft fo as to be feen by us. nS
As to the continuatives, they are either suppositive, Contmua-
fuch as if, an; or positive, fuch zsbecaufe, therefore, '
E Ca- fuch as ij, an; or positive, men as oecaujc, cju, c, -, f ofitlve
A , • -Here the me a n in es as well as the &c. Take examples of each: Tou will live happily if you ^
UneJHy.youhehaptUy^y^t »
lion which fubfifts between an ejfeB and Ms caufe; for
the enflaving of Rome was the efeB of Cmfar’s ambi¬
tion. That particular relation therefore is that which is
honefly ; you live happily because you live honsftlip
you live honefly, therefore you live happily. ^ I he dif-
ference between thefe continuatives is this : 'RXwftppo-
fftives denote conneBion, but do not affert aBual ex-
J G 2 iftence :
/r\ Avd is a Saxon word, being (according to Mr H. Tooke-) an abbreviation of ANAD the imperative of
the verb ananad, to add to or heap up. So that when we fay /ms and two are four, we only declare that ms
^T^BECAUsTis^ompoundedofthe Saxon BE_%, and caufe; and by fome of our moft ancient authors it
was written by cause. * Rome was enfaved because Cafar was ambitious, is therefore equivalent to, Rome was
enfaved by the caufe Ctesar was ambitious j taking the phrafe, Cafar was ambitious as an abftrad noun m .
tt)"ohR“orbne0“anmlf'co„..aa;o„ of the Savon ODER, which f.gnifles i. e. fontething AJeren, and
ohex!contrary. So that the conjundion or muft always denote diverfly, and very often contrariety.
(K) As 4 and I**’ and ‘°U ■' f<>r "e “nnot fay of the fame porUon of Ume, it u day AM «ta n,gh ;
or of the fame body, it is both hot anb cold.
52
GRAM M A R.
Chap. VI.
Corjunc¬
tions.
118
Pofitives,
either cau-
fal or col-
ledlive.
as, therefore, wherefore, See. The difference between Conjunc.
thefe is this ; The caufals fubjoin caufes to effects ; as, tions.
the fun is in eclipfe, nF.CAusu the moon intervenes; The v
collectives fubjoin effects to caifes; as, the moon intervenes,
7HEREF0RS
(l) The reafon of all this will be apparent from the analyhs given by Horne Tooke of thofe words w'hich we
have called fuppoflive conjunclions. If and AN may be ufed mutually and indifferently to fupply each other s
place ; for they are both verbs, and of the fame import. If is merely the imperative of the Gothic and /Jnpjo*
Saxon verb gifan, to give; and in thole languages, as well as in the Englilh formerly, this fuppofed conjunction
was pronounced and written as the common imperative GIF. Thus,
   “ My largeffe
“ Hath lotted her to be your brother’s miftreffe,
“ Gif fhee Can be reclaimed j GIF not, his prey.” Sad Shepherd, Aftii. feene I.
Gawin^Douglafs almoft always ufes GIF for IF, as the common people in fome counties -of Scotland do even at
this day } and it is obvious, that our IF has always the fgnif cation of the Englifh imperative give, and no other.
So that the refolution of the conftrudlion in the fentence, If you live honejlly you will live happily, is fimply
this, Give you live honefiy (taking you live honefly as an abftraft noun) you will live happily. \ our living
happily is declared to depend upon your living honef ly as the condition ; but give that, and your happinefs is po-
litively afferted. In like manner may fuch fentences be refolved as,
“ I wonder he can move ! that he’s not fixed !
“ If that his feelings be the fame with mine.”
Thus, 11 His feelings be the fame with mine, give that, I wonder he can move, &c. And here we cannot
forbear giving our affent to the truth of Mr Tooke’s obfervation, that when the datum upon which any conclufion
depends is a fentence, the article THAT, if not expreffed, may always be inferted. We do not, however, think the
infertion at all times abfolutely neceffary to complete the fyntax for adlive verbs govern whole fentences and claufes
of fentences as well as fubffantive nouns. Inftances of this occur fo frequently in the Latin claffics, that they can
have efcaped no man’s notice who lias ever read Horace or Virgil with attention. We agree likei\iie with our moll
ingenious author, that where the datum is not a fentence, but fome wow/z governed by the yeib li or GitL, the ar¬
ticle that can never be inferted. For example, if we be allied, how the weather wall difpole of us to morrow ?
we cannot fay : If that fair, it wall fend us abroad \ IF THAT foul, it will keep us at home but ‘ n lair, it
will fend us abroad,” &c. The reafon is obvious : the verb in this cafe directly governs the noun j and the re¬
folved conftrudtion is, “ give fair wmather, it will fend us abroad ; give foul weather, it will keep us at home.”
An, the other fuppofitive conjundlion mentioned, is nothing elfe than the imperative of the Anglo-Saxon verb
ANAN, which likewife means to or to GRANT. As, “ An you bad an eye behind you, you might lee moie o.e-
tradtion at your heels than fortunes before you that is, “ Grant you had an eye behind you, you might ee, &c.
This account of the two conditional conjunctions in Engiilh is fo rational and fatisfadiory, that we are ilrongly in¬
clined to believe that all thofe words which are fo called, are in all languages to be accounted for in the fame man¬
ner. Not indeed that they muff all mean precifely to give or grant, but fome 'word equivalent } luch as, be it, Jup-
pofe, allow, permit, &c.j which meaning is to be fought for in the particular etymology of each reipedti ve language.
(m) Of the caufal conjunctions mentioned in the text, because has been already ccnfidered 5 and fome account
muff be now given of the two words since and as. The former of thefe, according to Mr H. Tooke, is a
very corrupt abbreviation, confounding together different words and different combinations of wmrds. lo
us it appears to be compounded of seand, feeing ; and ES, that or it ; or of siN./tw/, and es. Seand and sin are
the prefent and paf participles of the Anglo-Saxon verb SEON, to fee. In modern Englilh SINCE is uled lour
w^ays: two as a preposition affedfing words, and two as a conjunction affecting fentcnccs. When tiled as a
prepofition, it has always the fignification of the pall participle seen joined to thence (u z. feen and thencefor¬
ward) or elfe the figuification of the paft participle seen only. WTien ufed as a conjunBion, it has lometimes
the fignification of the prefent participle seeing, or seeing that ; and fometimes the fignification of the paft
participle SEEN, or seen that. We lhall give examples of all thele figmfications. ift, Ks z prepojition^m-
fying seen and thenceforward: “ A more amiable fovereign than George III. has not fwayed the Englifti Iceptre
Since the conqueJlH That is, “ The conquejl feen (or at the completion of the fight of the conquefi), and thence¬
forward, a more amiable fovereign than George III. has not fwayed the Englilh feeptre. Since, taken 1a
this fenfe, feems rather to be a corruption of SITHTHAN or SITHENCE, than a compound ol SEAND and ES. 2diy,
As a prepofition fignifying seen fimply: Did George III. reign before or SINCE that example . jdly, As a
conjunction, SINCE means feeing that: as, “ If I Ihould labour for any other fatisfacbon but that of my own
mind, it would be an effeCt of phrenzy in me, not of hope *, since (or feeing that) it is not truth but opinion
that can travel through the world without a pafiport.” qthly, It means SEEN that or that seen j as, Since
death in the end takes from all whatfoever fortune or force takes from any one, it were a tooliih madneis in
the fhipwreck of worldly things, when all finks but the forrow, to fave that 1. e;—“ Death in the end
takes from all whatfoever fortune or force takes from any one \ that seen, it were a toohih madneis, 6tc.
jls, the other caufal conjunction mentioned in the text, is an article meaning always it, or THAT, or WHICH.
T^Jce the following example :
“ She glides away under the foamy feas
A^sfwift as darts or feather’d arrows fly.”
Iftence *, the pofitives imply both the one and the 0-
ther (l).
The pofitives above mentioned are either causae ;
fuch as, becaufe,fnce, as (m), &c.: Or coelective 3 fuch
That
TI9
Caufal con¬
junction'
denote four wj1jc]1
kinds of
canfes.
Chap. VI. ^ ,v^
Covjunc- therfforu (n) the fun is in eclipfe. \ve therefore ufe
tions. caufclsxn thofe inftances where, the cffeB being conipi-
1 < ' cuous, we feek for its caufe; and colleSiives, in demon-
ftration and fcience, properly fo called, where the caufe
being firil known, by its help we difcern effects.
As to caufal conjunctions, we may further obferve,
that there is no one of the four fpecies of caufes
which they are. not capable of denoting. For ex¬
ample, the material caufe; The trumpet founds because
it is made of metal. The formal; i he trumpet founds be-
cause it is long and hollow. I he efficient; The trum¬
pet founds because an artijl blows it. I he final; Fhe
trumpet founds that it may raife our courage. It is
worth obferving, that the three firft caufes are ex-
p re .Ted by the ftronged affirmation ; becaufe if the
effeB actually be, thefe mud be alfo. But this is not
the cafe with refpeiff to the laid, which is only af¬
firmed as a thing that may happen. The reafon is
obvious ; for whatever may be the end which fet the
artift firft to work, that end it may (till be beyond his
power to obtain; as, like all other contingents, it
may either happen or not. Hence alfo it is connected
by a particular conjundion, THAT (o), abfolutely con¬
fined to this caufe.
103. We come now to the disjunctive conjunc-
120
Disjunctive
conjunc-
{tioas.
MAR.
ticks ", a fpecies of words which bear this contradic¬
tory name,'becaufe while they conjoin the fentences,
they disjoin the fenfe •, or, to fpeak a language more
intelligible, they denote relations of diversity or op¬
position. , , , ...
That there fliould be fuch words, ^ whether cadcd
conjunBions or not, is extremely natural. For as tneie
is a principle of union diftufed through all things, by
which this whole is kept together and preferved frona
diffipation ; fo is there in like manner a principle of
diversity diffufed through all, the fource ot di/tmc-
tion, of number, and of order. Now it is to exprefs in
fome degree the modifications of this diverfity, that thole
words called disjunctive conjunctions are employed. I2r
Of thefe disjunBives fome are SIMPLE and fome AD-Either fim-
versative : Simple ; as when we fay, either p is day *,e<
or it is night : Adverfative; as when we fay, it is not
day but it is night. The difference between thefe is,
that the fimple exprefs nothing more than a relation of
diversity 5 the adverfative exprefs a relation not barely
of diverfity, but alfo of opposition. Add to this, that
the adverfatives are DEFINITE, the fimple INDEFINITE.
Thus wffen we fay, the number three is not an even num¬
ber but (p) an odd, we not only disjoin two oppoiite
attributes, but we definitely affirm the one to belong to
the
That is “ She glides away (with) THAT fwiftnefs (with) WHICH darts or feathered arrows fly. In ^r^1’
Ihere as ftfll reldus original ligilfication and ufe, it is written ES. So is another conjunBion of the fame
imoort with AS beincr evidently the Gothic article SA or SO, which figmfies it or that. . , , ,
VnI As Mr Harm has called therefore, WHEREFORE, &c. colleBive conjunBions, we have retained the
h more proper mlghr be found. It is indeed of
anv clafs of words be called, provided the import of the words themfelves be undeiftood. VVHEREFORE ana
THEREFORE evidently denote the relation of a caufe to its effeBs. They are compounds of the Saxon words
mv*R a° d wi* FOR. or VOOR : and figuify, fir which, fir A/e or ,ha, It ts worthy of remark, that
in fome parts of Scotland the common people even at this day ufe THIR for theje. . iformlv a
Co) YVe have already coniidered the word THAT, and feen that it is never a conjuniftion but uniformly a
definite article “ The7 trumpet founds (for) THAT it may raife our courage-, taking the claufe it may raft
(nfcw/ragevs zn abftraft noun in concord with ,1c, and governed by/or. Or the lentence maybe refol.ed
thus : “ The trumpet mav raife our courage (for) that (purpofe) it lounds. , . . r i
(p) Mr Horne Tooke has favoured us with fome ingenious remarks on the two different enva ions
word but when ufed in the two acceptations that are ufually annexed to it, viz. that which it bears
of a fentence, and that which it has in the middle. He has given it as his opinion that this word
wS employed in the’ former way, is corruptly put for BOT, the imperative of the Saxon verb BOTAN, to boot
to fuperadd,Jto fupply, &c. and that when ufed in the latter it is a contraffion of be-utan, the imperative of
BE o NUT VN ^ to Lout. Our ancient writers made the proper diftinftion between the orthography of the one
word and that of the other. Gawin Douglafs, in particular, although he frequently confounds the two words
and ufes them improperly, does yet abound with many inftances of their proper ufeand fo contrafted, as to
awaken, fap ou/authorfthe moft inattentive reader. Of the many examples quoted by him, we ffiall content
ourfelves with the twro following: . . .
“ Bot thy worke ftiall endure m laude and glone,
“ But fpot or fault condigne eterne memorie.’ Pieface.
 “ Bot gif the fates, but pleid,
“ At my pleafure fufter it me life to leid.” _ Boo 4*
If this derivation of the word BUT from BOTAN, to fiperadd, be juft, the fentence in the teat, the num et
three is not an even number BUT an odd,” will be equivalent to, “ the number tnree not an,eV,:" "V”*"’ '
fuperadd (it is) an odd number;” and if fo, the oppofmon is not marked (at lead direftlyy by the ' *
but by the adjeflives EVEN and ODD, which denote attributes in their own nature oppofite. It is only when
BUT has this fenfe that it anfwersto/eif in Latin, or to mm, in French. In the fecund line of the quotaDon
from Gawin Douglafs’s Preface, the word BUT is evidently a contraaion of BE-UTAN, and has a ienfe very d ffe-
cut from that of BOT in the preceding line. The meaning of the couplet is, “ SuPEKADD (to fomethmg faid
or fuppofed to be faid before) tby work (hall endure In laude and glone, BE OUT (.. e. wuhoul) fpot or fau t,
&c. In the following palfage from Donne, the word BUT, although written m the fame manner, is ufed in
both its meanings : “ You mull anfwer, that Die was brought very near the fire, and as good as thrown in ;
or elfe, that (lie was provoked to it by a divine infpiration. But that another divine inflation moved
the beholders to believe that Hie did therein a noble act, this act of her’s might have been calumniated. a
54
An impro
GRAM
the JuhjiB, and deny the other. But when we fay, the
number of the fars is either (<3 ) even ob. odd; though
we affert one attribute to be, and the other not to be,
yet the alternative is notwithftanding left mdef,trite.
As to adverfativedisjunBives, it has been already faid,
perdiftinc- after Mr Harris, that they imply OPFOSITION: but the
tion. truth feems to be, that they only unite in the fame fen-
tence words or phrofes of oppofite meanings. Now it is
obvious, that oppofte attributes cannot belong to the fame
, fubjeB; as when we fay, Nereus was beautiful, we can¬
not SUPERADD to this fentence, that he was ugly; we
cannot fay, he was beautiful, but ugly. When there is
oppolition, it muft be either of the fame attribute in
different fubjects; as when we fay, “ Brutus was a pa¬
triot, but Cafar tvas notOr of different attributes
in the fame fuhjecf 5 as when we fay Gorgius was a fo-
phift, BUT not a philofopher." Or of different attributes in
different fubjeBs; as when we fay, “ Plato was a philofo-
pher, but Hippias was a fophif.’1'1 The conjunctions
ufed for all thefe purpofes have been called abfolute ad-
verfatives, we think improperly, as the oppoftion is not
marked by the conjunBions, but by the words orfentences
which they ferve to conneB. Mr Lode, Ipeaking of the
word but, fays, that “ it fometimes intimates a Jiop
of the mind, in the courfe it was going, before it came
to the end of itto which Mr Toole replies with
truth, that but itfelf is the fartheft of any word in
the language from intimating a fop. On the contrary, it
always intimates fomething to follow ; infomuch, that
when any man in difcourfe finilhes his words with but,
inftead of fuppofing him to have fopped, we always afk,
but what?
Befides the adverfatives already mentioned, there are
two other fpecies, of which the mod important are UN-
Conjunc-
ttons.
MAR. Chap. VI.
less and although. For example, “ Troy will be
taken, unless the palladium be prcferved ; 7roy will ^
be taken, although HeClor defend it.” The na¬
ture of thefe adverfatives may be thus explained. As
every event is naturally allied to its caufe, fo by parity
of reafon it is oppofed to its preventive; and as every
caufe is either adequate or inadequate (inadequate when
it endeavours without being eftedual), fo in like man¬
ner is every preventive. Nowr adequate preventives are
exprefled by fuch adverfatives as UNLESS : “ Troy wall
be taken, unless the palladium be preferved ff that is,
this alone is fufficient to prevent it. ihe inadequate ar e
exprefied by fuch adverfatives as although : “ Troy
will be taken although HeBor defend it $” that is,
HeBor's defence will prove ineffeBual. Ihefe may be
called adverfatives adequate and inadequate.
Such is the doClrine of Mr Harris; which although
we can difcover in it no determinate meaning, we have
ventured w'ith others to retail, in refpeft to our readers,
who may be more perfpicacious than ourfelves. Ihe au¬
thor was a man of great learning •, and the fubjeft, as
he has treated it, appears to be intricate. But what¬
ever fenfe or nonfenfe there may be in what he fays of
caufes and preventives adequate and inadequate, we have
no hefitation to affirm that he has totally miftaken the
import of the w ords unless and although. From thefe
being called both preventives foo one adequate the other
inadequate, an unwary reader might be led to infer, that
they denote the fame idea or the fame relation; and that
the whole difference between them is, that the exprei-
fion of the one is more forcible than that of the other.
Nothing, however, can be farther than this from the
truth. The meaning of unless is dire&ly oppofite
to that of ALTHOUGH. Unless (r) and though
are
is, “ You muft anfwer, that {lie was brought very near the fire, &c.” “ Superadd (to that anfwer) be out
(or uni.ess or without ; for, as will be feen by and bye, all thole vyords are of the lame import) that another
divine infpiration moved,” &c. To thefe remarks and examples it maybe worth while to add, that even
now but is often ufed by the illiterate Scotch for WITHOUT 5 as nothing is more common than to hear a clown
fay, “ He came from home BUT his breakfaft.” _ -
Having mentioned without as a word of the fame import with but when diftmguilhed from BOl, it may
not be improper to confider that word here 5 for though in modern Englilh it is entirely confined to the
office of a prepolition, it was formerly ufed indifferently either as a prepqfitwn or a. conjunBion. v\ IiHout then
is nothing but the imperative wyrtiian-utan, from the Anglo-Saxon and Gothic verb WEORTHAN, withan ;
which in the Anglo-Saxon language is incorporated wdth the verb beon, effe. According to this derivation,
which is Horne Toole's, the word without, whether called conjun&ion or prepofition, is the fame as BE out j
and fuch will be its import, fhould it after all be nothing more than a compound of WITH, which figmfies to
join, and fometimes to be, and ute, out. , .
(qJ Either is nothing more than a diftributive pronoun, wffiich every body underitands *, and OR wfe hate
already explained. , v r
(r) So 1owt down as in the reign of Queen Elizabeth (fays Horne Toole) this conjunction w-as fometimes
written oneles or on el effe ; but more anciently it was written ONLES and fometimes ONLESSE. Thus, m the trial
of Sir John Oldcaftle in 1413, “ It was not poffible for them to make whole Chnftes cote without ieme, ON-
LESSE certeyn great men were brought out of the way.” So, in “ ihe image of governance, y Sir .
Hot, 1 541, “ Men do fere to approache unto their fovereigne Lord, oneles they be called. So again, in
“ A neceffary doftrine and erudition for any Chriftian man, fet furthe by the king’s majeftie o mg and,
j C43, “ Onees ye believe, ye {hall not underftande.” “ No man (hall be crow-ned, ONLES he lawiully fight.
“ The foul waxeth feeble, onlesse the fame be cheriflied.” “ It cannot begynne, ONELESSE by the grace
of God.” Now, ONLES is the imperative of the Anglo-Saxon verb onlesan,. to difmifs ox remove.
Les, the imperative of lesan (which has the fame meaning as onlesan), is likewiie uled fometimes by old
writers inftead of unless. Inftances might be given in abundance Iron G. Douglafs and Bew johnfon ; but
perhaps it may be of more importance to remark, that it is this fame imperative les, which, placed at the
end of nouns and coalefcing with them, has given to our language fuch adjectives as hopelefs, refilefs, deathlefs,
motionlefs, &c. i. e. difmifs hope, reft, death, motion, &c. _
Mr Tooke obferves, that all the languages which have a conjunction correfpcnding to LESS or unless, as
2 well
G R A
Chap. VI.
Cofljunc- are both verbs in the imperative mode : the former fig-
uons. nifyinjT tahe away or difmifs: the latter allow, permit,
    'Want, yield, ajfent. This being the cafe, “ Troy will be
taken UNLESS the palladium be preferred,” is a len¬
ience equivalent to “ Remove the palladium bepreferved
(taking the palladium be preferred as an abhraft noun,
the prefervation of the palladium) 1 roy will be taken.
A?ain, “ Troy will be taken, although HeBor de¬
fend it,” is the fame as ‘‘ Troy will be taken allow
HeBor (to) defend it.” The idea, therefore, expreffed
by unless is that of the REMOVAL of one thing to make
wan for another ; the idea exprefled by although (s)
is that of ALLOWING one thing to coexist with another,
with which it is apparently incompatible. %
104. Before we take leave of this fubjeft, we might
treat as others have treated, of adverbial conjundjons,
and conjunftiens (t) of various other denominations.
But of multiplying fubdivifions there is no end *, and
fyftems, in which they abound, convey for the moll
part no information. The nature of conjundions can
be thoroughly underftood only by tracing each to its
original in fome parent or cognate tongue j and when
that (hall be done in other languages with as much luc-
M M A R.
cefs as it has lately been done by Mr Horne Toole in
Englilb, then, and not till then, may we hope to lee a
rational, comprehenfive, and confident theory^ of this
55
Conjunc¬
tions.
1 z.3
part of fpeech. Then too Ihall wt: get rid of all that . _ ,
farrago of ufelefs diftinclions into conjunctive, adjunC- Winch
live, disjunBive, fuhjunBive, copulative, cortinuative,™^™?
fubcontinuativc, poftivejuppofitive, caufal, colleBive,pre- norance.
ventive adequate and inadequate, adverfuive, conditional,
illative, &c. &c.j which explain nothing, and which
ferve only to veil ignorance and perplex fagacity.
That Mr Toole's principles will apply exadffy to the
conjundions of every language both dead and living, is
what our limited knowledge of thefe languages does
not authorife us pofitively to affirm. It is, however, a
ftrong prefumption in favour of his opinion, that illi¬
terate favages, the firft cultivators of language, are little
likely to have fent out their faculties in qued of words
to denote the abfraB relations fubfiding among their
ideas, when we have fuch evidence as his book affords
that the names of the mod comtnonfubfances and qualities
could an fiver that and every other purpofe, which in the
ordinary intercourfe of life can be anfwered by the
faculty of fpeech. It is a farther prefumption in his
favour.
well as the manner in which the place of thefe words is fupplied in the languages which have not a conjundion cor-
r j nt to them droiwly iudify his derivation which we have adopted. 1 he Greek *(,**, the Latin «//?, th
refpondent to 1 LJ j Frtnc|, J „on all be i, not. And in the fame manner do we fometm.es
W Zee in IClbXt, .Moot be i, not, bn, if, &c. it may be proper juft to add, that accord.ng to
the Le author, the conjunaion lest is a contraftion of lesed the paft pamcple of lesen ; and that lest, wtth
the article that either expreffed or underdood, means no more than hoc dimijfo or quo dimijfo.
rsf Although is compounded of al or all, and tho’, though, that, or, as the vulgar move purely pronounce
it THAF THAUF, and THOF. Now, THAF or THAUF, IS evidently the imperative thaf or thafig of the verb tha-
vIan or THAFIGAN to allow, permit, grant, yield, affent •, and THAFIG becomes thah, though thoug, (and thoch w
G Douglafs and other Scotch authors write it) by a tranfition of the lame fort, and at lead as eafy as that by
which hIfuc becomes hawk. It is no fmall confirmation of this etymology, that antiently they often ufed all be
albeit all had, all were, all give, indead of although •, and that as the Latin si (if) means be it, and MSI and
cw Cnnlplf and without) mean be not, fo etsi (although) means and belt. 
In a work of this kind, which profeffes to treat of univerfal grammar, it would be impertinent to wade our
^ onr reaflers time on a minute analyfis of each conjundHon which may occur in any one particular language.
We" Zu therefor pu Z "he fubieft no fanher ; but (hall fubjoin Mr Horee TooUe’s table of the Engblh co„-
^aions, referring Lfe who are def.rous of fuller fatisfaffion to his ingenious work entitled TheDwerfiont ofPnrleS.
If
An
Unless
Eke
Yet
Still
Else
Though
or
Tho’
But
But
Without
And
1
Gif
An
Onles
Eac
Get
Stell
Ales
'l ~ 1 Thafig
or
Thaf
Bot
Be-utan
Wyrth-utan
XilxJJ j ^Anad . .
Lest is the participle lesed of lesan, to difmifs.
" Siththan'
'Gifan
Anan
OnlesaN
Eakan
Getan
Stellan
U . Alesan
^ 1 Thafigan
or
Thafian
Bot an
Beon-utan
5
To give.
To grant.
To difmifs.
To add.
To get.
To put.
To dimini (h.
To allow.
To boot, to fuperadd.
To be out
Wyrthan-utan To be out.
( Anan ad Dare congeriem.
Since \
Syne
Seand-es
SlTHTHE
> is the participle of Seon, to fee.
1 or
( SlN-ES
That is the article or pronoun THAT.
As is ES, a German article, meaning it, that, or which. And
So is sa or so, a Gothic article of the fame import with as.
5 6 GRAM
PrepoG- favours, that in the rudeft languages there are few if
any conjunctions j and that even in others which are
v ' the moft highly poliilted, fuch as Greek and Latin, as
well as Engli/h, many of thofe words which have been
called conjunctions are obvioufly refolvable into other
parts of fpeech. Thus aXXcx. tranflated but, is evidently
the neuter gender of either the nominative or accufative
plural of another; and when ufed as a conjun&ion,
it intimates that you are going to add fometlnng to
what you have already faid. Cceterum has the lame
meaning, and is nothing but kou Mais {but in
French) is the Latin nwjus; ut, uti, on, quod, is the rela¬
tive pronoun. Of quocirca, quia, prceterea, antequam,
puenquam, quemvis, quantumvis, quamlibet, &c. the refo-
lution is too obvious to require being mentioned. Where
fuch refolutions as thefe can be made, or when the con-
junclions of any particular tongue can be traced to their
origin in amj other, there needs be no difpute about their
true import j but when the cafe is otherwife, and the
conjunction either appears to be an original word, or is
derived from a fource to which it cannot be traced, we
124 would advife luch of our readers as wilh to fpeak or
The import write correCtly, to difmifs from their minds all confidera-
ofconjunc- tjon 0f copulatives, conlinuatives, caufals, and disjunc¬
tions 111 any ■ refl; of that jargon which we have already
be learned mentioned j and to inquire diligently in what manner
from the and for wdiat purpofe the conjunction in quejhon is ufed by
bell authors the Pgji 'writers, both ancient and modern, of the particu-
modern ^ *ar language which they are fludying. This will indeed
be found a w'ork of labour j but it appears to us to be
the only means left of difcovering the precife relations
which fuch conjunctions were intended to exprefs •, and,
by confequence, of knowing what words or fentences
they are fitted to conned, fo as to produce a flyle at
once accurate and perfpicuous.
Sect. II. Of Prepoftions.
Prepofi- 105. By Mr Harris and his followers, a PREFOSI-
tions unite -pjoN is defined to be a part of fpeech devoid itfelf offg-
two words n-jicatiQn^ hut Jn formed as to unite two words that are
tocVak'fce fgnificant, and that refufe tocoalefce op unite of themfelves.
of them- We have already exprefled our opinion of that theory
felves, which holds certain words to be devoid of Jignif cation ;
but its abfurdity, in the prefent inilance, is more than
ever glaring. Concerning the number of prepoftions,
it is well known that hitherto authors have never
agreed. The ancient Greek grammarians admitted
only 185 the ancient Latin grammarians above 50 ;
though the moderns, SanCtius, Sciopius, Penzomus, Vof-
fus, and Ruddiman, have endeavoured to leffen the
number without fixing it. Bilhop Wilkins thinks that
36 are fufficient j and Girard fays that the French
language has done the bufinefs effeClually with 3 2.
But if prepoftions be w7ords devoid of fgnifcation, why
Ihould there be difputes refpeCling their numbers ? or
why in any language fhould there be more than one
prepofition, fince a fugle unmeaning mark of conneClion
would certainly anfwer the purpofe as vrell as a thoufand ?
The cypher, which has no value of itfelf, and only
ferves (if we may ufe the language of grammarians)
to connote and cotifgnify, and to change the value ofyf-
qures, is not feveral and various, but uniformly one and
the fame. That “ the prepoftion is fo formed, as to
unite two words which refufe to coalefce or unite of
themfelves,” is indeed true; and this union it eflfeas,
MAR. Chap. VI,
not by having nofgnfcation of its own, but hy fgnif ying Prepofi-
the relation by which the things expreiTed by the united, i
words are coryieCled in nature. Prepoftions are to be 12<j
accounted for in much the fame manner as the cafes of by lignify-
nouns. The necefiity of this fpecies of words, or of fome kg the re.
equivalent invention, follows from the impoflibility ofiailonbe~
having in language a dillinCl complex term for each di- Jff
11 in61 collection of ideas which we may have occafion to
put together in difcourfe. The addition or fubtrac-
tion of any one idea to or from a collection of ideas,
makes it a different collection j and if, after either of
thefe operations, it were to be expreffed by the fame
word as before, nothing could enfue but mifreprelenta-
tion and falfehood. Now, to ufe in language a differ¬
ent and difinCt complex term for each different and di-
ItinCt collection of ideas, is equally impoffible, as to ufe
a diftind particular term for each particular and indi¬
vidual idea. To fupply, therefore, the place of the com¬
plex terms which are wanting in a language, are the
cafes of nouns and prepoftions employed \ by the aid of
which, complex nnk general terms are prevented from be¬
ing infinite or too numerous, and are ufed only for
thofe collections of ideas which we have molt frequent
occafion to mention in difcourfe. By means of pre¬
poftions this end is obtained in the molt fimple man¬
ner. For, having occafion to mention a collection of
ideas for which there is wofngle complex term in the
language, we either take that complex term which
includes the greatef number, though not all of the ideas
we would communicate j or elfe we take that complex
term which includes all, and the feweit ideas more than
thofe wre would communicate j and then, by the help
of the prepofition, we either make up the deficiency in
the one cafe, or retrench the fuperfiuity in the other.
For inltance, having occafion to mention a houfe of a
particular defeription, and knowing that the term houfe
is too general for our purpofe, and that the building
we have in view has no appropriate name, we fay, per¬
haps, a houfe iriTH a party-wall, or a houfe rrniiovr a
roof.—In the firil inltance, the complex term houfe is
deficient, and the prepofition direCts to add what is want¬
ing.—In the fecond inltance, the complex term is re¬
dundant as it denotes a complete houfe; the prepofition,
therefore, direCts to takeaway what is fuperfuous.
Now, confidering prepoftions in this the molt fimple
light, as ferving only to limit or modify general terms,
it is abfolutely necelfary that they Ihould have mean¬
ings of their own •, for otherwife, how could we, in the
initance before us, make known by them our inten¬
tion, whether of adding to, or retrenching from, the
fame general term houfe. If, to a difciple of Mr Har¬
ris, we Ihould fay, a houfe JOIN; he would reply, JOIN
WHAT ? But he would not contend that JOIN is an in¬
declinable word which has no meaning of its own, becaufe
he knows-that it is the imperative of a verb, of which
the other parts are (till in ufe ; and its own meaning is
clear, though the fentence is not completed. If, in-
Itead of JOIN, we Ihould fay to him, a houfe WITH; he
would ftill a Ik the fame queition, with what ? But if
we were to difcourfe with him concerning the word
with, he would probably tell us, that WITH is 2. pre¬
pofition, an indeclinable word, which is itfelf devoid of
pan feat ion, but fo formed as to unite two words that are
Jignifcant. And yet it would be evident by his que¬
ition, that he felt it had a meaning of its own ; which
Chap. VI.
G K A M
Prepofi- is in reality tlie fame as JOIN (u). Indeed, fo far has
tions. always been plainly perceived, that WITH and with-
v ' out are direflly oppofite and contradiclory j and it
would puzzle the moft acute philofopher to^ ditcover
oppofition and contradiflion In two words where nei¬
ther of them had any figmfication. Wilkins, ti;ere-
fore, has well expreffed their meaning, where he fays,
that with is a prepofition “ relating to the notion^ or
facial, or circumftance of fociety AFFIRMED •, and taat
without is a prepofition relating to the hone notion
oi facial, or circumftance ofybere/y DENIED.
106. But to denote the relations of adding and taking
away, is not the only purpofe for which prepoiitions
are employed. They all indeed ferve to medny jome
general term or general affirmation, but not preciiely m
the fame way as with and WITHOUT. It has been
term or already obferved, that words ftgnificant of thofe things
general af- which coincide in nature, coalefce with one another m
timation. fyntax, without being beholden to any auxiliary tie.
For inftance, an adjcEhve coalefces with xXsfuffiantive,
a verb with its nominative ; a noun exprefling an oyeil
acTed upon, with a verb denoting aclion ; and an adverb
with its verb. Take the following example : The SPLEN¬
DID SUN GENIALLY WARMETH THE FERTILE EARTH.
But fuppofe we were defirous to modify this af uniation
by the addition of other fubftantives, AIR,, for inLance,
and beams : how would thefe coincide with tne other
words of the fentence, or under what charadier could
Vol. X. Part I.
127
They all
ferve to
modify in
different
ways feme
general
term or
MAR.
they be introduced ? Not as nominatives or accufatives
to the verb, for both thefe places are already filled
the nominative by the fubflance sun, which is cer¬
tainly the agent in this operation ; the accnfative by the
fubflance earth, which is as certainly the objeft afted
upon Not as qualities of the SUN and earth 5 for
qualities inhering in their fubftances can only be ex-
prelied bv adjectives, and tne woids air and beams are
hoth. fubjlamives. Here then we mull have recourfe to
prepofitions 5 but we can employ only fuch prepofitions
as point out the relations which the air and the BEAMS
have to the fun warming the earth. In Englilh we
fliould fay, the fplendid fun with his beams genially
wanntth through the air the fertile earth. J He icn-
tence, as before, remains entire and one ; thefubjlantives
required are both introduced j and not a word which
was there before is detruded from its proper place.
The import of with we have already difeovered ; it di-
redts to unite the beams to the fun, as jointly with
him performing the operation. But the air has no
other connexion with this operation, than as the me¬
dium or passage between the sun and the earth : and
therefore the prepofition through (x) muft denote
that relation which fubfifts between an ohjeB in motion,
and the medium in which it moves ; nor could a prepo-
lition of a different import have been employed, without
altering the meaning of the whole fentence (y.)
107. Mr Harris is of opinion that moft, if not all,
H prepofitions
f u) This account of prepofitions is taken from Horne Tooke, who adds, that the only difference between the
two words with and join, is, that the other parts of the Gothic and Anglo-oaxon verb wiTHAN, ‘ojoin{oi
which WITH is the imperative), have ceafed to be employed m the language As with means^/;, fo the cor-
refpondent French prepofition AVEC means, and have that, or, have that alfo. But though WITH, as the impe¬
rative of WITHAN, means join, it has fometimes a very different figmfication Mr Tyrwhit m his Gloffary has
truly obferved, that WITH and BY are often fynonymous. i bey certainly are fo 5 but then WITH feems to b .
abbreviation of the imperative of wyrthan, to be; as without is Oi wyrthan-utan, /o be out. J ns . emg
the cafe, our two inftances in the text will Hand thus : rt houfe JOIN a party-wall; a ho life m-OVT a roof. Xor
let any one be furprifed that we make no difference between the conjunBwn without and the prepofition with¬
out. ' The word is the fame, whether it be employed to unite words oxfenlences. Prepofitions were, originally,
and for a long time, claffed with conjunBions ; and when firft feparated from them, they were only aiftmguifhed
by the name of prepoftive co junBions. They are generally ufed to unite wares, but not always ; for we may ay
indifferently, 1 came after HIS DEPARTURE, or I came after HE DEPARTED. By the greater part o, grammarians,
indeed, after, when employed as in the firft fentence, is claffed with the prepofifons ; when employed as in
the fecond, it is claffed with the conjunaions. The word, however, is the. fame in both fentences, its meaning
is the fame, and its effeB precifely the fame. The only circumftance of difcnmmation is, that in the hrft example
it is prefixed to a noun, his departure ; in the fecond, it is prefixed to a nominative and a verb, he departed. But
even the nominative and the verb, thus applied, exprefs no more than a fpecifymg circumftance annexed to the
other propofition, I came ; and whenever they are rightly apprehended by the mind, they are ftnpt of then pre-
pofitionary form, and confidered abflra. 7y under a new phafis, his departure. Ihus, then, the two .entences are
fynonymous in every refpe£f, excepting the apparent grammatical nature of the words his departure, and he de¬
parted; and even ihefe are reduced to one gramraatic form in the mind,, whenever the import oi the propofmons
is rightly apprehended. Without, and many other prepofitions, efpecially in the learned languages, are uieu
exailly as after is uled in the two inftances which we have given. Horne 'loohe quotes Lord Mansfield for
Lying “ It cannot be read WITHOUT the Attorney-General confents to it.” Ibis, in modern Enghfh, is not
the common phrafeology 3 but it offends not againft any principle of grammar. I he nominative and the verb are
here, as in the former inftance, confidered as an aljlraB noun. “ It cannot be read without the confent of the
Attorney-General.”
warmeth—passage the air, (or, the air being the paffiage or medium')—the fertile earth. ’ And in. the fame
manner may we tranflate the prepofition through in every inftance where through is ufed in L.ngliln, or its equiv.^-
lent prepofition in any language 3 as from the Laiin and Italian word porta (in Spanilh and in french
porte), have come the Latin and Italian prepofition per, the French par, and the Spanish/>or.
(y) If, for inftance, we were to fubilitute with or OF inftead of through, we fhould in the one caie alter the
meaning^
58
Prepofi-
tions.
Prepofi-
tions ori¬
ginally de¬
moted the
various re¬
lations of
body,.
129
and were
at firft ei¬
ther verbs
or nouns.
GRAM
prepofitions were originally formed to denote the rela¬
tions of place. For this opinion we fee not fufficient
evidence. If indeed we could fuppofe the inventors ox
liell improvers of language to have at all concerned them-
felves with relations as ahjlraBedfrom the objetis related,
we muft believe that thofe which firll attracted their at¬
tention were the relations fubfifting among themfelves,
and the various bodies with which they were furround-
ed. We muft likewife agree with our author, that/r/sef
is the grand relation which bodies or naturalfibjlances
maintain at all times to one another ; but we do not
therefore think that it would attract the earlujl notice
of untaught barbarians. On the contrary, we are of
opinion that mankind muft have made very confiderable
progrefs in fcience before they attempted to abftrad
place from body; an attempt which, according to fome
of the moft profound philofophers (z), is not only dii-
ficult, but abfolutely impradlicable. But whatever be
in this, the relations of caufe and ejfedl, of duration and
motion, are in themfelves as obvious, and as likely to ar-
rejl the attention and obtain names, as thofe of place.—
Among men totally illiterate they are evidently more fo *,
for pain and pleafure would fuggeft fome idea of caufe
and efte£l as matters of importance. I here is, however, no
probability that the inventors of any language had the
leaft idea of abjiracl relations. They doubtlefs exprefled
complex conceptions by nouns and verbs, fignificant at once
of the particular ideas and of the various relations by
which they viewed thofe ideas as combined together in a
complex conception. Afterwards, when mens minds be¬
came enlarged, and when, from the ilucluation infepara-
ble from a living language, objefts or ideas received new
names, the old words, whether nouns or verbs, which
were originally employed to exprefs a particular complex
M A H. Chap. VI.
conception, of which certain particular RELATIONS made Prepofi-
a part, might be retained for the purpofe of denot-1 tl0ll!l- <
ing thofe and all fwular relations ; and thus verbs '
and nouns wmuld degenerate into particles bearing
the names of prepofitions and conjunRions. For in-
ftance, one Anglo-Saxon being defirous to communi¬
cate to another his own conception of a houfe with a
party-wall, and having (we (hall fuppofe) no fuch word
in his tongue as a prepo/ition, would naturally utter the
wTord houfe, defiring his friend, at the fame time, to .
add to that well known found another found (uttering
it) fignificant of the particular circumftance wanting
to complete his complex conception;—A houfe WITH
(i. e. Join) a party wall. The wmrd with, as the im¬
perative of a verb, denotes of courfe three ideas com¬
bined together, viz. a command or vojh, an affirmation,
and the idea of junffion. But when the verb withan
was difmifled from the Englifti language, the impera¬
tive with was ftill retained •, but lofing its verbal and
modal nature, it was thenceforth employed to denote
only one of the three ideas for which it originally flood,
viz. the idea of junRion. And thus it is, that verbs,
and alfo nouns and adjeRives, in palling from one lan¬
guage to another, may become prepofitions (a) and con¬
junRions. Thus too it is, that fome of thofe prepef-
tions come to denote the contiguous, and fome the de¬
tached, relation of body. The contiguous, as when we
fay, Cains walked with a faff; i. e. Cains join a
faff walked; the fatue food upon (b) a pedefal, i. e.
the fatue food (the place of its Handing) the HIGHER
PART of a pedefal; the river ran OVER a fund, i. e.
the river ran (the place of its running) the higher
fart of a fand. The detached relation, as when we
fay, He is going TO (c) Italy, he. He is going, THE
END
meaning, and in the other fpeak nonfenfe. “ The fun warmeth WITH the air the fertile earth, is an affirmation
that the fun warmeth BOTH THE AIR AND THE EARTH ; whereas the original fentence affirmed nothing more than
that he warmeth the earth. “ The fun warmeth OF the air the fertile earth,” is nonfenfe as it makes the earth
a part, or a confequence, of the air. So neceffary is it that prepofitions have a meaning, and that the meaning oi
each be attended to. . . ~ rALJ
(z) The Bifhops BERKELEY and Law, with the very learned and ingenious Principal Campbell ot Aberdeen.
See The Principles of Human Knowledge, Law’s Notes on King’s Origin of Evil, and The Philofophy of Rhetoric.
(a) As the Italian fubftantive casa, houfe, race, family, nation, &c. m palling to the Fiench, becomes
the prepofition CHEZ, to which there is not, fo far as we know, a prepofition of precifely the fame import m any
language. Senza or SENZE, in Italian, becomes sans in French, and means alfence. Nor is it neceflary that
verbs and nouns ihould always pafs from one language to another, in order to be converted into prepojitwns. 1 he
Greek prepofition viw? is evidently the corrupted imperative of to fever, to disjoin, to feparate. The
Latin sine is SIT NE, be not. The German SONDER is the imperative of SONDERN, which has the fame meaning
fB)Vp, UPON, OVER, BOVE, above, have all, fays Horne Tooke, one common origin and fignification. In
the Anglo-Saxon, UFA, UFERA, ufemtf.st, are the adjeRives altus, ALTIOR, ALTISSIMUS. Lpa or ufan, up;
comparative ufera, ofere or OFER, over or upper ; fuperlative UFEMiEST, upmof ox uppermef. Beufan, bu-
FAN, on-bufan, bove, above. If this be a juft account of the origin of thefe words, the fentences 111 the text,
where upon, over, and above, occur, will run thus : “ The ftatue flood ON HIGH a pedeftal; the river ran higher
a fand “ the fun is rifen on high the hills.” And here we may obferve, that the mote relation betweenpTW-
ing, running, &c. and place, is rather inferred from the verb itfclj, than exprtffed by feparate wore , an tie
reafon is obvious. For if a ftatue fand, every one knows that it muft Hand on fome thing as well as at fome time.
There is therefore no neceffity, whatever elegance there may be in it, for employing any word to denote XhxxX. rela¬
tion, which is commonly believed to be fignified by on ; but it is neceffary to infert, between the verb an pedefa ,
a word fignificant of place, that pedefal may not be miftaken, by an ignorant perlon, for a portion of time, or any
thing elfe connected with the /landing of the fatue. . u i
(c) That TO is fignificant of detached relation, is the language of Mr Hams, which, though it may be al¬
lowed in a loofe and vulgar fenfe, is certainly not philofophically juft. The prepoiition TO (m Hutch written
toe and tot) is the Gothic fubftantive ; taui or tauhts fignifying aR, effeR, rejult, or conjummatwn; which
Gothic fubftantive is itfelf no other than the paft participle tauid or tauids 0. the verb taujan agcrc. An
Chap. VI. G R A M
Prenofi- end (of his journey) Italy i the fun is rifen above the
PSs! hills i. e. the fun is rifen (the place) THE top of the
' hills : thefe Jigs came FROM Turkey, i. e. thefefigs came
rfginning (their iourney at) Turkey. . .
Befides the detached relation of body, Mr Harris is
of ooinion that the prepofition FROM denotes two other
relations not lefs different than thofe of motion and. refi.
Thus if we lay, “ That lamp hangs from the ceiling,
the prepolition FROM aflumes a character o qmefcence.
MAR.
But if we fay, That lamp is falling YKOU the ceding, the
prepofition in fuch cafe affumes a character f ”l0tl0T1‘
But this is evidently a miftake : the detached relation
in the former inltance of the/jv, as well as the motion
and reft in the prefent inftances, are expreffed not by
the prepofition, but by the verbs came, falls, hangs. I he
word from has as clear, as precife, and at all times as
uniform and unequivocal a meaning, as any word in the
language. From means merely beginning, and no-
—   —     " ' " \ , r -n. j T« Tpnrnnic this verb is written TUAN or
it is obvious, that what is dont, terminated, en ,v , /.nijle. Anvlo-Saxon, the verb is TEOGAN,
TUON whence the modern German THUN, and rts ™/"ik^is7e^edg from the fame root, and is in-
nnd the prepofrtion TO. Do the aux.hary verb as 'E fmall, that an etymologift knows by
^and^LLS b^the
^ of ag4e, which pad participie is hkew.fe
employed as a Uun fubjlantive. He exh.b.ts the denvaum^of AD thus,
r J r AGDUM AGD* ajj
Agitum—agtum < or or  or
The moft fuperficial reader of Latin verfe (he ^ves) knows how eafily AGD or act would
writers of Rome, the prepofition was written ad w y, ; h h Sr on] though that hkewife had
word called the conjunaion AT •, which for the ^me reafon fition TQ and ^ conjunclion too in Eng-
anciently been written, as the prepofition, either AG or the' repofltionPAD and the conjunaion at in Latin. From
lilh, are both \nfynUx and in tneamngM exaffly “ ‘h^00“‘™ “ “ it apF Js that, as late as the reign of
the fpecimens prefixed to Johnfon s diTionary, y ^ d jt has been fhown in the firft vo-
Klizabeth, the^c^rW and eonjunS.", were both wr‘ue" wrth ono O An<l^ ^ ^ are if ]y
lume of the TranfaTions of the Royal Society o/ tha 'pofition and the conjunaion, is, that
of the fame import. The only difference rn “her Hnguage 1*^ or ,. the
the former direB,, as a modificatron of fome addmo^ ^ ^ firmtr is
h to be added, KforntaUy e.prejed, but 0»i/Wwhen
the latter is employed. Thus Denham fays,
“ Wifdom fie has, and, TO his wifdom courage ,
•JSSi r,i s. U .s.
cuftom of the language, have employed the conjuntfionmilead o t e prepay ion.
“ Wifdom he has, and courage too, &tc. # « Wifdom he has, and
This mode of expreffion would have been more conc.fe, and as mtelhgtble as the other,
courage TO bis m/dom,'' &c. reorefented by a fiManlive in the context, but alfo
Not only is the objea governed by TO omitted, when it is reprelenteu oy y j
when it is involved in a prepofition; and then the conjundhon, as it is called, is always
u   Let thofe eyes that view
“ The daring crime, behold the vei^anc® ^ ^ cIrcumftance of behold-
So, “ He made him pnfoner, and killed him ° . a^d ;n tFe other, the killing him
’mg the vengeance is ftated as m addition to the viewing / ^ ' the objea governed by TOO is the
is ftated as an addition to the making him a pnfoner. rA ffahtive Thus then it appears, that TO and
of the preceding proportion taken ^ colons, are^reali; one and the
too, though claffed the one with the prepo i 10 , , . , roiniffa barba et capilli efferaverant fpeciem
fame word& The fame is true of ad and at. Thus ‘ ^Mnck to his afpeft.” But when
ons,” figmfies “ Additional to this, hls W ig rlaffedSwith the conjunclhns, and written differently,
the ohjeft governed by AD is not formally ftated, Faciam Ph. At diligenter. Pa. Fiet.
AT. Thus Terence, “ Ph. Fac ita ut juffi, deducantur / / are to the aflion
Ph. At mature.” By the means of at, the circum ances o f ( ^ . pA Well, it (hall be carefully
commanded. “ Ph. It is not enough that you do it, you muft do it carefully the Engliftl BU/,
done. Ph. In good time TOO.” At, taken in t !S en e, ™ tyrannMrequentabat, at patriam amabat ■”
to mark the unexpected union of incongruous objects. > ^ i d bis country.” “ He was a
literally, “ He frequented the court of the tyrant-, joined EVEN from verbs
courtier and a patriot too.” But if ad and AT in Latin, am , denote addition. The anfwer is obvious.
which fignifj- to DO or act, it may be afked how they come thenjfdvcs to denote addition. 1. jf
6o G R A M M A R. Chap. VI
Prcpofl- tiling elfe. It is limply the Anglo-Saxon and Gothic
tions. noun YKUW,he ginning, origin,fource, fountain, aulhorfo').
Now if this meaning be applied to Mr Harris’s in-
Itances, from will fpeak clearly for itfelf, without the
afliifance of the interpreting verbs,' which are fuppofed
by him to vary its character.
“ Thefe figs came from Turkey.”
“ That lamp /fl//j from the ceiling.”
“ That lamp hangs from the ceiling.”
Came is a complex term for one fpecies of motion j
falls is a complex term for another fpecies of motion y
and hangs is a complex (e) term for a fpecies of attach¬
ment. Have we occalion to communicate or mention
the commencement or beginning of thefe motions,
and of this attachment, and alio the place where they
commence or begin ? To have complex terms for each
occafion of this fort is abfolutely impoflible y and there¬
fore nothing can be more natural or more fimple than
to add the fignsof thofe ideas, viz. the word beginning
(which will remain always the fame) and the name of
the place (which will perpetually vary). Thus,
“ Thefe figs came—beginning ’Turkey.,'1
“ That lamp falls—beginning ceiling.''"'
“ That lamp hangs—beginning ceiling."''1
That is,
“ Turkey the place of BEGINNING to come.”
“ Ceiling the place of beginning to fall.”
“ Ceiling the place of BEGINNING to hang.”
It has been faid by no lefs a man than Bilhop Wilkins,
that FROM refers primarily to place, and fecondanly to
time. But the truth is, that from relates to every
thing to which beginning relates, and to nothing elfe.
“ From morn till night the eternal larum rang.”
That is, “ The larum rang BEGINNING morning (or
morning being the time of its BEGINNING) till night.”
As from always denotes beginning, fo to and TILL
always denote the end. There is, however, this dif-
^rene'e between them, that to denotes the end of any
thing; TILL the end only of time. We may fay indif¬
ferently—“ From morn TO night,” or “ from morn
TILL night, the eternal larum rang 5” but we cannot
fay—“ Thefe figs came from Turkey till England.”
That till can, with propriety, be oppofed to FROM Prepofi.
only when we are talking of time, is evident y for it is , r ons- ,
a wTord compounded of to and while, i. e. time. And
as the coalefcence of thefe two words to-whilf, took
place in the language long before the prefent fuper-
fluous ufe of the article the, the phrafe—“ From morn
TILL night”—is neither more nor lefs than—From
mom ro time night. When we fay, “ from morn to
night,'1'' the word-TlME is omitted as unneceffary.
Befides FROM, Mr Harris mentions OVER as fignificant
fometimes of motion and fometimes of rejl; and quotes
as inftances the two following paflages from Milton ;
 To fupport unea/y ftps
Over the burning marl.
Here, fays he, over denotes motion. Again,
 He with looks of cordial love
Hung OVER her enamoured.
Here OVER denotes ref. But the truth is, that OVER
denotes neither molion nor ref in either of the paffages.
In the firft quotation, indeed, motion is implied ; but it
is implied in the word STEPS y and not in OVER, which
denotes only that the place of the fteps w?as the top of
the burning marl. In the fecond quotation ref is im¬
plied, and that too a particular fpecies of reft y but it is
implied or rather expreffed by the verb HUNG, and OVER
denotes the place of that fpecies of reft.
108. But though the original ufe of prepofitions
was to denote the relations of body, they could not be
confined to this office only. They by degrees extend- 'p'neVwere
ed themfelves to iuhf&LS incorporeal; and came to de-by decrees
note relations, ?isvsz\\intelle£lual as local. Thus, becaufe in extended to
place he who is above has commonly the advantage over hlhieCh jn-
him who \sbelow; hence we transfer oVERanduNDER(F)C01l’0‘tu''J
to dominion and obedience. Of a king, we fay, he ruled
over his people ; of a foldier, he ferved under his general.
So too we fay, vith thought •, without attention y think¬
ing over a fubjecl y under anxiety y from fear y through
jealoufy, &c. All which inftances, with many others
of like kind, fttow, that the firft words of men, like
their firf ideas, had an immediate reference to fenfible
objeBs ; and that in after days, when they began to
difeern with their intellect, they took thofe words which
they
If a man fliould utter a fentence, and to the end of it fubjoin the very general word DO, the perfon to whom he
fpoke, would naturally afk, do what ? and this queftion would, of courfe, produce an additional fentence or
claufe of a fentence. Befides, it is to be obferved, that AGERE, from which the Latin prepofttion is derived,
as well as the Gothic verb, which is the fource of the Engliffi particles, means not only to do, but alfo to ad¬
duce or bring ; fo that when we fay, “ he is going to Italy,” we do nothing more than affirm that “ he is go¬
ing,and defire the perfon to whom we fpeak, “ to add Italy to the journey.”
'From this derivation of the prepofition TO, it will be feen at once upon what principle it is employed to
mark the infinitive mode. In the learned languages that mode is generally known by its termination ; but in
Engliffi it would be impoffible, without the aid of TO or of fome other wmrd fignificant of atfion, to diftinguiffi the
VERB love from the noun or fubfantive.
(d) This derivation is Mr Horne Tooke’s j and he fupports it by the following fentence : Ne r.edd ge se
THE ON FRUMMAN WORTHE, HE WORHTE WGERMAN AND WIFMEN j which is the Anglo-Saxon of St Matt. xix. 4.
“ Annon legiftis, quod qui eos in pnneipio creavit, creavit eos marem et feminarn ?”
(e) Thefe are complex terms becaufe they are verbs. Each denotes an affirmation and time y and combined
with thefe, came and falls denote motion, and hangs denotes ref.
(f) Under and BENEATH, though by the found they feem to have little connection, are yet in faCt almoft"
the fame w’ord, and may very well fupply each other’s place. Under is nothing but on-^neder, and beneath
is compounded of the imperative BE and the noun neath. Neath uncompounded having flipped away from
our language, would perhaps be unintelligible, had not the nouns nether and nethermost ftill continued in
common ufe. Neath y Anglo-Saxon, neothan, neothe ; Dutch, neden y Danilh, NED ; German, NIEDRE y
and Swedifli, nedre and ' neder •, is undoubtedly as much a fubftantive, and has the fame meaning, as the
■word nadir. In common language it den’otes the bottom^
Ch'-p. VI. ■■
fiep jfi- they found uWy mode, and transferred tnem by me-
tions. tanlior to inte/lefiual conceptions. . . ,
   ' 'PAmono- the relations which may be confidered ra¬
ther asintelleaual than corporeal, arethofe of caufe and
grammar.
ther by the latter prepofition, the obied exprehed by the
firft word or fentence is declared to be the COK£E-
OUENCE of, or to PROCEED from, the objecl expfeljed
by the fecond. It is therefore a matter of perfeft indif¬
ference to the fenfe, whether we fay ftcknefs o? hunger
6i
Prepofi-
*.ions.
confequence ; and for the denoting ot theie we ave rhiefs t,QR hunter; The man, of he /peaks little, is wife,
Which di— U By means of the
to one another, and at ot
without injury to the fenfe
prepofition OF, we declare ficknefs to be the CON se¬
quence proceeding from hunger, and nvifdom to be the
CONSEQUENCE we infer from the man's /peaking htue,
,, IVvcherlev's Uountry w ije. by means of FOR, we declare hunger to be the cause c
f gallant. n/nlaced in oppofition: at fickn/s, and the circumilance oi/peaking little to oe e
Here of and for feem almop i P d;f_ CAUSE from which we ;nfer the man's wfdom.. In the
lead their efte&s in the fentence appeal to i _ > r    „„ 4.^ ua a noun in afifio/i-
ferent ; for, by the help of thefe two prepormon*a one
Well! his e’en fo ! I have got the London dif-
eafe they call love. I am fick of my hufband, and FOR
my gallant.” Wycherley's Country 1^
and without le aflifta^nce of any other words die ex-
prelfes the two contrary affedions of loathing and
The truth, however, is, that the author if it had
pleafed him, might have ufed OF where he has emp ey¬
ed for, and FOR where he has put OF. I his is evident
from the following quotation .
“ Marian. Come, Anne, you llgo with us.
“ Amie. I am not well. n , a l l
“ Lionel. She's fick of the young foepherd that bc-
M her." . Sad Shepherd.
In the fame manner we may, with equal propriety,
fay—“ We are fick OF hunger or--“ We are fim.
FOR hunger.” And in both cafes we {hall have expief-
fed precifely the fame thing, with only this difference,
that in the former fentence, we declarefcknefs to be a
consequence ; in the latter, we declare hunger to be a
cause. But to return to the country that poor
Hi
one lentence, OF is to be confidered*as a noun \s\ appojt
tion to ficknefs ; in the other, as a noun in appofiuon to
the man is wife taken abflraElly as a noun. In the one
fentence for (i. e. cause) is to be confidered as a noun
in appofition to hunger ; in the other, as xkefame noun in
apportion to he /peaks little taken abJlraBly^ as a noun.
100. In the foregoing ufe of prepofitions, we have Prepofi-
feen how they are applied by way of juxta-pofition;
that is to fay, where they are prefixed to a word with-with
out becoming a part of it. But they are ufed alio 6yother
way of compofition ; that is, they are prefixed to other words
words fo as to become real parts of them.
Greek \\c have iTrieleca-txi ; in Latin mtelligere , an m
Englifh uNDRRjland. So alfo, to 10 re tel, to or Enact,
to uNDERvalue, to outgo, &c. *, and in Gra>£ and Latin
other inftances innumerable. In this cafe the prepo 1-
tions commonly transfufe fomething of their own mean-
incr into the word with which they are compounded, 132
fick for love. She wTas
Sick of d'fgufl for her hujband ;
Sick of love for her gallant.
Sick for difgujl of her hujhand.
Sick for love of her gallant. .
In the firft fentence, as thus Hated, ficknefs is declared
to be the consequence of difguf, of which her hujband
is declared to be THE cause. In the fccow\,fickneJs is
declared to be the consequence of love, of which her
gallant is declared to be the cause. In the third len¬
tence, disgust is declared to be the cause of her Jic -
nefs, and the consequence or offspring of her huj¬
hand. In the fourth, love is declared to be the cause
of her ficknefs, and the CONSEQUENCE or offspring
of her gallant. r n c
Thus, then, it appears, that though the two/rf ot
thefe fentences, taken entire, ponvey the very fame mean-
ing with the two lajl, yet the import of the prepofition
FOR is as different from that of OF, as CAUSE is from
When two words ox fentences are
Enormis is fomething not fimply big, but oig in excels j ing into
fomething got out of the rule, and beyond the meafure. thofe^
Dico, “ to fpeak *,” ndieo, “to fpeak out j whence
Ediflum “ an edi£l,” fomething lo effeftually fpoken
as all are fuppofed to hear and all to obey.—On the
contrary, IN and SUB diminifti and leffen. InjuJIus,
iNiquus, “ UNjuft, iNequitable fomething that lies
within iuftice and equity, that reaches not io far, that
falls jhortof them. Sunniger, “ blackiftr •,” susrubicundus
“ reddiih tending to black, and tending to red} but
yet under the ftandard, and below perfeftion. '33
' no. Before we difmifs this part of our fubjeft, weThmre^
fiiall make the fame general remark on prepojitions that to De difc0.
we formerly made on conjunctions ; vi%. that the precue vere^#
import of each can with certainty be known only by
tracing it to its fource in fome word of known and de¬
terminate meaning, either in the language where the
prepofition itfelf has place, or in fome parent or cog-
nate tongue. And it may be laid down as an mfal.ib.e
rule, that where different languages ufe the fame or a
fimiiar particle, that language ought to be confidered
CONSEQUENCE (g).   -
linked together by the former of thefe prepohtiom ^ mreZIn which°the true meaning of
°l’jf by*f y™*«£*g**££ he :ohg“ePfoU and where its ufe is as cora-
linked 4* ^ ^ verbs andjub-
(g) derives FOR from the Greek wg. ; Stimer, ^frore the Gothic
that it is no other than the Gothic fubftantive fairing, cau.e. f T and \FORA pojhritas,
and Anglo-Saxon af) is a fragment of the Gothic and Anglo-Saxon '"’'i (Vomer always meaning caufe,
proles, &c. In a word, he conliders Fort and OF as nouns or fubftant.ye ; the fomer ^
the latter always meaning conjeoucr.ee, of spring, fuccfor, follower, • confidered as nouns in appojitiox
and we have no doubt of it, the prepofitions for and of arc m fyntax to be coiwe.ed as PI J
with other nouns} ys with fentences taken ab/ractiy iu nouns.
6z GRAM
Interjec- flantlves. When -prepofitions can be traced to fuch
tl0ns^ , fources as thefe, no room can be left for difputes
v* concerning their meaning. In carrying on this ety¬
mological purfuit, we find advantages in the nature of
prepofitions which conjunBiuns do not afford us. With
and without, from and to, with many other words
belonging to this clafs, have meanings direftly oppo-
fite and contradi£lory to each other. If, then, by the
total or partial extindHon of an original language, the
root of any one prepofition be loff, whilft that of its
oppofite remains, the philofopher ought to be fatisfied
with reafoning from contrariety; as nothing is more
evident, than that the meaning of a word is known
when wTe know with precifion the meaning of its op¬
pofite. When we meet, however, wdth a lucklefs
prepofition of which no root is left to be dug up, and
which has itfelf no diredl oppofite in the language, no¬
thing remains but that w7e inquire for wThat purpofe it
is ufed by the bell writers both ancient and modern j
and if we can fix upon one meaning which wall apply,
however awkwardly, to all the places where it occurs,
or to the greater part of them, the probability is, that
wc have difcovered the true and original (h) meaning of
the prepofition ; and by keeping that meaning con-
ftantly in view, we fhall ourfelves be enabled to ufe the
word with perfpicuity and precifion.
*34
The inter
Sect. III. Of InterjeBions.
ill. Befides the above parts of fpeech, there is an-
jedtion not other acknowledged in all the languages of Europe,
called the interjection *, a word which cannot be
comprehended under any of the foregoing claffes.
properly
any part of
fpeech.
The genuine interjecliom are very few in number, and of
very little importance, as they are thrown into a fen-
tence without altering its form either in fyntax or in
jignif cation. In the wmrds of Horne Tooie, the brutilh
inarticulate interjection has nothing to do with fpeech,
and is only the miferable refuge of the fpeechlefs. The
dominion of fpeech, according to the fame author, is
eredted on the downfal of interjeBions. Without the
artful contrivances of languages, mankind would have
nothing but mterjeElions with which to communicate
orally any of their feelings. “ The neighing of a
horfe, the lowing of a cowr, the barking of a dog, the
purring of a cat, fneezing, coughing, groaning, Ihriek-
-ing, and every other involuntary convullion with oral
found, have almoft as good a title to be called parts of
fpeech as inttrjeEhons. In the intercourfe of language,
interjeBions are employed only when the fuddennefs or
vehemence of fome affedfion or paffion returns men to
their natural ftate, and makes them for a moment
forget the ufe of fpeech ; or when, from fome circum-
flance, the (hortnefs of time will not permit them to
exercife it.” The genuine interjedlion, which is al¬
ways expreffive of fome very ffrong fenfation, fuch, as
AH ! w’hen we feel pain, does not owe its charadterifti-
MAR. Chap. VI.
cal expreffion to the arbitrary form of articulation, Inarjec-
but derives its whole force from the tone of voice and tior.s.
modification of countenance and geffure. Of confe- -v—'—^
quence, thefe tones and geftures exprefs the fame
meaning, without any relation to the articulation which
they may affume \ and are therefore univerfally under-
ftood by all mankind. Voluntary interjedlions are
ufed in books only for embellifliment, and to mark
forcibly a ftrong emotion. But where fpeech can be
employed, they are totally ufelefs ■, and are ahvays in-
fufficient for the purpofe of communicating thought, Dr
Beattie ranks f range, prodigious, amazing, wonderful, 0
dear, dear me, &c. w hen ufed alone, and without apparent
grammatical fyntax, among the interjeBions: but he
might with as much propriety have confidered hardly,
truly, really, and even many Latin verbs, as interjeBions;
for thefe twro are often ufed alone, to fupply the place
of whole fentences. The truth is, that all men, when
fuddenly and violently agitated, have a ftrong ten¬
dency to ftiorten their difcourfe by employing a fingle
word to exprefs a fentimenl. In fuch cafes, the wTord
employed, wdiether noun, adjeBive or verb, would be
the principal word of the fentence, if that fentence were
completed j and the agitation of the fpeaker is fuch,
and the caufe of it fo obvious, that the hearer is in no
danger of miftaking the fenfe, and can himfelf fupply
the w-ords that are wanting. Thus if a perfon, after
liftening to a romantic narrative, were to exclaim,
Jlrange! would any man of common fenfe fuppofe,
that the word Jlrange, becaufe uttered alone, had loft
the power of an adjeBive and become an interjeBion ?
No, furely : Every one fees, that the exclamation is
equivalent to, That is strange, or That is a strange
Jlory. Real interjections are never employed to con¬
vey truth of any kind. They are not to be found
amongft laws, in books of civilinjlitutions, in hi/lory, or
in any treatife of uleful arts or fciences ; but in rhetoric
and poetry, in novels, plays and romancer, v/\iexe in Eng-
lifti, fo far from fiw'mg pathos to the ftyle, they have ge¬
nerally an effect that is difgufting or ridiculous.
Having now analyfed every part of fpeech which
can be neceffary for the communication of thought, or
which is acknowledged in any language with which
we are acquainted 5 we (hall difmifs the article of Gram¬
mar, after annexing a Table, which may prefent at one
viewT the feveral clnffes wads fuhdivifions of words. Of the
different modes of dividing the parts of fpeech, as wTell
as of the little importance oi fyjlematic clajfifications, wre
have already declared our decided opinion : but for the
fake of thofe who may think differently from us, we
(hall in the annexed Table adopt Mr Harris's clafiifi-
cation as far as it is intelligible; after informing our
readers that Mr Horne Toohe admits only three parts
of fpeech, the article, the noun, and the verb, and
ccnfiders all other wmrds as corruptions or abbrevia¬
tions of the two laft of thefe.
A
(h) For inftance, let us fuppofe that Horne Tooke's derivation of FOR, from the Gothic fubftantive fairin'A,
is fanciful and ill-founded *, yet there can be little doubt but cause is its true and original meaning, when it is found,
that of fixteen examples brought by Greenwood, and forty-fix by Johnfon, of different fignifications of the word
FOR, there is not one vrhere the notm cause may not be fubftituted inftead of the prepoftion FOR ; fometimes
indeed awkwardly enough, but always without injury to the f nje. Even where for feems to be loco altenus,
which Lowth afferts to be its primary fenfe, it will be found to be cause, and nothing eife : r\\scs% He made
confide! able progrefs in the fludy of the law before he quitted that profefjion rex this of poetry ; i. c. before he quitted
that profejjiott, this of poetry being the cause of his quitting it, I
G II A
[ 63 ]
G R A
Gramma¬
rian
u
Granada.
GRAMMARIAN, one that is {killed in or teaches
grammar. . . . f ,
Anciently the name grammarian was a title ol ho¬
nour, literature, and erudition, being given to perfons
accounted learned in any art or faculty whatever.
But it is otherwife now, being frequently ufed as a
term of reproach, to fignify a dry plodding penon,
employed about words and phrafes, but inattentive to
the true beauties of expreflion and delicacy of fenti-
ment. The ancient grammarians, called alfo philolo-
grrs, mult not be confounded with the grammatilts,
whofe foie bufinefs was to teach children the Hrft ele¬
ments of language. Varro, Cicero, Melfala, and even
Julius Caefar, thought it no dilhonour to be ranked
grammarians, who had many priveliges granted to them
by the Roman emperors.
GRAMMONT, a town of France, in Upper Vi¬
enne, remarkable for its abbey, which is the chief of
the order. E. Long. 1. 30. N. Lat. 46. x.
GRAMPIAN hills ; a chain of high mountains
in Scotland, which run from eaft to weft almoft the
whole breadth of the kingdom. See (Scottijl}') Alps
and Scotland.—They take their name from only a
{ingle hill, the Mans Grampius of Tacitus, where Gal-
gacus waited the approach of Agricola, and where the
battle was fought fo fatal to the brave Caledonians.
GRAMPOUND, a town of Cornwall in England,
feated on the river Valle, over which there is nere a
bridge. W. Long. 5. 2,5. N. Eat. 50. 20. The in¬
habitants have a confiderable manufafiure of gloves ;
and the town fends two members to parliament. Some
think that this town is the V oluba of the ancients,
becaufe it ftands on the fame river 5 and that on the
building of the bridge, the name was. changed into.
Grandpont. It was made a borough in the reign , of
Edward III. by whofe charter it was endowed with
large privileges, particularly freedom fiom toll through
all Cornwall, a market on Saturday, and three fairs 111
the year ; which the burgeffes hold of the duchy of
Cornwall in fee-farm, at the rent of about 12 guineas.
Its privileges were confirmed by King Henry VIII.
but it did° not fend members to parliament till the
reign of Edward VI. It is a corporation with a
mayor, eight magiftrates, a recorder, and town-clerk.
The mayor is chofen annually the Tuefday before Mi¬
chaelmas, and the members by the majority of the
magiftrates and freemen, who are fuch of the inhabi¬
tants as pay fcot and lot. There is a chapel of eafe
in the town to the parifti church, which is at Creed
about a quarter of a mile off.
GRAMPUS, a fpecies of delphinus. See Delphi-
Nus, Cetology Index.
GRANADA, a province of Spain, which for a
long time was a kingdom diftindl from the reft of that
country. See the article Spain.—It made a part
of the ancient Baetica} and was inhabited by the Ba-
ftuli, the Sexitani, &c. At prefent it is fometimes
called Upper Andalufta. It is bounded to the fouth
and eaft by the Mediterranean, to the weft and north
by Lower Andalufia, and to the north-eaft by Murcia.
Its extent from weft to eaft is two hundred and ten
miles *, but its greateft breadth exceeds not eighty.
The air here is temperate and healthy j and though
there are many mountains in the province, and iome
of them very high, yet they are almoft everywhere
covered with vines and fruit-trees, together with lau- Granada.
rel, myrtle, fweet-bafil, thyme, lavender, marjoram, '
and other aromatic herbs, which give an exquifite
tafte to the flefti of their Iheep and cattle. A great
deal of filk and fugar, flax and hemp, honey and wax,
is alfo produced here •, befides dates and acorns, lupe-
rior to the fineft nuts; good ftone for building ; feve-
ral forts of gems} fumach, ufed in drefling goat-{kins j
and galls, of which a dye is made for leather. I he
valleys, with which the mountains are interfperfed, are
extremely beautiful and fertile. The inhabitants of
fome of the higheft mountains are faid to be defeen-
dants of the Moors*, and, though they are become Ro¬
man Catholics, retain, in a great mealure, their ancient
cuftoms, manners, and language. The principal rivers
in the province are the Genii or Xenil, and Guada-
lantin, belides which there are many leffer ftreams.
Abundance of fait is made in this province.*, wftiich,
though neither fo populous nor fo well cultivated as
when fubjeff to the Moors, yet is as much fo as any in
Spain. It was the laft of the kingdoms poffeffed by
the Moors, and was not reduced and annexed to the-'
crown of Caltile until 1492.
Granada, the capital of the above province, is fitu-
ated at the foot of the Sierra Nevada, or the Snowy
Mountain, in a wholefome air and fruitful country,
an hundred and eighty miles fouth of Madrid, in
W. Long. 2. 30. N. Lat. 36. 56. It ftands upon
two hills feparated by the Darro. The Genii runs un¬
der the walls, and thefe two rivers are formed, from the
melting of the fnow with which the mountain is. con-
ftantly covered. The Darro is faid to carry with it
fmall particles of gold ; and its name, derived from
dat auruin, may be alleged as a proof of this: the Ge¬
nii, in like manner, rolls with its ftream little.pieces of
filver. When Charles V. came to Granada in 1526,
with the emprefs Ifabella, the city prefented him with
a crown made of gold gathered from the Darro. The
city is large and magnificent, containing a great num¬
ber of very hand fome public and private buildings. Its
walls, which are adorned with many towers at equal
diftances, are faid to be ten miles in compafs. Here
are two caftles *, the one built by the Moors, and the
other by Charles V. and Philip II. They, both com¬
mand a very fine profpeft; and the firft is fo. large,
that it looks like a city by itfelf, and, it is faid, has
room enough to accommodate forty thoufaud people,
exclufive of the royal palace, and the convent of St
Francis. Here is alfo a court of inquifition; a royal
tribunal j and an umverfity, founded in 1531 ? with
the fee of an archbilhop, who has a revenue of forty
thoufand ducats per annum. A great many noble¬
men, clergymen, and wealthy citizens, refide in tins ci¬
ty, of which the fiik trade and manufacture is very
great, and the arfenal is faid to be the beft furniflred of
any in Spain. The inhabitants, tvho are partly de¬
fended of the Moors, are well fupplied with wa¬
ter. There are feveral fine fquares, particularly that
called the Bivaramba, or P/apa Mayor, where the
bull-fights are held j and without the city is a large
plain, full of towns and villages, called La Vega de
Granada.
The Moors are faid to regret nothing, but Granada,
amongft all the Ioffes they have fuftained in Spain 5 they
mention it in all their evening prayers, and fupplicate
heaven
G R A [ 64 ] G R A
licaven to rcftore it to their poflefTion. The laft Moor-
ilh ambaflador who came into Spain obtained permu-
fion of the king to fee Granada ; he ihed tears on en¬
tering the Alhambra, and could not refrain from ex¬
claiming, that the folly of his anceftors had deprived
them and their poflerity of that delightful country.
Granada had formerly twenty gates: the tirft, that
of Elvira, which ftill remains •, the fecond, that of Bib*
almazar, or of conference, becaufe, with the' Moors, it
was a kind of place of refort where they converfed on af¬
fairs •, the third, Vivarambla, fo called from its leading
to a grand fquare which ftill bears the lame name} the
fourth, Bib Racha, or of provifions ; the fifth, Bita-
taubin, or the gate of the hermits, which led to diffe¬
rent foiitudes, the abodes of dervifes •, the fixth, Bib-
mitre, or Bibiacha, the firft gate the teventh, the
mill gate •, the eighth, that of the fun, becaufe it open¬
ed to the eatt 5 the ninth, the gate of the Alhambra,
called by the Moors Bib Luxar-, the tenth, Bib Adam,
dr the gate of the bones of Adam j the twelfth, Bib
Ciedra, the gate of the nobles ; the Moors hept this
gate fhut for a long time, becaufe it had been predic¬
ted that the enemies which fhould one day take the
city, would enter by that gate j the thirteenth, is that
of Faxalauza, or of the hill of almond trees-, the four¬
teenth, the lion gate, in Arabic, Bib Elecei •, the fif¬
teenth, the coaft gate, called by the Moors Alacabar ;
the fixteenth, Bib Albonut, or the gate of the Banners,
at prefent the magdalen gate'-, the feventeenth, that of
the Darro ; the eighteenth, that of the Mofayca 5 the
nineteenth, that called the gate of Ecce Homo ; the
twentieth, that by the fide of the Alhambra.
The Moors have left more monuments in Granada
than in any other city in Spain. From the great num¬
ber of infcriptions" in and about the city, and the fine
edifices of the Alhambra and the Generalif, it might
be fuppofed thefe people intended to make Granada
the greateft depofitory of their religion, manners, cu-
ftoms, and magnificence. There is not a wall which
does not bear fome marks of their power j but, not-
withftanding this abundance of monuments, the reign
of the Moors in Spain is ftill buried in confufion and
obfcurity. The ignorance of the Spaniards, their fu-
perftition, and the hatred they bore the Moors, have
much contributed to this darknefs ; they have either
deftroyed, or fuffered to be effaced by time, every
thing which bore the mark of Mahometanifm, inftead
of preferving the monuments of antiquity, which at
the fame time were thofe of their own glory ; and it
may be faid, that chance alone, and the folidity of
their conftrubtion, much more than curiofity or a love
of the arts, has preferved thofe which ftill exift, though
daily going to ruin.
An account of the Alhambra has been already gi¬
ven under its name in the order of the alphabet From
the hall of Comares there mentioned, there is a modern
little ftaircafe*, the old one, which correfponded to the
beauty of the edifice, having been deftroyed. At the
top of the ftaircaie is a gallery, a part of which is in-
clofed with an iron railing : this kind of cage is called
the prifon of the queen. It was here the wife of the
laft king of Granada was imprifoned. The Gomels
and Legris, two families of diitimftion, bore falfe wit-
nefs againft her virtue, and occalioned the deftrudlion
qf the greateft part of the Abencerrages, another
3
powerful and numerous fa-nily of Granada of whom Granada-
they were jealous. The hiftory of this event is given
as follows :
In the year 1491, Abdali unnamed the Little, ftill
reigned in Granada-, but thi cny was upon tut Oimk
of ruin, for the principal famines were divided againft
each other. The Moors had carried their arms aganit
Jaen, and had been bravely repuiled. Autiaii was i un-
foling himfelf in one of his pleafure houtes tor the ill
fuccefs of his enterprife, when che Zegris, who 1 ng
had be?n the fecret enemies ot tne A -terraces,
took the opportunity of this ceieat to rep.. them
to the king as rebellious luujetts, wlio emnuiyed taeir
immenfe riches to gain the favour ot the people and
dethrone their fovereign. I hey accuied Aloin La-
met, the moft rich and powerful among them, oi ha¬
ving an adulterous commerce with the queen, and pro¬
duced witneffes who ailerted they had cn a certain ie-
ftival feen, at Generalif, under a bower of idle trees,
Albin Hamet in the arms oi that princels. 1 he tuiy
of Abdali may eafily be imagined 5 he ivvore the ae-
ftrubtion of the Abencerrages. But the Zegris, too
prudent to let his anger break forth, adviied him^ to
difiimulate, and not to fuffer it to be known to that
numerous and powerful family that he was inloinaed of
their perfidy. It will be better, laid they, to entice
them into the fnare, and, before they can unite and
put themlelves into a ftate of defence, revenge. upon
their heads the infult offered to the crown. I ms ad¬
vice was followed } Abdali went to the Alhambra,
having ordered thirty of his guards to arm themlelves,
and the executioner to attend. Ihe Abenceuages
were fent for one by one, and beheacied as loon as they
entered the hall of the lions, where there is ftill a large
vafe of alabafter, which was quickly filled with blood
and the heads of expiring bodies. _L nirty-five heads
had already been ftruck off, and all the Abencerrages
would have died in the lame manner, had not a page,
who had followed his mailer, and remained unpercei¬
ved in the hurry of the execution, taken an opportu¬
nity of withdrawing and giving information to the reit
of the unhappy family of what had palled, ihele im¬
mediately aflembled their friends in arms, crying out
through" the city of Granada, “ Treafon! treafon 1
Let the king die ! he unjuftly puts to death the Aben¬
cerrages 'Ihe people, w'ith whom they were favou¬
rites, did not hefitate in affifting them : fourteen thou-
fand men w-ere foon found in arms, and immediately
proceeded towards the Alhambra, fhouting ail the
way, Let the king die ! Abdali, furprifed his fecret
fhould have been fo loon difeovered, and feverely re¬
penting of having followed the pernicious counfels he
had reqeiyed, ordered the caftle gates to be iLut ; but
they were prefently let on fire. Muley Hacen, who had
been forced to abdicate the throne in favour 01 his Ion,
hearing the tumult of the people, had one gate open¬
ed, and prefented himfelf to appeafe the rage of the
citizens', but he no fooner appeared, than he.was lut¬
ed up by the multitude neareft the gate, who cried out,
“ Behold our king, we will have no other, long live
Muley Hacen -,” and leaving him furrounded by a
ftronc- guard, the Abencerrages, and other nobles, en¬
tered0 the caftle, accompanied by upwards of an hun¬
dred foldiers. But they found the queen only, with
her women, and in the utmoft confternation at the
fudde*
G R A [
fudden revolution, of which (he knew not the came.
They a five d for the king 5 and being informed he was
in the hall of the lions, entered it furiouily, and found
him defended by the Zegris and the Gomels, and in
lefs than two hours killed upwards of two hundred of
them. Abdali had the good fortune to efcape. I ne
bodies of the beheaded Abencerrages were laid upon
black cloth, and carried to the city. _ Muza, brother
to Afcdali, and who by his great a&ions had gained
the favour of the people, feeing the Abencerrages were
revenged, found means to appeafe them •, and having
learned that the king had taken refuge m a mofque
near the mountain now called Saint Helena, went an
brought him back to the caftle of the Alhambra, for
feveral days nothing but fighs and groans were heard
throughout the city. Abdali fhut himfelf up in the caftle,
and refufed to fee the queen. Thofe who had acculed
her of adultery, however, perfifted in their falfe accuia-
tion, and faid, they would maintain, with arms m
their hands, againft all who (tumid contradict them,
that the queen was guilty. The unhappy princeis was
imprifoned, and the day arriving on which (he was to
perilli by the hands of the executioner, when none a-
mong the Moors offering to defend her, (he was ad-
vifed to commit her caule to fome Chriltian knights,
who prefented themfelves at the time appointed, and
conquered her falfe accufers, fo that (he was immedt-
ately fet at liberty. The taking of Granada foon fol¬
lowed this combat *, Muza and the Abencerrages ha¬
ving, it is faid, facilitated the conqueft of it by Ferdi¬
nand and Ifabella. ,
From the Alhambra you enter the Generalit by a
low cmte, which favoured the efcape of Abdali when
Ferdinand took Granada. Generalif is faid to figni-
fy, in Arabic, the houfe of love, of dance, and pleafure.
It*was built by a prince of the name of Omar, who
was fo fond of muftc, that he retired to this palace, en¬
tirely to give himfelf up to that amufement. The Ge¬
neralif is the mod pleafmg fituation in the^ environs of
Granada. It is built upon a very high mountain,
whence waters rufh from every ftde, which efcape in
torrents, and fall in beautiful cafcades in the courts,
gardens, and halls of that ancient palace. The gar¬
dens form an amphitheatre, and are full 01 tiees, vene¬
rable from their antiquity, Two cypreffes in particu¬
lar are noted, called the Cypreffes of the queen, be-
caufe it was near them the perfidious Gomel impeach¬
ed the virtue of that princefs and the honour of tne
Abencerrages. Of this place, travelleis obferve, that
the writers of romances have never imagined a fcene
equal to it. 1 c j j
Granada was formerly calied Illibcria^ and founded,
if we will believe fome writers, by Liberia, a great-
grand-daughter of Hercules, daughter of Hifpan, and
wife to Hefperus, a Grecian prince, and brother to
Atalanta. Others, who fupport their affertions by
proofs to the full as fatisfadory, maintain that it w’as
founded by Iberus, grandion of lubal, and that it took
the name of Granada, or Garnata,. from Nata tlm
daughter of Liberia ; this word being compofed of
Gar (which in the language of the time fignified grot¬
to) and Nata; that is, “ the grotto of Nata,” becaufe
that princefs ftudied aftrology and natural hiftory, and
delighted in the country. It is certain that fuch ai
perfon as Nata, or Natayda, exifted in the firft ages of
Vol. X. Part I.
65 ] G R A .
the foundation of Granada *, and that in the place
where the Alhambra now (lands, there was a temple
dedicated to Nativala. The date of. the foundation of
Granada is faid to be 2808 years before Chnft. We
know that in the time of the Romans it was a munici¬
pal colony.-—A defeription in Latin of Granada, fuch
as it was in 1560, written by a merchant^ at Antwerp,
named George Hofnahel, who travelled into Spain, is
to be found in the work intitled Civitatis orbis terra-
rum, printed at Cologne in 1576. This book alb
contains a good plan ot the city o( Granada.
Granada, or Grenada, one of the Cariooee iflands.
See Grenada.
Granada, a town of America, in the^ province
of Nicaragua, and in the audience of Guatimala,
feated on the lake Nicaragua, 70 miles from the
South fea. It w-as taken twice by the French buc¬
caneers, and pillaged. The inhabitants carry on _a
great trade by means of the lake, which communi¬
cates with the North fea. W. Long. 85. 10. N. Lat.
11. 8. " # '
Granada, Neva, a province of South Ameri¬
ca, in Terra Firma, about 75 miles in length, and
as much m breadth. It is bounded on the north by
Carthagena and St Martha, on the eaft by \enezuela,
on the iouth by Popayan, and on the wTeft by Darien. It
contains mines of gold, copper, and iron } horfes,
mules, good paftures, com, and fruits. It belongs
to the Spaniards, and Santa-Fe de-Bagota is the capi¬
tal town. -
GRANADILLOES, the name of fome iflands
of the Caribbees, in America, having St Vincent to
the north and Granada to the fouth. They are fo in-
confiderable that they are quite neglefled $ but were
ceded to England by the treaty of peace in 1763.
GRANADIER, a foldier armed with a fvvord, a
firelock, a bayonet, and a pouch full of hand grana-
does. They wear high caps, are generally the tailed
and briikeft fellows, and are always the firft upon all
attacks.
Every battalion of foot has generally a company
of granadiers belonging to it 5 or elfe four or five
granadiers belong to each company or the battalion,
which, on occafion, are drawn out, and (onn a com¬
pany of themfelves. Fhefe always take the right of
the battalion.
GRAN ADO or Grenade, in the art of war, a
hollow ball or (hell of iron or other metal, of about 2 r
inches diameter, which being filled with fine powder, is
fi»t on fire by means of a fmall fu(e driven into the
fufe-hole, made of well-feafoned beech-wood, and
thrown by the grenadiers into thofe places where the
men (land thick, particularly into the trenches and o-
ther lodgements made by the enemy. As foon as the
compofition within the fufe gets to the powder in the
granado, it burfts into many pieces, greatly to the da¬
mage of all who happen to be in its way. Granadoes
were invented about the year 1594“ author of
the Military Diftionary has the following remark on
the ufe of granadoes. “ Grenades have unaccountably
funk into difufe } but I am perfuaded there is no¬
thing more proper than to have grenades to throw
among the enemy who have jumped into the ditch.
During the fiege of Caffel under the count de la
Lippe, in the campaign of 1762, a young engineer
I undertook
Granada
II
Granado.
G R A [ 66 ]
G R A
•'Vanard, undertook to carry one of the outworks with a much
Granary fmaller detachment than one which had been repul-
v ' fed, and fucceedej with eafe from the ufe of grenades •,
which is a proof that they ihould not be negledlcd,
either in the attack or defence of pods.’'—I he word
Granado takes its rife from hence, that the ihell is till¬
ed with grains of powder, as a pomegranate is with
kernels.
GRANARD, a borough, market, fair, and poll
town in the county of Longford, province of Lein-
fier; it gives title of earl to the family of lorbes j li-
tuated 52 miles from Dublin, and about 16 north-eall
of Longford. N. Lat. 53. 44. W. Long, 7. 30. ^ Here^
is a remarkable hill or mount, called the Moat of
Granard, thought to be artificial, and the fite of a
Danilh caftle or fort 5 wduch commands from its fum-
mit a moft extenfive profpedl: into fix or feven adjoin¬
ing counties. In this towm have lately been given an¬
nual prizes to the belt performers on the Irilh harp.
Granard has a barrack for a company of foot j and re¬
turns two members to parliament j patronage in the
families of Macartney and Greville. Fairs held 3d May
and 1 ft October. This place takes its name from Grian-
ard, or “ the height of the fun,” and was formerly the
reiidence of the chiefs of North Teffia. It is fometimes
written Grenard.
GRANARY, a building to lay or ftore corn in,
efpecially that defigned to be kept a confiderable time.
Sir Henry Wotton advifes to make it look towards
the north, becaufe that quarter is the Cooleft and moft
temperate. Mr Worlidge obferves, that the beft gra¬
naries are built of brick, with quarters of timber
wrought in the infide, to which the boards may be
nailed, with which the infide of the granary muft be
lined fo clofe to the bricks, that there may not be any
room left for vermin to ftielter themfelves. There may
be many ftories one above another, which Ihould be
near the one to the other ; becaufe the ftiallower the
corn lies, it is the better, and more ealily turned.
The two great cautions to be obferved in the eredl-
ing of granaries are, to make them fufficiently ftrong,
and to expofe them to the moft drying winds. The
ordering of the corn in many parts of England, parti¬
cularly in Kent, is thus : To feparate it from dull and
other impurities after it is thralhed, they tofs it with
fliovels from one end to the other of a long and large
room } the lighter fubftances fall down in the middle
of the room, and the corn only is carried from fide to
fide, or end to end of it. After this they fcreen. the
corn, and then bringing it into the granaries, it is
fpread about half a foot thick, and turned from time
to time about twice in a week 5 once a-week they alio
repeat the fcrecning it. This fort of management they
continue about twm months, and after that they lay it
a foot thick for twro months more j and in this time they
turn it once a-week, or twice if the feafon be damp,
and now7 and then fcreen it again. After about five
or fix months they raife it to tw7o feet thicknefs in the
heaps, and then they turn it one or twice in a month,
and fcreen it now and then. After a year, they lay
it two and a half or three feet deep, and turn it once
in three weeks or a month, and fcreen it proportion-
ably. When it has lain two years or more, they turn
it once in two months, and fcreen it once a-quarter •,
and how long foever it is kept, the oftener the.turn¬
ing and fcrecning are repeated, the better the grain will Granary,
be found to be.—It is proper to leave an area of a ' 1 r_^ ““
yard wdde on every fide of the heap of corn, and other
empty fpaces, into w'hich they turn and tofs the corn
as often as they find occafion. In Kent they make
tw7o fquare holes at each end of the tiuor, and
one round in the middle, by means of which they
throw the corn out of the upper into the lower rooms,
and fo up again, to turn and air it the better. Their
fereens are made with two partitions, to feparate the
dull from the corn, which falls into a bag, and when
fufficiently full this is thrown away, the pure and good
corn remaining behind. Corn has by thefe means
been kept in our granaries 30 years ; and it is obier-
ved, that the longer it is kept the more flour it yields
in proportion to the corn, and the purer and whiter
the bread is, the fuperfluous humidity only evapora¬
ting in the keeping. At Zurich in Swifferland, they
keep corn 80 years, or longer, by the fame fort of me¬
thods.
The public granaries at Dantzick are feven, eight
or nine ftories high, having a funnel in the midft of
each floor to let down the corn from one to another.
They are built fo fecurely, that though every way
furrounded with water, the corn contradb no damp,
and the veffels have the convenience of coming up to
the walls for their lading. The Ruffians preferve their
corn in fubterranean granaries of the figure of a fugar-
loaf, wide below and narrow’ at top } the fides are well
plaftered, and the top covered with ftones. They
are very careful to have the corn wTell dried before it
is laid into thele ftorehoufes, and often dry it by
means of ovens •, the fummer dry weather being too
fliort to effe<ft it fufficiently.—Dantzick is the grand
ftorehoufe or repofitory of all the fruitful kingdom
of Poland. The wheat, barley, and rye, of a great
part of the country, are there laid up in parcels of 20,
30, or 60 lafts in a chamber, according to the fize of
the room 5 and this they keep turning every day or
two, to keep it fweet and fit for {hipping. A thunder
ftorm has fometimes been of very terrible confequen-
ces to thefe ftores. All the com of the growth of
former vears has been found io much altered by one
night’s thunder, that though over night it was dry,
fit for fhipping or keeping, and proper for ufes of any
fort, yet in the morning it was found clammy and
flicking. In this cafe, there is no remedy but the
turning of all fuch corn two or three times a-day for
two months or longer ; in which time it will iome-
times come to itfelf, though fometimes not. This ef¬
fect of thunder and lightning is only obferved to take
place in fuch corn as is not a year old, or has not
fw7eated thoroughly in the ftraw before it was threilied
out. The latter inconvenience is eafily prevented by a
timely care ■, but as to the former, all that can be
done is carefully to examine all ftores of the laft year’s
corn after every thunder ftorm, that if any of this have
been lo afteifted, it may be cured in time j for a ne-
gleft of turning will certainly utterly deftroy it.
According to Vitruvius’s rules, a granary fhould al¬
ways be at the top of a houfe, and have its openings
only to the north or eaft, that the corn may not be
expofed to the damp winds from the fouth and w’eft,
wffiich are very deftruftive to it ; whereas the contrary
ones are very neceffary and wholefome to it, ferving
to
G R A
[
Granary, to cool and dry it from all external humidity, from
* v ' whatever caufe. There muft alfo be openings in the
roof to be fet open in dry weather, partly to let m
frelh air, and partly to let out the warm effluvia which
are often emitted by the corn. The covering ot the
roofs fflould always be of tiles, becaufe m the word
feafons, when the other openings cannot be late, there
will always be a confiderable inlet for frefii an\ and a
wav out for the vapours by their joinings, which are
never clofe. If there happen to be any windows to
the fouth, great care muft be taken to ftiut t em up m
moift weather, and in the time of the hot fouthern winds.
There muft never be a cellar, or any other damp p ace
under a granary, nor (houldit ever be built over fables ;
for in either of thefe cafes the corn will certainly lut-
fer by the vapours, and be made damp, in one, and
ill tafted in the other. •
M du Hamel and Dr Hales recommend various
contrivances for ventilating or blowing frefti air through
corn laid up in granaries or ftups, in order to pre-
ferve it fweet and dry, and to prevent its being ae-
voured by weevils or other infeds. This may be done
by nailing wooden bars or laths on the floor ot the
granary about an inch diftant from each other when
they are covered with hair-cloth only or at the di -
tanceoftwoor three inches, when coarfe. wire-work,
or bafleet-work of ofier is laid under the hair cloth or
when an iron plate full of holes is laid upon them. I he e
laths may be laid acrofs other laths, nailed at the dii-
* tance of 15 inches, and two or more deep, that there
may be a free paffage for the air under them. The
under laths muft come about ftx inches fliort of the
wall of the granary at one end of them •, on wdnch end
a board is to be fet edgewife, and Hoping againft the
wall : by this difpofition a large air-pipe, is formed,
which having an open communication with^ all the
interflices between and under the bars, will admit
the paflage of air below forcibly through a hole at the
extremity of it, into all the com in the granary, that
will confequently carry off the moift exhalations of the
corn. The ventilators for fupplying frelh air may be
fixed againft the wall, on the infide or outfide of the
granary, or under the floor, or in the ceilin ; but
wherever they are fixed, the handle of the lever that
works them muft be out of the granary, otherwiie the
perfon who works them would be in danger of fuffocation,
when the corn is fumed with burning brimitone, as is
fometimes done for deftroying weevils. Small moveable
ventilators will anfwer the purpofe for ventilating corn
in large bins in granaries, and may be eahly mi >ved
from one bin to another. If the granary or corn fliip
be very long, the main air-pipe may pafs lengfhwne
along the middle of it, and convey air, on both {ides,
under the corn. In large granaries, large double ven¬
tilators laid on each other, may be fixed at the middle
and near the top of the granary, that they may be
worked by a wind-mill fixed on the icof of the build-
Ing, or by a water-mill. The air is to be conveyed
from the ventilators through a large trunk or trunks,
reaching down through the feveral floors to the bot¬
tom of the granary, with branching trunks to eacn
floor, by means of which the air may be made to pafs
into a large trunk along the adjoining crols walls :
from thefe trunks feveral leffer trunks, about four inches
wide, are to branch off, at the diftance of three or
67 1 G R A
four feet from each other, which are to reach through
the whole length of the granary, and their farther
ends are to be clofed : Teams ot Tp- or TV of an incu
.are to be left open at the four joinings of the boards,
where they are nailed together, that the air . may pafs
through them into the corn. In fome of thefe ieiHt
trunks there may be Hiding {butters, in order to flop
the paffage of the air through thofe trunks which are
not covered with corn ^ or to ventilate one pait of the
granary more briikly than others, as there may be oc-
cafion. There muft alfo be wooden {butters, hung on
hinges at their upper part, fo as to flint clofe of them-
{elves 5 thefe muft be fixed to the openings in the walls
of the granary on tneir outfide : by theie means thev
will readily open to give a free paffage for the ventila¬
ting air, which alcends through tne com, to pafs off,
but will inftantly {hut when the ventilation ceafes, and
thereby prevent any dampnefs of the external air from
entering : to prevent this, the ventilation fflould be
made only in the middle of dry days, unlefs the corn,
when firft put in, is cold and damp.
In leffer granaries, where the ventilators muft be
worked by hand, if thefe granaries ftand on ftaddles,
fo as to have their loweft floor at fome diftance from
the ground, the ventilators may be fixed under the
loweft floor, between the ftaddles, fo as to be worked
by men {landing on the ground, without or within
the granarv. A. very commodious and cheap venti¬
lator may be made for fmall granaries, by making a
ventilator of the door 01 the granary} which may be.
eafily done by making a circular fereen, of the fize of
a quarter of a circle, behind the door.: but in order to
this, the door muft be open, not inwards but out¬
wards of the granary, fo that as it falls back, it may
be worked to and fro in the fereen ; which muft be
exactly adapted to it in all parts of the circulai fide
of the fereen, as well as at the top and bottom.
there muft be a ftop at about eight or ten inches dif¬
tance from the wall, to prevent the door’s falling, back
farther ; that there may be room for a valve in the
fereen to fupply it with air ^ which air will be duven
in by the door, through a hole made in the wall near
the floor, into the main air-trunk, in which there muft
be another valve over the hole in the wall, to prevent
the return of the air.
Todejiroy weevils and other infeEls with which Grana¬
ries are apt to be infejlcd.—The prefervation of grain
from the ravages of infe6ls may be beft efteiEled by
timely and frequent fereening, and ventilation $ as
little or no inconvenience will follow com or malt lod¬
ged dry, but what evidently refults from a negleft of
thefe precautions. For, whether the obvious damage
arife from the weevil, the moth, or the beetle, that da¬
mage has ceafed at the time the vermin make, their ap¬
pearance under either of thefe fpecies, they being, when
in this laft ftate of exiftence, only propagators of their
refpedtive kinds of vermiculi j which, while they conti¬
nue in that form, do the mifehief.
In this laft, or infeft ftate, they eat little, their prin¬
cipal bufinefs being to depofit their ova (eggs), which
unerring inftiuft prompts them to do. where large col¬
lections of grain furnifh food for their fucceffors while,
in a vermicular ftate. It is therefore the bulinefs of
induftry to prevent future generations of thefe ravagers,
by deftroying the eggs previous to their hatching } and
I z 1 this
Granai} ■
G R A [ 68 ] G II A
Granary tills is bell accomplithed by frequent fcreening, and ex-
II pofure to draughts of wind or frefli air. By frequent-
Grand. q;rrjng grain, the cohefion of their ova is bro¬
ken, and the nidus of thofe minute worms is dellroyed^
which on hatching colledt together, and fpin or weave
numerous nefts of a cobweb-like fubftance for their fe-
curity. To thefe nells they attach, by an infinity of
fmall threads, many grains of corn together, firit for
their proteftion, and then for their food. When their
habitations are broken and feparated by the fcreen,
they fall through its fmall interifices, and may be eafily
removed from the granary with the duff. J hofe tnat
efcape an early fcreening will be deftroyed by fuufe-
quent ones, while the grain is but little injured } and
the corn will acquire thereby a fuperior purity. But by
inattention to this, and fometimes by receiving grain
already infected into the granary, thefe vermin, parti¬
cularly the weevil, willmalhort time fpread themlelves
in that ftate everywhere upon its furface, and darken
even the walls by their number. Under fuch circum-
ftances a hen or hens, with new hatched chickens, if
turned on the heap, will traverfe, without feeding (or
very fparingly fo) on the corn, wherever they fpread •,
and are feemingly infatiable in the purfuit of thefe in-
fedts. When the numbers are reduced within reach, a
hen will fly up againft the walls, and brufh them down
with her wings, while her chickens feize them with the
greateft avidity. This being repeated as often as they
■want food, the whole ipecies wall in a day or two be
deftroyed. Of the phalaena (moth), and the fmall
beetle, they feem equally voracious : on which account
they may be deemed the molt ufeful inftruments in
nature for eradicating thefe noxious and deftrudlive
vermin.
GRAN ATE, or Garnet, a fpecies of mineral be¬
longing to the iiliceous genus. See MINERALOGY
Index.
GRANATE-PaJle. See Garnet.
GRAND, a term rather French than Enghih,
though ufed on many occaftons in our language. It
has the fame import with great, being formed of the
Latin grandis. In this fenfe we fay, the grand-mafter
of an order, the grand-mafter of Malta, of the free-
mafons, &c. So alfo the grand-ftgnior, the grand-viftr,
&c. grand-father, grand-mother, &c.
Among the French there were formerly feveral of¬
ficers thus denominated, wdiich we frequently retain in
Englifti *, as grand almoner, grand ecuyer, grand cham-
bellan, grand voyer, &c.
Grand See Assise.
Grand Dijlrefs {diJlriBio magnd), in Englifi Law, a
writ of diftrefs, fo called on account of its extent, which
reaches to all the goods and chattels of the party within
the county. This writ lies in two cafes : either wdien
the tenant or defendant is attached and appears not,
but makes default } or where the tenant or defendant
hath once appeared, and after makes default. .On fiich
occafions, this writ lies by common law, in lieu of a
petit cape.
Grand Gujic, among painters, a term ufed to ex-
prefs that there is fomething in the pifture very great
and extraordinary, calculated to furprife, pleafe,.and
inftru£t. Where this is found, they fay, the painter
was a man of grand gufto j and they ufe the words fub-
lime and marvellous, when they fpeak of a piflure, in Grand
much the fame fenfe. G’-a-ldeur
Grand Jury, larceny, ferjeanty, &c. See Jury, ancj
&C. Sublimity.
GRxlNDEE, is underftood of a lord of the firft rank —^—v J
or prime quality.
In Spain, the term grandees is ufed abfolutely to de¬
note the prime lords of the court, to whom the king
has once given leave to be covered in his prefence :
there are fome grandees for life only ; made by the
king’s faying Amply, Be covered. Others are grandees
by defeent ; made by the king’s faying, Be covered for
thyfelf and heirs. Thefe laft are reputed far above the
former.
There are fome who have three or four grandee (hips
in their family. r
GRANDEUR and Sublimity. Thefe . terms Doub|e flg
have a double fignification : they commonly fignify thenification.
quality or circumftance in objects by which the emo¬
tions of grandeur and fublimity are produced ; fome¬
times the emotions themfelves.
In handling the prefent fubjedf, it is neceffary that
the impreflion made on the mind by the magnitude of
an objeft, abftrafting from its other qualities, ihould be
afeertained. And bccaule abftxaftion is a mental ope¬
ration of fome difficulty, the fafeft method for judging
is, to choofe a plain objeft that is neither beautiful nor
deformed, if fuch a one can be found. The plaineft
that occurs, is a huge mafs of rubbiih, the ruins per¬
haps of fome extenfive building j or a large heap of
(tones, fuch as are collected together for keeping in
memory a battle or other remarkable event. Such an
objedt, which in miniature w’ould be perfedtly indiffe¬
rent, makes an impreffion by its magnitude, and ap¬
pears agreeable. And fuppofing it fo large as to fill the
eye, and to prevent the attention from wandering upon
other objedts, the impreffion it makes vvill be fo much the
deeper. See Attention.
But though a plain objedt of that kind be agreeable,
it is not termed grand: it is not entitled to that cha-
radter, unlefs, together with its fize, it be poffeffed ot
other qualities that contribute to beauty, fuch as. regu¬
larity, proportion, order, or colour : and according to
the number of fuch qualities combined with magnitude,
it is more or lefs grand. Thus St Peter s church at
Rome, the great pyramid of Egypt, the Alps towering
above the clouds, a great arm of the fea, and above all
a clear and ferene (ky, are grand } becauie, befide their
fize, they are beautiful in an eminent, degree. On the
other hand, an overgrown whale, having a difagreeable
appearance, is not grand. A large building agreeable
by its regularity and proportions, is grand } and yet a
much larger building deftitute of regularity,. has not
the lead tindlure of grandeur. A fingle regiment in
battle-array, makes a grand appearance •, which the
furrounding crowd does not, though pernaps ten for
one in number. And a regiment where the men are all
in one livery, and the horfes of one colour, makes a
grander appearance, and confequently ftriK.es more te5~
ror, than where there is confufion of colour and drefs. 2
Thus greatnefs or magnitude is the circumftance that Grandeur
diftinguifties grandeur from beauty: agreeablenefsis thediftinguffh-
genus, of which beauty and grandeur are fpecies.
The emotion of grandeur, duly examined, will be
found
G R A
[ 69 ]
G R A
Grandeur
and
Sublimity.
3
Demands
not ftr £t
regularity
4
Qualities
contribu¬
ting to
grandeur-
found an additional proof of the foregoing doarme.
That this emotion is pleafant in a high degree, requires
no other evidence but once to have feen a grand objeft :
and if an emotion ©f grandeur be pleafant, its caufe or
objeft, as obferved above, mull infallibly be agreeable
in proportion.
The qualities of grandeur and beauty are not more
diftindl, than the emotions are which thefe qualities
produce in a fpeftator. It is obferved in the artime
Beauty, that all the various emotions of beauty
have one common charafter, that of fweetnefs and
gaiety. The emotion of grandeur has a different cha-
rafter : a large objeft that is agreeable, occupies the
whole attention, and fwells the heart into a vivid emo¬
tion, which, though extremely pleafant, is rather le-
rious than gay. And this affords a good reafon for
diffinguilhing in language thefe different emotions.
The emotions raifed by colour, by regularity, by pro¬
portion, and by order, have fuch a refemblance to each
other, as readily to come under one general term, viz.
t/ie emotion of beauty; but the emotion of grandeur is
fo different from thefe mentioned, as to merit a pecu¬
liar name. #
Though regularity, proportion, order, and colour,
contribute to grandeur as well as to beauty, yet theie
qualities are not by far fo effential to the former as to
the latter. To make out that propofitiou, fome preli¬
minaries are requiffte. In the firft place, the mind, not
being totally occupied with a fmall objeft, can give its
attention at the fame time to every minute part} but
in a great or extenffve objeft, the mind, being totally
occupied with the capital and ftriking parts, has no at¬
tention left for thofe that are little or indifferent. In
the next place, two fimilar objefts appear not fimilar
when viewed at different diftances : the fimilar parts of
a very large objeft, cannot be feen but at different di¬
ftances : and for that reafon, its regularity, and the
proportion of its parts, are in fome meafure loft to the
eye 5 neither are the irregularities of a very large ob¬
jeft fo confpicuous as of one that is fmall. . Hence it
“is that a large objeft is not fo agreeable by its regula¬
rity, as a fmall objeft \ nor fo difagreeable by its irregu¬
larities. . -
Thefe confiderations make it evident, that grandeur
is fatisfied with a lefs degree of regularity, and of the
other qualities mentioned, than is requifite. for beau¬
ty •, which may be illuftrated by the following experi¬
ment. Approaching to a fmall conical hill, we take an
accurate furvey of every part, and are fenffble of the
flighteft deviation from regularity and proportion. Sup-
poffnp' the hill to be conffderably enlarged, fo as to
make” us lefs fenfible of its regularity, it will upon
that account appear lefs beautiful. It will not, how¬
ever, appear lefs agreeable, becaufe fome flight emo¬
tion ©f grandeur comes in place of what is loft in
beauty. And at laft, when the hill is enlarged to a.
great mountain, the fmall degree of beauty that is
left is funk in its grandeur. Hence it is, that a
toweling hill is delightful, if it have but the flighteft
refemblance of a cone; and a chain of mountains not
lefs fo, though deficient in the accuracy of order and
• proportion. We require a fmall furface to be fmooth j
but in an extenfive plain, confiderable inequalities are
overlooked. In a word, regularity, proportion, order.
well as to beau- Grandeur
and colour, contribute to grandeur — „ and
ty •, but with a remarkable difference, that in palftng Subjimity_
from fmall to great, they are not required in the lame *   >
degree of perfeftion. This remark ferves to explain
the extreme delight we have in viewing the face ot na¬
ture, when fufficiently enriched and diverfified with ob¬
jefts. The bulk of the objefts in a natural landicape
are beautiful, and fome of them grand : a flowing ri¬
ver, a fpreading oak, a round hill, an extended plain,
are delightful ; and even a rugged rock, or barren
heath, though in themfelves difagreeable, _ contribute
by contrail to the beauty of the whole: joining to theie
the verdure of the fields, the mixture of light and lhade,
and the fublime canopy fpread over - all, it will not ap¬
pear wonderful, that fo extenfive a group of iplendid
objefts ftiould fwell the heart to its utmoft bounds, and
raife the ftrongeft emotion of grandeur. The ipeftator
is confcious of an enthufiafm which cannot bear con¬
finement, nor the ftriftnefs of regularity and order :
he loves to range at large $ and is fo enchanted^ wit 1
magnificent objefts, as to overlook flight beauties or
deformities. # re mnLn-r
The fame obfervation is applicable in fome meafure Sublimity,
to works of art. In a fmall building, tlm flighted ir¬
regularity is difagreeable: but in a magnificent palace,
or a large Gothic church, irregularities are lefs regard¬
ed. In an epic poem, we pardon many negligences
that would not be permitted in a fonnet or epigram.
Notwithftanding fuch exceptions, it may be juftly laiu
down for a rule, That in works of art, order and re¬
gularity ought to be governing principles •, and hence
the obfervation of Longinus, “ In works ol art we have
regard to exaft proportion j in thofe of nature, to gian-
deur and magnificence.”
The fame refleftions are in a good meafure applicable
to fublimity : particularly that, like grandeur, it is a
fpecies of agreeablenefs ; that a beautiful objeft placed
high, appearing more agreeable than formerly, produces
in the fpeftator a new emotion, termed t/ie emotion, of
fublimity; and that the perfeftion of order, regularity,
and proportion, is lefs required in objefts placed high,
or at a diftance, than at hand.
The pleafant emotion raifed by large objefts, has not
efcaped the poets :
-He doth beftride the narrow world
Like a coloffus ; and we petty men
Walk under his huge legs.
Julius Co-far, aft 1. fc. 3,
Cleopatra. I dreamt there was an emperor Antony :
Oh fuch another fleep, that I might fee
But fuch another man !
His face was as the heav’ns : and therein ftuck
A fun and moon, which kept their courfe, and lighted
The little O o’ th1 earth.
His legs beftrid the ocean, his rear’d arm
Crefted the world.
Antony and Cleopatra, aft v. fc. 3.
-Majefty
Dies not alone j but, like a gulf, doth draw
What’s near it with it. It’s a maffy wheel
Fix’d on the fummit of the higheft mount •,
To whofe huge fpokes ten thoufand leffer things
Are
G U A [ 70 ] G R A
Grandeur Are mortis’d and adjoin’d ; which, when it falls,
Each finall annexment, petty confequence,
. u.) Attends the boift’rous ruin. Hamlet, aft iii. fc. 8.
The poets have alfo made good ufe of the emotion
produced by the elevated fituation of an objeft :
Quod li me lyricis vatibus inferes,
Sublimi feriam lidera vertice.
Horat. Carm. 1. ii. ode j.
O thou ! the earthly author of my blood,
Whofe youthful fpirit, in me regenerate,
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up,
To reach at viftory above my head.
Richard 11, aft i. fc. 4.
Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
The mounting Bolinbroke afeends my throne.
Richard II. aft v. fc. 2.
Antony. Why wras I rais’d the meteor of the world,
Hung in the Ikies : and blazing as I travell’d,
Till all my fires were fpent *, and then call downward,
To be trod out by Caefar ^
J)ryden, Allfor Lovs, aft i.
The defeription of Paradife in the fourth book of
Paradife Loft, is a fine illuftration of the impreflion
made by elevated objefts.
So on he fares, and to the border comes
Of Eden, where delicious Paradife,
Now nearer, crowns with her inclofure green.
As with a rural mound, the champain head
Of a fteep wildemefs *, whofe hairy fides
With thicket overgrown, grotefque and wild,
Accefs deny’d •, and over head up grew
Infuperable height of loftieft fhade,
Cedar, and pine, and fir, and branching palm,
A filvan feene j and as the ranks afeend,
Shade above fhade, a wToody theatre
Of ftatelieft view7. Yet higher than their tops
The verd’rous wall of Paradife up fprung •,
Which to our general fire gave profpeft large
Into his nether empire, neighb’ring round.
And higher than that w7all a circling row
Of goodlieft trees, loaden with faireft fruit,
Blofibms and fruits at once of golden hue,
Appear’d, with gay enamell’d colours mix’d.
1. 131.
Though a grand objeft is agreeable, wre muft not in¬
fer that a little objeft is difagreeable *, which wmuld be
unhappy for man, confidering that he is furrounded
with fo many objefts of that kind. The fame holds
with refpeft to place : a body placed high is agree¬
able •, but the fame body placed low, is not by that cir-
cumftance rendered difagreeable. Littlenefs and lowr-
nefs of place are precifely fimilar in the following par¬
ticular, that they neither give pleafure nor pain. And
in this may vifibly be difeovered peculiar attention in
fitting the internal conftitution of man to his external
circumftances. Were littlenefs and lownefs of place
agreeable, greatnefs and elevation could not be fo *,
were littlenefs and lowmefs of place dilagreeable, they
would ccrafion uninterrupted uneafinefs.
The difference between great and little with refpeft
to agreeablenefs, is remarkably felt in a feries when we Grandeur
pafs gradually from the one extreme to the other. A
mental progrefs from the capital to the kingdom, from ' ^ni J1
that to Europe—to the who e earth—to the planetary
fyllem—to the univerfe, is extremely pleafant : the
heart fwells, and the mind is dilated at every ftep.
The returning in an oppofite direftion is not poiitively
painful, though our pieafure leffens at every ftep, till
it vanilh into indifference : fuch a progrefs ma) fume-
times produce pleaiure of a different fort, which arifes
from taking a narrower and narrower infpettion. The
fame obfervation holds in a progrefs upward and dowm-
ward. Afcent is pleafure becaufe it elevates us 5 but de-
feent is never painful: it is for the moft part pleafant
from a different caufe, that it is according to the order
of nature. The fall of a ftone from any height, is ex¬
tremely agreeable by its accelerated motion. We
feel it pleafant to defeend from a mountain, becaufe
the defeent is natural and eafy. Neither is looking
downward painful j on the contrary, to look down up¬
on objefts, makes part of the pleafure of elevation :
looking down becomes then only painful when the ob¬
jeft is fo far below as to create dizzinefs; and even
when that is the cafe, we feel a fort of pleafure mixed
with the pain : witnefs Shakefpeare’s deicription of Do'
ver cliffs:
________ How fearful
And dizzy ’tis, to call: one’s eye fo low!
The crowrs and choughs, that wing the midway air,
Show fcarce fo grofs as beetles. Half-way down
Hangs one that gathers famphire •, dreadful trade !
Methinks he feems no bigger than his head.
The fiftiermen that walk upon the beach
Appear like mice •, and yon tall anchoring bark
Diminilh’d to her cock 5 her cock, a buoy
Almoft too fmall for fight. The murm’ring furge.
That on th’ unnumbered idle pebbles chafes,
Cannot be heard fo high. I’ll look no more,
Left my brain turn, and the deficient fight
Topple down headlong. King Lear, aft iv. fc. 6.
A remark is made above, that the emotions of gran¬
deur and fublimity are nearly allied. And hence it is,
that the one term is frequently put for the other : an
increafing feries of numbers, for example, producing an
emotion fimilar to that of mounting upward, is com¬
monly termed an afeending feries : a feries of numbers
gradually decreafing, producing an emotion fimilar to
that of going downward, is commonly termed a defeend-
ine;feries: we talk familiarly of going up to the capital,
and of going down to the country : from a leffer king¬
dom we talk of going up to a greater j whence the ana-
bafts in the Greek language, when one travels from
Greece to Perfia. We difeover the fame way of fpeak-
ing in the language even of Japan j and its univerlality
proves it the offspring of a natural feeling. g
The foregoing obfervation leads us to confider Grandeur
grandeur and fublimity in a figurative fenfe, ^and as and fubli-
applicable to the fine arts. Hitherto thefe terms’™^™
have been taken in their proper fenfe as applicable to fe*ie>
obiefts of fight only : and it was of importance to be-
ftew fome pains upon that article : becaufe, generally
fpeaking, the figurative fenfe of a word is derived from
its proper fenfe, which holds remarkably" at prefent.
Beauty
I
0
Grarukar
and
Sublimity.
The fub-
iime in
poetry.
8
'Real and
figurative
grandeur
intimately
comre&ed.
G R A t _ 71 1
Beauty, in its original fignification, is confined to ob-
ie£ls of fight ; but as many other objects,, intellectual
as well as moral, raife emotions refembling that oi
beauty, the refemblance of the effeCts prompts us to ex¬
tend the term beonUj to thefe objeCls. 1 his equally
accounts for the terms grandeur tlwA fublimitij taken m
a figurative fenfe. Every emotion, from whatever
caufe proceeding, that refembles an emotion of
deur or elevation, is called by the fame name . t us
generofity is faid to be an elevated emotion, , as well as
great courage } and that firmnefs of foul which is fupe-
rior to misfortunes obtains the peculiar name of mag-
nanimity. On the other hand, every emotion that con¬
tracts the mind, and fixeth it upon things trivial or oi
no importance, is termed low, by its refemblance to
an emotion produced by a little or low object o fignt .
thus an appetite for triding amufements is called a low
tajle. The fame terms are applied to charaters and
ations : we talk familiarly of an elevated genius, of a
great man, and equally fo of littlenefs of mind : mme
ations are great and elevated, and others are htue
and grovelling. Sentiments, and even exprefiions, are
charaterifed in the fame manner : an expreftion or
fentiment that raifes the mind is denominated great or
elevated; and hence the SUBLIME, in poetry. In
fuch figurative terms, we lofe the diftintion between
great and elevated in their proper fenfe } for the refem-
blance is not fo entire as to prelerve thefe terms oitlint
in their figurative application. We carry this, figuie
till farther. Elevation, in its proper, fenfe, imports
fuperiority of place , and lownefs, inferiority of place .
and hence a man of fuperior talents, of fuperior rank $
of inferior parts, of inferior tafte, and fuch like. J he
veneration we have for our anceftors, and for the ancients
in general, being fimilar to the emotion produced by an
elevated obje& of fight, jutifies the figurative expreflion
of the ancients being raifed above us, or poifeiTing a
fuperior place. The notes of the gamut, proceeding
regularly from the blunter or grofier founds to the moie
acute and piercing, produce in the hearer a . feeling
fomewhat fimilar to what is produced by mounting up¬
ward ; and this gives occafion to the figurative expref-
fions, a high note, a low note.
Such is the.refemblance in feeling between real and
figurative grandeur, that among the nations on the eaft
coaft of Africa, wdic are directed purely by nature, the
officers of Hate are, with reipeft to rank, diftinguifiied
bv the length of the batoon each carries in his hand }
and in Japan, princes and great lords Ihovv their rank
by the length and fize of their fedan-poles. Again,
it is a rule in painting, that figures of a imall fize are
proper for grotefque pieces : but that an hitforical fub-
ject, grand and important, requires figures as great as
the life. The refemblance of thefe feelings is in rea¬
lity fo ftrong, that elevation in a figurative fenfe is ob-
ferved to have the fame effeCi, even externally, with
real elevation :
G R A
Grandeur
and
Sublimity.
K. Henry. This day is call’d the feaft of Crhpian.
He that outlives this day, and comes fafe home, t
Will (land a tiptoe when this day is nam’d,
And roufe him at the name of Crifpian.
Henry V. a 61 iv. fc. 8.
The refemblance in feeling between real and figura¬
tive orandeur is humoroufiy illuftrated by Addhon in
criticifing upon Engliih tragedy * “ The ordinary
method of making an hero is to. clap a huge pmme oi 4
feathers upon his head, which rifes fo.high, that there
is often a greater length from his chin to tne top of
his head than to the foie of his foot. One would be¬
lieve, that we thought a great man and a tall man the
fame thing. As thefe fuperfluous ornaments upon the
head make a great man, a p.rincefs generally receives
her grandeur from thofe additional incumbrances tnat
bill into her tail : I mean the broad fweeping train
that follows her in all her motions, and finds conftant
employment for a boy who Hands behind her to open--
and fnread it to advantage.” The Scythians, impreffed
with the fame of Alexander, w7ere aftonifhed when they
found him a little man.
A gradual progrefs from fmall to great is not Ids
remarkable in figurative than in real grandeur or.eleva¬
tion. Every one mull have obferved the delightful
effe6! of a number of thoughts or fentiments, artfully
difpofed like an afeending feries, and making impreffions
deeper and deeper : fuch difpofition of members in a
period is termed a climax.
Within certain limits grandeur and fublimity pro¬
duce their flrongeft effe£ls., which leffen by excefs a?
well as by defed. This is remarkable in grandeur
and fublimity taken in their proper fenfe : tne grand*
elt emotion that can be raifed by a vifible object is
where the obje6t can be taken in at one view j if fo
immenfe as not to be comprehended but in parts, it
tends rather to diftrad than fatisfy the mind (a) : in
like manner, the ffrongeft emotion produced by ele¬
vation Is where the objed is feen dillindly 5 a
greater elevation lefiens in appearance the objed, till p
it vaniffi out of fight with its pleafant emotions. The Figurative
fame is equally remarkable in figurative grandeur and gnandeur.
elevation ; which (hall be handled together, becaule, as
obferved above, they are fcarcely diftinguiffiable. Sen¬
timents may be fo {trained as to become oblcure, or to
exceed the capacity of the human mind : againft fuch
licence of imagination, every good writer will be upon
his guard. And therefore it is of greater importance
to obferve, that even the true fublime may be carried
beyond that pitch which produces the higheft enter¬
tainment. We are undoubtedly fufceptible of a greater
elevation than can be infpired by human adions the
molt heroic and magnanimous ; witnefs what we feel
from Milton’s defeription of. fuperior beings : yet
every man muft be fenfible of a more conftant and
fweet elevation when the hiftory of his own fpecies is
the
(A) It is juftly obferved by Addifon, that perhaps a man would have been more aftomfhed with the ma-
jeftic air that appeared in one of Lyfippus’s ftatues of Alexander, though no bigger than the life, than he.
might have been with Mount Athos, had it. been cut into the figure of the hero, according to the propolal ot -
Phidias, with a river in one hand and a city in the oteer. Spe- lator, N 415? „
G li A f
Grandeur the fubjetft : he enjoys an elevation equal to that of
anc? t]ie greateft hero, of an Alexander or a Cadar, of a
Sublimity, or an Epaminondas: he accompanies thefe he¬
roes in their fublimeft fentiiiients and mod hazardous
exploits, with a magnanimity equal to theirs •, and
finds it no ftretch to preferve the fame tone of mind
for hours together without finking. Ihe cafe is not
the fame in defcribing the aftions or qualities of fupe-
nor beings: the reader’s imagination cannot keep pace
with that of the poet •, the mind, unable to iupport it-
felf in a drained elevation, falls as from a height} and
the fall is immoderate like the elevation : where that
efted is not felt, it mud be prevented by fome obfcu-
rity in the conception, which frequently attends the
defcriptions of unknown objeds. Hence tne St Fran-
cifes, St Dominies, and other tutelary faints among
the Roman Catholics. A mind unable to raife itlelf to
the Supreme Being felf-exident and eternal, or to iup¬
port itfelf in a drained elevation, finds itfelf more at
eafe in ufing the intercedion of fome faint whofe piety
and penances while on earth are fuppofed to hat e
mide him a favourite in heaven.
A drained elevation is attended with another in¬
convenience, that the author is apt to fall fuddenly
as wTell as the reader} becaule it is not a little difficult
to defeend, fweetly and ealily, from fuch elevation to
the ordinary tone of the fubjed. The following paf-
fage is a good illudration of that obfervation :
Ssepe etiam immenfum coelo venit agmen aquarum,
Et foedam glomerant tempedatem imbribus atris
Colledge ex alto nubes. Ruit arditus aether,
Et pluvia ihgenti fata loeta, boumque labores
Diluit. Implentur fofl'ae, et cava flumina crefcunt
Cum fonitu, fervetque fretis fpirantibus aequor.
Ipfe Pater, media nimborum in node, coruica
Fulmina molitur dextra. Quo maxima motu
Terra tremit : fugere ferae, fet mortalia corda ^
Per gentes humilis dravit pavot. Ille flagranti
Aut Atho, aut Rhodopen, aut alta Ceraunia telo
Dejicit : ingeminant Auftri, et denjijjimm wiber.
Virg. Georg, i. 322.
In the defeription of a dorm, to figure Jupiter
throwing down huge mountains wdth his thunder¬
bolts, is hyperbolically fublime, if w7e may ufe the
expreffion :"the tone of mind produced by that image
is fo didant from the tone produced by a thick
{bower of rain, that the hidden tranfition mud be un-
pleafant.
Objeds of fight that are not remarkably great nor
high, fcarce raife any emotion of grandeur or of fub-
limity : and the fame holds in other objeds ; for we
often find the mind roufed and animated, without
being carried to that height. This difference may
be difeerned in many forts of mufic, as well as in fome
mufical indruments : a kettle-drum roufes, and a haut¬
boy is animating ; but neither of them infpires an
emotion of fublimity : revenge animates the mind in a
confiderable degree •, but it never produceth an emotion
that can be termed grand or fublime ; and perhaps no
difagreeable paflion ever has that effed.
No defirp is more univerfal than to be exalted and
honoured j and upon that account, chiefly, are we
ambitious of power, riches, titles, fame, which would
fuddenly lofe their relifh did they not raife us above
72 ] G R A
others, and comma'tid fubmiffion and deference : and Grandeur
it may be thought, that our attachment to things t
grand and lofty, proceeds from their connedion with , 
our favourite palfion. This connedion has undoubted¬
ly an effed •, but that the preference given to things
grand and lofty mull have a deeper root in human
nature, will appear from confidering, that many be¬
llow their time upon low and trifling amufements,
without having the leaft tindure of this favourite
paflion : yet thefe very perfons talk the fame language
with the reft of mankind} and prefer the more
elevated pleafures : they acknowledge a more refined
tafte, and are alhamed of their own as low and grovel¬
ling. This fentiment, conftant and univerfal, mull
be the work of nature j and it plairdy indicates an
original attachment in human nature to every objed
that elevates the mind : fome men may have a greater
relilh for an objed not of the higheft rank •, but they
are confcious of the preference given by mankind in
general to things grand and fublime, and they are
fenfible that their peculiar tafte ought to yield to the
general tafte.
What is faid above fuggefts a capital rule for
reaching the fublime in fuch works of art as are ful-
ceptible of it j and that is, to prefent thofe parts or Grandeur
circumftances only which make the greateft figure, of manner,
keeping out of view every thing low or trivial \ for
the mind, elevated by an important objed, cannot,
w'ithout reludance, be forced down to beftowr any
lhare of its attention upon trifles. Such judicious
feledion of capital circumftances, is by an eminent
critic ftyled grandeur of mannerIn none of the fine t
arts is there (o great fcope for that rule as in poetry jx 4 -
which, by that means, enjoys a remarkable power
of bellowing upon ©bjeds and events an air of gran¬
deur: when we are fpedators, every minute objed
prefents itfelf in its order 5 but in defcribing at fecond
hand, thefe are laid alide, and the capital objeds are
brought clofe together. A judicious tafte in tnus fe-
leding the moll interefting incidents, to give them an
united force, accounts for a fad that may appear firr-
prifing •, which is, that we are more moved by fpirited
narrative at fecond hand, than by being fpedators of
the event itfelf, in all its circumftances.
Longinus % exemplifies the foregoing rule by a com- \ Chap, fc,
parifon of two paffages.
Ye pow’rs, what madnefs! how on fhips fo frail
(Tremendous thought!) can thoughtlefs mortals fail?
For ftormy feas they quit the pleafing plain,
Plant woods in waves, and dwell amidft the main.
Far o’er the deep (a tracklefs path) they go,
And wander oceans in purfuit of wo.
No eafe their hearts, no reft their eyes can find,
On heaven their looks, and on the waves their mind j
Sunk are their fpirits, while their arms they rear,
And gods are wearied with their fruitlefs prayer.
ArISTjEUS.
Burft as a wave that from the cloud impends,
And fwell’d with tempefts on the Ihip defeends.
White are the decks with foam: the winds aloud
Howl o’er the malls, and fing through every Ihroud.
Pale, trembling, tir’d, the failors freeze with fears,
And inftant death on every wave appears. Homer.
Irt
G R A [73
Grandeur In tire latter palTage, the moft ftnkmg circumftances
and are feleiled to fill the mind with terror and altomih-
Sublimity. ment# The former is a colleftion of minute and low
1 v ' circumftances, which fcatter the thought, and make
no impreffion : it is at the fame time full of verbal an-
tithefes and low conceit, extremely improper in a Icene
of diftrefs. .
The following defcription of a battle is remarkably
fublime, by collefting together, in the fevvell words,
thofe circumftances which make the greateil figure.
“ Like autumn’s dark ftorms pouring from two echo¬
ing hills, toward each other approached the heroes •,
as two dark ftreams from high rocks meet and roar on
the plain, loud, rough, and dark in battle, meet Loch-
lin and Inisfail. Chief mixes his ftrokes with chiel,
and man with man : fteel founds on fteel, and helmets
are cleft on Wgh : blood burfts and fmokes around .
firings murmur on the polifti’d yew; darts rufh along
the Iky : fpears fall like fparks of flame that gild the
ftormy face of night.
“ As the noife of the troubled ocean when roll the
waves on high, as the laft peal of thundering heaven,
fuch is the noife of battle. Though Cormac s hundied
bards were there, feeble were the voice of a hundred
bards to fend the deaths to future times \ loi many
were the deaths of the heroes, and wide poured the
blood of the valiant.” Fingal.
The following paffage in the 4th book of the Iliad
is a defcription of a battle wonderfully ardent.
“ When now gathered on either fide, the holt plun¬
ged together in fight j Afield is hardily laid to ftiield ;
fpears crafti on the brazen corflets: body buckler with
buckler meets-, loud tumult rages over all 5 groans
are mixed with boafts of men the {lain and flayer join
in noife •, the earth is floating round with blood. As
when two rufhing ftreams from two mountains come
roaring down, and throw together their rapid waters
below, they roar along the gulphy vale ; the ftartled
ftiepherd hears the found as he ftalks o’er the diftant
hills: fo, as they mixed in fight, from both armies
clamour with loud terror arofe.” But fuch general
defcriptions are not frequent in Homer. Even his
{ingle combats are rare. T he fifth book is the longeft
account of a battle that is in the Iliad ; and yet. con¬
tains nothing But a long catalogue of chiefs killing
chiefs, not in fingle combat neither, but at a di.lance
with an arrow or a javelin and thefe chiefs named for
the firft time and the laft. The fame fcene is conti¬
nued through a great part of the fixth book. Ihere
is at the fame time a minute defcription of every
wound, w-hich for accuracy may do honour to an ana-
tomift, but in an epic poem is tirefome and fatiguing.
There is no relief from horrid languor, but the beau--
tiful Greek language and melody of Homer’s verfi-
fication.
In the twcnty-firft book of the Odyfley, there is .a
paffage which deviates widely from the rule above laid
down ; it concerns that part of the hiftory of Penelope
and her fuitors, in w-hich fhe is made to declare in fa¬
vour of him who ftiould prove the moft; dexterous in
fhooting wfith the bow- of Ulyfles :
Now gently winding up the fair afcent,
By many an eafy ftep the matron went:
Vol. X. Part I.
] G R A
Then o’e * the pavements glides wfith grace divine G'an^eUr
(With p liih’d oak the level pavements ihine). Sublimity.'
The folding gates a dazzling light difplay’d, 1  —“•*
With pomp of various architrave overlaid.
The bolt, obedient to the lilken firing,
Forfakes the ftaple as flic pulls the ring;
The wards refpondent to the key turn round *,
The bars fall back; the flying valves reiound.
Loud as a bull makes hill and valley ring,^
So roar’d the lock when it releas’d the ipringi
She moves majeftic through the wealthy room,
Where treafur’d garments caft a rich perfume :
There, from the column wdiere aloft it hung,
Reach’d, in its fplendid cafe, the bow unftrung.
Virgil fometimes errs againft this rule : in the fob
lowing paffages minute circumftances are brought into
full view ; and what is ftill worfe, they are defcribed
with all the pomp of poetical diaion, yEW, lib. 1.
1. 214, to 219. lib. vi. 1. 176, to 182. lib. vi. 1. 212,
to 231: and the laft, which defcribes a funeral, is the
lefs excufable, as the man whofe funeral it is makes no
figure in the poem.
The fpeech of Clytemneftra, defcending from Ver ..
chariot, in the Iphigenia of Euripides *, is fluffed with ^ 1U*
a number of common and trivial circumflances.
But of all writers, Lucan in this article is the moft
injudicious: the fea-fight between the Romans and
Maflilians f is defcribed fo much in detail, without | Lib. til.
exhibiting any grand or total view, that the reader is 567-
fatigued wfith endlefs circumftances, without ever feel¬
ing any degree of elevation ; and yet there aie lome
fine incidents, thofe, for example, of the two brothers,
and of the old man and his fon, wdiich, taken feparate-
ly, would affedft us greatly. But Lucan, once engaged^
in a defcription, knows no end. See other paffages ol
the fame kind, lib. iv. 1. 292, to 337. lib. iv. 1. 750, to
765. The epifode of the forcerefs Erictho, end ot
book fixth, is intolerably minute and prolix.
This rule is alfo applicable to other fine arts. In
painting it is eftablilhed, that the principal figure^
muft be put in the ftrongeft light ; that the beauty of
attitude confifts in placing the nobler parts moft in
viewg and in fuppreffing the fmaller parts as much as
poflible ; that the folds of the drapery mull be few and
large ; that foreftiortenings are bad, becaufe they make
the parts appear little ; and that the mulcles ought to
be kept as entire as poflible, without being divided
into fmall fecfiions. Every one at prefent fubfcribes
to that rule as applied to gardening, in oppofition to
parterres fplit into a thoufand fmall paits in the ftiff-
eit regularity of figure. The moft eminent architedls
have governed themfelves by the lame rule in all then
works. 11
Another rule chiefly regards the fublime, though it General
is applicable to every fort of literary performance in-^rms ought
tended for amufement: and that is, to avoid as much e i wjiere
as poflible abftraft and general terms. Such terms, fublimity is
fimilar to mathematical figns, are contrived to exprefs intended,
our thoughts in a concife manner ; but images, which
are the life of poetry, cannot be railed in any perfec¬
tion but by introducing particular objedls. General
terms, that comprehend a number of individuals, muft
be excepted from that rule: our kindred, our clan, our
country, and words of the like import, though they
K. fcarce
t'r?. ruler, r
and
Sublimity,
G R A
fcarce raife any image, have, however,
Htrodet.
lit- 7.
C 74
a wonderful
powTer over the paffions : the greatnefs of the complex
obje6l overbalances the obfcurity of tlie image.
Grandeur, being an extremely vivid emotion, is not
readily produced in perfeblion but by reiterated im-
preflions. The erTeft of a fingle impreffion can be
but momentary } and if one feel fuddenly fomewdiat
like a (welling or exaltation of mind, the emotion va-
nifheth as foon as felt. Single thoughts or fentiments
are often cited as examples of the iublime ; but their
effebl is far inferior to that of a grand fubjeft difplayed
in its capital parts. We (hall give a few examples, that
the reader may judge for himfelf. In the famous ac¬
tion of Thermopylae, where Leonidas the Spartan
king, with his chofen band, fighting for their country,
were cut off to the laft man, a faying is reported of
Dieneces, one of the band, which, expreffiug cheer¬
ful and undiilurbed bravery, is wrell entitled to the firft
place in examples of that kind : talking of the number
of their enemies, it w7as obferved, that the arrows (hot
by fuch a multitude would intercept the light of tne
fun 5 “ So much the better (fays he), for wTe (hall then
fight in the (hade.”
Somerfet. Ah! Warwick, Warwick, wert thou as wTe
] G R A
The cloud-capt tow’rs, the gorgeous palaces,
The folemn temples, the great globe itfelf,
Yea, all which it inherit, (hall diffolve,
And like the bafelefs fabric of a vifion
Leave not a wreck behind Tcmpejl, acl iv. fc. 4.
Grandeur
and
Sublimity.
12
Grandeur
and fubli-
mity em¬
ployed in-
idireftly to
link the
mmd.
are,
We might recover all our lofs again.
The Queen from France hath brought a puiffant powder.
Ev’n now we heard the news. Ah! could’ft thou fly !
Warwick. Why, then I would not fly.
Third part, Henry VI. aft v. fc. 3.
Such a fentiment from a man expiring of his wounds,
is truly heroic *, and mud elevate the mind to the great-
eft height that can be done by a fingle expreftion 5 it
will not fuffer in a comparifon with the famous fenti¬
ment ^u'il mourut of Corneille : the latter is a fenti¬
ment of indignation merely, the former of firm and
cheerful courage.
To cite in oppofition many a fublime paflage, en¬
riched with the fined images, and dreffed in the mod
nervous expreflions, wrould fcarce be fair. We (hall
produce but one inftance, from Shakefpeare, which
fets a few objefts before the eye, without much pomp
of language : it operates its effeft by reprefenting thefe
objefts in a climax, raifing the mind higher and higher
till it feel the emotion of grandeur in perfeftion ;
The cloud-eapt tow’rs, the gorgeous palaces,
The folemn temples, the great globe itfelf,
Yea, all which it inherit, (hall diffblve, &c.
The cloud-capt tow'rs produce an elevating emotion,
heightened by the gorgeous palaces ; and the mind is
carried dill higher and higher by the images that fol¬
low. Succeflive images, making thus ftronger and
ftronger impredions, muft elevate more than any fingle
image can do.
As, on the one hand, no means direftly applied
have more influence to raife the mind than grandeur
and fublimity ; fo, on the other, no means indireftly
applied have more influence to fink and deprefs it: for
in a date of elevation, the artful introduftion of an
humbling objeft, makes the fall great in proportion
to the elevation. Of this obfervation Shakefpeare gives
a beautiful example in the paffage laft quoted ;
The elevation of the mind in the former part of this
beautiful paflage, makes the fall great in proportion,
when the mod humbling of all images is introduced,
that of an utter diffolution of the earth and its inhabi¬
tants. The mind, when warmed, is more fufceptible
of impreflfions than in a cool date } and a deprefling
or melancholy objeft liftened to, makes the ftrongeft
impredion when, it reaches the mind in its higheft (late
of elevation or clyeerfulnefs.
But a humbling image is not always neceflary to
produce that effeft: a remark is made above, that in
defcribing fuperior beings, the reader’s imagination,
unable to fupport itfelf in a drained elevation, falls
often as from a height, and finks even below its .ordi¬
nary tone. The following inftance comes luckily in
view ; for a better cannot be given : “ God faid, Let
there be light, and there was light.”. Longinus
quotes this paffage from Mofes as a (hining example
of the fublime ; and it is fcarce poflible, in fewer
words, to convey fo clear an image of the infinite
power of the Deity : but then it belongs to the. pre-
fent fubjeft to remark, that the emotion of fublimity
raifed by this image is but momentary } and that the
mind, unable to fupport itfelf in an elevation fo much
above nature, immediately finks down into humility and
veneration for a Being fo far exalted above grovelling
mortals. Every one is acquainted with a difpute about
that paffage between two French critics *, the one po- * Boifoau
fitively affirming it to be fublime, the other as pofi-'ai‘l I -c--
lively denying. What has been remarked, (hows, that
both of them have reached the truth, but neither of
them the whole truth : the primary effeft of the paf¬
fage is undoubtedly an emotion of grandeur j which fo
far juftifies Boileau : but then every one mud be
fenfible, that the emotion is merely a flafh, which, va-
nifliing indantaneoufly, gives way to humility and ve¬
neration. That indireft effeft of fublimity juftifies
Huet, on the other hand, who being a man of true
piety, and probably not much carried by imagina¬
tion, felt the humbling paffions more fe.nfibly than
his antagonift did. And laying afide difference of
charafter, Huet’s opinion may perhaps be defended as
the more folid } becaufe, in fuch images, the deprefiing
emotions are the more fenfibly felt, and have the longei
endurance. r3
The draining an elevated fubjeft beyond due bounds, Jalfe tub,
and beyond the reach of an ordinary concepaon, is
not a vice fo frequent as to require the correftion of
criticifm. But falfe fublime is a rock that writers of
more fire than judgment commonly fplit on > an(^
therefore a colleftion of examples may be of ufe as a
beacon to future adventurers. One fpecies of falfe u-
blime, knowm by the name of botnbajl, is common among
writers of a mean genius : it is a ferious endeavour, by
drained defcription, to raife a low or familiar fubjeft
above its rank j which, inftead of . being fubhme, fails
not to be ridiculous. The mind, indeed, is extremely
prone, in fome animating paffions, to magnify its ob-
G R A
[ 75 ]
G It A
GraUcur ieas beyond natural bounds: but fucb hyperbolical
=.e defcription has its limits; and when earned beyond
Sublimity. ^ impulfe of the propenfxty, it degenerates into bur-
W^v ' lefque. Take the following examples :
Gratae as.
Sejanus,
-Great and high
O U ft-Uo • - j
The world knows only two, that’s Rome and i.
My roof receives me not: ’tis air I
And at each ftep I feel my advanc’d head
Knock out a liar inheav’n.
Ben Johnson, Sejanus, act v.
A writer who has no natural elevation of mind devi¬
ates readily into bombaft: he drains above ^
ral powers-, and the violent effort carries him beyond
the bounds of propriety.
Guildford. Give way, and let the guftnng torrent
Behold the tears we bring to fwell the deluge,
Till the flood rife upon the guilty world,
And make the ruin common.
Lady Jane Grey, aa iv. near the end.
Another fpecies of falfe fublime is ftill more faulty
than bombaft : and that is, to force elevation by in¬
troducing imaginary beings without preferving any
propriety in their adieus ; as if it were lawful to a-
feribe every extravagance and inconfiftence to beings ol
the poet’s creation. " No writers are more licentious m
that article than Johnfon and Dryden.
Methinks I fee Death and the Furies waiting
What we will do, and all the heaven at leifure
For the great fpedacle. Draw then your fwords:
And if our deftiny envy our virtue y
The honour of the day, yet let us care
To fell ourfelves at fuch a price, as may
Undo the world to buy us, and make Fate,
While ftie tempts ours, to fear her own eftate.
Latiline^ set
-The Furies flood on hills
Circling the place, and trembled to fee men
Do more than they : whilft Piety left the field,
Griev’d for that fide, that in fo bad a caufe
They knew not what a crime their valour was.
The fun flood ftill, and was, behind the cloud
The battle made, feen fweating to drive up
His frighted horfe, whom ftill the noife drove back¬
wards. lhld' a£l v‘
Ofmyn. While we indulge our common happinefs,
He is Torgot oy whom we all poffefs,
The brave Almanzor, to whofe arms we owe
Ai! that we did, and all that we ftiall do;
Who like a tempeft that outrides the wind,
Made a iuft battle ere the bodies join’d. # .
A dalla. His victories we fcarce could keep m view,
Or polifti ’em fo faft as he rough drew. .
Abdemelech. Fate after him below with pain did
move,
And Viftory could fcarce keep pace above.
Death d’d at length fo many (lain forget,
And loft the tale, and took ’em by the great.
Conquejl of Granada, aft ii. at beginning.
An aftor on the ftage may be guilty of bombaft as Grandgat
well as an author in his clofet: a certain manner ot aid¬
ing, which is grand when fupported by dignity in the
fentiment and force in the expredion, is ridiculous where
the fentiment is mean and the expreflion flat.
GR ANDGOR is ufed in Scotland for the pox. In
the Philoiophical Tranfaftions, n® 469. feft. 5. we
have a proclamation of King James IV. ot Scot¬
land, ordering all who had this difeafe, or who had
attended others under it, forthwith to repair to an
ifland in the frith of Forth. If _ the grandgor was
the pox, and this diftemper came into Europe at the
fiegeof Naples in 1495, it muft have made a very
quick progrefs to caule fuch an alarm at Edinburg
in 1497. .
GRANGE, an ancient term for a barn or place
wherein to lay up and threfli corn. The word is form¬
ed of the Latin granea ; or o’ granum, “ grain, corn,’
&c. Hence alfo granger or grangier, “ a grange-keeper
or farmer.” r r r
Grange is alfo ufed, in a more extenfive lente, tor
a whole farm, with all the appendages of ftables tor
horfes, flails for cattle, &c. and for an inn.
GRANI in our ancient writers, multachoes or
whilkers of a beard. The word feems formed from
the ancient Britifti or Irifti greann, “ a beard. It
is given for a reafon why the cup is refuted to the
laity, ^uia barbati, &prolixos habent granos, dum pocu-
lum inter epulas fumunt, prius liquore pilos mficiunt,
quam ori infundunt. .
GRANICUS, a fmall river near the Hellelpont
in Leffer Afia, remarkable for the firft viftory gained
by Alexander the Great over the armies of Darius.-—-
Authors difagree very much about the number of the
Perfians, though all agree that they were vaftly more
numerous than the Greeks. Juftin and Orofius tell us
that the Perfian army confifted of 600,000 foot and
20,000 horfe j Arian makes the foot amount to
200,000; but Diodorus tells us, that they were not
more than 100,000 foot and 10,000 horfe. The
Macedonian army did not exceed 30,000 foot and yoo®
horfe. The Perfian cavalry lined the banks of the
Granicus, in order to oppofe Alexander wherever he
ftiould attempt a paffage; and the foot were polled be¬
hind the cavalry on an eafy afeent. Parmenm would
have had Alexander to allow his troops fome time to
refrelh themfelves; but he replied, tnat after having
croffed the Hellefpont, it would be a difgrace to him
and his troops to be flopped by a rivulet. Accor¬
dingly a proper place for crofting the river was no
fooner found, than he commanded a ftrong detach-
ment of horfe to enter *, he himfelf followed with the
ri^ht wing, which he commanded in perfon 5 the trum-
pets in the mean time founding, and loud fhouts ol joy
being heard through the whole army. The Periians let
fly fuch Ihowers of arrows againft the detachment of Ma¬
cedonian horfe as caufed iome confufion; feveral of
their horfes being killed or wounded. As they drew
near the bank a moft bloody engagement enfued; the
Macedonians attempting to land, and the Perfians
pulhing them back into the river. Alexander, who
obferved the confufion they were in, took the com¬
mand of t’em himfelf; gnd landing in fpite of all op-
pofition, obliged the Perfian cavalry, after an obftmate
r D £ 2 refiftance,
9
G R A [ 7G 3 G R A
ground. However, Spithrotates, that meafere; and upon the fame principle,/he foon af-
Grant.
Granicus reiiftance, to give    .
governor of Ionia, and fon-in-law to Darius, Hill main¬
tained his ground, and did all that lay in his power
to bring them back to the charge. Alexander ad¬
vanced full gallop to engage him} neither did he de¬
cline the combat, and both were /lightly wounded at
the fir/t encounter. Spithrobates having thrown his
javelin without effeft, advanced fword in hand to meet
his antagonift, who ran him through with his pike
as he railfed his arm to difcharge a blow with his fci-
mitar. But Rofaces, brother to Spithrobates, at the
fame time gave Alexander fuch a furious blow on
the head with his battle-ax, that he beat off his plume,
and /lightly wounded him through the helmet. As
he was ready to repeat the blow, Clitus with one
ilroke of his fcimitar cut off Rofaces’s head, and thus
in all probability faved the life of his fovereign. The
Macedonians then, animated by the example of their
king, attacked the Perfians with new vigour, who
foon after betook themfelves to flight. Alexander
did not purfue them j but immediately charged the
enemy’s foot with all his forces, who had now paifed the
river. The Perfians, di/heartened at the defeat of their
cavalry, made no great reflftance. ihe Greek merce¬
naries retired in good order to a neighbouring hill,
wdience they fent deputies to Alexander, deliring leave
to march off unmolefted. But he, inftead of coming to
a parley with them, ru/hed furioufly into the middle of
this fmall body, where his horfe was killed under him,
and he himfelf in great danger of being cut. in pieces.
The Greeks defended themfelves with incredible valour
for a long time, but wrere at laft almoft entirely cut oft.
In this battle the Perfians are faid to have loft 20,000
foot and 2500 horfe, and the Macedonians only 55 foot
GRANITE, a compound rock wdiich is confidered
as one of. the oldeft of which the earth is compofed. See
Geology and Mineralogy Index.
Granite, a kind of rock, belonging to the compound
ftones. It is compofed of feld-fpar, quartz, and mica, in
variable proportions. See Mineralogy and Geology
Index.
GRANITILLO, or Granitel, a name given by
fome mineralogifts to a particular fpecies or variety of
granite. . . .
GRANIVOROUS, an appellation given to animals
which feed on corn or feeds. Thefe are principally of
the bird kind. . . . r r u
GRANT, in Law, a conveyance in writing of iuch
things as cannot pafs or be conveyed by word only 5
fuch are rents, reverftons, fervices, &c.
Grant, Francis, Lord Cullen, an eminent law¬
yer and judge in Scotland, wns defcended from a
younger branch of the family of the Grants of Grant
in that kingdom, and wTas born about the year 1660.
When he commenced advocate, he made a diftingui/h-
ed figure at the revolution, by oppofing the opinion
of the old lawyers, who warmly argued on the inabi¬
lity of the convention of eftates to make any difpo-
fition of the crown. The abilities which he difcovered
in favour of the revolution introduced him to extenfive
praftice j in which he acquired fo much reputation,
that when the union between the two kingdoms was
In agitation. Queen Anne, without felicitation, created
him a baronet, with a viewT of fecuring his interert in
Grant.
ter created him a judge, or one 0/ the lords of feluon.
From this time, according to the cuftom of Scotland,
he wras ftyled, from the name of his eftate, Lord Cul¬
len : and the fame good qualities that recommended
him to this honourable office, were very confpicuous
in the difcharge of it; which he continued for 20
years with the higheft reputation, when a period w'as
put to his life by an illnefs which lafted but three
days. He died March 16th, 1726. His charadter
is drawm to great advantage in the Biographia Bri-
tannica; where it is obferved, among other re¬
marks to his honour, “ That as an advocate he was
indefatigable in the management of bufinefs; but at
the fame time that he /pared no pains, he would
ufe no craft. He had fo high an idea of the dignity
of his profeffion, that he held it equally criminal to
negledt any honeft means of coming at juftice, or to
make ufe of any arts to elude it. In refpedl to for¬
tune, though he was modeft and frugal, and had a
large pradtice, yet he was far from being avaricious.
His private charities wTere very confiderable, and grew
in the fame proportion with his profits. He was, bo¬
lides, very fcrupulous in many points; he w'ould not
fuffer a juft caufe to be loft through a client’s w?ant of
money. He was fuch an enemy to oppreflion, that
he never denied his. affiftance to fuch as laboured un¬
der it ; and with refpedl to the clergy of all profeflions
(in Scotland), his confcience obliged him to ierve them
without a fee. When this merit had raifed him to tne
bench, he thought himfelf accountable to God and
man for his conduct in that high office : and that deep
fenfe of his duty, at the fame time that it kept him
ftridlly to it, encouraged and fupported him in the
performance. Wffienever he fat as lord ordinary, the
paper of caufes was remarkably full; for his reputation
being equally eftabliflied for knowledge , and integrity,
there were none, who had a good opinion . of their
own pretenfions, but were defirous of bringing them
before him, and not many who did not fit down fa-
tisfied with his decifion. This prevailed more efpe-
cially after it was found that few of his fentences were -
reverfed ; and when they were, it was commonly owing
' to himfelf: for if, upon mature reflechon, or upon new
reafons offered at the re-hearing, he faw any juft ground
for altering his judgment, he made no fcruple of de¬
claring it; being perfuaded that it wTas more ma.nly, as
well as more juft, to follow truth, than to fupport opi¬
nion : and his conduft in this refpedl had a right effedl;
for inftead of leffening, it raifed his reputation. He
would not, however, with all this great /lock, of know¬
ledge, experience, and probity, truft himfelf in matters
of blood, or venture to decide in criminal cafes on the
lives of his fellow-creatures; which was the reafon
that, though often folicited, he could never be prevail¬
ed upon to accept of a feat in the jufticiary court. •
In his private charadler he was as amiable as he was
refpedlable in his public. He was charitable without
oftentation, difinterefted in his fuenolhips, and beneu-
cent to all who had any thing to do with him. He
was not only ftricily juft ; but fo free from any fpecies
of avarice, that his lady, who was. a woman of great
prudence and diferetion, finding him more intent on
the bufinefs committed to him by others than on his
own, took upon herfelf the care of placing out his mo¬
ney ;
G R A [77
Grantham, ncy ; and to prevent his poftponing, as he ms apt to
Granville, do ilich kind of affairs, when fecunties offered, Ihe cau-
fed the circmftances of them to be dated m the form
of cafes, and fo procured his opinion upon his own
concerns as if they had been thofe of a client. He
was fo true a lover of learning, and was fo much ad¬
dicted to his ftudies, that, notwithftandmg the multi¬
plicity of his bufmefs while at the bar, and his great
attention to his charge when a judge, he neverthele s
found time to write various treatifes on very ditterent
and important fubjefts: Some political, which were
remarkably well timed, and highly ferviceable to the
government: others of a mod eitenfive nature, fuch as
his effays on law, religion, and education which were
dedicated to George II. when Prince °f Waies j by
whofe command, his then fecretary, Mr Samuel Mo-
lyneaux, wrote him a letter of thanks, m which were
many gracious expreflions, as well m relation to t ie
piece as to its author. He compofed, beddes thele,
many difcourfes on literary fubjefts, for the exercife of
his own thoughts, and for the better difcovery of
truth : which went no farther than his own clolet, and
from a principle of modedy were not communicated
even to his mod intimate friends.”
GRANTHAM, a town of Lincolnfture, 1 lo miles
from London, fituated on the river Witham. It is lup-
pofed to have been a Roman town by the remains of
a cadle which have been formerly^ dug up here. It is
governed by an alderman and 1 2 judices of the Peac^>
a recorder, a coroner, &c. Here is a fine large church
with a done fpire, one of the loftied in England, be¬
ing 288 feet high, and, by the deception of the fight,
feems to dand awry, which, by the church being fitu¬
ated fo low, appears to a very great difadvantage.
Here is a good free-fchool, where Sir Ifaac Newton
received his fird education, befides two charity-
fchools.
GRANVILLE, George, Lord Lanfdowne, was
defcended from a very ancient family, derived from
Rollo the fird duke of Normandy. At eleven years
of age he was fent to Trinity College in Cambridge,
where he remained five years : but at the age of 1 3 v\ as
admitted to the degree of mader of arts •, having, be¬
fore he was 12, fpoken a copy of verfes of his own com-
pofition to the duchefs of York at his college, when
die paid a vifit to the Univerfky of Cambridge. In
1696, his comedy called the hne-gallants was acted at
the theatre-royal in Lincoln’s-inn-fields, as his tiagedy
called Heroic Love was in the year 1698. In 1702 he
tranflated into Englidi the fecond Ohjnthian of Demo-
Jlhenes. He was member for the county of Cornwall in
the parliament which met in 1710 *, was afterwards fe¬
cretary of war, comptroller of the houfehold, then trea-
furer, and fworn one of the privy council. The year
following, he was created Baron Lanfdowne. On tne
accefiion of King George I. in 1714, he was removed
from his treafurer’s place ; and the next year entered
his proted againd the bills for attainting Lord Boling-
broke and the duke of Ormond. He entered aetpiy
into the fcheme for raifing an infurreclion in the wed of
England } and being feized as a fulpe<ded perfon, was
committed to the Toiver, where he continued two years.
In 17195 be made a fpeech in the houfe of lords,
againd the bill to prevent occafional conformity. In
1.722, be withdrew to France, and continued abroad
]
He died „ ^
G R A
almod ten years. At his return in 1732, he pubhflied
a fine edition of his works in 2 vols quarto,
in 1735, leaving no male idue. # *—
Granville, a fea-port town of France, m Lower
Normandy, partly feated on a rock and partly on a
plain. It gave title to an Englidi earl, now extinct.
W. Long. 1. 32. N. Lat. 48. 58*
GRANULATED, fomething that has undergone
granulation, or has been reduced to grains.
GRANULATION, in Chemijiry^ an operation by
which metallic fubdances are reduced into fmall grains,
or roundifh particles; the ufe of which is, to facilitate
their combination with other fubdances.*—This opera¬
tion is very fimple} it confids only in pouring a
melted metal (lowly into a veffel filled with water,
which is in the mean time to be agitated with a
broom. Lead or tin may be granulated by pouring
them when melted into a box } the internal furface 01
which is to be rubbed with powdered chalk, and the
box drongly diaken till the lead has become folid.
Metals are granulated, becaufe their duaility renders
them incapable of being pounded, and becaule filing w
long and tedious, and might render the metal impure
by an admixture of iron from the file.
GRAPE, the fruit of the vine. See Vine and
Wine. See alfo Currant and Raisin.
GRAPE-S/iot, in artillery, is a combination of fmall
(hot, put into a thick canvas bag, and corded ftrongly
together, fo as to form a kind of cylinder, whofe dia¬
meter is equal to that of the ball adapted to the can¬
non. The number of (hot in a grape varies according
to the fervice or fize of the guns : in fea-fervice nine is
always the number j but by land it is increafed to any
number or fize, from an ounce and a quarter in weight
to three or four pounds. In fea-fervice the bottoms
and pins are made of iron, whereas thofe ufed by lan
are of wood. r
GRAPES, in the manege, a term uied to iigmty
the arrefts or mangy tumours that happen in the hoife s
^^GRAPHOMETER, a mathematical inftrument,
otherwife called a fcmicircle ; the ufe of which is to ob-
ferve any angle whofe vertex is at the centie of the in¬
ftrument in any plane (though it is mod commonly ho¬
rizontal, or nearly fo), and to find how many degrees
it contains. See Mensuration.-
GRAPNEL, or Grappling, a fort of fmall an¬
chor, fitted with four or five flukes or claws, and com¬
monly ufed to ride a boat or other fmall veffel. _
Fire-CrRAPPLiNG, an inftrument nearly refemblmg the
former, but differing in the conftruaion of its flukes,
which are furniftied with ftrong barbs on their points.
Thefe machines are ufually fixed on the yard-arms of a
(hip, in order to grapple any adverfary whom (he in¬
tends to board. They are, however, more.particular¬
ly ufeful in Fire Ships for the purpofes defcribed in that
article.
GRASS, in Botany, a plant having fimple leaves, a
ftem generally jointed and tubular, a bulky calyx (cal¬
led gluma), and the feed fingle. For the claflification
of grades, fee BOTANY Index; and for an account of
the culture, fee Agriculture Index.
GRASSHOPPER, a fnecies of gryllus. See Gryl-
lus, Entomology Index.
GRATES for Fires, are compofed of ribs o( non
placed
Granville
Grates.
G R A r 78 1 G R A
Cratlan placed at fmall dxftances from one anotlier, fo that the
IJ ^ air may have fufficient accefs to the fuel, and the accu-
c'‘" ‘l "'V midation of the aihes, which would choke the fire,
may be prevented—Grates feem peculiarly adapted to
the ufe of pit-coal, uhich requires a greater quantity
of air to make it burn freely than other kinds of fuel.
The hearths of the Britons feem to have been fixed in
the centre of their halls, a-s is yet praflifed in fome
parts of Scotland, where the fire is nearly in the middle
of the houfe, and the family fit all around it. Their
fire-place was perhaps nothing more than a large ftone,
depreffed a little below' the level of the ground, and
thereby adapted to receive the aihes. About a cen¬
tury agp, it was only the floor of the room, with the
• addition of a bauk or bob of clay. But it wras now
■changed among the gentlemen for a portable fire¬
pan, raifed upon low fupnorters, and fitted writh a
circular grating of bars. Such were in ufe among the
Gauls in the hrft century, and among the Welfir in the
tenth.
GRATIAN, the fon of Valentinian I. by bis firft
■wife, was declared Augurtus by bis father at the city
of Amiens in 365, and fucceeded him in 367 j a prince
equally extolled for his wit, eloquence, modefty, cha-
ftity, and zeal againft heretics. He afibciated Fheo-
dofius with him in the empire, and advanced the poet
Aufonius to the confulate. He made a great (laughter
* See Ar- of the Germans at Str.'fburg *, and hence was furoamed
rtntora. Alemannicus. He was the firft emperor who refufed
the title of Pontifcx Maximus, upon the fcore of its be¬
ing a Pagan dignity. He was afiaftinated by Andra-
gathius in 375, in the 24th year of his age.
GratiaK, a famous Benedi&ine monk, in the I 2th
century, was born at Chiufi in Tufcany, and employed
above 24 years in compofing a work, entitled Deere-
turn, or Concordantia Difcordantium Canonum, becaufe
he there endeavoured to reconcile the canons which
feemed contradidlory to each other. This work was
firft printed at Mentz in 1472. As he is frequently
miftaken, in taking one canon of one council, or one
paflage of one father for another, and has often cited
falfe decretals, feveral authors have endeavoured to cor-
re£t his faults •, and chiefly Anthony Auguftine, in his
excellent work entitled De emendatione Graham. 1 o
the de#retals of Gratian, the popes principally owed the
great authority they exercifed in the and follow¬
ing centuries.
GRATINGS, in a (hip, are fmall edges of fawed
plank, framed one into another like a lattice or nrifon
grate, lying on the upper deck, between the mainmaft
and foremaft, fervlng for a defence in a clofe fight, and
alfo for the coolnefs, light, and conveniency of the
ihipfs company.
GRATIOLA, hedge hyssop •, a genus of plants
belonging to the diandria clafs. See Botany Index.
GRATITUDE, in Ethics, a virtue difpofing the
mind to an inward fenfe and outward acknowledgment
of benefits received.
Examples of ingratitude, Mr Paley obferves, check
and difeourage voluntary beneficence 5 hence the culti¬
vation of a grateful temper is a confideration of public
importance. A fecond reafon for cultivating in our-
felves that temper is : That the fame principle which is
touched with the kindnefs of a human benefaffor, is
capable of being affe&ed by the divine goodnefs, and
S
and of becoming, under the influence of that aSeclion, Gratitude,
a fource of the pureft and moft exalted virtue. The ■——v—
love of God #. the fublimefi gratitude. It is a miftake,
therefore, to imagine, that this virtue is omitted in the
Scriptures; for every precept which commands us “ to
love God, becaufe he firft loved us,” preluppofes the
principle of gratitude, and dire&s it to its proper ob-
jeft-
It is impoffible to particularife the feveral expref-
fions of gratitude, which vary with the character and
fituation of the benefaftor, and with the opportunities
of the perfon obliged ; for this variety admits of no
bounds. It may be obferved, however, that on one
part gratitude can never oblige a man to do what is
wrong, and what by confequence be is previoufly obli¬
ged not to do : On the other part, it argues a total
want of every generous principle, as well as of moral
probity, to take advantage of that alcendency, which
the conferring of benefits juftly creates, to draw or
drive thofe whom we have obliged into mean or diiiio-
neit compliances.
The following pleafing example of genuine gratitude
is extradled from Hackwel's Apol. fib. xiv. c. 1 o. p 436.
—F'ancis Frefcobald, a Florentine merchant defeend-
ed of a noble family in Italy, had gained a plentiful
fortune, of which he was liberal-handed to all in ne-
ceflity ; which being well known to others, though
concealed by himfelf, a young ftranger applied to him
for charity. Signior Frefcobald, feeing fomething in his
countenance more than ordinary, overlooked his tat¬
tered clothes ; and compaffionating his circumftances,
alked him “ What be was, and of what country ?”
“ I am (anfwered the young man) a native of Eng¬
land ; my name is Thomas Cromwell, and my father-
in-law is a poor ftieer-man. I left my country to feek
my fortune ; came with the French army that were
routed at Gatylion, where I was a page to a footman,
and carried his pike and burgonet after him.” Frel-
cobald commiferating his neceflities, and having a
particular refpe6l for the Englifh nation, clothed him
genteelly ; took him into his houfe till he had recover¬
ed ftvength by better diet ; and, at his taking leave,
mounted him upon a good horfe, with 16 ducats of
gold in his pockets, Cromwell expreffed his thank-
fulnefs in a very fenfible manner, and returned by land
toivards England $ where, being arrived, he was pre¬
ferred into the fervice of Cardinal Wolfey, After the
cardinal’s death, he worked himfelf fo ^effe&ually into
the favour of King Henry VIII. that his majefty made
him a baron, vifeount, earl of Eflex, and at laft made
him lord high chancellor of England. In the mean
time, Signior Frefcobald, by repeated lofles at fiea and
land, was reduced to poverty; and calling to mind
(without ever thinking of Cromwell), that fome Eng¬
lifh merchants were indebted to him in the ium of
1 $,000 ducats, he came to London to procure payment.
Travelling in purfuit of this affair, be fortunately met
with the lord chancellor as he was riding to court;
who thinking him to be the fame gentleman that had
done him fuch great kindnefs in Italy, he immediately
alighted, embraced him, and with tears of joy aiked
him, If Ire was not Signior Francis Frefcobald, a
Florentine merchant? “Yes, Sir (faid he) and your
moft humble fervant.” “ My fervant! (faid the chan¬
cellor) No $ you are my fpecial friend, that relieved me
.V
G R A [79
Gratitude, in my wants, laid the foundation of my greatnefs, and,
v- v,_—as Inch, I receive you: and, iince the aflairs of my fo-
vereifjn v.ill not now permit a longer conference, I beg
you will oblige me this day with your company at my
houfe to dinner with me.” Signior Frefcobald was
furprifed and aftonilhed with admiration who this great
man fhould be that acknowledged fuch obligations, and
fo paflionately expreffed a kindnefs for him ; but, con¬
templating a while his voice, his mien, and carriage,
he concludes it to be Cromwell, whom he had relieved
at Florence j and therefore not a little overjoyed, goes
to his houfe, and attended his coming. His lordihip
came foon after •, and immediately taking his friend by
the hand, turns to the lord high admiral and other no¬
blemen in his company, faying, “ Don’t your lordfliips
wonder that I am fo glad to fee this gentleman ? This
is he who firil contributed to my advancement.” -He
then told them the whole dory •, and, holding him dill
by the hand, led him into the dining-room, and placed
him next himfelf at table. The company being gone,
the chancellor made ufe of this opportunity to know
what affair had brought him into England. Frefcobald
in few words gave him the true date of his circumdan-
ces: To which Cromwell replied, “ I am forry for
your misfortunes, and I will make them as eafy to you
as I can 5 but, becaufe men ought to be jud before
they are kind, it is fit I diould repay the debt I orve
you.” Then leading him into his clofet, he locked the
door 5 and opening a coffer, fird took out 16 ducats,
delivering them to Frefcobald, and faid, “ My friend,
here is the money you lent me at Florence, with ten
pieces you laid out for my apparel, and ten more you
paid for my horfe; but, confidering you are a mer¬
chant, and might have made fome advantage by this
money in the way of trade, take thefe four bags, in
every one of which is 400 ducats, and enjoy them as
the free gift of your friend.” Thefe the modedy of
Frefcobald would have refufed, but the other forced
them upon him. He next caufed him to give him the
names of all his debtors, and the fums they owed :
which account he tranfmitted to one of his fervants,
with a charge to find out the men, and oblige them to
pay him in 15 days under the penalty of his difplea-
fure ; and the fervant fo well difcharged his duty, that
in a drort time the entire fum wTas paid. All this time
Signior Frefcobald lodged in the chancellor’s houfe,
where he was entertained according to his merits, with
repeated perfuaiions for his continuance in England,
and an offer of the loan of 60^000 ducats for four years
if he would trade here : but he defired to return to
Florence, which he did, with extraordinary favours from
the lord Cromwrell.
There is a fpecies of grateful remorfe, which iome-
times has been known to operate forcibly on the minds
of the moft hardened in impudence. Of this Mr An¬
drews, who makes the remark, gives an inftance in the
following anecdote, faid to have been a favourite one
with the late Dr Campbell. “ Towards the beginning
of this century, an aoor, celebrated for mimicry, was
to have been employed by a comic author, to take off
the perfon, the manner, and the Angularly awkward
delivery of the celebrated Dr Woodward, who was in¬
tended to be introduced on the ftage in a laughable
chara£fer, (viz. in that of Dr Fqflile, in Three Hours
after Marriage). The mimic dreffed himfelf as a coun-
] G R A
try man, and waited on the doctor with a long cata¬
logue of ailments, which he faid attended on his wife.
The phyfician heard with amazement dileafes and pains t 
of the moft oppofite nature, repeated and redoubled on
the wnetched patient. For, fince the aftor’s greateft
wifti was to keep Dr Woodward in his company as long
as poflible, that he might make the more obfervations
on his geftures, he loaded his poor imaginary fpoufe
with every infirmity which had any probable chance of
prolonging the interview'. At length, being become
completely mafter of his errand, he drew from his purfe
a guinea, and, wuth a fcrape, made an uncouth offer of
it. ‘ Put up thy money, poor fellow' (cried the doc¬
tor) } thou haft need of all thy calh and all thy pa¬
tience too, with fuch a bundle of difeafes tied to thy
back.’ The a£tor returned to his employer, and re¬
counted the whole converfation, wdth fuch true feeling
of the phyfician’s chara&er, that the author fcreamed
with approbation. His raptures wrere foon checked;
for the mimic told him, with the emphafis of feniibility,
that he would fooner die than proftitute his talents to
the rendering fuch genuine humanity a public laughing-
ftock. The player’s name w'as Griffin.
GRATZ, a ftrong town of Germany, and capital of
Styria, with a caftle feated on a rock, and an univer-
fity. The Jefuits had a college here } and there are a
great number of handfome palaces, and a fine arfenal.
The caftle Hands on a very lofty hill, and communicates
with the river by means of a deep well. The emprefs-
dowager wTas obliged to retire hither during the wrar of
1741 and 1742. It is feated on the river Muer, in
E. Long. 16. 25. N. Lat. 47. 4.
GR ATIUS, a Latin poet, contemporary with Ovid,
the author of a poem entitled Ci/negeticon, or the Man¬
ner of hunting with dogs; the beft edition of which is
that of Leyden, 1 2mo, with the learned notes of Janus
Ulitius.
GRAVE, in Grammar, a fpecies of accent oppofite
to acute. The grave accent is expreffed thus ('); and
fhow7S, that the voice is to be depreffed, and the fylia¬
ble over which it is place pronounced in a low deep
tone.
Grave, in Muffic, is applied to a found which is in
a low or deep tone. The thicker the chord or firing,
the more grave the tone or note, and the fmaller the
acuter. Notes are fuppofed to be the more grave,
in proportion as the vibrations of the chord are lefs
quick.
Grave, in the Italian mufic, ferves to denote the
flow'eft movement.
Grave is alfo ufed for a tomb, wherein a perfon de-
fun£I is interred.
Graves, among the Jews, were generally out of the
city, though we meet with inftances of their interring
the dead in towns. Frequent mention is made,-of
graves upon mountains, in highways, in gardens, and
private houfes. . So that nothing on this head feems
to have been determined. The fame may be obferved
w7ith refpedt to the Greeks. The Tnebans had a law
that every perfon who built a houfe fhculd provide a
burial-ground. Men who had diftinguifhed themfelves
were frequently buried in the public forum. I he moft
general cuftom was, however, to bury out of the city,
chiefly by the highw’ay fide. The Romans were roi-
bidden by the law of the 1 2 tables to bury or burn
the
Gratz
ii
Grave.
Grave
G R A [ 80 ]
tlie dead in the city j but fome we find had their fe-
pulchres in Rome, though they paid a fine ror the In¬
dulgence.
Grave, a very ftrong town of the Netherlands, in
Dutch Brabant, feated on the river Maefe, beyond
which there is a fort. E. Long. 5. 41. N. Lat. 51.
46.
GRAVEL, in Natural Hi/}on/ and Gardening, a
congeries of pebbles, which, mixed with a ftift loam,
makes lafting and elegant gravel-walks •, an ornament
peculiar to our gardens, and which gives them an ad¬
vantage over thofe of other nations.
Gravel. See Medicine Index.
GrarKL-TValks. lo make thefe properly, the oot-
tom (hould be laid with lime rubbilh, large flint-ftones,
or any other hard matter, for eight or ten inches thick,
to keep weeds from growing through, and over this
the gravel is to be laid fix or eight inches thick. H his
Ihould be laid rounding up in the middle, by which
means the larger Hones will run off to the fides, and
may be raked away *, for the gravel ihould never be
fereened before it is laid on. It is a common mif-
take to lay thefe walks too round, which not only
makes them uneafy to walk upon, but takes off from
their apparent breadth. One inch in five feet is a fu.h-
cient proportion for the rife in the middle $ fo that a
wralk of 20 feet wide ihould be four inches higher at
the middle than at the edges, and fo in proportion. As
loon as the gravel is laid, it ihould be raked, and the
large Hones thrown back again : then the whole ihould
be rolled both lengthwife and crofswife ; and the per-
fon who draws the roller ihould wear ihoes with flat
heels, that he may make no holes j becaufe holes made
in a new walk are not eafily remedied. The walks
ihould always be rolled three or four times in very hard
fliowers, after which they will bind more firmly than
otherwife they could ever be made to do.
Gravel with fome loam among it, binds more
firmly than the rawer kinds j and when gravel is na
turally very harfh and iharp, it is' proper to add a
.mixture of loam to it. The beff gravel ff>r walks is
fuch as abounds with imooth round pebbles, w nich,
being mixed with a little loam, are bound fo firmly
together, that they are never afterwards injured either
bv wet or dry weather. Fhefe are not fo liaole to be
turned up by the feet in walking, as the more inegu-
larly flraped pebbles, and remain much more firmly in
their places after rolling.
GRAVELINES, a ffrong fea-port town of the
Netherlands, in French Flanders, with a cafile and har¬
bour, feated in a marflry country on the river Aa, near
the fea, in E. Long. 2. 13* .
GRAVELLY LAND, or soil, that abounding with
gravel or fand, which eafily admits of heat and moi-
Hure j and the more flony fuch lands are, the more
barren they prove.
GRAVEN AC, a town of Germany, in the circle
of Suabia, and capital of a county of the fame name.
E. Long. 8. 15. N. Lat. 48. 22.
GRAVER., in the art of engraving, a toolby which
all the lines, fcratches, and {hades, are cut in copper,
gtc. See Engraving.
GRAVES AND E, William James, was born of
an ancient and honourable family at Delft in Holland.
4n 1688. He ffudied the civil law at Leyden, but
3
G R A
mathematical learning was his favourite amufement. Gravefcni.
When he had taken his dodor’s degree in i’/oj, he r w—
fettled at the Hague, and praclifed at the bar, in
which fituation he cultivated an acquaintance with
learned men •, with a fociety of whom, he publiflred a
periodical review entitled L.e 'Journal hteraire, which
was continued without interruption from the year 1713
to the year 1722, when he died. The moil confider-
able of his'works are, “ A treatife on perfpedive ; An
introdudion to the Newtonian pb'uofophy, cr a trea¬
tife on the elements of phylrcs confirmed by experi¬
ments ; A treatife on the elements of algebra, for the
ufe of young Hudents and “ A courie of logic and
metaphyfics.” He had intended to have prefented the
public with a fyffem of morality, but his death pre¬
vented the execution. The miniflers of the republic
confulted him on all occafions wherein his talents vere
requifite 5 and his ikill in calculation was often of fer-
vice to them •, as was his addrefs in deciphering, for
deteding the fecret correfpondence of their enemies.
As profeffor of mathematics and affronomy^at Leyden,
none ever applied the powers of nature with more fuc-
cefs, or to more ufeful purpofes.
GRAVESEND, a town of Kent in England, Si¬
tuated on the banks of the Thames. It is 25 miles
from London ; and has a blockhoufe well mounted
with cannon, to command the {hips and river, diredly
oppofite to Tilbury fort in Efiex. d he town w'as
plundered and burnt by the French and Spaniards in
the reign of Richard II. to compenfate which, the king,
at the requeff of the abbot of St Mary-le-Grace ot
Tower-hill, to whom he had granted a manor there
called Parrocks, vefled it and Milton with the
foie privilege of carrying paffengers by water from
hence to London at 4s. the wdiole fare, or 2d. a-head ;
which was confirmed by Henry VIII. j but now the
fare is od. a-head in the tilt-boat, and is. in the wherry.
The former muff not take in above 40 paffengers, the
latter no more than 8. Coaches ply here at the land¬
ing of people from London, &c. to carry them to Ro-
chefter, at is. 6d. each. This town and Milton were
incorporated by Queen Elizabeth by the name of the
portreeve (now the mayor), jurats, andL inhabitants ox
Gravefend and Milton : And as Graveiend is the pxace
where moff paffengers through Kent from foreign parts
take boat for London, that queen, in order to ihow
the grandeur of the metropolis of her kingdom, order¬
ed the lord mayor, aldermen, and city companies, to
receive all ambaffadors and eminent Hiangeis eie in
their formalities, and to attend them to London in
barges if by water 5 or if they chofe to come by
land, they were to meet them on horfeback on Black-
heath in their livery gowns. The towns for feverai
miles round are fupplied from hence with garden Huffs,
of which great quantities are alfo fent to London,
where the afparagus of Gravefend is prfcierred to that
of Batterfea. All outward-bound Hups are obliged to
anchor in this road till they have been vifited by the
cuffomhoufe officers > and for this purpofe a centmel
at the blockhoufe fires a mulket : but the ^mewa1^
bound all pafs by without notice unlefs it be to put
waiters on board, if they are not fupphed Wore. As
the outward-bound generally take in provifions here,
the place is full of feamen, who are all in a hurry.
The whole town being burnt down in 1727, 50001.
/
G R A t 81
*
fefavina Was granted by the parliament in 1731 for rebuilding
11 its church, as one of the 50 new ones. In 1624, one
, Gray. gave 21 dwelling-houfes here, beiides one
> for a matter weaver, to employ the poor •, and here is
a charity-l'chool for 24 boys, who are both taught and
clothed. The town-houfe was credited in 1764? ai\d
in 1772 an a£t of parliament empowered the inhabi¬
tants to pave and light their ftreetSi
GRAVINA, a town of Italy, in the kingdom of
Naples, and Terra di Bari, with a bifliop’s fee, and the
title of a duchy.. E. Long. 17. N. Lat. 41.
GRAVITATION, in Natural Philafophy, is fome-
times diftinguhhed from gravity, Thus M. Mauper-
tuis takes gravity for that force whereby a body would
fall to the earth-, but gravitation for the fame dimi-
nifhed by the centrifugal force. See Neivtouian P/n-
lofophy.
GRAVITY, or Gravitation (for the words are
moft commonly ufed fynonymoufly), fignifies either
the force by which bodies are prelTed towards the fur-
face of the earth, or the manifeft effedtt of that force ;
in which laft fenfe the word has the fame ttgnification
with weight or heavirtefs.
Concerning gravity in the firft fenfe of the word,
or that adttive power by wdiich all bodies are impelled
tow-ards the earth, there have been great difputes.
Many eminent philofophers, and among the reft Sir
Ifaac Newton himfelf, have confidered it as the firft of
all fecond caufes; an incorporeal or fpiritual fubftance,
which never can be perceived any other way than by
its effects ; an univerfal property of matter, &Ci Others
have attempted to explain the phenomena of gravita¬
tion by the adtion of a very lubtle ethereal fluid;
and to this explanation Sir Ifaac, in the latter part of
his life, feems not to have been averfe. He hath even
given a conjedlure concerning the manner in which
this fluid might occaflon thefe phenomena. But for a
full account of the difcoveries of this great philofopher
concerning the laws of gravitation, the conjedlures
made by him and others concerning its caufe, the va¬
rious objedlions that have been made to his dodfrine,
and the ftate of the difpute at prefent, fee the articles
Nfivtonian Philofophy and Astronomy.
Specific Gravity denotes the weight belonging to
an equal bulk of every different fubftance. Thus the
exadt weight of a cubic inch of gold, compared with a
cubic inch of w-ater, tin, lead, &c. is called its fpecifc
gravity. See Hydrostatics.
GRAY, or Grey, a mixed colour partaking of the
two extremes, black and white. See Dyeing Index.
In the manege they make feveral forts of grays
as the branded or blackened gray, which has fpots
quite black difperfed here and there. The dappled
gray, which has fpots of a darker colour than the reft
of the body. The light or filver gray, wherein there
is but a fmall mixture of black hairs. The fad or iron
gray, which has but a fmall mixture of white. And
the browriifh or fandy-coloured gray, where there are
bay-coloured hairs mixed wdth the black.
Gray, a tow-n of France, in the department of Up¬
per Saone, and capital of the bailiwick of Amont. It
-is a trading place, and feated on the river Saone, in
• E. Long. 5. 41. N. Lat. 47. 30.
Gray, Lady “Jane. See Grey.
Gray, Thomas, an admired Englilh poet, was the
Vol. X. Part L
] G R A
youngeft and only fttrviving fon of a reputable citi- .
zen of London, and was born in Cornhill in 1716. v
He was educated at Eton, where he contradled a friend-
flrip with Pdr Horace Walpole, and with Mr Richard
Weft fon of the lord chancellor of Ireland. Mr Weft and
Mr Gray were both intended for the bar : but the for¬
mer died early in life, and the latter was diverted from
that purfuit by an invitation to accompany Mr Wal¬
pole in his travels 5 which he accepted without any
determined plan for his future life. During Mr Gray’s
travels, he wrote a variety of letters to Mr Weft and
to his parents, which are printed with his poems 5 and
when he returned,- ftnding himlelf in narrow circiim-
ftances, yet with a mind indifpofcd for adlive employ¬
ment, he retired to Cambridge, and devoted himfelf to
ftudy. Soon after his return, his friend Weft died j /
and the melancholy impreffed on him by this event may
be traced in his admired “ Elegy written in a country
churchyard 5” which is thought to have been begun,
if not ftnilhed, at this time i, though the conclufion,
as it ftands at prefent, is certainly different from what
it -was in the firft manufcript copy. The firft impulffe
of his forrow for the death of his friend gave birth to
a very tender fonnet in Englilh, on the Petrarchian
model} and alfo to a fublime apoftrophe in hexame¬
ters, written in the genuine ftrain of claflical majefty,
with w-hich he intended to begin one of his books De
Principiis cogitandi.
From the winter of the year 1742, to the day of his
death, his principal refidence was at Cambridge : froni
which he was feldom abfent any confiderable time, ex¬
cept between the years 1759 and 1762 ; when on the
opening of the Britilh Mufeum, he took lodgings in
Southampton-row, in order to have recourfe to the
Harleian and other manufcripts there depofited, from
which he made feveral curious extrafts, amounting in
all to a tolerable fized folio, at prefent in the hands of
Mr Walpole.
About the year 1747, Mr Mafon, the editor of Mr
Gray’s poems, was introduced to him. The former
had written, a year or trvo before, fome imitations of •
Milton’s juvenile poems, viz. A Monody on the death
of Mr Pope, and two pieces entitled ll Bel/icofo and
II Pacifico on the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle \ and the
latter revifed them at’ the requeft of a friend. This
laid the foundation of an intimacy which continued
without interruption to the death of Mr Gray.
About the year 1750, Mr Gray had put his laft.
hand to his celebrated Elegy written in a country
church-yard, and had communicated it to his friend
Mr Walpole, whofe good tafte was too much charmed
with it to fuffer him to withhold the fight of it from
his acquaintance. Accordingly it wTas ftrowm about fot
fome time in manufcript, and received with all the ap-
plaufe it fo juttly merited. At laft; the publiftier of
one of the magazines having obtained a furreptitious
copy of it, Mr Gray wrote to Mr Walpole, defiring
that he would put his own manufcript into the hands
of Mr Dodfley, and order him to print it immediately.
This was the moft popular of all our author’s publica¬
tions. It ran through eleven editions in a very fhort
fpace of time j was finely tranflated into Latin by
Meffrs Anfty and Roberts j and in the fame year by
Mr Lloyd.
From July 1759 to the year 1762, he generally re- t
L fided
G R A [ 82 ] G R A
Gray, fided in London, with a view, as we have already ob-
ferved, of having recourfe to the Britiih Mufeum. In
July 1768, his grace the duke of Grafton wrote him
a polite letter, informing him, that his majelty had
been pleafed to offer to him the profefforlhip of Mo¬
dern Hillory in the univerlity of Cambridge, then va¬
cant by the death of Mr Laurence Brocket. TLhis
place was valuable in itfelf, the falary being 400I. a-
year •, but what rendered it particularly acceptable to
Mr Gray was its being given him without any felici¬
tation. He was indeed remarkably difintereiled in all
his purfuits. Though his income, before this addi¬
tion, was very fmall, he never read or wrote with a
view of making his labours ufeful to himfelf. He may
be faid to have been of thofe few perfonages in the
annals of literature, efpecially in the poetical clafs,
who are devoid of felf-interelf, and at the fame time
attentive to economy j and alfo was. among mankind
in general one of thofe very few economifts, who pof-
fefs that talent, untindtuyed with the {lighted: {lain of
avarice. When his circumftances were at the lowed:,
he gave away fuch fums in private charity, as would
have done credit to an ampler purle. But what chief¬
ly deterred him from feeking any advantage by his
literary purfuits, was a certain degree of pride, which
led him to defpife the idea of being thought an author
by profeflion.
" However, it is probable, that early in life he had
an intention of pubhlhing an edition of Strabo } for
his papers contain a great number of notes and geo¬
graphical difquifitions on that author, particularly
with refpe£t to that part of Ada which comprehends
Perfia and India. The indefatigable pains which he
took with the waitings of Plato, and the quantity of
critical as well as explanatory obfervations which he
has left upon almoll every part of his works, plainly
indicate, that no man in Europe was better prepared
to republilh and illuftrate that philofopher than Mr
Gray. Another work, on which he beftowed uncom¬
mon labour, was the Anthologia. In an interleaved
copy of that colleftion of Greek epigrams, he has tran-
feribed feveral additional ones, which he feledled in his
extenlive reading j has inferted a great number of cri¬
tical notes and emendations, and fubjoined a copious
index. But whether he intended this performance for
the prefs or not, is uncertain. The only work which
he meditated upon with this direft view from the be¬
ginning w’as a hillory of Englilh poetry, upon a plan
Jketched out by Mr Pope. He has mentioned this
himfelf in an advertifement to thofe three fine imita¬
tions of Norfe and Welch poetry, which he gave the
world in the laft edition of his poems. But alter he
had made fome confiderable preparations for the exe¬
cution of this defign, and Mr Mafon had offered him
his aflillance, he was informed, that Mr Warton, of
Trinity College, Oxford, wTas engaged in a work of
the fame kind. The undertaking was therefore relin-
quilhed, by mutual confent •, and foon after, on that
gentleman’s defiring a fight of the plan, our author
readily fent him a copy of it.
Among other fciences, Mr Gray had acquired a
great knowledge of Gothic architefture. He had feen
and accurately ftudied in his youth, while abroad, the
Roman proportions on the fpot, both in ancient times,
and in the works of Palladio. In his later years he
applied himfelf to confider thofe flupendous firuflures Grt.y.
of more modern date that adorn our own country j
which, if they have not the fame grace, have undoubt¬
edly equal dignity. He endeavoured to trace this
mode of building from the time it commenced through
its various changes, till it arrived at its pcrfe&ion in
the reign of Henry VIII. and ended in that of Eliza¬
beth. For this purpofe, he did not fo much depend
upon written accounts, as that internal evidence which
the buildings themfelves give of their refpedtive anti¬
quity ; fince they conllantly furnilh to the well-inform¬
ed eye, arms, ornaments, and other marks, by which
their feveral ages may be afeertained. On this account
he applied himfelf to the lludy of heraldry as a prepa¬
ratory fcience ; and has left behind him a number o{
genealogical papers, more than fufficient to prove him
a complete mailer of it. By thefe means he arrived at
fo very extraordinary a pitch of fagacity, as to be en¬
abled to pronounce, at firft fight, on the precife time
when every particular part of any of our cathedrals was
erefted. But the favourite fiudy of Mr Gray for the
lall ten years of his life was natural hillory, which he
then rather refumed than began •, as by the infiruc-
tions of his uncle Antrobus, he was a confiderable bo-
tanili at 15. The marginal notes which he has left on
Linnaeus and other writers on the vegetable, animal,
and foflil kingdoms, are very numerous : but the moft
confiderable are on Hudfon’s Flora Anglica, and the
tenth edition of the Syjlema Nature ; which latter he
interleaved and filled almoft entirely. While employ¬
ed on zoology, he read Ariftotle’s treatife on that fub-
je£l with great care, and explained many difficult paf-
fages of that obfeure ancient by the lights he had re¬
ceived from modern naturalifts. In a word, excepting
pure mathematics, and the {Indies dependent on that
fcience, there was hardly any part of human learning
in which he had not acquired a competent {kill,_ and
in moil of them a confummate maftery. To this ac¬
count of his literary charadler w'e may add,, that he
had a fine italic in painting, prints, gardening, and
mufic ; and was moreover a man of good breedings
virtue, and humanity.
He died in 1771 : and an edition of his poems, with
memoirs of his life and writings., were publilhed in 410,
in 1775, by Mr Mafon. This gentleman, however,
inilead of employing his owm pen in drawing Mr Grays
chara&er, has adopted one drawn by the reverend Mr
Temple, re£lor of Mamhead in Devonffiire, in a letter to
Mr Bofwell; to whom the public are indebted for com¬
municating it. “ Perhaps (fays Mr Temple) he was the
moft learned man in Europe. He wras equally acquainted
with the elegant and profound parts of fcience, and
that not fuperficially but thoroughly. He knew every
branch of hiftory, both natural and civil j had read all
the original hiftorians of England,. France, and Italy :
and was a great antiquarian. Criticiim, metaphyfics,
morals, politics, made a principal part of his plan o>.
ftudy j voyages and travels of all forts were his favour-
rite amufement } and he had a fine tafte in painting,
prints, architetfure, and gardening. With fuch a
fund of knowledge, his converfation muft have been
equally inftru6ling and entertaining ; but. he was alfo
a good man, a wHl-bred man, a man of virtue and hu¬
manity. There is no chara&er without fome fpeck,
fome imperieclion y and I.think the greateft deleft in.
G R E
r
Grayling his was an affefhtion in delicacy, or rather effeminacy
11 and a vifible faftidioufnels, or contempt, and dddain ot
Greaves. ^ inferiors in fcience. He alfo had, in fome degree,
' that weaknefs which difgufted Voltaire lo much
Congreve : though he feemed to value others chiefly-
according to the progrefs they had made in knowledge,
yet he could not bear to be confidered himfelf merely
as a man of letters 5 and though without birth, or for¬
tune, or ftation, his defire was to be looked upon as a
private independent gentleman, who read for his amuie-
Lnt. Perhaps it may be laid, What figmfies fo
much knowledge, when it produces o 1 e . s,
worth taking fo much pains to leave no memorial but
a few poems ? But let it be confidered, that Mr Gray
was, to others, at leafl innocently employed ; to him¬
felf, certainly beneficially. His time paffed agreeably ,
he was every day making fome. new acquifition m
fcience ; his mind was enlarged, his heart foltened, an
his virtue ftrengthened j the world and mankind were
fhown to him without a mafk •, and he was taught to
confider every thing as trifling, and unworthy the at¬
tention of a wife man, except the purfuit of know¬
ledge, and the praftice of virtue in that (late wherein
God hath placed us.” ,
GRAYLING. See Salmo, Ichthyology Index.
In angling for this fiih the hook mull be armed
upon the fhankswith a very narrow plate of lead, which
fhould be flendereft at the bent of the hook, that the
bait (which is to be a large grafhopper, the uppermolt
wing of which muft be pulled off) may come over to
it the more eafily. At the point let there be a cod-
bait in a continual motion. The jag-tail, which is. a
worm of a pale flefh-colour, with a yellow tag on its
tail, is an excellent bait for the grayling m March and
GREASE, a fwelling and gourdinefs of the legs
of a horfe. See Farriery, N . ,.
GREAT, a term of comparifon, denoting a thing
, /*  4-Vi of *n \xrl
to have more exteniion than fome other to which it is
referred. Thus we fay, a great fpace, a great diftance,
a great figure, a great body, &c. .
Great is likewife ufed figuratively m matters of
morality, &c. to fignify ample, noble, elevated, extra¬
ordinary, important, &c. Thus we fay, Shakefpeaie
was a great genius, Da Vinci a great, painter, Galileo
a great philofopher, Boflu z great critic, &c.
Great is alfo a title or quality appropriated to cer-
tain princes and other illuftrious perlonages. Thus
we fay, the great Turk, the great Mogul, the great
cham of Tartary, the great duke of Florence, ike.
Great is alfo a furname bellowed on feverai kings
and emperors. Thus we fay, Alexander the great ;
Cyrus the great ; Charles the great, or Charlemagne •,
Henry the great of France, &c.
Great is alfo applied to feverai officers who have
pre-eminence over others. Thus we fay, the lord great
chamberlain ; the great marfhal of Poland, See.
GREATER tone, in Muftc. See Tone.
GREAVES, John, an eminent phyfician and an-
tiquary, was the eldeft fon of John Greaves rector of
Colemore, near Alresford in Hampfhire, and born in
1602. He wras educated at Baliol College in Oxroid,
from which he removed to Merton. He was after¬
wards, on the foot of his great merit, chofen geo-
■?nctry profeffor of Grefham college. His ardent thirfl
83 ] G K E
of knowledge foon carried him into feverai parts of
Europe, where he eagerly feized every. opportunity oi^__
improving it. His next voyage was into the ealtern
countries; where nothing remarkable m the heavens
earth, or even fubterraneous places,, feems to. have
efcaped his nice obfervation. He, with indefatigabie
induftry, and even at the peril of his life, collefted
a confiderable number of Arabic, P^c’ ai2d, Gree*|
manuferipts, for Archbifhop Laud. Of thefe he well
knew the value, as he was a matter of the languages
in which they were written. He alfo. collected lor
that prelate many oriental gems and coins. He took
a more accurate furvey of the pyramids than any tra¬
veller who went before him. On his return from.tie
Eaft, he vifited feverai parts of Italy a fecond time.
During his flay at Rome, he made a particular inquiry
into the true Hate of the ancient weights and mealures.
Soon after he had finilhed his fecond voyage, he was
chofen Savilian profeffor of attronomy at Oxford. He
was eminently qualified for this profeffor Hup, as the
works of ancient and modem aftronomers were iami-
liar to him. His books relating to oriental learning,
his Pyramidographia, or a defcnption of the pyramid.',
in EeVPt, his Epochce Celebriores, and other curious
and ufeful pieces, of which Mr Ward has given us a
catalogue, {how him to have been a great man. ihole
which he intended to publifh would have fhown him to
be a greater j but he was flopped in his great career by
death in 1652. T ,
GREBE. See Colymbus, Ornithology Index,
GREECE, the prefent Romelia, and in many re-
fpefts one of the moft defervedly celebrated countries
in the world, was anciently bounded on the north by
Macedonia and the river Strymon j on the weft by the
Ionian fea ; on the north by the Mediterranean •, on
the eaft by the Egean fea and Archipelago. It ex¬
tended from the Strymon, by which it was parted from
Thrace, to the promontory of Tenaurus, the fouthmoi
. > .1 i r„o ttif. Mnrea. about 6°
Grebe,
Greece.
inrace, 10 me piuiuuuwi,;
point of the Peloponnefus, now the Morea, about 6
20' of latitude, or nearly 440 Englifh miles, and m
breadth from eaft to weft about 359 miles..
The general names by which the inhabitants ot this
country were known to the ancients were thofe ot
Graioi, or Graicoi, from whence the name of Greece is
plainly derived. Thefe names are thought to come irorn
Grsecus, the father, or (according to fome) the fon, ot
Theffalus, who gave name to Theffaly ; but fome mo¬
dern critics choofe to derive it from Ragau, the fame
with Reu, the fon of Peleg, by the tranfpofttion ot a
letter to foften the found.—Thefe names were after¬
wards changed for Achan and Hellenes ; the firft, as is
fuppofed from Acha-us, the fon of Xuthus, the fon of
Hellen, and father of Ion j or, according to the table,
the fon of Jupiter : the.other from Hellen, above-men¬
tioned, the fon of Deucalion, and father of Dorus,
from whom came the Dores, afterwards a famous na¬
tion among the Greeks. Another name by which the
Greeks were known in fome parts of the country, was
that of Pela/gl, which the Arcadians, the molt ancient
people in Greece, deduced tram their pretended foun-
der Pelafgus, who is faid to have got fuch footing m
Peloponnefus, that the whole peninfula from him was
called Pelafgia. But the moil ancient name of all is
univerlally allowed to have been that of lone.., v\ ic
the Greeks theinfelves derived from Ion the ion ot
L 2 Xuthus j
G R E [ 84 ] G R E
Greece. Xathus j or, as the fable bath it, of Apollo, by Cre-
‘ ufa the daughter of Erichtheus the grandfon of Deu¬
calion. Joiephus, however, affirms, that their origi¬
nal is of much older date •, and that Javan, the fon of
Japhet, and grandfon of Noah, tvas the firft who
peopled thefe countries •, which Bochart hath alio ren¬
dered very probable. It is true, indeed, that among
the Greeks themfelves, only the Athenians, and fuch
colonies as fprung from them, were called lones: but
it is alfo plain beyond exception, that other nations
gave this name to all the inhabitants of Greece.
The inhabitants of Greece in the firft ages, even
by the confeffion of their own hiftorians, appear to
have been favages fcarce a degree removed from brutes.
They lived indifferently on every fruit, herb, or root
that came in their way : and lay either in the open
fields, or at beft fheltered themfelves in dens, caves,
and hollow trees : the country itlelf in the mean time
remaining one continued uncultivated defert. The firft
improvement they made in their wTay of living, was
the exchanging of their old food for the more whole-
fome acorns, building huts for themfelves to ileep in,
and covering their bodies with the fkins of beafts. For
all this, it leems, they were beholden to Pelafgus a-
bove-mentioned (fuppofed by fome to be Peleg fpoken
of in Scripture), and who was highly reverenced by
them on that account.—This reformation in their way
of life, however, it feems wrought none in their man¬
ners. On the contrary, they who had nothing to fight
for but a hole to fleep in, began now to envy and rob
one another of thefe {lender acquifitions. This, in
procefs of time, put them under a neceffity of joining
themfelves into companies under fome head, that they
might either more fafely plunder their neighbours,
or preferve what they had got. Laws they had none,
except that of the fword : fo that thofe only lived in
fafety who inhabited the moft barren and craggy pla¬
ces j and hence Greece for a long time had no fettled
inhabitants, the weakeft being always turned out b;
the ftrongeft. Their gigantic lize and ftrength, if we
may believe Plutarch, added fo much to their infolence
and cruelty, that they feemed to glory in committing
the greateft -affs of violence and barbarity on thofe
that unhappily fell into their hands.
The next advance towards civilization, was their
forming themfelves into regular focieties, to cultivate
the lands, and build themfelves towms and cities for
their fafety. Their original barbarity and mutual vio¬
lences againft each other naturally prevented them from
uniting as one nation, or even into any confiderable
community : and hence the great number of ftates in¬
to which Greece wras originally divided. The moft
remarkable of thefe fmall principalities mentioned in
hiftory are the following : In Peloponnefus wTere thofe
of Sicyon, Argos, and Meflenia, Achaia Propria,
Arcadia, and Laconia. In Graecia Propria (that
part of Greece which lay without Peloponnefus), were
thofe of Attica, Megara, Bceotia, Lucris, Epichne-
midia, Doris, Phocis, Locris, Ozolaea, and ALtolia.
In Epirus were the Moloffi, Amphilochi, Caffiopaei,
Drteopes, Chaoces, Thefprotii, Altneni, and Acar-
nani. In Theffaly w’ere thofe of Theffaliotis, Eiii-
otis, Pelafgiotis, Magnefia and Phthia.—All thefe
have at one time or other been feverally governed by
kings of .their own, though we only find the names of
many of them mentioned in the hiftories of the more Greece.
confiderable kingdoms of Sparta, Attica, Thebes,' v—-
&c.— Ihe ereftion of thefe kingdoms, however, for
fome time, did not much alter the cafe ; the inhabi¬
tants of the new kingdoms plundered and deftroyed
one another without mercy. Attica was the only place
in any degree free from thefe incurfions, becaufe it
tvas naturally deftitute of every thing that could in¬
vite a plundering enemy but thofe cities fared much
wrorfe which were fituated on the fea-coafts 5 becaufe
they were in continual danger of being plundered ei¬
ther by fea or land : for pirates at that time did not
lels infeft all thofe feas than robbers did the land. And
this was one main caufe wThy moft of the ancient cities
of Greece w-ere fituated at fome confiderable diftance
*rom the fhore 5 but even in thefe, as all their fafety
confifted in the refiftance they could make againft an
invader, their inhabitants were under the neceffity of
going eonftantly armed, and being ever on their
guard.
Another mifchief arifing from thefe continual pira¬
cies and robberies was, that they occafioned the far
greater part of the lands to lie uncultivated, fo that
the people only planted and fowled as much as w^as
barely necefiary for their prefent fupport ; and where
there was fuch an univerfal negledt of agriculture,
there could be as little room for any difcoveries in o-
ther ufeful arts and trades. Hence, when other na¬
tions, as the Jews, Egyptians, Midianites, Phoenici¬
ans, &c. had improved themfelves to a very high de¬
gree, the Greeks feem to have been utter itrangers to
every ufeful art.
During this period of favage barbarity, the moft
renowned Grecian heroes, as Hercules, Thefeus,
performed their exploits •, which, however exaggera¬
ted by poetic fidlion, no doubt had a foundation in
truth. Some indeed are of opinion that the Grecian
heroes are entirely fidlitious, and their exploits de¬
rived from thofe of the Hebrew worthies, fuch as Sam-
fon, Gideon, &cc. Yet, confidering the extreme de¬
gree of barbarity which at that time prevailed through¬
out Greece, it feems not at all improbable that fome -
perfons of extraordinary ftrength and courage might
undertake the caufe of the oppreffed, and travel about
like the more modern knights-errant in queft of ad¬
ventures.
The firft expedition in which w?e find the Greeks
united, wras that againft Troy, the particulars of which
are recited under the article Troy. Their fuccefs
here (which happened about 1184 B. C.) coft them
very dear j’vaft numbers of their braveft warriors be¬
ing {lain ; great numbers of the furvivors being call
away in their return j and many of thofe who had the
good luck to get back again, being foon after mur¬
dered, or driven out of their country. It is probable,
however, that their having ftaid for fuch a long time
in Afia, might contribute to civilize the Greeks fome-
what fooner than what they otherwife would have
been $ and accordingly from this time, we find their
hiftory lomewhat lefs obfcure, and as it were begin¬
ning to emerge out of darknefs. The continual w-ars, in¬
deed, in which they were engaged among themfelves,
no doubt, for a long time, prevented them from ma¬
king any confiderable advances in thofe arts in wffiich
they afterv/ards made fo great progrefs. Thefe wars,
which
G R E [ • 85
vZ-isch indeed never ceafed as long as the Greeks pre-
ferved their liberty, rendered them brave, and ikulea
in the military art above all other nations •, but at the
fame time they effe&ually prevented them from making
permanent conquefts, and con-fined them within the
bounds of their own country j while the different dates
were one way or other fo equally balanced, that fcarce
one of them was able perfeftly to fubdue another. I e
Spartans, however, having with great difticulty, re¬
duced the kingdome of Meffene, and addea its terri¬
tories to their own, became the leading people in
Greece. Their fuperiority was long difputed by_ A-
thens ; but the Peloponnefian war at laft determine
that point in favou/ of the Spartans, when the city
of Athens was taken, and its walls demolilhed by Ly-
fander the Spartan general. See Attica, N 164.
 By the battle of Leuftra, the Spartans loft that
Superiority which they had maintained for yea‘s»
and which now devolved on the Thebans After the
death of Epaminondas, the celebrated Theban gene¬
ral however, as no perfon was found poilefted ot his
abilities, the Thebans were again obliged to yield
the fuperiority to the Spartans. But by^ this time
the Greeks had become acquainted with the luxuries
and elegancies of life •, and ail the ri gour of-their ori¬
ginal laws could not prevent them, from valuing thete
as hinhly as other people. This did not indeed abate
their valour, but it heightened their mutual ammofi-
ties: at the fame time that, for the fake of a ea'
fy and comfortable life, they became more dftpoled to
fubmit to a matter. The Perfians, whofe power they
had long dreaded, and who were unable to refill them
bv force of arms, at laft found out (by the advice of
Alcibiades) the proper method of reducing the Gre¬
cian power*, namely, *by aftifting them by turns, an
{'applying one ftate with money to fight againft another
till they ftiould be all fo much reduced, that tney
might become an eafy prey. Thus the Greeks were
weakened, though the Perfians did not reap any bene¬
fit from their weaknefs. Philip of Macedon. entered
into the fame political views *, and partly by intrigue,
partly by force, got himfelf declared generahfti-
nio of Greece. Plis fucceffor Alexander the Great
completed their fnbjetlion *, and by deftroying the ci¬
ty of Thebes, and exterminating its inhabitants, itruck
fuch a terror throughout Greece, that he was as
fullv obeyed by all the ftates as by any ot the reft ot
his iubjefts. During his abfence in Perfia, however,
they attempted to (hake off the Macedonian yoke, but
were quelled by his general Antipater. The news of
Alexander’s death was to them a matter of the utmolt
■joy * but their mutual animofities prevented them
from joining in any folid plan for the recovery of their
liberties, and hence they continued to be oppreffed by
Alexander’s fucceffors, or other tyrants, till Aiatus,
an Achaean, about 268 B. C. formed a defign of fet-
ting his country free from thefe oppreftors. He per-
fuaded a number of the fmall republics to enter into a
league for their own defence, which was called the
ylchcean league; and notwithftanding that the repub¬
lics, taken fingly, had very little ftrength, they not
only maintained their independency, but. foon became
formidable when united. This affociation continued
to become daily more and more powerful *, but received
a fevere check from Cleomenes, king of Sparta, which
Gr>
] CUE
obliged them to call in Antigonus to their affiftance. 
This prince overcame Cleomenes at the battle of bel-
lafia, and afterwards made himfelf mailer of ^Parta*
Thus he became a more formidable enemy than the
one he had conquered, and the recovery of the Gre¬
cian liberties was incomplete. . ,
Soon after this, the Greeks began to feel the weight
of a power more formidable than any which they had
yet experienced *, namely, that of the Romans lhat
infidious and haughty republic firft intermeddled witn
the Grecian affiiirs, under pretence of. fettmg them at
liberty from the oppreflion of Philip o. Macedon.
This, by a proper union among themfelves, they mig
have accompliftied: but in this they afted as though
they had been infatuated 5 receiving with the utmoft
joy the decree of the Roman conful, who declared
them free ; without confidering, that he who had thus
given them liberty, might take it away at his plea ure.
This leffon, however, they were foon taught, by the
total reduaion of their country to a Roman province *
yet this can fcarce be called a misfortune when we
look back to their hiftory, and confider their outra¬
ges upon one another : nor can we fympathize with
them for the lofs of that liberty which they only made
ufe of to fill their country with {laughter and blood-
ftied. After their conqueft by the Romans, they
made no united effort to recover their liberty. They
continued in quiet fubjedion till the beginning of
the 1 tth century. About that time, tney began
to fuffer under the tyranny of the Turks, and their
fufferings were completed by the taking of Conftanti-
nople in 1453. Since that time they have groaned
under the yoke of a moll defpotic government j lo that
all traces of their former valour, ingenuity, and learn¬
ing, are now in a manner totally extind. . ....
Modern Greece comprehends Macedonia *, Albania,
now called Arnaut; Epirus *, Theffaly, now j A-
chaia, now Livadia ; the Peloponnefus, now Morea ;
too-ether with the illands on its coaft, and m the Archi¬
pelago. The continent of Greece is feated betwixt
the 36th and 43d degrees of north latitude.; and be¬
tween the 10th and 27th degrees of longitude, call
of London. To the north, it is bounded by Bulga¬
ria and Scrvia, from which it is divided by a ridge
of mountains; to the fouth by the Mediterranean fea ;
to the eaft by Romania and the Archipelago .; and to
the weft by the Adriatic or gulf of Venice. Its
length is faid to be about 400 miles, and its utmoft
breadth about 3 <;o miles. The air is extremely tem¬
perate and healthy : and the foil fruitful, though barfty
cultivated ; yielding corn, wine, delicious fruits, and
abounding with cattle, fowls, and venifon. As to re¬
ligion, Chriftianity was planted m Greece loon alter
the death of our Saviour, and flouriftied there for many
ages in great purity ; but fince the Greeks became
fubjeft to’the Turkifti yoke, they have funk into the
moil deplorable ignorance, in confequence of the fl.avery
and thraldom under which they groan, and their re¬
ligion is now greatly corrupted. It is . indeed little
better than a heap of ridiculous ceremonies and abfur-
dities. The head of the Greek church is the patriarch
of Conftantinople ; who is chofen by the neighbouring
archbiftiops and metropolitans, and confirmed by the
emperor or grand vifir. He is a perfon of great dig¬
nity, being the head and direftor of the eaftem churc „
G R E [ 36 ] G R E
Greece. The other patriarchs are thofe of Jerufalem, Antioch,
and Alexandria. Mr Tournefort tells us, that the pa¬
triarchates are now generally fet to fale, and bellowed
upon thofe who are the higheft bidders. The patriarchs,
metropolitans, archbilhops, and bilhops, are always cho-
fen from among the Caloyers or Greek monks. Before
the patriarchs receive their patents and the caftan, which
is a veil of linfey-woolfey, or fome other Huff, prefented
by the grand lignior to ambafifadors, and other perfons
newly in veiled with fome confiderable dignity, they are
obliged to make large prefents to the vizir, &c. T he
Income of the patriarch of Conllantinople is faid to
amount to no lefs than one hundred and twenty thou-
fand guilders, of which he pays the one-half by way
of annual tribute to the Ottoman Porte, adding fix
thoufand guilders belides as a prefent at the fealt of
Bairam. The next perfon to a bilhop among the
clergy is an archimandrite, who is the direftor of one
or more convents, which are called mandrcn; then
come the abbot, the arch-prielt, the priell, the dea¬
con, the under-deacon, the chanter, and the le£lu-
rer. The fecular clergy are fubjedled to no rules, and
never rife higher than high-priell. They are allowed
to marry once •, but it mud be with a virgin, and be¬
fore they are ordained. They have neither glebe nor
tythes, but depend upon the perquilites that arife from
their office ; and they feldom preach but in Lent.
The Greeks have few nunneries; but a great many con¬
vents of monks, who are all prielfs, and, lludents
excepted, obliged to follow fome handicraft employ¬
ment, and lead a very aullere life. The Greeks deny
the fupremacy of the pope, and abhor the worlhip
of images } but have a multitude of pictures of faints
in their churches, whom they pray to as mediators.
Their fads are very fevere. They believe alfo in the
doflrine of tranfubllantiation, and that the Holy
Gholl: does not proceed from the Son. I hey admit
not of purgatory, fays Mr Thevenot : but yet they
allow a third place, where they fay the bleffed re¬
main, in expectation of the day of judgment. At
mafs they confecrate with leavened bread } and com¬
municate under both kinds, as well laics as priefts,
and as well wmmen and children as men. When they
carry the facrament to the lick, they do not pro-
flrate themfelves before it, nor expofe it to be adored :
neither do they carry it in proceffion, or have any
particular feaft in honour of it. Baptiim is perform¬
ed among them by plunging the. whole body of the
child thrice into water. Immediately after baptifm,
they give it confirmation and the communion \ and
feven days after that, it undergoes the ceremony of
ablution. Wffien a prieft is married, among other ce¬
remonies, the bridegroom and bride drink each two
glafles of wTine; then the glafs is given to the priefl,
who merrily drinks off the reft of the wane, and break¬
ing the glafs, fays, So may the bridegroom break the
virginity of the bride. As to the charafter of the
modern Greeks, they are faid to be very covetous, hy¬
pocritical, treacherous, great pederafts, and at the
fame time revengeful to the higheft degree but very
fuperftitious. They are fo much defpifed by the Turks,
that thefe do not value even a Greek who turns Ma¬
hometan. The Turks are remarkable for their taci¬
turnity they never ufe any unneceffary rvords ; but
•he Greeks, on the contrary, arc very talkative and
l
lively. The Turks generally praClife what their re- Greek-
ligion enjoins, but the Greeks do not ; and their mi-
fery puts them upon a thoufand mean fhifts and fcan-
dalous practices, authoriled by bad example, and
perpetuated from father to fon. The Greek women
have fine features and beautiful complexions : their
countenances ftill very much refemble thofe of the an¬
cient Greek ftatues.
GREEK, or Grecian, any thing belonging to
ancient Greece.
The Greek language, as preferved' in the writings
of the celebrated authors of antiquity, as Homer, He-
fiod, Demofthenes, Ariftotle, Plato, Xenophon, &c.
has a great variety of terms and expreffions, fuitable
to the genius and occafions of a polite and learned
people, who had a tafte for arts and faiences. In it,
proper names are fignificative j which is the reafon that
the modern languages borrow fo many terms from it.
When any new invention, inftrument, machine, or the
like, is difeovered, recourfe is generally had to the
Greek for a name to it •, the facility wherewith words
are there compounded, affording fuch as will be ex-
preffive of its ufe : futh are, barometer, hygrometer,
microfcope, telefcope, thermometer, &c. But of all
fciences, medicine moft abounds with fuch terms j as
diaphoretic, diagnofis, diarrhoea, haemorrhagy, hy¬
drophobia, phthifis, atrophy, &c. Befides the co-
pioufnefs and fignificancy of the Greek, wherein it
excels moft, if not all, other languages, it has alfo three
numbers, viz. a fingular, dual, and plural: alfo abun¬
dance of tenfes in its verbs, which makes a variety
in difeourfe, prevents a certain drynefs that always ac¬
companies too great an uniformity, and renders that
language peculiarly proper for all kinds of verfe. The
ufe of the participles, of the aorift and preterite, toge¬
ther with the compound words already mentioned, give
it a peculiar force and brevity, without taking any¬
thing from its perfpicuity.
It is no eafy matter to affign the precife difference
betw'een the modern and ancient Greek ; which con-
lifts in the terminations of the nouns, pronouns, verbs,
&c. not unlike what obtains between fome of the di¬
alers of the Italian or Spanilh. There are alfo in the
modern Greek, many new words, not to be met with
in the ancient. We may therefore diftinguilh three
ages of the Greek tongue : the firft of which'ends at
the time when Conftantinople became the capital of
the ’Roman empire 3 the fecond lafted from that period
to the taking of Conrtantinople by the Turks 3 and the
third from that time to this. ^
Greek Bible. See Bible.
Greek Church, is that part of the Chriftian church
which is eftablilhed in Greece 3 extending likevvife to
fome other parts of Turkey. See Greece.—It is thus
called in Europe, Afia, and Africa, in contradiftinftion
from the Latin or Romilh church 3 as alfo the Eaftern
church, in diftinftion from the Weftern.
The Romanifts call the Greek church the Greek
fchifm ; becaufe the Greeks do not allow the authority
of the pope, but depend wholly, as to matters of reli¬
gion, on their own patriarchs. They have treated them
as fchifmatics ever fince the revolt, as they call it, of
the patriarch Photius
Greek Monks and Nuns, of whatever order, confider
St Bafil as their founder and common father, and
efteem
G R E [
efteem it the higheft crime to deviate in the lead from
his conftitutions. There are feveral beautiful convents
with churches, in which the monks perform divine
jervice day and night. Some of the monks are coeno¬
bites, or live together, wear the fame habit, eat at the
fame table, and perform the fame exercifes and employ¬
ments.
Greek Orders^ in ArcluleBure, are the Doric, Ionic,
and Corinthian 5 in contradiftinfiion to the two Latin
orders, the Tufcan and Compofite. See Order.
GREEN, one of the original prifmatic colours,
exhibited by the refradlion of the rays of light. See
Chromatics and Colour.
Green, among painters and dyers. See lolovr-
Maling, N° 27. and Dyeing, N° 367..
GREEN-Cloth, a board or court of jullice held in the
compting-houfe of the king’s houfehold, compoled of
the lord fteward and officers under him, who lit
daily. To this court is committed the charge and over¬
fight of the king’s houfehold in matters of juftice and
government, with a power to correcl all offenders, and
to maintain the peace of the verge, or juriididlion of
the court-royal j which is every way about 200 yards
from the lait gate of the palace where his majefty
refides.
It takes its name, board of green cloth', from a green
cloth fpread over the board where they lit.
Without a warrant firll obtained from this court,
none of the king’s fervants can be arrefted for debt.
Clerks of the Green Cloth were two officers of the
board of green cloth, who appointed the diet of the
king and his houfehold } and kept all records, legers,
and papers relating thereto; made up bills, parcels, and
debentures for falaries, and provifions and neceffaries for
the officers of the buttery, pantry, cellar, &c.. They
alfo waited upon foreign princes when entertained by
bis majeily. But this has been lately aboliffied.
Green-Fiuc/i, the Engliffi name of the greenilh frin-
gilla, w'ith the wings and tail variegated with yellow.
See Fringilla, Ornithology Index.
GREEN-Houfe, or Confervatory, a houfe in a garden,
contrived for fheltering and prefervmg the molt curious
and tender exotic plants, which in our climate will not
bear to be expofed to the open air, efpecially during
the winter feafon. Thefe are generally large and beau¬
tiful llru£lures, equally ornamental and ufeful.
The length of green-houfes muff be proportioned to
the number of plants intended to be preferved in them,
and cannot therefore be reduced to rule \ but their
depth fhould never be greater than their height in the
clear; which, in fmall or middling houfes, may be 16
or 18 feet, but in large ones from 20 to 24 feet ; and
the length of the windows ffiould reach from about one
foot and a half above the pavement, and within the
fame diftance of the ceiling, which will admit of a
corniche round the building over the heads of the win¬
dows. Their breadth cannot be in proportion to their
length; for if in the largeft buildings they are more
than feven or feven feet and a half broad, they will be
extremely heavy and inconvenient. Ihe piers between
the window’s muff be as narrow as may be to fupport
the buildingfor which reafon they ffiould either be of
ftone or ol hard burnt bricks. If the piers are made
of done, they ffiould be 30 inches wide in front, and
87 ] G R E
doped off behind to about 18 inches, by which means
there will be no corners to take off the rays of the fun. ^
If they are of brick, they will require to be at leaft
three feet in front, but they ffiould be in the fame manner
Hoped off behind. Over the green-houfe may be rooms
for drying and preferving feeds, roots, &c. and behind
it a place for tools and other purpofes; and both theffi
behind, and the rooms above, will be of great ufe in
keeping off the frofts, fo that the wall between thefe
need not be of more than two bricks and a half in
thicknefs.
The floor of the green-houfe, which Ihould be laid
either with Bremen fquares, Purbeck ftone, or flat
tiles, muft be raifed two feet above the furface of the
adjoining ground, or if the fituation be damp, at leaft
three feet; and if the whole is arched with low brick
arches under the floor, they will be of great fervice
in preventing damps: and under the floor, about tw’O
feet from the front, it will be very advifeable to make
a flue of ten inches wide and two feet deep : this
Ihould be carried the whole length of the houfe, and
then returned back along the hinder part, and there be
carried up into funnels adjoining to the tool-houfe, by
which the fmoke may be carried off. The fire-place
may be contrived at one end of the heufe, and the
door at which the fuel is put in, as alfo the affi-grate,
may be contrived to open into the tool-houfe, and the
fuel being laid in the fame place, the whole will be out
of fight. Bradley advifes, that the front of green-
houfes, in the colder parts of England, be built in a
fweep or femicircle, fo that one part ®r other of it may
receive the fun’s rays all day. I he ufe of fires muft,
however, be very fparing in this place ; and it is not
one winter in three or four that will require them in
any part, only when the weather is very fevere, and the
froft cannot, well be kept out any other way, this is an
expedient that is good to have in readinefs, as it may
fave a whole houfe of plants. Withinfide of the win¬
dows, in front of the green-houfe, there ffiould be good
ftrong ffiutters, made with hinges, to fold back clofe
to the piers, that they may not obftruft the rays of
the fun. The back part of the houfe ffiould be either
laid over with ftucco or plaftered with mortar, and
whitew’affied, in order to prevent the frofty air from
penetrating through the walls. When the green-houfe
is wainfeotted, the walls ftiould be plaftered with lime
and hair behind the wainfeot, to keep out the cold;
and the wainfeot, as well as the ceiling, and every
part within the houfe, ffiould be painted white, for
the refle&ion of the fun’s rays. There muft be a num¬
ber of treffels with forms of wood upon them, to fup¬
port the pots of plants; the tailed: to be placed hind-
moll, the loweft within four feet of the windows : and
the rows of plants ihould rife gradually, fo that the
heads of the fecond row ffiould be entirely above the
firft ; and behind them there ffiould be a fpace of at
leaft five feet, for the conveniency of watering the
plants, and for a free circulation of air. It has been
obferved, that the placing of the euphorbium, ce-
reufes, and other fucculent plants among orange-trees,
and other common green-houfe plants, is always deftruc-
tive of them, by making them receive an improper fort
of effluvia, which plants of that kind imbibe very
freely. They ffiould therefore be placed in two wings
built
Oreta-
houfe.
v
G R E
[ 8
Green- built at each end of the green-houfe *, which, if well
Sicknefs, contriVed, will be a great beauty as well as ule to the
Oieenland. i !ij*  rT',T— V-»» t-»noA^ r*Qr>QV^1 & F 3,
building'. Thefe wings may be made capable of
great warmth alfo by more flues, and may be -tnade
to contain a hot-bed of tanner’s bark for the railing
many of the tender plants, natives of warm climates.
Whilft the front of the green-houfe is exactly fouth,
one of the wings may be made to face the fouth-eaft
and the other the fouth-weft. By this difpolition the
heat of the fun is reflected from one part of the build¬
ing to the ether all day, and the front of the main
green-houfe is guarded from the cold winds. Ihefe
two wings may be fo contrived as to maintain plants
of different degrees of hardinefs, which may be eafily
effefted by the fltuation and extent of the fire-place,
and the manner of conducing the flues : the wing fa¬
cing the fouth-eaft is evidently the molt proper for the
farmed ftovej this may be divided in the middle by a
partition of glafs, with glafs-doors opening from one
divifion to the other. In each of thefe there fliould be
a fire-place, with flues carried up againft the back-wall,
through which the fmoke fhould be made to pafs as
many times the length of the houfe as the height will
admit of the number of flues ^ for the longer the fmoke
is in pafling, the more heat will be gihen to the houfe
with a lefs quantity of fuel. The other wing, facing
the fouth-weft, fhould be divided and furnifhed with
flues in the fame manner-, and thus different degrees
of heat may be obtained, according to the feafons and
the particular forts of plants that are to be prelerved.
. If there are no fheds behind thefe wings, the walls fhould
not be lefs than three bricks thick j and the back part,
having Hoping roofs, which are covered with tiles or
flates, fliould be lined with reeds, &c. under the cover¬
ing. The Hoping glaffes of thefe houfes fhould be
made to Aide and take off, fo that they may be drawn
down more or lefs in warm weather to admit air to the
plants j and the upright glaffes in front may be fo contri¬
ved as that every other may open as doors upon hinges,
‘ -and the alternate glaffes may be divided into two : the
upper part of each fliould be fo contrived as to be drawn
down like fafhes, fo that either of them may be ufed
to admit air in a greater or lefs quantity as theie may
be occafion. _ v r
As to the management of the plants in the green-houfe,
Mortimer recommends the opening of the mould about
them from time to time, and fprinkling a little frefh
mould in them, and a little warm dung on that -, as al¬
fo to water them when the leaves begin to wither and
curl, and not oftener, which would make them fade
and ’be fickly j and to take off fuch leaves as wither and
grow dry.
GR£KN-Sichnefs. See Chlorosis, Medicine Index.
GnEEN-Si/ver, the name of an ancient cuftom within
the manor of Writtel in the county of Effex in Eng¬
land which is, that every tenant whofe fore-door opens
to Greenbury, fhall pay an halfpenny yearly to the lord,
by the name of green-Jilver.
Green-Wox, is ufed where eftates are delivered to
the fheriffs out of the exchequer, under the feal of
- that court, made in green wax, to be levied in the fe-
veral counties. This word is mentioned the 43d flat.
Ed. HI. c. 9. and 7 Hen. IV. c. 4.
GREENLAND, a general name by which are de¬
noted the moft eafterly parts of America, firetching to-
; j G R E
wards the north pole, and likewife fome iflands to tne Greemtmii^
northward of the continent of Europe, lying in very
high latitudes. _ *
This country is divided into Weft and Eaft ^reen* Q,eeen]an(j
land.—Weft Greenland is now determined by our lateft
maps to be a part of the continent of America, though
upon what authority is not very clean That part of
it which the Europeans have any knowledge of is
bounded on the weft by Baffin’s bay, on the fouth by
Davis’s ftraits, and on*the eaft by the northern part of
the Atlantic ocean. It is a very mountainous country,
and fome parts of it fo high that they may be difeerned
30 leagues off at fea. The inland mountains, hills,
and rocks, are covered with perpetual fnow , but the
low lands on the fea-fide are clothed with verdure in the
fummer feafon. The coaft abounds with inlets, bays, and
large rivers j and is furrouncied with a vail number of
iflands of different dimenfions, In a great many places,
however, on the eaftern coaft efpecially, the fhore is
inacceflible by reafon of the floating mountains of ice.
The principal river, called Baa/, falls into the fea in
the 64th degree of latitude, where the firft Danifh lodge
was built in 17215 and has been navigated above 40
miles up the country. . a
Weft Greenland was firft peopled by Europeans in Peopled by
the eighth century. At that time a company of Ice- a colony
landers, headed by one Ericke Rande, were by acmdent ^lce-
driven on that coaft. On his return he reprefented the
country in fuch a favourable light, that iome famines
again followed him thither, where they loon became a
thriving colony, and beftowed on their new habitation
the name of Gvoenland or Greenland, on account of its
verdant appearance. This colony was converted to
Chriftianity by a miffionary from Norway, fent thither
by the celebrated Olaf, the firft Norwegian monarch
who embraced the true religion. I he Greenland Set¬
tlement continued to increafe and thrive under his pio-
tedlion 5 and in a little time the country was provided
with many towns, churches, convents, bifhops, &c. un¬
der the j urifdidtion of the archbilhop of Drontheim. A
confiderable commerce was carried^ on between Green¬
land and Norway 5 and a regular intercourfe maintain- 3
ed between the two countries till the year 1406 when ^
the laft bifhop was fent over. From that time all cor- ^ ^ ^
refpondence wras cut off, and all knowledge 01 Green-cut
land has been buried in oblivion. . off.
This ftrange and abrupt ceffation of all trade and
intercourfe has been attributed to various caufes 5 but
the moft probable is the following : The colony, from
its firft fettlement, had been haraffed by the natives, a
barbarous and favage people, agreeing in cuftoms, gar ,
language, and appearance, with the Efqumiaux founu
about Hudfon’s bay . This nation, called Schrelhngs,
at length prevailed againft the Iceland fettlers who in¬
habited the weftern diftridl, and exterminated them in
the 14th century: infomuch, that when their brethren Co;ony
of the eaftern diftrid came to their afliftance, they p0fe(l to be
found nothing alive but fome cattle and flocks of flieep ^ternuna.
running wild about the country. Perhaps they them-^
felves afterwards experienced the fame late, and were
totally deftroyed by thefe Schrellings, whofe defeend-
ants ftill inhabit the weftern parts of Greenland, and
from tradition confirm this conjedure.^ They affirm
that the houfes and villages, whofe ruins ftill appear,
were inhabited by a nation of ftrangers, whom their
anceftors
G R E
[ 89 j
VJ IV
Gveenlanj anceftors deftrAyed. There tire reafons, however, for
v^,—yr——' believing that there may be ftill fome delcesdants
of the ancient Iceland colony remaining in the eaftern
diftrid, though they cannot be vifited by land, on ac¬
count of the ftupendous mountains, perpetually cover¬
ed with fnow, which divide the two parts of Green¬
land •, while they have been rendered inacceffible by
fea, by the vaft quantity of ice driven from Spitzber-
gen, or Eall Greenland. One would imagine that
there muft have been fome con fide ruble alteration in the
northern parts ot the world nnce the century, lo
that the coaft of Greenland is now become almoit to¬
tally inacceffible, though forrjierly vifited with very
little difficulty. It is alfo natural to alk, By what
means the people of the ealfern colony iuimounted
the above-mentioned obitacles when they went to the
affiftance of their we hern friends 5 how they returned
to their own country and in what manner hiftonans
learned the fuccefs of their expedition ? Concerning
• v all this we have very little fatisfadory information.
Account of All that can be learned from the moft authentic re-
the colony, cords'is, that Greenland was divided into tuo diliric s,
called Weji Bygd and Eff/? Bygdi that the weftern di-
vifion contained four pariffies and 100 villages: that
the ealtern diftria was ftill more flouriftiing, as being
nearer to Iceland, fooner fettled, and more frequented
-by {flipping from Norway. There aie ado many ac¬
counts, though moft of them romantic and {lightly
attefted, which render it probable that part of the eaft-
crn colony ftill fubfifts, who, at fome time 01 other,
may have given the imperfea relation above-mention¬
ed." This colony, in ancient times, certainly compre¬
hended twelve extenfive parifties, one hundred and
hinety villages, a bifhop’s fee, and two monafteries.
The prefent inhabitants of the wefterh diftnff are en¬
tirely ignorant of this part, from which they are di¬
vided by rocks, mountains, and deferts, and liill more
effe&ually by their apprehenfions: for they believe the
eaftern Greenlanders to be a cruel, barbarous nation,
thctt deftroy and eat all ftrangers who fall into their
hands. About a century after all intercourfe between
Norway and Greenland had ceafed, feveral ftiips were
fent fucceffively by the kings of Denmark in order to
difcover the eaftern diftria 5 but all of them mifcar-
ried. Among thefe adventurers, Mogens Heinfon,
after having furmountsd many difficulties and dangers,
got fight of the land •, which, however, he could not
approach. At his return, he pretended that the ffiip
was arrefted in the middle of her courfe by certain
rocks of loadftone at the bottom of the fea. Th<*
lame year, 1576, in which this attempt was made*
has been rendered remarkable by the voyage of Cap¬
tain Martin Frobiftier, fent upon the fame errand by
Queen Elizabeth. He likewife defcried the land 5 but
could not reach it, and therefore returned to England j
Vol. X. Part I.
6
Attempts
i»o redifco-
Ver the
«Qimtry.
yet not before he l;ad failed fixty leagues m the Arait Gre&aE.A
which ftill retains his name, and landed on feveral
iflands, where he had fome communication with the na¬
tives. He had likewife taken poffeffion of the country
in the name of Queen Elizabeth j and brought^ away
fome pieces of heavy black ftone, from which tne re¬
finers Of London extraded a certain proportion of gold.
In the enfuing fpring he undertook a lecond ••voyage,
at the head of a fmall fquadron, equipped at tht ex¬
pence of the public j entered the ftraits a fecond time j
difcovered upon an ifldnd a gold and ftlver mine 5 bi
flowed names upon different baysj iflands, and head
lands 5 and broi>g'ht away a lading 01 ore, together with
two natives, a male and a female, whom the Englifh
kidnappedi
Such was the fuccefs of this voyage, that another
armament was fitted out under the auipices of Admiral
Frobiflier, confifting of 15 fail, including a confiderable
number of foldiers, miners, fmelters, carpenteis, and
bakers, to remain all the winter near the mines in .1
woodfen fort, the different pieces of which they carried
out in the tranfports. They met wjth boifterous w*ea-
ther, impenetrable fogs, and violent currents upon uiS
coaft of Greenland," which retarded their operations
until the feafon was far advanced. Part of their wooden
fort was loft at fen} and they had neither provinon
nor fuel fufficient for the winter. The admiral therefore
determined to return with as much ore as he could
procure : of this they obtained large quantities out of
a new mine, to which they gave the name of the Coun-
tefs of Suffex. They likewife built a houfe of ftone
and lime, provided with ovens*, and here, with a view
to conciliate the affe&ion of the natives, they left a
quantity of fmall movricc-betls, knives, beads, look¬
ing glaffes, leaden pictures, and other toys, together
with feveral loaves of bread. I hey buried the timber
of the fort where it could be eafily found next yeai }
and fowed corn, peafe, and other grain, by way of ex¬
periment, to know what the country would produce.
Having taken thefe precautions, they failed from thenffe
in the beginning of September } and after a month s
ftormy paffage, arrived in England : but this noble de-
fign was never profecuted. . ,
Chriftiem IV. king of Denmark, being defirous of
difeovering the old Greenland fettlemeut, ient three
{hips thither, under the command of Captain Godffie
Lindenow} who is laid to have reached the eaft coafl
of Greenland, where he traded with the favage inha¬
bitants, fuch as they are ftill found in the weftern di¬
ftria, but faw no figns of a civilized people. Had he
aaually landed in the eaftern divifion, he muft have
perceived fome remains of the ancient colony, even m
the ruins of their convents and villages. Lindenow
kidnapped two of the natives, who were conveyed to
Copenhagen } and the fame cruel fraud (a) was prac-
M tifed
(a) Nothing can be more inhuman and repugnant to the diaates of common juftice than this praaice o.
tearing away poor creatures from their country, their families, and conneaions} unlefs we fuppofe them alto¬
gether deftitute of natural affeaion : and that this was not the cafe with thofe poor Greenlanders, fome ot
whom were brought alive to Copenhagen, appears from the whole tenor of their condu<a, upoh their fir ft cap¬
ture, and during their confinement in Denmark. When firft captivated, they rent the air with their cues an
lamentations : they even leaped into the fea } and, when taken on board, for fome time refufed ail luuenance.
'jftieir eyes were continually turned towards their dear country, and their face's always bathed in tears. Even
G R E . [ 90
Hip^nland. tifed by other two (hips which failed into Davis’s ftraits,
_'v ^ where they dilcovered divers tine harbours, and de¬
lightful meadows covered with verdure. In feme places
they are faid to have found a conliderable quantity of
ore, every hundred pounds of which yielded twenty-fix
ounces of filver. ^f he fame Admiral Lindenow made
another voyage to the coaft of Greenland in the year
1606, directing his courfe to th® weft ward of Cape
Farewell. He coafted along the ftraits of Davis; and
having made fome obfervations on the face of the
country, the harbours, and iilands, returned to Den¬
mark. Carften Richards, being detached with two
ftrips on the fame difeovery, deferied the high land on
the eaftern fide of Greenland ; but was hindered by the
ice from approaching the ihore.
Other expeditions of the fame nature have been plan¬
ned and executed with the fame bad fuccefs, under the
aufpices of a Danifh company of merchants. Two
ftiips returned from the weftern part of Greenland
loaded with a kind of yellow fand, fuppofed to con¬
tain a large proportion of geld. This being aflayed
by the goldfmiths of Copenhagen, was condemned as
ufelefs, and thrown overboard ; but from a fmall quan¬
tity of this fand, which was referved as a curiofity,
an expert chemift afterwards extrafted a quantity of
pure gold. The captain, who brought home this ad¬
venture, was fo chagrined at his difappointment, that
he died of grief, without having left any directions
concerning the place where the fand had been difeo-
vered. In the year 1654, Henry Moller, a rich Dane,
equipped a veflel under the command of David de
Nelles, who failed to the wTeft eoaft of Greenland, from
which he carried off three women of the country.. Ci¬
ther efforts have been made, under the encouragement
of the Danifh king, for the difeovery and recovery of
the old Iceland colony in Greenland ; but all of them
mifearried, and people began to look upon fuch expe¬
ditions as wdld and chimerical. At length the Green¬
land company at Bergen in Norway, tranfported a
colony to the weftern coaft, about the 64th degree
of latitude ; and thefe Norwegians failed in the year
1712, accompanied by the Reverend Hans Egede, to
whofe care, ability, and precifton, we owTe the beft
and moft authentic account of modern Greenland.—
This gentleman endeavoured to reach the eaftern di-
ftrift, by coafting fbuthwards, and advanced as far as
the States promontory ; but the feafon of the year,
and continual ftorms, obliged him to return ; and as
he could not even find the ftrait of Frobifher, he con¬
cluded that no fuch place ever exifted. In the year
1724, a (hip, being equipped by the company, failed
on this, difeovery, with tr view to laijd on the eaft fide
] G it E
oppofite to Iceland ; but the vaft flioals of ice, which Greenlam?.
barricadoed that part of the coaft, rendered this fcheme "”"v
impracticable. His Danilh majefty, in the year 1728,
caufed horfes to be traniported to Greenland, in hope
that the fcttlers might by their means travel over land
to the eaftern diitrieft ; but the icy mountains wem
found impaffable. Finally, Lieutenant Richards, in a
fhip which had wuntered near the new Danilh colo¬
ny, attempted, in his return to Denmark, to land o»
the eaftern (hore ; but all his endeavours proved abor¬
tive.
Mr Egede is of opinion, that the only practicable
method of reaching that part of the country, will be
to coaft north about in fmall veffels, between the great
flakes of ice and the fhore ; as the Greenlanders have
declared, that the currents continually ruflflwg from
the bays and inlets, and running fouth-weftwards along
the flrore, hinder the ice from adhering to the land ;
fo that there is always a channel open, through which
veffels of fmall burden might pafs, efpecially if lodges
wTere built at convenient diftances on the flrore, for the
convenience and direction of the adventurers. 7
That part of the country which is now vifited and Mr Egede’s
fettled by the Danes and Norwegians, lies between account of
the 64th and 68th degrees of north latitude ; and thus C0UK'
far it is faid the climate is temperate. In the fum- ’
mer, which continues from the end of May tt> the
middle of September, the weather is warm and com¬
fortable, while the wind blows eafterly ; though even
at this time ftorms frequently happen, which rage with
incredible violence ; and the fea-coafts are infefted with
fogs that are equally difagreeable and unhealthy.—
Near the lhore, and in the bays and inlets, the low
land is clothed with the moft charming verdure ; but
the inland mountains are perpetually covered with ice
and fnow. To the northward of the 68th degree of
latitude the cold is prodigioufly intenfe ; and towards
the end of Auguft all the coaft is covered with ice,
which never thaws till April or May, and fometimes
not till the latter end of June. Nothing can exhibit a
more dreadful, and at the fame time a more dazzling,
appearance, than thofe prodigious maffes of ice that
furround the whole coaft in various forms, reflecting a
multitude of colours from the fun-beams, and calling
to mind the enchanted feenes of romance. Such pro-
fpeCls they yield in calm weather ; but when the wind
begins to blow, and the weaves to rife in vaft billows,
the violent (hocks of thofe pieces of ice daftnng againft
one another, fill the mind with horror.—Greenland is
feldom. vifited with thunder and lightning, but the Au¬
rora Borealis is very frequent and. bright. At the time
of new and full, moon, the tide rifes and falls upon this
coaft
the countenance of his Danifh majefty, and the careffes of the court and people, could not alleviate t eir gne..
One of them was perceived to (hed tears always w7hen he faw an infant in the mother’s arms , a circum tance
from w’hence it was naturally concluded, that he had left his wife with a young child in Green and. J^o o
them went to fea in their little canoes in hope of reaching Greenland •, but one of them was retaken. Gtner
two made the fame attempt: but were driven by a (form on the coaft of Schonen, where they were appre e
by the peafants, and reconveyed to Copenhagen. One of them afterwards died of a fever, caught in filhing
pearl, during the winter, for the governor of Kolding. The reft lived fome years in Denmark ; at ^ engt ,
feeing no profpeCl of being able to revifit their native country, they funk into a kind of melancholy dnoroer, and
expif^d,
V
0 & E
[ 9* 3
G 11 E
'Srt'euiuBJ.coaft about tTiree fatnoms ; and it is Remarkable, that
W-y ' t|ie fprings and fountains on ftiore rife and fall with
the flux and reflux of the ocean.
The foil of Greenland varies like that of all other
ihountainous countries. The hills are very barren,
being indeed frozen throughout the whole year j but
the valleys and low grounds, efpecially near the fea,
are rich and fruitful. The ancient Norwegian chro¬
nicles inform us, that Greenland formerly produced a
great number of cattle; and that conflderable quanti¬
ties of butter and cheefe were exported to Norway j
and, on account of their peculiar excellency, fet apart
for the king’s ufe. The lame hiftories inform us, that
fome parts of the country yielded excellent wheat j and
that large oaks were found here, which carried acorns
as big as apples. Some of thefe oaks Hill remain in the
fouthern parts, and in many places the marks of
ploughed land are ealily perceived. At prefent,
howrever, the country is deftitute of corn and cattle,
though in many places it produces excellent pafture $
and, if properly cultivated, would probably yield grain
alfo. Mr Egede fow&d fome barley in a bay adjoin¬
ing to the Danilh colony. It fprang up fo faftj that
by the latter end of July it was in the full ear } but
being nipped by a night-froft, it never arrived at ma¬
turity. This feed was brought from Bergen, where
the fummer is of greater heat and duration than in
Greenland •, but in all probability the corn which
grows in the northern parts of Norway would alfo
thrive here. Turnips and coiew7orts of an excellent
tafte and flavour are alfo produced here. J he fldes of
the mountains near the bays are clothed wdth wild
thyme, which diffufes its fragrance to a great diflance.
The herb torment'd is very common in this country,
and likewife many others not defcribed by the bota-
niits. Among the fruits of Greenland w7e number
juniper-berries, blue-berries, bil-berries, and bramble-
berries. *
Greenland is thought to contain many mines of me¬
tal, though none of them are wrought. To the fouth-
ward of the Danifh colony are fome appearances of a
mine of copper. Mr Egede once received a lump of
•ore from one of the natives j and here he found cala¬
mine of a yellow colour. He once fent a coniiderable
quantity of fand of a yellow colour, intermixed with
ftreaks of vermilion, to the Bergen company. They
probably found their account in this prefent ; for they
defired him by a letter to procure as much of that
> fend as poffible : but he was never able to find the
place where he few7 the firft fpecimem It was one of
the fmalleft among a great number of iflands •, and the
mark he had fet up w7as blowm down by a violent
ilorm. Poffibly this might be the feme mineral of
which Captain Frobiftier brought fo much to England.
This country produces rock-cryftals both red and
white, and whole mountains of the albeftos or incom-
buftible flax. Around the colony, which is known
by the name of Good Hope, they find a kind of baftard
marble of various colours, which the natives form into
bowls, lamps, pots, &c. All that has been faid of
the fertility of Greenland, however, muft be under¬
flood only of that part w’hich lies betw'een the both
and 65th degrees of latitude. The moil northern parts
ftre totally deflitute of herbs and plants. The wretched
inhabitants cannot find grals in fufficient quantities to
fluff into their (hoes to keep their feet warm, but are
obliged to buy it from thofe who inhabit the more
fouthern parts.
The animals which abound moft in Greenland afe,
rein-deer, foxes, hares, dogs, and white bears. ihe
hares are of a white colour, and very fat j tne ipxes
are of different colours, wdute, grayilh, and bluiih j
.and fmaller than thofe of Denmark and Norway. The
natives keep a great number of dogSj which are large,
white, or fpeckled, and rough, with ears {landing up¬
right, as is the cafe with all the dogs peculiar to cold
climates. They are timorous and flupid •, and neither
bay nor bark, but fometimes howl difmally. In the
northern parts the natives yoke them in fledges
which, though heavy laden, they will draw on the ice
at the rate of 70 miles in a fliort winter’s day. 'I hefe
poor animals are very ill rewarded for their fervice j
being left to provide for themfelves, except when their
matters happen to catch a great number of feals. On
thefe occafions the dogS are regaled with the blood
and eptrails j at other times they fubfift, like w7ild
beafts, upon mufcles and berries. Here alfo are found
great numbers of ravens, eagles of a prodigious fize,
falcons, and other birds of prey j and likewife a kind
of linnet, which warbles very melodioufly. Whales,
fword-filh, porpoifes* &c. abound on the coafts j alfo
holybut, turbot, cod, haddock, &C; S
The people who now inhabit the weftern coaft of Account dt
Greenland, and who, without doubt, are the defcen-^^nhdbl''
dants of the ancient Schrtd’ings, who exterminated the an ^
firfl Iceland colony, bear a near refemblance to the
Samoiedes and Laplanders in their perfons, complexions,
and way of life. They are ihort, brawny, and inclined
to corpulency j with broad faces, flat nofes, thick
lips, black hair and eyes, and a yellowifh tawny com¬
plexion. They are for the molt part vigorous and
healthy, but remarkably fliort-lived; few of them
reaching the grand climadteric j and many dying in
their infancy, and in the prime of youth. They are
fubjedt to a weakfiefs in the eyes, occafioned by the
piercing wdnds and the glare of the fnow in the winter
time. The leprofy is known among them, but is not
contagious. Thofe that dw7ell in the northern parts
are miferably tormented with dyfenteries, rheums, and
pulmonary diforders, boils, and epilepfy. The fmall-
pox being imported among them from Copenhagen in
the year 1734, made terrible havock among thefe poor
people, who are utterly deftitute of any knowdedge of
the medicinal art, and depend entirely for afliftance
upon their artgehuts or conjurers. In their difpofitions
the Greenlanders are cold, phlegmatic, indolent, and
flow of apprehenfion: but very quiet, orderly, and
good-natured. They live peaceably together; and
have every thing in common, without ftrife, envying,
or animofity. They are civil a,pd hofpitable, but flo-
venly to a degree almoft beyond the Hottentots them¬
felves. They never walh themfelves wdth water j but
lick their paws like the cat, and then rub their faces
wdth them. They eat after their dogs without walh-
ing their difhes •, devour the lice wdiich devour them $
and even lick the fwent, which they {crape oft' from
their faces uith their knives. The women wafh them¬
felves wuth their own urine, which they imagine makes
their hair grow ; and in the winter-time go out immedi¬
ately after, to let the liquor freeze upon their {kin.
M 2 They
G R E
[ 92 ]
G R E
Oreenland. will often eat their victuals off the dirty ground,
^ mthout any veffel to hold them in j and devour rot¬
ten flelh with the greateft avidity. In times of fcarci-
ty they will fubfift on pieces of old Ikin, reeds, fea-
rveed, and a root called tug/oronet, dreffed with train-
oil and fat. The dung of rein deer taken from the
inteftines, the entrails of prrtridges, and all forts ol of¬
fals, are counted dainties among thefe favages j and of
the fcrapings of feal fkins they make delicate pan-cakes.
At firll they could not talte the Daniil) provilibns
without abhorrence; but now they are become ex¬
tremely fond of bread and t utter, though they ftill retain
an averfion to tobacco and ipirituous liquors; in which
particular they differ from almoft all favages on the face
of the earth.
The Greenlanders commonly content themfelves
with one wife j who is condemned, as among other la¬
vage nations, to do all the drudgery, and may be cor-
recled, or even divorced, by the hufband at pleafure.
Heroes, however, and extraordinary perfonages, are in¬
dulged with a plurality of wives. Their young women
are generally chafte and balhful *, but at fome of their
feafts, in the midft of their jollity, a man retires with
Ids neighbour’s wife behind a curfain made of Ikins ;
and all the guefls, thus coupled, retire in their turns.
The women think themfelves happy if an angekut or
prophet will thus honour them with his careffes. Thefe
people never marry within the prohibited degrees of
confanguinity, nor is it counted decent in a couple to
marry who have been educatud in the fame family.—
They have a number of ridiculous and fuperftitious
euftoms •, among which the two following are the moft
remarkable. While a woman is in labour the goffips
hold a chamber-pot over her head, as a charm to harten
the delivery. When the child is a year old, the mo¬
ther licks and flabbers it all over, to render it, as ihe
0 imagines, mere ftrong and hardy.
All the Greenlanders hitherto known fpeak the fame
language, though different dialefts prevail in different
parts of the country. It abounds with double con-
fonants } and is fo guttural, that the pronunciation
of many words is not to be learned except by thofe
who have been accuftomed to it from their infancy.
The letters C, D, F, £), and X, are not known in
their alphabet. Like the North Americans, and in¬
habitants of Kamtichatka, they have a great number
of long polyfyllables. Their words, nouns as well as
verbs, are indexed at the end by varying the termi¬
nation, without the help of articles: but their lan¬
guage being found defe<ffive, they have adopted a good
many words from the Norwegian dialed!. Notwith-
flanding the endeavours of the Danilh miffionaries,
they have no great reafon to boaft of the profelytes
they have made of the natives of Greenland. Thefe
favages pay great deference and refpedt to the Danes,
whom indeed they obey as their mafters, and hear
the truths of the Chriftian religion expounded with¬
out doubting the veracity of their teachers ) but at
the fame time they liften with the moft mortifying in¬
difference, without being in the leaft influenced by
what they have heard. They believe in the immor¬
tality of the foul, and the exiftence of a fpirit whom
they call Torngarfuk; but of whom they have form¬
ed the moft ridiculous notions. The angekuts, who
are fuppofed to be his immediate minifters, differ con-
Language,
religion,
&c.
earning the principles of his exiftence ; fome affirming Greenla»rf.
that he is without form or fhape j others, that he has v _ *
the ftiape of a bear $ others, that he has a large hu¬
man body with only one arm *, while others affirm that
he is no larger than a man’s finger, with many other
abfurdities of a fimilar kind. They have alfo a pecu¬
liar kind of mythology, by which they believe all the
elements to be fall of fpirits, from among which every¬
one of their prophets is fupplied with a familiar which
they name Torngack, and who is always ready when
fummoned to his afliilance.
The Greenlanders are employed ail the year round
either in fifhing or hunting. At fea they purfue the
whales, morfes, feals, filh for eating, and fea fowl.
On ffiore they.hunt the rein-deer in different parts of
the country. They drive thefe animals, which feed
in large herds, into a narrow circle or defile, where
they are eafily flain with arrows. Their bow is made
of fir-tree, wound about with the twilled finews of
animals 5 the firing is compofed of the fame fluff, or
of feal fkin : the arrow' is a full fathom in length,
pointed with a bearded iron, or a fharp bone ) but
thofe with which they kill birds are blunt, that they
may not tear the flefh. Sea-fowls they kill with lan¬
ces, which they throw to a great diftance with fur-
prifing dexterity. Their manner of catching whales
is quite different from that praclifed by the Euro¬
peans. About 50 perfons, men and women, fet out in* .
one long boat, which is called a kone-boat, from kone, a
“ woman,” becaufe is is rowed by females only. When
they find a whale, they ftrike him with harpoons, to
which are faftened w'ith long lines, fome feal fkins
blown up like bladders. Thefe, by floating on the
furface, not only difeover the back of the whale, but
hinder him from diving under water for any length of
time. They continue to purfue him until he lofes
ftrength, when they pierce him with fpears and lan¬
ces till he expires. On this occafion they are clad in
their fpring coats, confiding of one piece, w'ith gloves,
bobts, caps made of feal-fkin fo clofely laced and few-
ed that they keep out water. Thus accoutred, they
leap into the fea 5 and begin to flice off the fat, even
under water, before the whale is dead.— ihey have
many different ways of killing feals j namely, by link¬
ing them with a fmall harpoon equipped alfo with an
air-bag ; by watching them when they come to breathe
at the air-holes in the ice, and flriking them with*
fpears j by approaching them in the difguife of their
own fpecies, that is, covered W'ith a feal-fkin, creep¬
ing upon the ice, and moving the head from fide to
fide as the feals are accuflomed to do. By this flra-
tagem the Greenlander moves towards the unfuf-
pedling feal, and kills him with a fpear. The
Greenlanders angle with lines made of whale-bone
cut very fmall, by means of which they fucceed
wonderfully. The Greenland canoe, like that ufed
in Nova Zembla and Hudfon’s bay,'is about three
fathoms in length, pointed at both ends, and three
quarters of a yard m breadth. It is compofed of
thin rafts faftened together with the finews of ani¬
mals. It is covered with dreffed feal-lkins both be¬
low and above, in fuch a manner that only a circular
hole is left in the middle, large enough to admit the
body of one man. Into this the Greenlander thrufls
hirufelf up to the waift, and fallens the fkin fo tight
about
G R E
Greenland, about him that no water can enter.
i v > an(l armed with a paddle broad at both ends, he will
venture out to fea in the mod dormy weather to
catch feals and fea-fowl •, and if he is overfet, he can
eafdy raife himfelf by means of his paddle. A Green¬
lander in one of thefe canoes, which was brought
with him to Copenhagen, outdripped a pinnace of
16 oars, manned with choice mariners.—i he kone-
boat is made of the fame materials, but more durable 5
and fo large, that it will contain 50 perfons with all
their tackle, baggage, jand provifions. She is fitted
with a mall, which carries a triangular fail made of
the membranes and entrails of feals, and is mana¬
ged without the help of braces and bowdings. 1 hefe
kones are flat bottomed, and fometimes 60 feet in
length. The men think it beneath them to take
charge of them j and therefore they -are left to the
conduct of the women, who indeed are obliged to do
all the drudgery, including even the building and re¬
pairing their houfes, while the men employ them-
felves wholly in preparing their hunting implements
and fifhing tackle.
This country is but thinly inhabited. In the win¬
ter time the people dwTell in huts built of done or
turf: on the one fide are the windows, covered with
the fldns of feals or rein-deer. Several families live
in one of thefe houfes, poffeding each a feparate apart¬
ment, before which is a hearth wdth a great lamp
placed on a trevit, over which hangs their kettle :
above is a rack or Ihelf on which their w'et clothes are
dried. They burn train oil in their lamps j and inflead
of wick, they ufe a kind of mofs, which fully anfwers
the purpofe. Thefe fires are not only fufficient to
boil their victuals ■, but likewife to produce fuch a heat,
that the whole houfe is like a bagnio. The door is
very low, that as little cold air as poflible may be ad¬
mitted. The houfe within is lined wdth old fldns,
and furrounded with benches for the conveniency of
drangers. In the fummer-time they dwrell in tents
made of long poles fixed in a conical form, covered in
the infide with deer fldns, and on the outfide with
feal fldns, dreffed fo that the rain cannot pierce
them.
Ead Greenland was for a long time confidered as a
part of the continent of Wed Greenland, but is now
difcovered to be an ademblage of iilands lying between
76° 46' and 809 30' of north latitude, and between
90 and 20° of ead longitude, It wfas difcovered by
Sir Hugh Willoughby in the year 1553, who called
it Groenland; fuppofing it to be a part of the wedern
continent. In 1595, it was again vifited by William
Barentz and John Cornelius, two Dutchmen, who pre¬
tended to be the original difcoverers, and called the
country Spitsbergen, or Sharp Mountains, from the
_ many drarp pointed and rocky mountains with which
’ it abounds. They alleged that the coad difcovered
by Sir Hugh Willoughby was fome o,.her country;
which accordingly the Hollanders delineated on their
maps and charts by the name of Willoughby Land;
whereas in fa£t no fuch land ever exided ; and iorig
before the voyage of thefe Dutchmen, Stephen Bar-
rows, an Englilh Ihipmader, had coaded along a defo¬
late country from N. Lat. 78® to 8o° id, which was
undoubtedly Spitzbergen. The fea in the- neighbour¬
hood of the iilands of Spitzbergen abounds very much
Baft Green
land.
[ 93 ] G R E
Thus fecured, with whales, and is the common refort of tht Whale- Greenland.
filhing drips from different countries, and the country it- v ’ '
felf is frequently vifited by tbefe drips •, but till the voyage
of the Hon. Capt. Phipps (afterwards Lord Mulgrave),
by order of his majedy, the fituation of it w^s erroneoufly
laid down. It was imagined that the land dretched to
the northward as far as 82° of north latitude ; but Capt.
Phipps found the mod northerly point of land, called
Seven IJlands, not to exceed 8o° 30' of latitude. To¬
wards the ead he faw other lands lying at a didance,
fo that Spitzbergen plainly appeared to be furrounded
by water on that fide, and not joined to the continent
of Alia, as former navigators had fuppofed. The
north and wed coads alfo he explored, but was pre¬
vented by the ice from failing fo far to the northward
as he wiftred. The coad appeared neither habitable
nor accedible. It is formed of high, barren, black
rocks, without the lead marks of vegetation ; in many
places bare and pointed ; in others covered wdth fnow,
appearing even above the clouds. The valleys be¬
tween the high cliffs were filled with fnow and ice.
“ This profpeft,” fays Capt. Phipps, “ would have
fuggeded the idea of perpetual winter, had not the
mildnefs of the weather, the fmooth water, bright fun-
fhine, and condant day-light, given a cheerfulnefs and
novelty to the wEole of this romantic feene.” JThe
current ran along this coad half a knot an hour north.
The height of one mountain feen here was found by
geometrical menfuration to be at one time ^eeL
at another 1503x0 feet. By a barometer condructed
after De Luc’s method, the height was found to be
Ij88x feet. On this occafion Capt. Phipps has the
following remarks. “ I can account for the great
diderence between the geometrical meafure and the
barometrical according to M. de Luc’s calculation,
which amounts to 84.7 feet. I have no reafon to
doubt the accuracy of Dr Irving’s obfervations, which
were made with great care. As to the geometrical
meafure, the agreement of fo many triangles, each of
which mud have difcovered even the (mailed error, is
the mod fatisfadtory proof of its corredtnefs. Since
my return I have tried both the theodolite and baro¬
meter, to difeover whether there was any fault in ei¬
ther 5 and find them, upon trial, as I had always done
before, very accurate.”
There is good anchorage in Schmeerenburgh har¬
bour, lying in N. Lat. 740 44', E. Long. 9* 50' 45",
in 13 fathoms, fandy bottom, not far from the fhore,
and well (heltered from all winds. Clofe to this har¬
bour is an ifland called Amjlerdam IJland, where the
Dutch ufed formerly to boil their whale-oil ; and tin*
remains of fome conveniency eredled by them for that
purpofe are dill vifible. The Dutch (hips, excepting
in time of war, dill refoft to this place for the later
feafon of the whale-filhery.—The rocks about this
place are chiefly a kind of marble or limedone. No
appearances of metals were obferved, nor any flgns of an¬
cient or modern volcanoes. No infedts, or any fpecies of
reptiles, were feen, not even the common earth-worm.
There were no fprings or rivers j but fgreat plenty of
water was produced from the fnow which melted on the
mountains.
The mod remarkable views which thefe dreary re¬
gions prefent are thofe called Icebergs. They are large
bodies of Ice filling the valleys between the high
mountains.
G RE [ 94 ] ORE
Greenland,tnduntains. Their face towards the fea is nearly per-
< nee nock. pendlciilar, and of a very lively light-green colour.
One was about 300 feet high, with a cafcade of wa¬
ter ifluing from it. The black mountains on each
fide, the white fnow, and greenilh coloured ice, com-
pofed a very beautiful and romantic picture. Large
pieces frequently broke off from the icebergs, and fell
with great noife into the water. One piece was ob-
ferved to have floated out into the bay, and grounded
in 24 fathortis j it was 30 feet high above the farface
of the nrater, and of the fame beautiful colour with the
ieeberg from which it had leparated.
Thefe iilands are totally uninhabited, though it doth
not appear but that human creatures could fublift on
them, notwithftanding their vicinity to the pole.—
Light Englifh failofs, who rvere accidentally left here
by a whale-fifhing flip, furvived the winter, and were
brought home next feafoti. The Dutch then attempted
to fettle a colony on Amfterdam illand above mention¬
ed ; but all the people periflied, not through the feve-
rity of the climate, but of the fcurvy, owing to the
want of thofe remedies which are now happily difco-
vered, and which are found to be fo eflfedlual in pre¬
venting and curing that dreadful difeafe.—The late ac¬
count alfo of fix 'Ruffian failors who flaid four years
in this inhofpitable country, affords a decifive proof,
that a colony might be fettled on Eafl Greenland,
provided the doing fo could anfwer any good pur-
p'ofe.
Greenland CoiJipamj. A joint flock of 40,000!.
was by flatute to be raifed by fubfcribers, who
were incorporated for 14 years from the fir ft of
Odlober 1693, and the company to ufe the trade of
catching whales, Sec. into and from Greenland, and
the Greenland feas 5 they may make bye-laws for the
government of the perfons employed in their fhips,
&c. Stat. 4 and 5 W. III. cap. 17. This company
was farther encouraged by parliament in 1696; but
partly by unlkilful management, and partly by real
Ioffes, it was under the neceffity of entirely breaking up,
before the expiration of the term affigned to it, ending
in 1707. Rut any perfon who wall adventure to Green¬
land for whale-fifhing, fhall have all privileges granted
to the Greenland company, by I Anne, cap. 16. and thus
the trade was again laid open. Any fubjedls may im¬
port whale-fins, oil, &c. of fifh caught in the Green¬
land feas, without paying any duftoms, Sic. flat. 10
Geo. I. cap. 16. And (hips employed in the Green-
land-fifliery are to be of fuch burden, provided wuth
boats, fo many men, fifhingdines, harping irons, &c.
and be licenfed to proceed j and on their return fhall
be paid 20s. per ton bounty, for whale-fins, &c. im¬
ported •, 6 Geo. II. cap. 33-|j}The bounty was after¬
wards increafed j but has been lately diminilhed, and
fince this diminution, the trade has increafed. See
Whale-FisHERr.
GREENOCK, a fea-port towm of Scotland, and
one of the ports of the city of Glafgow. It is diftant
22 miles from that city. The frith of Clyde here ex¬
pands into a fine bafon four miles wide, and is landlock¬
ed on all fides.
Greenock is divided into what are called the old and
new parifhes. Certain lands were disjoined from Inner-
kip and Houfton, in the year 1636, by virtue of a pe¬
tition from the proprietors to the lords of commiffion for
3
plantation of kirks, See. which received the name of Greenorfe.
Greenock when ere£!ed into a parifh. There are dif- 1 
ferent opinions entertained refpefting the origin of the
name, but the moft probable opinion is, that it is de¬
rived from the Gaelic Gricineg, which fignifies the bay
of the fun. It lies in the north-weft part of the county
of Renfrew, in the prefbytery of Paifley, and fynod
of Glafgow and Ayr, with the frith of Clyde on the
north.
The parilh of Greenock is hilly, with the exception
of a finall ftrip of level ground of various breadths,
ftretching along the fliore. It abounds with peat for
fuel to the inhabitants, vaft quantities of which they can
afford to difpofe of to the neighbouring towns and
villages.
The foil upon the ftiore is full of gravel, light and
fandy, which needs much rain to produce even a tole¬
rable crop. It produces, however, large quantities of
excellent potatoes, and by the afliftance of fea wTarej much
good barley and oats.
As far as is yet known, the parilh of Greenock pro¬
duces no minerals which are in the leaft remarkable,;
Freeftone is the moft common to be met with, while
limeftone, which has been but lately difeovered, has
been found in very fmall quantities. No traces of coal
have yet been met with, and the hills contain no
metallic fubftances, except iron-ftone of a poor qua¬
lity, and a little copper which is rarely found in free¬
ftone.
In defeending from the hills* there are fome rivulets
which form beautiful cafcades, and appear like wreathes
of fnow, when feen from the ftiore. The chief of them
bears the name of Wallace, the celebrated champion of
the liberties of Scotland.
On the weft fide of the bay of Greenock and Craw->
filrdfdike, formerly denominated the bay of St Law7-
rence* from a chapel in the vicinity confecrated to that
faint, lies the new town of Greenock. In the begin¬
ning of the 18th century it confifted only of one row of
houfes covered with thatch, and had no veftige of a
harbour for vtffels 5 but at prefent it extends along the
Clyde rather more than an Englilh mile, but not more
than a furlong in breadth. Before the year i745j a
new pariih was erefled in Greenock, by the permifiion
of Sir John Shaw, who gave up to the heritors and el¬
ders the right of patronage.
Both the parifhes did not contain more than 4000
perfons about the year 1745, and in 10 years after,
they had fuffered a diminution of 142 perfons, as ap¬
pears from the return tranfmitted to Dr Webfter. The
increafe of population has been rapid fince that time,
being now eftimated at upwards of 15,000 fouls.
People of opulence in Greenock, and even thofe
whofe circumftances are much more circumfcribed, have
the valuable character of being uncommonly generous
and liberal, which difpofitions it is faid, have been more
tried than thofe of almoft any other clafs of people in
Scotland. The annual amount of charitable donations
for the relief of the poor is not lefs than x 200k fter-
ling. The Merchants Houfe Society was eredted in
I<787, for admiifion into which every member pays
5I. 5s. j and 5s. a year afterwards. The funds are not
to be touched till they amount to 1000I. at which time
the intereft may be diftributed among decayed members.
There are in Greenock a chapel of eafe, a Gaelic
chapel,
G R E t 95 1 G R E
.chapel, a Burgher and Antiburgher meetlr.g-lioufe, be- in the hofpital on the fecond of January 1779, and Grccinvnti
lides the two pariih churches. totally confumed the dome at the S. E. quarter or
The town of Greenock is governed by a council of the building, with the chapel whicn was the mod; ele-
nine fewers, of whom two are bailies. It is a burgh of gant in the world, the great dining hall, and eight
barony, ere&ed by Sir John Shaw in the year 1757, wards, containing the lodgings of near 600 penfioners.
who was at that time fuperior. The inhabitants of 1 he dome was rebuilt about the year 17^5 >
Greenock petitioned the Scotch parliament in 1700, reparation of the whole damage is not yet completed,
for a fund to build a haiboar, which was abfohitely On the fides of the gate which opens to thefe bmld-
and unaccountably refilled. This made them enter in- ings from the park, are placed a large, terredrial anil
to a contract with Sir John Shaw, paying a voluntary celedial globe, in which the dars are gut ; and in tne
affeffment of fixteen pence on each lack of malt brewed centre of the area is a datue of George II. . About
into ale within the limits of the town. In the year 1740 2000 old difabled feamen are maintained in this holpi-
the whole debt was extinguilhed, and a furplus remain- tab Belides private benefa&ions, to the amount of
ed of 2" 000 merks. near 60,000!. (which appear in tables hung up at
In Greenock there are feveral duck manufactories, the entrance of the hall,) the parliament, in the year
three foap and candle works, one faddle and Ihoe manu- 173 2, fettled upon it the earl of Derwentwater’s edate,
factory, and two fugar-houfes, all carried on for expor- to the value of 6000I. per annum. . All drangers who
tation^to a great extent. fee h, pay twopence each •, and this income is applied
In the year 1784, after peace with America, 436 vef- tea the fupport of the mathematical fchool for the fons
Pels Britidr and foreign, including outward and home- of failors. For the better fupport of which, every
ward bound, carrying 14,9.11 tons, were entered at the feaman in the royal navy, and in the merchant fervice,
port of Greenock 5 and in 1791, there were 1962 vef- pays fixpence a month, dopped out of their, pay, and
fels, the tonnage of which amounted to 31,704. From delivered in at the fix-penny receiver’s office in Tower-
January 1790 to 1791, there were imported of grain, hill. On this account, a feaman, who can produce an
87>395 quarters, 81,074cwt..of fugar, 1,757,504185. of authentic certificate, of his being difabled, and render-
cotton, 221,649 gallons of rum, and 744 tons of dif- ed unfit for fervice, by defending any flfip. belonging to
ferent wines. his majedy’s Britidi fubjefts, or in taking any ihip
GREENWICH, a town of the county of Kent, from the enemy, may be admitted into this hofpital,
in England, pleafantly fituated on the bank of the and receive the fame benefit from it as if he had been
Thames, about five miles ead from London. Here in his majedy’s immediate fervice. Befides the feamen
was formerly a royal palace, built by Humphry duke and widows above-mentioned, about 100 boys, the
of Glouceder, enlarged by Henry VII. and completed fons of feamen, are bred up for the fervice of the royal
by Henry VIII. The latter often chofe this town navy, but there are no out-penfioners as at Chelfea.
for his place of refidence ; as did alfo the queens Mary Each of the mariners has a weekly allowance of feven.
and Elizabeth, who were born in it. The fame Duke loaves, weighing 16 ounces each 5 three pounds of
Humphry began a tower on the top of the deep hill in beef, two of mutton, a pint of peafe, a pound and a quar-
the park, which was finilhed by Henry VII. but af- ter of cheefe, two ounces of butter, fourteen quarts of
temards demolifhed, and a royal obfervatory erefted beer, and one drilling a-week tobacco-money ; the tobac-
in its place by Charles II. furnidred wnth mathemati- co-money of the boatfwain is two drillings and fixpence
cal indruments for adronomical obfervations, and a a-week each, that of their mates one drilling and fix-
deep dry well for obferving the dars in the day-time, pence, and that of the other officers in proportion to
The palace being afterwards much negle&ed, King their rank : befides which, each common penfioner re-
Charles II. (who had enlarged the park, walled it a- ceives once in two years, a fuit of blue clothes, a hat,
bout and planted it), pulled it down, and began ano- three pairs of dockings, twm pairs of ffioes, five neck-
ther, of which he lived to fee the fird wing magnifi- cloths, three ffiirts, and two night-caps. Out of all
cently finidred. But King William III. in 1694, that is given fordrowing the hall, only three-pence in
granted it, wfith nine acres of ground thereto belong- the drilling is allowed to the perfpn that drows them y
ing, to be converted into a royal hofpital for old a*nd the red makes an excellent fund for the yearly main-
difabled feamen, the widows and children of thofe who tenance of not lefs than 20 poor boys, who are the fons
lod their lives in the fervice, and for the encourage- of mariners that have been either dain or difabled in
ment of navigation. This wing, which cod King the fervice of their country. The park is well docked
Charles 36,000!. is now the fird wing of the hofpital with deer, and affords as much variety, in proportion
towards London. The front to the Thames confids to its fize, as any in the kingdom y but the views from
of two ranges of done buildings, wfith the ranger’s the Obfervatory7 and the One-tree hill are beautiful
houfe in the centre of the area, but detached from any beyond imagination, particularly the former. The
part of the hofpital. Thefe buildings perfectly cor- projetHon of thefe hills is fo bold, that you do not look
refpond with each other, and have their tops crowned down upon a gradually falling dope or flat inclofures,
with a done balludrade. The buildings which are fa- but at once upon the tops of branching trees, which
cing the area, correfpond wfith them, though in a finer grow in knots and clumps out of deep hollows and em-
and more elegant flyle y and have domes at their ends, browned dells. The cattle which feed on the lawns,
which are 1 20 feet high, fupported on coupled co- which appear in breaks among them, feem moving in. .
Ij^mns. Under one of thefe is the hall, which is finely a region of fairy land. A thoufand natural openings
painted by Sir James Thornhill, and contains many among the branches of the trees break upon little pic-
royal portraits y and under the other the chapel, which turefque views of the fwelling turf, which, when illu-
by rxcidest was dedroyed by fire. This fire broke out mined by the fun, have an effedl pleafing beyond the
power .
G R E [ 95
rii-ferAviai power of fancy to paint. This is the fore-ground of
i! the landfcape : a little farther, the eye falls on that
, ^noble ilruclure the hofpital, in the mid*il of an amphi¬
theatre of wood } then the two reaches of the river
make that beautiful ferpentine which forms the Me of
Dogs, and prefent the floating millions of the Thames.
To the left appears a fine trad of country, leading to
the capita], which there finifhes the profpeci. The pa-
rifh-church of Greenwich, rebuilt by the commillxoners
for eredling the •, 50 new churches, is a very handfome
ftru&ure, dedicated to St Alphage, archbifitop of Can¬
terbury, who is laid to have been (lain by the Danes in
the year 1012, on the fpot where the church now
Hands. There is a college at the end of the town,
fronting the Thames, for the maintenance of 20 de¬
cayed old houfe-keepers, 12 out of Greenwich, and
eight who are to be alternately chofen from Snottifham
and Caflle-Rifing in Norfolk. This is called the duke
of Norfolk's College, though it was founded and endow¬
ed in 1613 by Henry earl of Northampton, the duke
of Norfolk's brother, and by him committed to the
care of the Mercers company. To this college be¬
longs a chapel, in which the earl’s body is laid ; which,
as well as his monument, was removed hither a few
vtars ago from the chapel of Dover caftle. dhe pen-
fioners," befides meat, drink, and lodging, are allowed
one fhilling and iixpence a-week, with a gown every
year, linen once in two years, and hats once in four
wears. In 1560, Mr Lambard, author of the Peram¬
bulation of Kent, alfo built an hofpital, called Queen
Elizabeth’s college, faid to be the firft erefted by_ an
Englifh Proteftant. There are likewife two charity-
fchools in this parifin The river Thames is here very
broad, and the channel deep *, and at fome very high
tides the water is fait. This is the chief harbour for the
king’s yachts. The town contains about 1 500 houfes *,
and a market on Wednefday and Saturday was creeled
here in 1737, the direftion of which is in the gover¬
nors of the royal hofpital, to which the profits arifing
from it were to be appropriated.
GREGARIOUS, among zoologifts, a term ap¬
plied to fuch animals as do 'not live folitary, but alfo-
riate in herds or flocks.
GREGORIAN calendar, that which (hows the
new and full moon, with the time of Eaffer, and the
moveable feafts depending thereon, by means ot epafts,
difpofed through the feveral months of the Gregorian
year. See CHRONOLOGY, N° 26.
Gregorian Telefcope. See Optics Index,
Gregorian Year. See Chronology, N° 26.
GREGORY the Great, was bom at Rome of a
patrician family. He difeovered fuch abilities in the
exercife of the fenatorial employments, that the emperor
juftin the younger appointed him prefeft of Rome.
Pope Pelafgius il. fent him nuncio to Conllantinople,
to demand fuccours againft the Lombards. When he
thought of enjoying a folitary life, he was eledled pope
by the clergy, the fenate, and the people of Rome.
Befides his learning and diligence in inftru&ing the
church, both by writing and preaching, he had a very
happy talent in winning over princes in favour of the
temporal as well as fpiritual interefl of religion. He
undertook the converfion of the Englifh, and lent over
fome monks of his order, under the dueebon of Au-
guftin their abbot. His morality with refped to the
1 G It £
chaftity of churchmen was very rigid, afierting that Gregofr^
a man who had ever known a woman ought not to be ~“"~v
admitted to the priefthcod *, and'he always caufed the
candidates for it to be examined upon that point. He
likewife vigorouny exerted himfelf againil luch as
were found guilty of calumny. However, he flatter¬
ed the emperor Phocas, while his hands were yet
reeking with the blood of Mauritius, and of his three
children, who had been butchered in his fight. He
likewife flattered Brunehaut, a very wicked queen of
France. He is accufed of deflroying the noble mo¬
numents of ancient Roman magnificence, that thofe
who vifited the city might not attend more to the tri»
umphal arches than to holy things ; and burnt a mul¬
titude of heathen books, Livy in particular. He died
in 604.
Gregory of Nazianzen, furnamed the Divine, vrsSs
one of the moil illuftrious ornaments of the Greek
church in the fourth age. He was made bifhop of
Conftantinople in 379 ; but finding his eleftion con-
tefled by Timotheas archbifhop of Alexandria, he
voluntarily religned his dignity about 382, in the ge¬
neral council of Conftantinople. His works are ex¬
tant, in two volumes, printed at Paris in 1609. His
ftyle is faid to be equal to that of the moil celebrated
orators of ancient Greece.
Gregory, Theodoras, furnamed Thaumaturgus on
account of his miracles, was the fcholar of Origen ; and
was defied biftiop of Neocsefarea, the place of his
birth, about the year 240, during his abfence. He
affifted at the council of Antioch, in 255, againft
Paulus Samofetanus •, and died in 270. He had the
fatisfaffion of leaving only feventeen idolaters in his
dioceie, where there were but feventeen Chriftians
•when he was ordained. There is Hill extant of his, A
gratulatory oration to Origen, A canonical epiftle, and
fome other works.
Gregory, biftiop of Nyfla, one of the fathers of
the church, and author of the Nicene creed, was bom
in Cappadocia, about the year 331* He was chofen
biftiop of Nyfla in 372, and banilhed by the empe¬
ror Valens for adhering to the council ol Nice. He'
was neverthelefs afterwards employed by the biftiops
in feveral important affairs, and died in 396. He
wrote Commentaries on the Scriptures 5 Sermons on
the myfteries j Moral difeourfes 5 Dogmatical treatifes",
Panegyrics on the faints ; fome letters on church -dtfi-
cipline •, and other works. His flyle is very allegorical
and affefled.
GREGORY of Tours, or Georgius Florentius Grego*
rius, one of the moft illuftrious biftiops and celebra¬
ted writers of the fixth century, was defeended from
a noble family in Auvergne. He was educated by his
uncle Gallus, biftiop of Clermont} and diftinguiftied
himfelf fo much by bis learning and virtue, that ih
373 he was chofen biftiop of lours. He afterwards
went to Rome to vifit the tomb of ihe apoftle.i, wherte
he contra died a friendftiip with Gregory the Great,
and died in 595. This author was extremely credu¬
lous with regard to miracles. He wrote, 1. The hi-
ftory of France. 2. The lives of the faints ; and other
works. The beft edition is. That publilhed by Father
Rumart, 1699.
Gregory, David, the fon of the reverend John
Gregorv, minifter of Dnimoak, in the county of Aber-
6 J (itefl.
G R E [ 97 ] ORE
Gregory, deen. He was born about the year 1628, educated by
“■"Y ' his father for bufinefs, and bound apprentice to a mer¬
cantile houfe in Holland. But as his Ibve of letters
exceeded his delire for money, he relinquiihed commerce
in the year 1655, and on the death of an elder brother
he fucceeded to the eftate of Kinnairdie, about 40 miles
from Aberdeen, where he refided many years, and had
no fewer than 3 2 children born to him by two wives.
Three of his fons became eminent for their extenfive li¬
terature, and were at one time profelfors of mathema¬
tics in the univerfities of Oxford, Edinburgh, and St
Andrews.
The neighbouring gentlemen made a jell; of Mr
■Gregory for his ignorance of what was doing on his
own farm, but efteemed him highly as a man of letters.
Having ftudied phylic merely for amufement, he prac-
tifed gratis among the poor ; and his knowledge of it
being lo extenlive, he was employed by the nobility and
gentry in the neighbourhood, but he would take no
fees. Having much bulinefs during the day, he went
very early to bed, rofe to his lludies about two or three
in the morning, and then flept an hour or two before
break faft.
In the country where he dw7elt he wras the firlt per-
fon who had a barometer, to the changes in which, ac¬
cording to the changes in the weather, he paid great
attention, and was once in great danger of being tried
by the prelbvtery for witchcraft or conjuration. He
was waited upon by a deputation of minillers, who in¬
quired into the truth of certain reports which had come
to their ears, whom he fo far fatisfied as to induce
them to wave a profecution againll a man w’ho, by the
extenlive knowledge of medicine which he poffeffed,
was a public bleffing to the country.
About the beginning of laft century he removed to
Aberdeen, and during Queen Anne’s war he turned
his attention to the improvement of artillery, to make
great guns more deftruffive, and executed a model of
his intended engine. We are informed by Dr Reid,
that he knew a clock-maker who had been employed
in making this model; but as he made fo many differ¬
ent pieces without knowing their defign, or the method
of uniting them, he could give no confiftent account of
the whole. Mr Gregory being fatisfied with his in¬
vention by various experiments, he delired his fon to
fhow it to Sir Ifaac Newton, concealing the name of
the inventor ; but Sir Iliac was much difpleafed with
it, and declared that the inventor was more entitled to
puniihment than reward, as it wTas folely calculated for
dedrudlion, and might come to be knowm to the enemy.
That great man urged the neceffity of deftroying it,
and it is probable that Mr Gregory’s fon, the Savilian
profelfor, followed his advice, for the model was never
found.
When the rebellion broke out in 1715, the old
gentleman went a fecond time to Holland, and return¬
ed when it was over to Aberdeen, where he died about
1720, in the 93d year of his age, leaving behind
him a hiifory of his own times, which was never pub-
lifhed.
Gregory, "James, one of the mofl eminent mathe¬
maticians of the 17th century, w7as a fon of the Rev. Mr
John Gregory minifter of Drumoak in the county of
Aberdeen, and w7a$ born at Aberdeen in 1638. His
mother w7as a daughter of Mr David Anderfon of
Vol. X. Part I.
Finzaugh, a gentleman who poffeffed a lingular turn Gregory. ^
for mathematical and mechanical knowledge. This
mathematical genius was hereditary in the family of }he Gieg0.
the Anderfons, and from them feems to have been (je-, prefix-
tranfmitted to their defeendants of the name of Gre-edto the
gory. Alexander Anderfon, coufin-german of the l^or^^
above-mentioned David, was profeffor of mathematics
at Paris in the beginning of the 17th century, and ^
publiflied there in 161 2, Suppletnentuvi, /tpollonii redi-
vivi, is'e. The mother of James Gregory inherited the
genius of her family ; and obferving in her fon, while
yet a child, a ftrong propenfity to mathematics, fhe in-*
ftruCted him herfelf in the elements of that fcience.
He received his education in the languages at the
grammar-fehool of Aberdeen, and went through the
ufual courfe of academical ftudies in the Maritchal col¬
lege.
At the age of 24 he pubiifhed his treatife, entitled
Optica Promote, feu abdita radiorum reflexorum et re-
fraclor'um mljstcria, geornetrice enucleate ; cut fuhnechtur
appendix fubtilijjimorum afronomuz problematon refoluti*
enem exhibens, London 1663 : a work of great genius,
in which he gave the world an invention of his own,
and one of the moft valuable of the modern difeoveries,
the conltruflion of the retiedling teleicope. This difeo-
very immediately attracted the attention of the mathe¬
maticians, both of our own and of foreign countries,
who were foon convinced of its great importance to the
fciences of optics and aftronomy. The manner of pla¬
cing the two fpecula upon the fame axis appearing to
Sir Ifaac Newtbn to be attended with the difadvantage
of lofing the central rays of the larger fpeculum, he
propofed an improvement on the inflrument, by giving
an oblique pofition to the fmaller fpeculum, and placing
the eye-glafs in the fide of the tube. But it is worth
remarking, that the Newtonian conftruffion of that in¬
flrument was long abandoned for the original or Gre¬
gorian, which is at this day univerfally employed where
the inftrument is of a moderate fize ; though Mr Herf-
chel has preferred the Newtonian form for the con-
ftruftiort of thofe immenfe telefcopes, which of late
years he has fo fuccefsfully employed in obferving the
heavens.
The univerfity of Padua being at that time in high Mid'
reputation for mathematical ftudies, James Gregory
went thither foon after the publication of his firft
work ; and fixing his refidence there for fome years,
he pubiifhed, in 1667, Vera Circuli et Hyperboles qua¬
drature ; in which he propounded another difeovery of
his owm, the invention of an infinitely converging fe-
ries for the areas of the circle and hyperbole. To this
treatife, when republifhed in 1668, he added a new
work, entitled, Geometricc pars univerfahs, inferviens
quantitatum curvarum tranfmutatiom et menfurce; in
which he is allowed to have fhowm, for the firft time, a
method for the tranfmutation of curves. Thefe works
engaged the notice, and procured Mr Gregory the cor-
refpondence, of the greateft mathematicians of the age,
Newton, Huygens, Halley, and Wallis ; and their au¬
thor being foon after chofen a fellow of the royal fo-
ciety of London, contributed to enrich the Philofophi-
cal Tranfaflions at that time by many excellent papers.
Through this channel, in particular, he carried on a
difpute with Mr Huygens, upon the occafion of his trea¬
tife on the quadrature of the circle and hyperbole, to
N which
G R E [ 98 ] G R E
Gregory, which that able mathematician had darted fome objec-
"* t "" ■ ' tions. Of this controverfy, it is unneceffary to enter
into particulars. It is fufficient to fay, that, in the
opinion of Leibnitz, who allows Mr Gregory the high-
eft merit for his genius and difcoveries, Mr Huygens
has pointed out, though not errors, lome conftderable
deficiencies in the treatife above mentioned, and drown
a much Ampler method of attaining the end in view.
In 1668, Mr James Gregory publidred at London
another work, entitled Exercilationes Geometric#, which
contributed ftill to extend his reputation. About this
time he was elected profeflbr of mathematics in the
univerfity of St Andrew’s •, an office which he held for
fix years. During his refidence there, he married, in
1669, Mary, the daughter of George Jamefon the ce¬
lebrated painter, whom Mr Walpole has termed the
Vandyke of Scotland, and who was fellovv-difciple
with that great artift in the fchool of Rubens at Ant-
werp.
In 1674, he W’as called to Edinburgh, to nil the
chair of mathematics in that univerfity. This place
he had held for little more than a year, when, in O&o-
ber 1675, being employed in diowing the fatellites of
Jupiter through a telefcope to fome of his pupils, he
was fuddenly ftruck with total blindnefs, and died a
few days after, at the early age of 37.
He was a man of an acute and penetrating genius.
His temper feems to have been warm, as appears from
{he condudt of his difpute with Mr Huygens j and,
confcious perhaps of his own merits as a difcoverer, he
feems to have been jealous of lofing any portion of his
reputation by the improvements of others upon his in¬
ventions.
Gregory, Davie/, Savilian profeffor of aftronomy
at Oxford, whom Dr Smith has termed fubtilijfimi in-
genu mathematicus, was the eldeft fon of Mr Gregory
Jlid. of Kinnairdy, brother of the above-mentioned Mr James
Gregory. He was born at Aberdeen in 1661, and
received the earlier parts of his education in that city.
He completed his ftudies at Edinburgh j and, being
poffeffed of the mathematical papers of his uncle, foon
diftinguiffied himfelf likewife as the heir of his genius.
In the 23 d year of his age, he was defied profefibr of
mathematics in the univerfity of Edinburgh ; and pub-
liffied, in the fame year, Excrcitatio Geometrica de di-
menjione figurarum, Jive fpecimen methodi generalis di-
metiendi quafvis Jiguras, Edinburgh, 1684, 4^0,
fiw very early the excellence of the Newtonian philo-
fophy ; and had the merit of being the firft who intro¬
duced it into the fchools by his public leflures at Edin-
* Memoirs burgh. “ He had (fays Mr Whifton *) already caufed
of bis aw feve&ral of his fcholars to keep ads, as we call them,
^ 32* upon fevera! branches of the Newtonian philofophyj
while we at Cambridge, poor wretches, were ignomi-
nioufiy ftudying the fictitious hypothefes of the Carte- Gregory,
fian.” '   
In 1691, on the report of Dr Bernard’s intention of
refigning the Savilian profefforffiip of aflronomy at Ox¬
ford, David Gregory went to London *, and being pa-
tronifed by Sir Ifaac Newton, and wTarmly befriended
by Mr Flamftead the aftronomer royal, he obtained the
vacant profefforffiip, for which Dr Halley was a com¬
petitor. This rivalffiip, however, inftead of animofity,
laid the foundation of friendffiip between thefe eminent
men 5 and Halley foon after became the colleague of
Gregory, by obtaining the profefforffiip of geometry in
the fame univerfity. Soon after his arrival in London,
Mr Gregory had been defied a fellow of the royal fo-
ciety ; and, previoufly to his eledlion into the Savilian
profeffor fin p, had the degree of doctor of phyfic con¬
ferred on him by the univerfity of Oxford (a).
In 1693, he publilhed in the Philofophical Tranfac-
tions a rdolution of the Florentine problem de Tejlu-
dine veliformi quadribih ; and he continued to commu¬
nicate to the public, from time to time, many ingeni¬
ous mathematical papers by the fame channel. In
1695, he printed at Oxford Catoptric# et Dioptric#
Spheric# Elementa ; a work which, as he informs us in
his preface, contains the fubftance of fome of his pub¬
lic leflures read, eleven years before, at Edinburgh.
This valuable treatife was republiffied firft with addi¬
tions by Dr William Brown, with the recommenda¬
tion of Mr Jones and Dr Defaguliers $ and afterwards
by the latter of thefe gentlemen, with an appendix
containing an account of the Gregorian and Newto-*
nian telefcopes, together with Mr Hadley’s tables for
the conftruflion of both thofe inftruments. It is not
unworthy of remark, that, in the end of this treatife,
there is an obfervation which (hows, that what is gene¬
rally believed to be a difcovery of a much later date,
the conftrudlion of achromatic telefcopes, which has
been carried to great perfection by Mr Dollond and
Mr Ramfden, had fuggefted itfelf to the mind of Da¬
vid Gregory, from the reflection on the admirable
contrivance of nature in combining the different hu¬
mours of the eye. The paffage is as follows : “ Quod
fi ob difficultates phyficas in Ipeculis idoneis torno ela-
borandis et poliendis, etiamnum lentibus uti oporteat,
fortaffis media diverfie denfitatis ad lentem objectivam
componendam adhibere utile foret, ut a natura factum
obfervamus in oculi fabrica, ubi criftallinus humor (fere
ejufdem cum vitro virtutis ad radios lucis refringendos)
aqueo et vitreo (aquae quoad refractionem baud abfi-
milibus) conjungitur, ad imaginem quam diftincte fieri
poterit, a natura nihil fruftra moliente, in oculi fundo
depingendam.” Catopt. et Diopt. Sph#r. E/em. Oxon.
1695, p. 98.
In 1702 our author publiffied at Oxford, AJ/ronomi#
Physic#
(a) On obtaining the above profefforffiip, he was fucceeded in the mathematical chair at Edinbuigh by his
brother James, likewife an eminent mathematician j who held that office for 33 years, and retiring in 1725 was
fucceeded by the celebrated Maclaurin. A daughter of this profeflbr James Gregory, a young lady of great
beauty and accompliffiments, was the victim of an unfortunate attachment, which fumiffied the fubject of Mallet’s
well-known ballad of William and Margaret. . ^ *
Another brother, Charles, was created profeffor of mathematics at St Andrew's by Queen Anne in 1707.
This office he held with reputation and ability for 32 years } and, refigning in 1739, was fucceeded by his fon,
•who eminently inherited the. talents of his family, and died in 1763.
G R E [
rfrrory, ]i?}iysic& Cj€Qffi£tr~iccc Jiilet?Titci f 3. worlv wlucTi is sc-
counted his mafterpiece. It is founded on the Newto¬
nian doftrines, and was efteemed by Sir Ifaac Newton
himfelf as a moft excellent explanation and defence of
his philofophy. In the following year he gave to the
world an edition in folio of the works of Euclid in
Greek and Latin ; in profecution of a defign of his pre-
deceffor Dr Bernard, of printing the works of all the
ancient mathematicians. In this work, although it
contains all the treatifes attributed to Euclid, Dr Gre¬
gory has been careful to point out fuch as he found rea-
fon, from internal evidence, to believe to be the pro¬
ductions of fome inferior geometrician. In profecution
of Dr Bernard’s plan, Dr Gregory engaged, foon af-
liid.
ter, with his colleague Halley, in the publication of
the Conics of Apollonius; but he had proceeded but a
little way in this undertaking when he died, in the 49th
year of his age, at Maidenhead in Berklhire, A. D.
1710. To the genius and abilities of David Gregory,
the moft celebrated mathematicians of the age, Sir ifaac
Newton, Dr Halley, and Dr Keill, have given ample
teftimonies. Indeed it appears that he enjoyed, in a
high degree, the confidence and friendftvip of Sir Ifaac
Newton. This philofopher entrufted him with a ma-
nufeript copy of his Princi/>ia, for the purpofe of mak¬
ing obfervations on that work. Of thefe obfervations
there is a complete copy preferved in the library of the
Univerfity of Edinburgh. They contain many valuable
commentaries on the Prindpia, many interefting anec¬
dotes, and various fublime mathematical difeuffions.
Some of the paragraphs are in the hand-writing of
99 ] g it k
of medicine in King’s college. He likewife owed much | Gregory,
in his infant years, and during the whole couife of his v
ftudies, to the care and attention of his coufin, the cele¬
brated Dr Reid, afterwards of the univerfity of Glafgow.
The rudiments of our author’s claflical education he re¬
ceived at the grammar-fehool of Aberdeen j and under
the eye of his grandfather, he completed, in King’s col¬
lege, his ftudies in the Latin and Greek languages, and
in the fciences of ethics, mathematics, and natural phi¬
lofophy. Hrs mafter in philofophy and in mathematics
was Mr Thomas Gordon, philofophy profeilor of King s
college, who ably filled an academical chair for above
half a century.
In 1742, Mr Gregory went to Edinburgh, where
the fchool of medicine was then rifing to that celebrity
which has fince fo remarkably diftinguiftied it. Here
he attended the anatomical leftures of the elder Dr
Monro, of Dr Sinclair on the theory of medicine, and
of Dr Rutherford on the pra&ice. He heard likewife
the prelections of Dr Alfton on the materia medica and
botany, and of Dr Plummer on chemiftry. The medi¬
cal fociety of Edinburgh, inftituted for the free difeuf-
fion of all queftions relative to medicine and philolophy,
had begun to meet in 1737. Of this fociety we find ■
Mi»Gregory a member in 1742, at the time when Dr
Mark Akenfide, his fellow Itudent and intimate com¬
panion, was a member of the fame inftitution.
In the year 1745 our author went to Leyden, and
attended the leCtures of thofe celebrated profefibrs
Gaubius, Albinus, and Van Royen. While at this
place he had the honour of receiving from the King’s
Huygens, and they relate to the theory of light of this college of Aberdeen, his alma mater, who regarded hint
philofopher. The obfervations of Dr Gregory had as a favourite fon, an unfolicited degree of dodor of
medicine j and foon after, on his return tbithe* from
Holland, he was elefted profeflbr of philofophy in the
come too late for the firft edition of Newton’s great
work *, but he availed himfelf of them in the fecond.
Befides thofe works publifhed in his lifetime, he left in
manufeript, A Short Treatife of the Nature and Arith¬
metic of Logarithms, which is printed at the end of
Dr Keill’s tranflation of Commandine’s Euclid 3 and a
Treatife of Praftical Geometry, which was afterwards
tranllated, and publilhed in 1745, by Mr Maclaurin.
Dr David Gregory married in 1695, Elizabeth the
daughter of Mr Oliphant of Langtown in Scotland.
By this lady he had four fons, of whom, the eldeft,
David, was appointed regius profeffor of modern hiftory
at Oxford by King George 1. and died in 1767, in an
advanced age', after enjoying for many years the digni¬
ty of dean of Chrift-church in that univerfity.
Gregory, Dr John, profeffor of medicine in the
univerfity of Edinburgh, was the fon of Dr James Gre-
4 gory profeffor of medicine in King’s college Aberdeen,
and grandfon of James the inventor of the Gregorian
telefcope. His father was firft married to Catharine
Forbes, daughter of Sir John Forbes of Monymulk 3
by whom he had fix children, moft of whom died in
infancy. He married afterwards Ann Chalmers, only
daughter of the Rev. Mr George Chalmers principal of
King’s college, by whom he had two fons and a daugh¬
ter. John, the youngeft of the three, was born at A-
berdeen, June 3. 1724. Lofing his father when only
in the 7th year of hk age, the care of his education de¬
volved on his grandfather Principal Chalmers, and on
his elder brother Dr James Gregory, who, upon the
refignation of their father a (liort time before his death,
had been appointed to fucceed him in the profefforlhip
fame univerfity. In this capacity he read ledtures du¬
ring the years 17475 r74^> anc^ I749> on mathematics,
on experimental philofophy, and on moral philofophy.
In the end erf 1749, however, he chofe to refign his
profefforftiip of philofophy, his views being turned
chiefly to the practice of phyfic, with which he appre¬
hended the duties of this profefforftnp, occupying a
great portion of his timo, too much interfered. Previ-
oufly, however, to his fettling as a phyfician at Aber¬
deen, he went for a few months to the continent 3 a
tour of which the chief motive was probaoly amufement,
though, to a mind like his, certainly not without its
profit in the enlargement of ideas, and an increafed
knowledge of mankind.
Some time after his return to Scotland, Dr Gregory
married in 1752, Elifabeth daughter of William Lord
Forbes 3 a young lady who, to the exterior endowments
of great beauty and engaging manners, joined a very
fuperior underftanding, and an uncommon lhare of wit.
With her he received a handfome addition of fortune 3
and during the whole period of their union, which was
but for the fpace of nine years, enjoyed the higheft
portion of domeftic happinefe. Of her charafter it is
enough to fay, that her hufband, in that admired lit¬
tle work, A Father’s Legacy to his Daughters, the laft
proof of his affection for them, declares, that “ while
he endeavours to point out what they Ihould be, he
draws but a very faint and imperfeift picture of what
their mother was.” The field of medical pradftice at
Aberdeen being at that time in a great meafure pre-
N 2 occupied
G R E [ i
Gregory, occupied by his elder brother Dr James Gregory, and
v others of fome note in their profefllon, our author de¬
termined to try his fortune in London. Thither ac¬
cordingly he went in 1754 5 and being already known
by reputation as a man of genius, he found an eafy in¬
troduction to many perfons of diitindtion both in the li¬
terary and polite world. The late George Lord Lyt¬
telton was his friend and patron. An attachment,
which was founded on a ftriking fimilarity of manners,
of taltes, and of difpofitions, grew up into a firm and
-permanent friendlhip ; and to that nobleman, to whom
Dr Gregory was wont to communicate all his literary
productions, the world is indebted for the publication
of the Comparative View of the State and Faculties of
Man, which made him fint known as an author. Dr
Gregory likewife enjoyed the friendlhip of the late Ed¬
ward Montagu, Efq. and of his lady, the celebrated
champion of the fame of Shakefpeare, again!! the ca¬
vils and calumnies of Voltaire. At her alfemblies, or
converfaziones, the refort of tafte and genius, our author
had an opportunity of cultivating an acquaintance with
many of the molt diltinguhhed literary characters of the
prefent times.
In 1754 Dr Gregory was chofen fellow of the royal
fociety of London j and daily advancing in the public
elteem, it is not to be doubted, that, had he continued
his refidence in that metropolis, his profeflkmal talents
would have found their reward in a very extenfive prac¬
tice. But the death of his brother, Dr James Grego¬
ry, in November 1755? occalioning a vacancy in the
profeiTorlhip of phylic in King’s college, Aberdeen,
which he was folicited to fill, he returned to his native
country in the beginning of the following year, and
took upon him the duties of that office to which he had
been eledled in his abfence.
Here our author remained till the end of the year
1764, when urged by a very laudable ambition, and
prefuming on the reputation he had acquired as afford¬
ing a realbnable profpeiff of fuccefs in a more extended
field of practice, he changed his place of refidence for
Edinburgh. His friends in that metropolis had repre-
fented to him the fituation of the college of medicine as
favourable to his views of filling a profefforial chair in
that univerfity ; which accordingly he obtained in 1766,
on the refignation of Dr Rutherford, profeffor ol the
practice of phyhc. In the fame year he had the honour
of being appointed firlt phyfician to his majelty for
Scotland on the death of Dr Whytt.
On his firlt eltablilhment in the univerlity of Edin¬
burgh, Dr Gregory gave leCtures on thev praCtice of
phyfic during the years 1767, 1768, and 1769. Af¬
terwards, by agreement with Dr Cullen, profeffor of
the theory of phyfic, thefe two eminent men gave al¬
ternate courfes of the theory and of the praCtice.—As
a public fpeaker, Dr Gregory’s manner was limple,
natural, and animated. Without the graces of ora¬
tory, which the fubjeCt he had to treat in a great de¬
gree precluded, he expreffed his ideas with uncommon
perfpicuity, and in a llyle happily attempered between
the formality of ftudied compofition and the eafe of
converfation. It was his cultem to premeditate, for a
fhort time before entering the college, the fubjeCt of
his leClure, confulting thofe authors to whom he had
occafion to refer, and marking in ffiort notes the ar¬
rangement of his intended difcourfe: then fully ma-
00 ] ,G R E
Iter of his fubjeCt, and confident of his own powers, he Gregory,
trutted to his natural facility of expreffion to convey 1 v "
thofe opinions which he had maturely deliberated. The
only leCtures which he committed fully to writing,
were thofe introductory difcourfes which he read at the
beginning of his annual courie, and which are publiih-
ed in theie volumes under the title of LeCtures on the
Duties and Qualifications of a Phyfician. Of thefer
which were written with no view to publication, many
copies were taken by his pupils, and fome from the
original manufcript, which he freely lent for their peru-
fal. On hearing that a copy had been offered for fale
to a bookleller, ?t became neceffary to anticipate a
fraudulent, and perhaps a mutilated publication, by au-
thoriiing an impreffion from a corrected copy, of which
he gave the profits to a favourite pupil. Thefe lec¬
tures were firit publilhed in 1770, and afterwards in an
enlarged and more perfeCt form in 1772.
In the fame year, 1772, Dr Gregory publifhed
Elements of the Pradice of Phyfic, for the ufe of
Students : a work intended folely for his own pupils,
and to be uled by himfelf as a text-book to be comment¬
ed upon in his courfe of leCtures. In an advertilement
prefixed to this work, he lignified his intention of com¬
prehending in it the whole feries of difeafes of which he
treated in his leCtures on the PraCtice of Phyfic ; but
this intention he did not live to accomplilh, having
brought down the work no further than to the end of
the clafs of Febrile Difeales.—In his academical lec¬
tures, Dr Gregory never attempted to millead the Un¬
dent by flattering views of the perfection of the fci-
ence ; but was, on the contrary, anxious to point out
its defeCts •, wifely judging that a thorough fenfe of
the imperfeCtion of an art or fcience is the firlt Ite'p
towards its improvement. In this view he was care¬
ful to expofe the fallacioufnefs of the feveral theories1
and hypothefes which have had the molt extenfive cur¬
rency, and perpetually inculcated thd danger of fyfte-
matizing with limited experience, or an imperfeCt
knowledge of faCts. Yet in the work lalt mentioned
it will appear from the order in which he has treated
of the feveral difeafes, that he did not entirely negleCt
the fyltematic arrangements of other authors. Thefe,
however, he warned his pupils, that he had not adopt¬
ed from any conviction of the reCtitude of thofe theo¬
ries to which they referred, but only as affording that
degree of method, and regularity of plan, which is
found to be the belt help to the Itudy of any fcience.
Confidering a rational theory of phyfic to be as yet a
defideratum, it was his objeCt to communicate to his
pupils the greatelt portion of practical knowledge, as
the only balls on which fuch a theory could ever be
reared. His method, in treating of the feveral difeafes,
was firlt to mention thofe fymptoms which are un-
derltood among phylicians to characterize or define a
difeafe j proceeding from the general to the more par¬
ticular feries of fymptoms and their occafional varie¬
ties j to point out accurately the diagnojlic fymptoms,
or thofe by which one difeale is effentially diltinguilh-
ed from others that relemble it, and to mark likewife
the prognqjiics by which a phylician is enabled to con¬
jecture of the probable event of a difeafe, whether fa¬
vourable or otherwife. He then proceeded to fpecify
the various caufes, predifpoling, occafional, and proxi¬
mate j accounting, as far as he thought could be done
G R E [ ioi ] G R E‘
Gregory, on juft principles, for the appearance of the feveral this traft, the profeiTor fhines.with peculiar luftre as
fymptoms ; and, finally, he pointed out the general a hutband and father, and it is admirably adapted to j10un(ji t
plan of cure, the particular remedies to be employed, promote domeftic happinefs. _ u—-y——'
and the cautions requifite in the adminillration of Thele letters to his daughters were evidently written
them. Thus defirous of eftablifhing the fcience of under the impreftion of an early death, which Dr Gre-
medicine upon the folid foundation of praflice and gory had reafon to.apprehend from a conflitution fub-
experience ; and knowing that many things aflerted as ject to the gout, which had begun to Ihow itfelf at ir-
facts by medical writers have been ailumed on a very regular intervals even from the 18th year of his age.-
carelefs oblervation, while confirming a favourite theo- His mother, from whom he inherited tnat dueafs, died
ry ; and that, on the other hand, many real and im- fuddenly in 1770, while fitting at table. Dr Gregory
portant facls have, from the fame fpint of iyftem, had prognofticated for hxmielr a fiirular deatn j an
been explained away and diferedited j he conftantly event of wdiich, among his friends, he orten tabbed,
endeavoured, both by his precept and example, to in- but had no apprehenfion of the nearneis of its ap-
culcate to his pupils the neceffity of extreme caution proach. In the beginning of the year 1773, in con-
either in admitting or in denying medical fads, or verfation with his fon Dr James Gregory, the lat-
what are commonly given as fuch. To the deiire of ter remarking, that having for the three preceding
enforcing this neceffary caution is owing that multi- years had no return of a fit, he might make his ac-
tude of queries refpeding matters of fad, as wxll as count with a pretty fevere attack at that feafon j he
matters of opinion, which occurs in the Elements of the received the obfervation with fome degree of anger,
✓ Pradice of Phyfic. as he felt himfelf then in his ufual ftate of health.
Dr Gregory, foon after the death of his wife, and, The predidion, howevet, was too true •, for Wing
as he himfelf fays, “ for the amufement of his folitary gone to bed on the 9th of February 1773, with no
hours,” employed himfelf in the compofition of that apparent diforder, he was found dead in the morning,
admirable trad, entitled, A Father’s Legacy to his His death had been inftantaneous, and probably in his
Daughters ; a work which, though certainly never in- lleep ; for there was not the fmalletl difeompofure of
tended by its author for the public eye, it would have limb or of feature.—a perfed Euthanqfia.
been an unwarrantable diminution of his fame, and a ca- Dr Gregory, in perfon, wms confiderably above the
pricious refufal of a general benefit to mankind, to have middle fize. His frame of body was compaded with
limited to the foie purpofe for which it was originally fymmetry, but not with elegance. His limbs were
defigned. It was, therefore, with great propriety, not adive ; he Hooped fomewhat in his gait ; and his
publifhed after the author’s death by his eldeit fon. countenance, from a fullnefs of feature and a heavinels
This work is a moll amiable difplay of the piety of eye, gave no external indication of fuperior power
and goodnefs of his heart, and his confummate know7- of mmd or abilities. It was otherwife when engaged
ledge of human nature and of the vvorld. It manifefts in converfation. His features then became aniiflated,
fuch folicitude for their welfare, as ftrongly recommends and his eye moll exprefiive. Fie had a warmth of
the advice which he gives. He fpeaks of the female tone and of geiture which gave a pleafing intereft to
fex in the moft honourable terms, and labours to in- every thing wEich he uttered : Eut, united with this
creafe its eftimation, whilft he plainly, yet genteelly animation, there was in him a gentlenefs and fimplici-
and tenderly, points out the errors into which young ty of manner, which, wdth little attention to the ex¬
ladies are prone to fall.—It is particularly obfervable, terior and regulated forms of politenels, was more en-
in what high and honourable terms he fpeaks of the gaging than the moft finilhed addrefs. His converfation
Holy Scriptures, of Chriftian worfhip, and faithful flowed with eafe •, and, when in company with literary
minifters •, how warmly he recommends to his daugh- men, without affedling a dilplay of knowdedge, he w?as
ters the ferious and devout worftup of God in public liberal of the ftores of his mind. He poffefled a large
and private. He dw7ells largely on that temper and (hare of the focial and benevolent afteiftions, which, in
behaviour, which were particularly fuited to their edu- the exercife of his profelfion, manifefted themfelves in
cation, rank, and circumftances ; and recommends that many namelefs, but important, attentions to thofe un-
gentlenefs, benevolence, and modefty, which adorn the der his care ; attentions which, proceeding in him
charadler of the ladies, and do particular honour to from an extended principle of humanity, were not
their fex. His advices, with regard to love, courtfhip, fquared to the circumftances or rank of the patient,
and marriage, are peculiarly v^ife, and interefting to but ever beftawed moft liberally where they were'
them. They Ihow what careful obfervation he had moft requifite. In the care of his pupils, he was not
made on female domeftic condudl, and on the different fatisfied with a faithful difeharge of his public duties,
effedts of poffeffing or wanting the virtues and qualities To many of thefe, ftrangers in the country, and far re-
which he recommends. There is fomething peculiar- moved from all who had a natural intereft in their con-
ly curious, animated, and ufeful, in his diredlions to cerns, it was matter of no fmall importance to enjoy
them, how to judge of, and manifeft an honourable the acquaintance and countenance of one fo univerfal-
paftion in, and towards the other fex, and in the very ly refpedled and efteemed.
accurate and ufeful diftin&ion which he makes be- ORE-hound. See Canis, Mammalia Index.—
tween true and falfe delicacy. Nothing can be more Among a litter of gre-hound puppies, the beft are
ftriking and affedling, nothing more likely to give his always thofe which are lighteft. Thefe will make the
paternal advices their defired eftedl, than the refpedl- nimbleft dogs as they grow up. The gre-hound is belt
ful and affedlionate manner in which he mentions his for open countries where there is little covert. In thefe
lady their mother, and the irreparable lofs . which he places there will fometimes be a courfe after a hare of
and they fuftained by her early death. In fhort, in two or three miles or more, and both the dogs and the -
game
G R E [ i
Gre- game In fight all the while. It is generally fuppofed
Grenada t*lat l^e gre^10und bitch will beat the dog in running :
- - ... i but this feems to be an error j for the dog is both longer
made, and confiderably llronger, than the bitch of the
fame kind. In the breeding thefe dogs the bitch is prin¬
cipally to be regarded j for it is found by experience,
that the belt dog and a bad bitch will not get fo good
puppies as an indifferent dog with a good bitch. The
dog and bitch fliould be as nearly as may be of the
fame age $ and for the breeding of fine and perfeft
dogs, they fliould not be more than four years old.
An old bitch may be ufed with a young dog, but the
puppies of a young bitch and an old dog will never be
good for any thing.
The general food for a gre-hound Ought to be
drippings or rafpings of breatf, with foft bones and
griltles j and thofe clippings ought always to be foaked
in beef or mutton broth.
The proper exercife for a gre-hound is courfing him
three times a-week, and rewarding him with blood j
which will animate him in the higheft degree, and
encourage him to profecute his game. But the hare
alfo fliould ever have fair play. She fliould have the
law, as it is called j that is, have leave to run about
twelve fcore yards before the dog is flipped at her,
that he may have fome difficulty in the courfe, and
not pick up the game too eafily. If he kills the hare,
he muft never be fuffered to tear her *, but flie muff be
taken Trom him, his mouth cleaned of the wool, and
the liver and lights given him by way of encourage¬
ment. Then he is to be led home, and his feet waflied
with butter and beer, -and about an hour after he is to
be fed.
When the dog is to be taken out to courfe, he
ffiould have nothing in the morning but a toaft and
butter, and then he is to be kennelled till taken out
to the field. The kennelling thefe dogs is of great
ufe, always giving them fpirit and nimblenefs when
they are fet loofe : and the belt wjay of managing a fine
gre-hound is, never to let him ftir out of the kennel,
except at the times of feeding, walking, or courfing.
GRENADA, one of the Caribbee iflands, lying
in W. Long. 61. 40. N. Lat. 12. o. It is the lait of
the Windward Caribbees j and lies 30 leagues north
of New Andalufia, on the continent. It is about 30
miles in length, and in fome places 15 in breadth. The
chief port, formerly called Louis, now St George's,
Hands on the weft fide of the ifland, in the middle of a
large bay, with a fandy bottom. It is pretended that
loco barks, from 300 to 400 tons, may ride fecure
from ftorms ; and that 100 ftiips, of 1000 tons each,
may be moored in the harbour. A large round bafon,
which is parted from it by a bank of fand, would con¬
tain a confiderable number of ftiips, if the bank was
cut through : but by reafon of it the large fliips are
obliged to pafs wdthin 80 paces of one of the mountains
lying at the mouth of the harbour $ the other mountain
lying about half a mile diftant. The ifland abounds
with wild game and fiffi j it produces alfo very fine
timber, but the cocoa tree is obferved not to thrive
here fo wTell as in the other iflands. A lake on a high
mountain, about the middle of the ifland, fupplies it
with frefli-wrater ftreams. Several bays and harbours
lie round the illand, fome of which might be fortified
02 ] G R E
to great advantage •, fo that it is very convenient for Grenada,
(hipping, not being lubjedl to hurricanes. The foil is ' '"v
capable of producing tobacco, fugar, indigo, peafe, and
millet.
In 1638, M. Poincy, a Frenchman, attempted to
make a iettlement in Grenada ; but w’as driven off by
the Caribbeans, who reforted to this ifland in greater
numbers than to the neighbouring ones, probably on
account of the game with wffiich it abounded. In 1650,
Monf. Parquet, governor of Martinico, carried over
from that ifland 200 men, furniihed with prefents to
reconcile the favages to them ; but with arms to fub-
due them, in cale they ffiould prove intractable. The
favages are faid to have been frightened into fubmif-
fion by the number of the Frenchmen : but, according
to fome French writers, the chief not only welcomed
the new’-comers j but, in confideration of lome knives,
hatchets, fciffars, and other toys, yielded to Parquet
the fovereignty of the ifland, referving to themfelves
their own habitations. The Abbd Raynal informs us,
that thefe firft French colonifts, imagining they had
purchafed the ifland by thefe trifles, affumed the fove¬
reignty, and foon afted as tyrants. The Caribs, un¬
able to contend with them by force, took their ufual
method of murdering all thofe whom they found in a
defencelefs date. This produced a wTar 5 and the
French fettlers having received a reinforcement of 300
men from Martinico, forced the favages to retire to a
mountain j from v/hence, after exhaufting all their ar¬
rows, they rolled down great logs of wood on their
enemies. Here they were joined by other favages
from the neighbouring iflands, and again attacked the
French, but wrere defeated anew 5 and were at laft dri¬
ven to fuch defperation, that 40 of them, who had efca-
ped from the (laughter, jumped from a precipice into
the fea, where they all periffied, rather than fall into
the hands of their implacable enemies. From thence
the rock wras called le inorne des/auteurs, or “ the hill
of the leapers j” which name it (till retains. The
French then deftroyed the habitations and all the pro-
vifions of the favages} but freffi fupplies of Carib¬
beans arriving, the W'ar was renewed with great vigour,
and great numbers of the French were killed. Upon
this they refolved totally to exterminate the natives :
and having accordingly attacked the favages unawares,
they inhumanly put to death the women and children,
as well as the men •, burning all their boats and ca¬
noes, to cut off all communication between the few
furvivors and the neighbouring iflands. Notwithftand-
ing all thefe barbarous precautions, however, the Ca¬
ribbees proved the irreconcileable enemies of the French j
and their frequent infurredfions at laft obliged Par¬
quet to fell all his property in the ifland to the Count
de Cerillac in 1657. The new proprietor, wffio pur¬
chafed Parquet’s property for 30,000 crowns, fent
thither a perfon of brutal manners to govern the if¬
land. He behaved with fuch infupportable tyranny,
that moft of the colonifts retired to Martinico j and
the few wffio remained condemned him to death af¬
ter a formal trial. In the -whole court of juftice that
tried this mifcreant, there was only one man (called
Slrchange/i) who could write. A farrier was the per¬
fon who impeached : and he, inftead of the fignatures,
fealed with a horfe-ftioe 5 and Archangeli, who per¬
formed
I
G R E [i
Grenada, formed the office of clerk, wrote round it thefe words
——v   in French, “ Mark of M. de la Brie, counfel for the
court.”
It was apprehended that the court of France would
not ratify a fentence palled with fuch unulual formali¬
ties } and therefore moft of the judges of the gover¬
nor’s crimes, and witneffes of his execution, difappear-
ed. Only thofe remained whofe obfcurity fcreened
them from the purfuit of the laws. By an eftimate,
taken in 1700, there were at Grenada no more than
251 white people, 53 free favages or mulattoes, and
525 Haves. The ufeful animals were reduced to 64
horfes and 569 head of horned cattle. The whole cul¬
ture conlifted of three plantations of fugar and 5 2 ^n“
digo,—The ifland had been fold in 1664 to the French
Well India company for 100,000 livres.
This unfavourable Hate of the affairs of Grenada
was changed in 17^4* The change was owing to the
flouriHiing condition of Martinico. I he richell of
the Ihips from that illand were fent to the Spanilh
coafts, and in their way touched at Grenada to take
in refrelhments. The trading privateers, who under¬
took this navigation, taught the people of that ifland
the value of their foil, which only required cultivation.
Some traders furnilhed the inhabitants with Haves and
utenfils to eredl fugar plantations. An open account
was cftabliflied between the two colonies. Grenada
was clearing its debts gradually by its rich produce ;
and the balance was on the point of being clofed,
when the war in 1744 interrupted the communication
between the twm iflands, and at the fame time Hopped
the progrefs of the fugar-plantations. This lofs was
fupplied" by the culture of coffee, which was purfued
during the hoHilities wuth all the activity and eager-
nefs that induflry could infpire.—The peace of 1748
revived all the labours, and opened all the former four-
ces of wealth. In 1753 the population of Grenada
confifled of 1262 white people, 175 free negroes,
and 11,991 flaves. The cattle amounted to 2298
horfes or mules, 2456 head of horned cattle, 3278
ftieep, 902 goats, and 331 hogs. The cultivation
rofe to 83 fugar plantations, 2,725,600 coffee trees,
150,300 cocoa-trees, and 800 cotton plants. The
provifions confifled of 5,740,450 trenches of caffada,
933,596 banana trees, and 143 fquares of potatoes
and yams. The colony made a rapid progrefs, in propor¬
tion to the excellence of its foil •, but in the courfe of the
lafl war but one the ifland wTas taken by the Britifh.
At this time one of the mountains at the fide of
St George’s harbour was flrongly fortified, and might
have made a good defence, but furrendered without
firing a gun 5 and by the treaty concluded in 1763 the
ifland was ceded to Britain. On this ceflion, and the
management of the colony after that event, the abbe
Raynal has the following remarks.—“ This long train
of evils [the ambition and mifmanagement of his coun¬
trymen] has thrown Grenada into the hands of the
Englilh, who are in poffeflion of this conquefl by the
treaty of 1763. But how long’will they keep this
colony? Or. will it never again be reflored to France ?
-—England has not made a fortunate beginniag. In
the firfl enthufiafm railed by an acquifition, of which
the highefi opinion had been previously formed, every
one was eager to purchafe eflates there. They fold
for much more than their real value. This caprice,
>3 ] G R E
by expelling old colonifls who were inured to the cli- | Grenada.
mate, has fent about 1,553,000!. out of the mother-
country. This imprudence has been followed by ano¬
ther. The new proprietors, mifled, no doubt, by na¬
tional pride, have fubflituted new methods to thofe of
their predeceffors. T. hey have attempted to alter the
mode of living among their Haves. 1 he negroes, who
from their very ignorance are more attached to their
cufloms than other men, have revolted. It hath been
found neceflary to fend out troops, and to Hied blood.
The whole colony was filled with fufpicions. 1 he
maflers who had laid themfelves under a neceflity of
ufing violent methods, were afraid of being burnt or
maffacred in their own plantations. The labours have
declined, or been totally interrupted. Tranquillity
has at length been reflored. The number of flaves
has been increafed as far as 40,000, and the produce
has been raifed to the treble of what it was under the
French government. The plantations will Hill be im¬
proved • by the neighbourhood of a dozen of iflands,
called the Grenadines or Grenadilloes, that are depend¬
ent on the colony. They are from three to eight
leagues in circumference. The air is wdiolefome. The
ground, covered only with thin buflres, has not been,
fcreened from the fun. It exhales none of thofe noxious
vapours which are fatal to the hulbandman. Cariacou,
the only one of the Grenadines which the French have
occupied, was at firff frequented by turtle fifhermen 3
who, in the leifure afforded them by fo eafy an occu¬
pation, employed • themfelves in clearing the ground.
In procefs of time, their fmall number was increafed
by the acceflion of fome of the inhabitants of Guada-
loupe 3 who, finding that their plantations were dellroy-
ed by a particular fort of ants, removed to Cariacou.
The ifland flourilhed from the liberty that was enjoyed
there. The inhabitants collected about 1200 Haves, .
by whofe labours they made themfelves a revenue of
near 20,000!. a-year in cotton.—The other Grenadines
do not afford a profpedl of the fame advantages, though
the plantation of fugar is begun there. It has fuc-
ceeded remarkably well at Becouya, the largeff and
mofl fertile of thefe iflands, which is no more than two
leagues diflant from St Vincent.”
In the year 1779 t^e conquefl of this ifland was
accompliihed by D’Eftaign the. French admiral, who
had been prevented from attempting it before by his
enterprife againft St Vincent. Immediately after his
conqueft of St Lucia, however, being reinforced by a
fquadron under M. de la Motte, he fet fail for Grenada
with a fleet of 26 fail of the line and 12 frigates, ha¬
ving on board 10,000 land forces. Here he arrived
on the fecond of July 3 and landed 3000 troops, chiefly
Irifli, being part of the brigade compofed of natives
of Ireland in the fervice of France. Thefe were con¬
duced by Count Dillon, who difpofed them in fuch
a manner as to furround the hill that overlooks and
commands George’s town, together with the fort
and harbour. To oppofe thefe, Lord M‘Cartney, the
governor, had only about 150 regulars, and 300 or
400 armed inhabitants 3 but though all refiftance was
evidently vain, he determined neverthelefs to make an
honourable and gallant defence. The preparations he
made were fuch as induced D’Eftaign himfelfto be pre-
fent at the attack 3 and, even with his vaft fuperiority
of force, the firfl attack on the entrenchments proved
unfuccefsful,
G P. E [ i
^Grenada. ^ un’.uccefsful. The fecond continued two hours ; when
v 'the garriibn were obliged to yield to the immenfe di¬
parity of numbers who aflaulted them, after having
killed or wounded 300 of their antagonifls* Having
thus made themfelves mailers of the intrenchments on
the hill, the French turned the cannon of them to¬
wards the fort which lay under it; on which the go¬
vernor demanded a capitulatiom The terms, however,
were fo extraordinary and unprecedented, that both
the governor and inhabitants agreed in reje&ing them •,
and determined rather to furrender without any con¬
ditions at all than upon thofe which appeared fo ex¬
travagant. On this occafion D’Ellaign is laid to have
behaved in a very haughty and fevere manner •, indul¬
ging his foldiers alfo in the moft unwarrantable liber¬
ties, and in which they would have proceeded much
farther had they not been reftrained by the Irith troops
in the French fervice.
In the mean time Admiral Byron * who had been
convoying the homeward-bound Weft India fleet, ha-
ftened to St Vincent, in hopes of recovering it j but
being informed, by the way, that a defcent had been
made at Grenada, he changed his courfe, hoping that
Lord M‘Cartney wmuld be able to hold out till his ar¬
rival. On the fixth of July he came in light of the
I'rench fleet-, and, without regarding D’Ellaign’s fu-
periority of fix flfips of the line and as many frigates,
determined if poflible to force him to a clofe engage¬
ment. The French commander, however, was not
io confident of his owm prowefs as to run the rilk
of an encounter of this kind 5 and having already at-
chieved his conqueft, had no other view- than to pre-
lerve it. His deligns were facilitated by the good
condition of his fleet; w7hich being more lately come
out of port than that of the Britilh, failed fafter, fo that
he was thus enabled to keep at what diftance he
plealed. The engagement began about eight in the
morning, when Admiral Barrington with his own and
two other Ihips got up to the van of the enemy, which
they attacked wuth the greateft fpirih As the other
fliips of his divifion, however, w-ere not able to get up to
his affiftance, thefe three fhips w7ere neceftarily obliged
to encounter a vaft fuperiority, and of confequence fuf-
fered exceedingly. The battle w7as carried on from be¬
ginning to end in the fame unequal manner } nor were
the Britilh commanders, though they ufed their utmoft
efforts for this purpofe, able to bring the French to a
clofe engagement. Thus Captains Collingwood, Ed¬
wards, and Cornw7allis, flood the fire of the whole
French fleet for fome time. Captain Fanlhaw of the
Monmouth, a 64 gun Ihip, threw- himfelf fingly in the
way of the enemy’s van ; and Admiral Rowley and
Captain Butchart fought at the fame difadvantage : fo
that finding it impoffible to continue the engagement
with any probability of fuccefs, a general ceffation of
firing took place about noon. It recommenced in the
fame manner about two in the afternoon *, and lafted,
with different interruptions, till the evening. During
this aftion fome of the Britilh Ihips had forced their
way into St George’s harbour, not imagining that
the enemy were already in poffeflion of the illand.
They were foon undeceived, however, by perceiving
the French colours flying alhore, and the guns and
batteries firing at them. This difeovery put an end
to the defign which had brought on the engagement j
2
04 ] G R £
and as it was how high time to think of providing for (frenari.t.
the fafety of the Britilh tranfports, which were in dan- ' 7 
ger from the number of the enemy’s frigates, the en¬
gagement was finally difeontinued. " During this aftion
fome of Admiral Byron’s Ihips had fullered extremelv*.
I he Lion of 64 guns, Captain Cornwallis, w7as found
incapable of rejoining the fleet which were plyirnr to
windward ; and was therefore obliged to bear away
alone before the wind. Two other Ihips lay far aftern
in a very diftreffed fituation ; but no attempt was made
to capture them, nor did the French admiral Ihovv the
lealt inclination to renew- the engagement.
Grenada was reftored to Great Britain by the treatv
of peace of 1783 —George’s town, or St George’s, i"s
the refidence of the governor.
When the levelling fpirit of the French revolution
threatened to banilh all rational liberty and fubordina-
tion from the face of the earth, the ill-fated ifland of
Grenada did not efcape the contagion. The Haves in
this ifland were early tindlured with the love and ad¬
miration of thofe principles which fubverted the mo¬
narchy of France. They w7ere of confequence readv
to revolt at the inftigations of republican emiffaries,
wdio in 1795 effeded a landing from the ifland of Gua-
daloupe in conliderable numbers. Yet many of the
Haves hefitated at firft to take an adive part in this un¬
natural rebellion againft the Britilh government 5 but
their perfeverance w7as at length fliaken by the alluring
temptations which were held out to them, of participat¬
ing of the property of their plundered mafters, and the
flattering promifes of total emancipation.
It is aftoniftiing, as it feems repugnant to every feel¬
ing of human nature w7ith which we are acquainted,
that fuch of the flaves, both male and female, as had
experienced the moft humane treatment, and enjoyed
the greateft fliare of their mafters confidence, w7ere the
moft adive and cruel in this horrible infurredion,
1 his feems to be a melancholy proof of an affertion
often made by thofe w7ho are inimical to the abolition
of the flave-trade, that the moft humane and benevolent
treatment can make no impreflion on their native fero¬
city.
As the French troops had been too fuccefsful in
their attack upon Guadaloupe, the difaffeded negroes
in Grenada who fpoke the French language, as %vell
as numbers of white people who w7ere charmed w7ith the
extravagant dodrine of liberty and equality, w7ere en¬
couraged to projed and execute a revolt from the Bri-
tilh government, every ftep of which they marked with
plunder and wdth blood. Having effeded a landing at
Grenville or La Baye, and Charlotte towrn, on different
fides of the ifland, the infurgents, to the number of 1 oo,
furrounded the former place, and about one o’clock in
the morning (March 6. 1795) plundered the dwelling
and ftorehoufes, and dragging the innocent, the aftonifti-
ed inhabitants into the ftreets, fet them up as marks to
be ftiot at. When they fell before the difeharge of
their rnufketry, the inhuman banditti mangled their
bodies with cutlafl'es in the moft fhocking manner. At
this time there were 14 Engliih inhabitants in the
town, only three of whom efcaped the infatiable ven¬
geance of thofe pretended lovers of freedom ! Some
efcaped by fwimming to the veffels which were then
lying in the roads, while others captured by the infur¬
gents, were murdered on their way to the camp of the
rebel
Grenadines
II
Grefham.
G R E t 105 1 , .
rebel chief Fedon, becaufe they could not march fo ftored to him again,
quickly as defired.
The murders committed at this place, and the plun¬
der and devaftation which marked their fteps in other
parts of the illand, are (hocking to humamty > and it is
too notorious that the infurgents were inftigated to the
whole by the rettlefs etniffaries of the French republic.
The infurre&ion was not finally fupprelfed till June
1796. _ ,
GRENADINES, or Grenadillos. See the pre¬
ceding article.—In thefe ifiands, frelh water is found
Only in one place. A fmall fpring has^ been difcovered
in the principal illand Cariacou, by digging j but be¬
ing of great value, it is kept locked by the proprietor.
The capital of that illand is called Hillborough, in
which there is a fmall church. 4
GRENAILLE, a name given by the French wri¬
ters td a preparation of copper, which the ChineCe ufe
as a red colour in fome of their fineft china, particu¬
larly for that colour which is called oil-red or red in
oil. The china-ware coloured with this is very dear.
The manner in which they procure the preparation^ is
thus : they have in China no fuch thing as lilver-coin-
ed money, but they ufe in commerce bars or mafles of
G R E
      Queen Elizabeth conferred the Greftiat*
honour of knighthood upon him, and. made him her Gre];ilIei
agent in foreign parts. It was at this time he thought ■ —j
proper to provide himfelf with a manfion-houfe in the
city, fuitable to his ftation and dignity $ with which
intention he built a large houfe on the weft fide of
Bilhopfgate-ftreet, afterwards known by the name of
Grefham-ctillege. His father had propofed building a
houfe or exchange for the merchants to meet in, in-
ftead of walking in the open ftreet.; but this defign
remained for the fon to accompliih. Sir Thomas
went beyond his father : he offered, if the citizens
would provide a proper piece of ground, to build a
houfe at his own expence *, which, being accepted, he
fulfilled his promife after the plan of the exchange at
Antwerp. When the new edifice was opened, the
queen (Jan. 29. 1570) came and dined with the
founder j and caufed a herald with a trumpet to pro¬
claim it by the name of the Royal Exchange. In pur^
fuance &lfo of a promife to endow a college for the
profeflion of the feven liberal fciences, he made a tefta-
mentary difpofition of his houfe in London for that
purpofe y leaving ond moiety of the royal exchange to
the corporation of London, and the other to the mer-
fdver; thefe they pay and receive in large bargains 5
and among a nation fo full of fraud as the Chinefe,
it is no wonder that thefe are too often adulterated
with too great an alloy of copper. I hey pafs, how¬
ever, in this ftate, in the common payments. . T here
are fome occafions, however, iuch as the paying the
taxes and contributions, on which they muft have their
filver pure and fine*, on this occafion they have recourle
to certain people, whofe foie bufinefs it is to refine the
filver, and feparate it from the copper and the lead it
contains. This they do in furnaces made for the pur-
pofe, and with very convenient veffels. While the
copper is in fufion, they take a fmall bruih, and dip
the end of it into water ; then ftriking the handle of
the bruih, they fprinkle the water by degrees upon the
melted copper j a fort of pellicle forms itfelr by this
means on the furface of the matter, which they take
off while hot with pincers of iron, and immediately
throwing it into a large veffel of cold water, it forms
that red’poivder which is called the grenaille ; they re¬
peat the operation every time they in this manner fe¬
parate the copper j and this furnilhes them with as
much of the grenaille as they have occalion for in their
china works.
GRENOBLE, a large, populous, and ancient town
of France, in the department of Here, with a bilhop’s
fee. It contains a great number of handfome ftruftures,
particularly the churches and convents. The leather
and gloves that are made here are highly efteemed. It
Is feated on the river Here, over which there are two
bridges to pafs into that part called Perriere, a large
ftreet on the other fide of the river. E. Long. 5. 49.
N. Lat. 45. 12.
GRESHAM, Sir Thomas, an opulent merchant
cff London, defcended from an ancient and honourable
family of Norfolk, was born in 1519. He was, as
Lis father had been before him, appointed king’s agent
at Antwerp, for taking up money of the merchants j
and in 1551 he removed to that city with his family.
This employment was fufpended on the accefiion of
Queen Mary : but on proper reprefentations, was rt-
* Vox,, X. Part I,
cers company, for the falaries of feven leflurers 111
divinity, law, phyfic, aftronomy, geometry, mufic, and
rhetoric, at 50I. each per annum. He left feveral
other confiderable benefactions, and died in •1579*
As to the college, it was afterwards pulled down in
confequence of an application to parliament from
the city, and the excife-office erefted in its place.
The letlures are read, or rather hurried through,
in a chamber over the Royal Exchange.— I hofe
who have drawn Sir Thomas’s character ob erve,
that he had the happinefs of a mind every way fuit-
ed to his fortune $ generous and benign j ieady to
perform any good actions, and encourage them in
others. He was a great friend and patron of our ce¬
lebrated martyrologift John Fox. He wras well ac¬
quainted with the ancient and feveral modern lan¬
guages ; he had a very comprehenfive knowdedge of
all affairs relating to commerce, whether foreign or
domeftic 5 and his fuccefs was not lefs, being in his
time efteemed the higheft commoner in England. He
tranfaded Queen Elizabeth’s mercantile affairs fo con-
ftantly, that he was called the royal merchant; and
his houfe was fometimes appointed for the reception
of foreign princes upon their firft arrival at London.
GREUSSEN, a town of Upper Saxony, in the
county of Schwaitzburg, 16 miles north of Erfurt, and
18 eaft of Mulhaufen. Long. io° 45' eaft, Lat. 51°
6' north.
GREVILLE, Fulke, Lord Brook, of Beauchamp’s
Court in Warwickfhire, a poet and mifcellaneous wri¬
ter, was born in the year 1554, and defcended from
the noble families of Beauchamps of Powick and Wil¬
loughby de Brook. In company with his coufin Sir
Philip Sidney, he began his education at a fchool in
Shrewfbury ; thence he went to Oxford, where he
remained for fome time a gentleman commoner, and
then removed to Trinity-College in Cambridge. Ha¬
ving left the univerfity, he vifited foreign courts, and
thus added to his knowledge of the ancient languages
a perfeift knowledge of the modern. On his return
to England he was introduced to Queen Elizabeth by
O his
G K E [ i
Ills untie Robert Greville, at tliat time in her ma-
jefty’s lei vice j and by means of Sir Henry Sidney,
lord prefident of Wales, was nominated to fome lucra¬
tive employments in that principality.
In the year 1581, when the French commiflioners
'' ao. came to treat about the queen’s marriage with
the duke of Anjou were fumptuoufly entertained with
tdts and tournaments, Mr Greville, who was one of
the challengers, fo fignalized himfelf, as to “ win the
reputation of a moft valiant knight.” He continued
a conftant attendant at court, and a favourite with the
queen to the end of her reign ; during which he ob¬
tained the office of treafurer of marine caufes, alfo a
grant of the manor of Wedgnock, and likevvife the
honour of knighthood. In this reign he was feveral
times eledled member for the county of Warwick •
and from the journals of the houfe feems to have been
a man of bufinefs, as his name frequently appears in
committees.
On the acceffion of King James I. he was inftalled
knight ot the Bath j and foon after obtained a grant
of the ruinous cattles of Warwick, which he repaired
at a confiderable expence, and where he probably re-
iided during the former part of this reign : but in the
year 1614, the twelfth of James I. he ■was made un-
der-treafurer, and chancellor of the exchequer, one of
the privy council, and gentleman- of the bed-cham¬
ber j and in. 1620, was railed to the dignity of a
baion by the title of Lord Brook, of Beauchamp’s Court.
He was alfo privy-counfellor to King Charles I. in
the beginning of whofe reign he founded a hiftory-
lefture in Cambridge.
Having thus attained the age of 74, through a life-
of continued profperity, univerfally admired as a gentle¬
man and a fcholar, he fell by the hand of an affaffin,
one of his own domeftics, who immediately 1131)1^
himfelf with the fame weapon with which he had mur¬
dered his mailer. This fellow’s name was Haywood ;
and the caufe is faid to have been a levere reprimand
for his prefumption in upbraiding his mailer for not
providing for him after his death. It feems he had
been wdtnefs to Lord Brook’s will, and knew the con¬
tents. Some fay he llabbed him with a knife in the
back, others with a fword. This affair happened at
Brook-houfe in Holborne.— Lord Brook wras buried
with great pomp in St Mary’s church at Warwick,
in his own vault, over which he had ereded a monu¬
ment of black and w-hite marble, ordering at his death
tlie following infcripticn to be engraved upon the
tomb : “ Fulke Greville, fervant to Queen Elizabeth,
counfellor to King James, and friend to Sir Philip Sid-
11 e7- Trophceum Peccati?"1 He wrote feveral w-orks
both in verfe and profe ; among which are, 1. Two
tiagedies, Alaham and Muftapha. 2. A Treatife of
J-iuman Learning, &c. in verfe, folio. 3. The Life
©f Sir Philip Sidney. 4. An inquifition upon Fame
and Honour, in 86 ftanzas. 6. Ccecilia, a colleftion of
109 fcngs. 7. His Remains, confifting. of political
and philofophical poems.
GREVIUS. See Gr^vius.
GREW, Nehemiah, a learned Englilh wuiter, in
the 17th century, had a conliderable praflice as a phy-
lician in London, and fucceeded Mr Oldenburg in
the office of fecretary to the royal fociety. In this
capacity, purfuant tp an order of council, he drew up
°6 ] G R E
a catalogue of the natural and artificial rarities be¬
longing to the fociety, under the title of Mufctum Re-
galis Soaetatis, &c. 1681. He alfo wrote, befides le-'
veral pieces in the Philofophical Tranfaftions, 1. The
Comparative Anatomy of the Stomach and Guts, fo¬
lio. 2. The Anatomy of Plants, folio. 3. Traaatus
de fahs Cat hart id natura .etufu. 3. Cbfmo/ogia Sacra,
or a Difcourfe of the Univerfe as it is the Creature
and Kingdom of God, folio. He died fuddenly in
1721. J
GREWIA, a genus of plants belonging to the gy-
nandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking under
the 37th order, Columniferce. See Botany Index.
GREY, or Gray colour. See Gray.
Grey, Lady Jane, a moft illuftrious and unfor¬
tunate lady, defcended of the blood-royal of England
by both parents, was the eldeft daughter of Henry
Grey marquis of Dorfet, and Frances the daughter of
Charles Brandon Lord Suffolk, by Mary the dowager
of Louis XII. king of France, who wras the voungeft
daughter of Henry VII. king of England. She was
born m the year 1537, at Broadgate, her father’s feat
in Leicefierfhire. She difcovered an early propenfitv
to all kinds of good literature ; and having a fine
genius, improved under the tuition of Mr Elmer, ffie
made a moft furprifing progrefs in the languages, arts,
and fciences. She underftood perfedtly both kinds of
philofophy, and could exprefs herfelf very properly at
leaft in the Latin and Greek tongues j and we are in¬
formed by Sir Thomas Chaloner (in Strype’s Memo¬
rials, vol. iii. p. 93.), that flie was well verfed in
Hebrew, Chaldee, Arabic, French, and Italian ; “ and
(he adds) flie played well on inftrumental mufic,
writ a curious hand, and was excellent at the needle.”
Chaloner alfo tells us, that (he accompanied her mu-
fical inftrument with a voice exquifitely fweet in itfelf,
affifted by all the graces that art could beftow.
In the year 1553, the dukes of Suffolk and Nor¬
thumberland, who were now, after the fall of Somer-
fet, arrived at the height of power, began, on the
decline of the king’s health, to think how to prevent
that reverfe of fortune which, as things then flood,
they forefaw muft happen upon Edward’s death. To
obtain this end, no other remedy was judged fufficient
but a change in the fucceffion of the crown, and
transferring it into their own families, by rendering
Lady Jane queen. Thofe moft excellent and amiable
qualities which had rendered her dear to all who had
the happinefs to know her, joined to her near affinity
to the king, fubje£led her to become the chief tool of
an ambition fo notorioufly not her own. Upon this
very account (he was married to Lord Guilford Dud-
ley, fourth fon of the duke of Northumberland, with¬
out difcovering to her the real defign of the match ;
which was celebrated with great pomp in the latter
end of May, fo much to the king’s fatisfa&ion, that
he contributed bounteoully to the expence of it from
the royal wardrobe. The young king Edward VI.
died in July following; and our fair fcholar, with in-,
finite reluftance, overpowered by the folicitations of
her ambitious friends, allowed herfelf to be proclaim¬
ed queen of England, on the flrength of a deed of
fettlement extorted from that prince by her father-in-
law the duke of Northumberland, which fet afide the
fucceffion of Queen Mary, Queen Elizabeth, and Mary:
queen
Grewia,
Grey.
G R I [ 107 ] G R I
ferey queen of Scots. Her regal pageantry continued but
11 a few days. Queen Mary’s undoubted right prevail-
Griet~* ed j and the unfortunate Lady Jane Grey and her
v hufband were committed to the Tower, and on the
l»3th of November arraigned and found guilty of high
treafon. On the 12th of February following they
were both beheaded on Tower-hill. Her magnanimi¬
ty in this dreadful cataftrophe was allonilhing. Im¬
mediately before her execution, Ihe addreffed herfelf
to the weeping multitude with amazing compofure
and coherency : Ihe acknowledged the juftice of the
law, and died in charity -with that wretched wTorld
which {he had fo much reafon to execrate. Thus
did the pious Mary begin her reign with the murder
of an innocent young creature of 18$ who for fim-
plicity of manners, purity of heart, and extenfive
learning, wras hardly ever equalled in any ape or coun¬
try. But, alas ! Jane was an obftinate heretic.—A few
days before her execution, Fleckenham, the queen’s
chaplain, with a pious intention to refcue her poor
foul from eternal mifery, paid her frequent vifits in
the Towrer, and ufed every argument in his power to
Convert her to the Popiih religion } but he found her
fo much his fuperior in argument, that he gave up
the contefl: refigning her body to the block, and her
foul to the devil.
Her writings are, 1. Four Latin Epiilles; three to
Bullenger, and one to her lifter Lady Catherine. The
laft was written the night before her execution, in a
blank leaf of a Greek Teftament. Printed in a book
. entitled Kpifio/a’ Helvetica Reformatoribus, vcl ad eos
fcripta, &c. Tiguri, 1742, 8vo. 2. Her Conference
with Fleckenham. (Ballard). 4. A letter to Dr
Harding, her father’s chaplain. Printed in the Phoe¬
nix, vol. ii. p. 28. 4. A prayer for her own ufe du¬
ring her confinement. In Fox’s acls and monuments.
5. Four Latin verfes ; written in prifon with a pin.
They are as follows :
Non aliena putes, homini quae obtingere poffunt:
Sors hodierna mihi, tunc erit ilia tibi.
^ane Dudley.
Deo juvante, nil nocet livor malus :
Et non juvante, nil juvat labor gravis.
Poll tenebras fpero lucem.
6. Her Speech on the Scaffold. (Ballard). It began
thus : “ My Lords, and you good Chriftian people
who come to fee me die ; I am under a law, and by that
law, as a never-erring judge, I am condemned to die :
not for any thing l have offended the queen’s majefty 5
for I will wafli my hands guiltlefs thereof, and deliver
to my God a foul as pure from fuch trefpafs as inno¬
cence from injuftice ; but only for that I confented to
the thing I was enforced unto, conftraint making the
law believe I did that which I never underftood,” &c.
■—Hollinihed, Sir Richard Baker, Bale, and Fox, tell
us that (he wrote feveral other things, but do not men¬
tion where they are to be found.
Grey-Hound. See GRF.-Hound.
.GRIAS, a genus of plants belonging to the polyan-
dria clafs, and in the natural method ranking with
thofe of which the order is doubtful. See Botany
Index.
GRIEF, or Sorrow. The influence of this paf-
fion on the body is very great. Its effe&s referable in Grieffen
feveral inftances thofe of fear, with, however, fome va- ha ken
nations, owing perhaps to its being in general of f JJ ^
longer duration. Grief diminiflres the bodily ftrength , 7r‘^ ;rij
in general, and particularly the force of the heart and
circulation 5 as appears by the frequent lighs and deep
refpirations which attend it, which feem to be necef-
fary exertions, in order to promote the paffage of the
blood through the lungs. It diminilhes perfpiration,
obftrufts the menftrual difcharge, produces palenefs of
the {kin, and oedematous complaints, and fchirrus of
the glandular parts. It aggravates the fcurvy, and the
malignity of putrid and contagious diftempers, and ren¬
ders people more apt to receive the infe&ion of them.
When it comes on fuddenly, and in a great degree, it
caufes a palpitation of the heart, and renders the pulfe
irregular. Blindnefs, gangrene, and fudden death,
have follow-ed the excefs of this fenfation. Its effefts
of changing the colour of the hair are well known.
Opiates, if not given in large dofes, are good cordials
in this cafe.
GRIEFFENHAKEN, a town of Pruflian Pomera¬
nia, in the duchy of Stetin, feated on the Oder, oppo-
fite to Gartz. E. Long. 14. 42. N. Lat. 53. >25.
GRIELUM, a genus of plants belonging to the de-
candria clafs. See Botany Index.
GRIERSON, Constantia, born of poor parents in
the county of Kilkenny in Ireland, was one of the moft
learned women on record, though Are died at the age of
27, in 1733. She was an excellent Greek and Latin
fcholar 5 and underftood hiftory, divinity, philofophy,
and mathematics. She proved her {kill in Latin by
her dedication of the Dublin edition of Tacitus to Lord
Carteret, and by that of Terence to his fon ; to whom
{he alfo addreffed a Greek epigram. She wrote many
elegant Englifti poems, feveral of which were inlerted
by Mrs Barber among her own. When Lord Carteret
was lord lieutenant of Ireland, he obtained a patent for
Mr Grierfon to be the king’s printer ; and to reward
the uncommon merit of his wife, caufed her life to be
included in it.
GRIESSEWALDE, a town of Upper Saxony,
24 miles fouth fouth-eaft of Stralfund. E. Long. 11. 1 s!
N. Lat. 34. 4.
GRIFFON (Gryphus, y€t4), in the natural hi-
ftory ot the ancients, the name of an imaginary bird of
prey, of the eagle kind. They reprefented it . with
four legs, wings, and a beak j the upper part repre-
fenting an eagle, and the lower a lion : they fuppofed
it to wratch over gold mines, hidden treafures, &c.
The animal was confecrated to the fun 5 and the an¬
cient painters reprefented the chariot of the fun as
drawn by griffons. M. Spanheim obferves the fame of
thofe of Jupiter and Nemefis.
The griffon in Scripture is that fpecies of the eagle
called in Latin oflifraga, the “ ofprey and nns of
the verb ms, paras, “ to break.”
The griffon is frequently feen on ancient medals •
and is ftill borne in coat-armour. Guillim blazons it
rampant j alleging, that any very fierce animal may
be fo blazoned as w-ell as the lion. Sylvefter, Mor¬
gan, and others, ufe the term fegreiant inllead of ram¬
pant.
This is alfo an ornament of architeaure in conftant
2 O ufe
GUI [ 108 ] G R I
Crifles, ufe among flie Greeks, and was copied from them, with
Grimaldi. t]le other elegancies of architectural enrichments, by the
^ Romans. See Sphynx.
GRIFLEA, a genus of plants belonging to the
oCtandria clafs; and in the natural method ranking
under the 17th order, Cahjeanthemce. See B OX AX Y
Index.
GRIMALDI, Francisco, an eminent painter, ge¬
nerally known by the appellation of Bolognefe, was born
at Bologna in 1606, where he became a difciple of
Annibal Caracci, and proved an honour to that illuf-
trious mailer. From the fchool of Annibal he went
to complete his ftudies at Rome, and improved himfelf
daily, by copying the works of thofe artills in which he
obferved the greateft excellence, until his fuperior ta¬
lents recommended him to the favour of Innocent X.
who afforded him Immediate opportunities of exerting
his genius in the gallery of his palace at Monte Ca-
vallo, and alfo in the Vatican. The merit of his per¬
formances very foon engaged the attention and applaufe
of the public, and increafed the number of his ad¬
mirers and friends j among whom were the prince
Pamphilio, and many of the principal nobility of Rome.
His reputation reached Cardinal Mazarine at Paris, who
fent for him, fettled a large peniion on him, and em¬
ployed him for three years in embellilhing his palace
and the Louvre, by the order of Louis XIII. The
troubles of the Hate, and the clamours railed againft
the cardinal, whole party he warmly efpoufed, put him
L much in danger, that his friends advifed him to re¬
tire among the Jefuits. He did fo, and was of ufe to
them ; for he painted diem a decoration for the expo-
fition of the facrament during the holy days, according
to the cuftom of Rome. This piece was mightily relilh-
ed at Paris : the king honoured it with two vifits, and
commanded him to paint fuch another for his chapel
at the Louvre. Grimaldi after that returned to Italy 5
and at his arrival at Rome found his great patron
Innocent X. dead: but his two fucceffors Alexan¬
der VII. and Clement IX. honouredrhim equally with
their friendlhip, and found him variety of employment.
Grimaldi was amiable in his manners, as well as fkilful
in his profefiion : he was generous without profufion,
refpedlful to the great without meannefs, and chari¬
table to the poor. The following inftance of his bene¬
volence may ferve to charaftfcrife the man. A Sicilian
gentleman, who had retired from Meffina with his
daughter during the troubles of that country, was re¬
duced to the mifery of wanting bread. As he lived
over-againft him, Grimaldi was foon informed Ox it j
and in the dulk of the evening, knocking at the Sici¬
lian’s door, without making himfelf known, toffed in
money and retired. The thing happening more than
once, railed the Sicilian’s curiofity to know his bene-
faftor y who finding him out, by hiding himfelf behind
the doer, fdll down on his knees to thank the hand
that had relieved him. Grimaldi remained confufed, of¬
fered him his houfe, and continued his friend till his
death. He died of a dropfy at Rome in 1680, and left
a confiderable fortune among fix children. The genius
of Grimaldi diredled him chiefly to lapdfeape, which
he executed moll happily. His colouring is ftrong j
his touch light and delicate j his fituations are uncom¬
monly pleafing 5 and the leafing of his trees is admi¬
rable. Sometimes, indeed, his colouring appears ra¬
ther too green : but thofe landfcapes, which he paint- Crimber-
ed in the manner of Caracci, may ferve as models S6*1
for all thofe who admire the ftyle of that fchool j and Grintjino-.
he defigned his figures in an elegant tafte. The pic-
tures of this mailer are very rare, efpecially thofe
of his bell time ; and whenever they are to be purchafed,
they afford large prices. Of his children above-mention¬
ed, the youngell, named Alexander, proved a good
painter, in the fame ftyle and talle with his father,
though very far inferior to him : fome of the pictures
of Alexander, however, are either artfully, or injudici-
oully, aferibed to Francifco.
GRIMBERGEN, a town of Aultrian Brabant, with
an abbey and a caftle, fix miles north of Bruffels.
E. Long. 4. 27. N. Lat. 50. 57.
GRIMM, a town in the electorate of Saxony, with
a citadel, feated on the Muldawq 1 o miles fouth-eaft of
Leipfic. E. Long. 12. 35. N. Lat. 51. 15.
GRIMMEN, a town of Swedilh Pomerania, five
miles fouth of Stralfund. E. Long. 13. 29. N. Lat.
54* I2<
GRIMSBY, a large fea-port town of Lincolnlhire'
in England, 169 miles from London j and faid to be
the fecond, if not the firlt, corporation in England. It
had anciently three convents and a caltle. Here are
feveral llreets of good houfes, and a church that looks
like a cathedral. It was a place of great trade before
its harbour was choaked up j yet the road before it is a
good llation for Ihips that wait for a wind to get out to
fea. Its chief trade is in coals and fait brought by the
Humber.
GRINDELWALD, a towm of Switzerland, in the
canton of Bern, feated among mountains, at the foot
of a celebrated glacier, 25 miles fouth-eaff of Thun,
E. Long. 7. 43. N. Lat. 46. 27.
GRINDING, or Trituration, the aCl of break*
ing or comminuting a folid body, and reducing it into
powder. See Pulverisation and Levigation.
The painters colours are grinded on a marble or
porphyry, either with oil or gum-water.
Grinding is alfo ufed for rubbing or wearing off
the irregular parts of the furface of a body, and reducing
it to the deftined figure, whether that be flat, concave,
or the like.
The grinding and polifhing of glafs is a confider¬
able art; for which fee GiAss-Grinding. For the
grinding of optical glaffes, fee Optics, the Mechanical
Part.
Grinding, in cutlery, is an operation univerfally
underftood, by which edge-tools are fharpened. Ac¬
cording to the ufual praflice, this operation is attended
with confiderable inconveniency, occafioned by the ex¬
trication of heat from fridlion. The fteel very foon be¬
comes ignited when the friction is performed on a dry
ftone j and even when immerfed in water, the opera¬
tion muff be flow, to prevent the water_ from being
thrown off by the centrifugal force *, and if the water
is poured on the {tone from above by means of a cock,
the quantity will be too fmall to preferve a fufficiently
low temperature. But let the quantity of water be ever
fo great, if the inflrument to be fharpened has not its
point or edge fo held as to meet the ftream, it will al-
moft: inevitably be made fofter.
To remedy thefe defedls in the common mode of
grinding, Mr Nicholfon made an experiment with a
grind flone
G 11 I
Grinding, grindllone from Newcaftle of a fine gut
Grinfted. diameter, with a block of mahogany to be employed
^^ 1 with emery on the face of it. The grindftone and block
were fixed on an axis, to be applied occafionally .between
the centres of a ftrong lathe. Both were cylindrical,
and of the fame diameter •, the wood was grooved in op-
pofite directions, in which th« emery might be lodged.
The face of the Hone was left fmooth, with a trough
under it to hold the water. The cylinder of wood was
faced with emery and oil, and the ftone was ufed with
water. A file was the inftrument ground, and it was
propofed to efface all the teeth. I he mechanifm of the
lathe produced the rotation, by which the grinding ap¬
paratus made five revolutions in a fecond. The opera¬
tion of the flone was flow, and the workman foon found
inconvenience from the water in the trough being foon
exhaufted j but the emery cylinder cut rather falter.
The friftion operated by quick changes on the whole
furface of the file, yet it foon became too hot to be held
conveniently by the uncovered hand j and even when
it was held with a cloth, fuch was the rapid increafe of
heat as to decompofe the oil, which emitted an empy-
reumatic odour. When the ftone became dry, the file
was tried on the face of it, which foon became blue,
and then nearly red-hot. After this both cylinders
were covered with tallow, and emery \vas fprinkled up¬
on the wooden cylinder, when the fame inftrument was
held to the ftone in rapid motion. I he friCtion at firft
was fcarcely apparent, but the preflure of the tool foon
fufed the tallow, and the ftone cut very faft. Wlren
the tool after fome time began to be a little heated, it
was removed to a new zone of the cylinder, by which
means the temperature was diminifhed. Similar effe£ts
accompanied the ufe of the wooden cylinder.
WTen oil was ufed upon the cylinder of wood, the
heat occafioned by the friftion raifed the temperature
of the inftrument and of the oil in a ftate of fluidity ;
but when tallow inftead of oil was employed, molt of
the heat was ufed in fufing that fubftance. Ihe in-
creafed capacity of the melted talloxv abforbed this heat,
which became latent, and did not raife the temperature :
and when the tallow already melted began to grow hot,
as well as the tool, the employing another zone of con-
fiflent tallow reduced the temperature.
This difcovery may yet be of confiderable impor¬
tance, for which we are indebted to the ingenuity of
the learned editor of the Journal which bears his name,
a performance which is much efteemed upon the conti¬
nent as well as at home, by every man of literature and
fcience.
GRINSTED, East and West j two towns near
Salifbury in Wiltfhire.
Grinsted, Eaft, a town 29 miles from London,
feated on a hi 11$ near the borders of Surry, near Afh-
down forell. It has a handfome church, which was re¬
built after being burnt down 1683. On November
12. 1785, the beautiful towTer having lately fallen to
decay, fell down, and part lighting on the church very
confiderably damaged it. An hofpital in the reign of
King James I. for 3 1 poor people of this town, xvas
built and endowed with 330I. a-year. It is a bo¬
rough by prefcription, governed by a bailiff and his
brethren ; has fent burgefies to parliament ever fince
the firfl: of Edward II. who are elecled by about 35
burgage-holders j had a charter for a monthly market
[ 109 ] GUI
10 inches in from Henry VII. and is generally the place, for the
aflizes. The returning officer here is the bailiff, who
is chofen by a jury of burgage-holders. Its market is on
Thurfday 5 and its fairs, which are well frequented, are
July 13 and December 11 j which laft is a great one
for Welfh runts, that are bought up here by the
Kentifh and Suffex farmers, and for fat hogs and other
cattle.
Grinsted, We/f, in Suffex, a. town above 10 miles
to the fouth-weft of Eaft-Grinfted.
GRIPES, in Medicine, a fort of cholic or painful
diforder of the low'er belly, occ£fioned by irritating mat¬
ters, or by wind pent up in the inteflines. See Medi¬
cine Index. /
GRIPSWALD, a flrong and confiderable town of
Pomerania in Germany; formerly imperial, but now
fubjeft to the Swedes, with a good harbour and uni-
verfity. E. Long. 13. 53. N. Lat. 54. 12.
GRISGRIS, a fuperflition greatly in vogue among
the negroes in the interior parts of Africa. The grif- -
gris, according to Le Maire, are certain Arabic cba-
ra&ers mixed with magical figures drawn by the ma-
rabuts or priefls upon paper. Labat affirms, tfiat they
are nothing elfe than fcraps of the Koran in Ara¬
bic ", but this is denied by Barbot, wdio brought over
one of tbefe grifgris to Europe, and fhowed it to a
number of perlons deeply fkilled in oriental learning.
None of thefe could find the leafl trace of any charac -
ter they underflood. Yet, after all, , this might be
owing to the badnefs of the hand-writing j and the
words are probably of the Mandingo language, though
the characters are an attempt to imitate the Arabic.
The pooreft negro never goes to war without bis gnf-
gris, as a charm againft wmunds ", and if it proves in¬
effectual, the prieft transfers the blame on the immo¬
rality of his conduct. Thefe priefts invent grifgris a-
gainft all kinds of dangers, and in favour of all defires
and appetites j by virtue of which the poffeffors may
obtain or avoid whatever they like or diflike. I hey
defend them from ftorms, enemies, difeafes, pains, and
misfortunes $ and preferve health, long life, wealth,
honour, and merit, according to the marabuts. No
clergy in the w7orld are more honoured and revered by
the people than tbefe impoftors are by the negroes 5
nor are any people in the world more unpoverifhed by
their priefts than thefe negraes are, a grifgris being
Griafled
II
Grifons.
frequently fold at three flaves and four or five oxen.
The grifgris intended for the head is made in tfie
form of a crofs, reaching from the forehead to the
neck behind, and from ear to ear •, nor are the arms
and (boulders neglefted. Sometimes they are plant¬
ed in their bonnets in the form of horns j at other
times, they are made like ferpents, lizards, or fome
other animals, cut out of a kind of pafteboard, &r.
There are not wanting Europeans, and otherwile in¬
telligent feamen and merchants, who are in fome degree
infeded with this weaknefs of the country, and believe
that the netjro forcerers have an acffual communication
with the devil, and that they are filled witn the ma¬
lignant influence of that evil fpirit, when they fee
them diflort their features and mufcles, make horrid
grimaces, and at laft imitate all the appearance of epi¬
leptics.
GRISONS, a people fituated among the Alps, and
allies of the Swifs. Their country is bounded on the
" north
Grifons.
G R I t !
^ north by the counties of Surgans and Bludenz, the
canton of Gians, and the principality of Lichtenllein :
on the foutli by the canton’s Italian bailiwics, the
county oi Chavenne, and the Valteline j on the eaft
by tne territories of Venice and Milan; and on the
^ rr • .°^ Italian bailiwics, and the canton
y, r n" 13 divided into three leagues, viz. the
h ripn or gray league, the league of the houfe of God
and that of tne ten jurifdiBions ; which unite and form
one vepuohc. The two fir it lie towards the fouth, and
the third towards the north. The length of the whole
is above 70 miles, and the breadth about 60. The inha¬
bitants are faid to have had the name of Grifons from
tne gray coats they wore in former times. This coun-
trv, lying among the Alps, is very mountainous ; but
ae mountains yield good pafture for cattle, Iheep, and
goats, with fome rye and barley : in the valleys there
is plenty of grain, pulfe, fruits, and wine. This coun¬
try alfo abounds with hogs and wild-fowl; but there is
a fcarcity of fifli and fait, and their horfes are moftly
pure lafed of foreigners. The principal rivers are the
Xhme, the Inn and the Adda. Here are alfo feveral
Jakes, molt of which lie on the tops of the hills. The
language of the Grifons is either a corrupt Italian or
the German. Each of the leagues is fubdivided into
ieveral leffer communities, which are fo many demo¬
cracies ; every male above 16 having a fhare in the £0-
vernnjent of the community, and a vote in the eledion
of magnates. Deputies from the feveral communi¬
ties conftitute the general diet of the Grifon leagues
w nc 11 meets annually, and alternately at the capital of
each league ; but they can conclude nothing without
the confent of their conllituents. This country was
anciently a part of Rhetia. After the extinction of
the Roman empire in the weft, it was fome time fub-
t0 dukeS’ °r tbofe of Swabia- Then the
nil)op of Coire and other petty princes, dependent on
the emperors of Germany, became mafters of great
part of it : at laft, by the extin&ion of fome, pur-
chafe, voluntary grants, and force, it got rid of all its
lords, and .ere&ed itfelf into three diftincl republics,
each of which, as we obferved already, is fubdivided
into a certain number of communities, which are a Tort
of republics, exercifing every branch of fovereignty,
except that of making peace or war, fending embaffies,
concluding alliances, and enafting laws relating to the
whole country, which belong to the provincial diets of
the feveral leagues. The communities may be compa¬
red to the cities of Holland, and the diets of the feve¬
ral leagues to the provincial ftates. The particular diets
are compofed of a deputy from each community; and
both m them and the communities every thing is deter¬
mined by a majority of votes. In the communities,
every male above 16 has a vote. Befides the annual
provincial diets for choofmg the chiefs and other offi¬
cers, and deliberating on the affairs of the refpeaive
leagues, there are general diets for what concerns all
the three leagues or whole body. In both thefe the
reme-entatives can do nothing of themfelves, but are
tied down to tta infliudions of their principals.
There is a general feal for all the three leagues ; and
cacu particular league has a feparate feal. Befides the
ftated times of meeting, extraordinary diets are fome-
times fummoned, when either the domeftic affairs of
the iiate or any foreign minifter require it. In the ge-
3
^ ] G R I
neral dmts, the Grey League has 28 votes ; that of
he Houfe of God, 23 ; and that of the Ten Jurifdic- k
tions, 15. Thefe leagues, at different times, have en¬
tered into clofe alliances with the neighbouring can¬
tons and their affocates. The bailiwics belonging iu
common to the three leagues are thofe of the Valte-
hne,. Chievane, Bormio,. Meyenfeld, Mahans, and
Jennins ; the officers of which are nominated fucceffive-
Jy by the ieveral communities every two years The
yearly revenues arifing to the Grifons from their baili-
wics is faid to amount to about 13,500 fiorins. The
public revenues altogether are but fmall, though there
are many private perfons in the country that are rich.
However in cafe of any extraordinary emergency
they tax themfelves in proportion to the neceffity°of the’
iervice and the people’s abilities. They have no re¬
gular troops, but a well-difciplined militia ; and unon
occafion,.it is faid, can bring a body of 30,000 fight¬
ing men into the field : but their chief fecurity arifes
from the narrow paffes and high mountains by which
they are furrounded.
, O/*116 jurisprudence, religion, &c. of the Grifons,
the following account is given by Mr Coxe in his tra¬
vels in Switzerland. Throughout the three leagues the
Roman law prevails, modified by the municipal cuftoms.'
I he courts of juftice in each community are compofed
of the chief magiftrate, who prefides, and a certain
number of jurymen, chofen by the people : tJiey have
no regular falaries,. but receive for their attendance, a
iinall fum, arifing in fome communities from the ex-
pences of the procefs, which are defrayed by the crimi¬
nals ; in others from a ffiare of the fines. They enjoy
the power of pardoning or diminilhing the penalty, and
of receiving a ccmpofition in money. This mode of
proceeding fuppofes what is as abfurd in theory as it is
contrary to experience, that judges will incline to mer¬
cy when it is their intereft to convicl ; or will impar-
tiahy infficl punifhment, even when injurious to their
own private advantage.—The prifoners are examined in
private ; frequently tortured for the purpofe of forcing
confeffion, when the judges either divide the fines, or
remit the puniffiment for a compofition. In fome di-
ftrias a criminal trial is a kind of feftival to the
judges, for wffiom a good repaft is provided at the ex¬
pence of the prifoner if convi&ed ; and thus the fol¬
lowing allufion, in Garth’s Difpenfary, applied with
more wit than truth to our courts of juftice, is literally
fulfilled :— J
‘ And wretches hang, that jurymen may dinef
Capital punifhments, however, are extremely rare * a
circumftance arifing not from a want of feverity in the
penal ftatutes, or from a propenfity to merev in the
judges : but becaufe the latter draw more advantages
from fining than executing an offender. In a word
to ule the expreffion of Burnet, which is as true at
prefent as it was in his time, “ Many crimes go un~
puniffied, if the perfons who commit them have either
great credit or much money.” It is remarkable, that
torture is more frequently applied, and for fmaller de¬
linquencies, in thefe independent republics, than in the
fubjetf provinces. The inffi&ion of it depends entirely
upon the arbitrary will of the judges; a majority of
whom may order it for an offence which is not capi¬
tal, nor even punilhable by corporal penalties. Thus
it
Grifons.
GUI [ j
Grifons* it is not uncommon, in thofe communities where fines
 ate divided among the judges, to torture women of
loofe conduct, for the ptirpofe of compelling them to
confefs with whom they have been connedfed ; for as
fuch offences are punifhable by fines, the more perfons
are convifted, the larger {hare of money is diltributed
among the judges for the trouble of their attendance.
.Even in the diflridls where the fines are paid to the
community, torture is often no lefs wantonly inflidled,
becaufe when the prifoner is not found guilty, the
expences of the procefs fall upon the public, and the
judges receive little emolument. Even in the civil
courts moft caufes are decided by bribing the judges ;
and appeals in thofe communities, wherein they are
admitted, fcarcely ferve any other end than to enlarge
the fphere of corruption. Coire and a few other
places are excepted from this general refledtion.
the religion of the Grifons is divided into catholic
and reformed. The dodlrines of the reformation were
firft preached about the year 1524, and received at
Flaefch, a fmall village in the Ten Jurifdiftions upon
the confines of Sargans ; from thence they were ex¬
tended to Mayenfeld and Malantz, and foon after¬
wards through the whole valley of Pretigau. The new
opinions fpread with fuch celerity, that before the end
ot the 16th century they were embraced by the whole
league of the ten jurifdidtions (excepting part of the
community of Alvenewr), the greatell part of the Houfe
of God, and a few communities in the Grey League.
1 he difference of religion nearly excited a civil war
between the twm fedfs, as well at the firft introduftion
of the Reformation as at the beginning of the troubles
in the Valteline. In the latter inflance, the two parties
rofe in arms 5 but the Catholics being overpowered by
the Protefiants, matters were amicably adjufted. Since
that period all religious concerns have been regulated
■with perfedf cordiality. According to the general
confent of the three leagues, each community being
abfolute within its little territory,- has the power of
appointing its own particular worfhip, and the inhabi¬
tants are free to follow7 either the Catholic or Reformed
perfuafion. In the adminillration of civil affairs reli¬
gion has no interference : the deputies of the general
diet may be members of either communion, as chofen
by the communities which they reprefent. By this mo¬
derate and toierating principle, all religious diffenfions
have been fuppreffed as much as poffible 5 and the moft
perfedt amity fubfifts between the two feds.
In fpiritual concerns, the Catholics for the moft part
are under the jurifdiaion of the bifhop of Coire. For
tne affairs of the Reformed churches, each league is di¬
vided into a certain number of diftri&s, the minifters
whereof affemble twice every year: thefe affemblies
are called colloquia. Each colloquium has its prefident,
and each league a Tuperintendant called a dean. The
upreme authority in fpiritual concerns is vefted in the
\nod, which is compofed of the three deans, and the
cieigy of each league j the fynod affembles every year
alternately in each of the three leagues. Candidates
lor holy orders are examined before the fynod. The
necedary qualifications for admiflion into the church
ought to be the knowledge of Hebrew, Greek, and
Latin ; but tins rule is not- ftri<ftly adhered to : many
eing ordained without the leaft acquaintance with ei¬
ther o. thofe languages. Formerly Latin was folely
i ] G R O
ufed, as well in the debates of the fynod as for the
purpofe of examining the candidates; but at prefent
that tongue grows more and more into difufe, and
German is employed in its ftead.
The number of reformed parifhes in the whole three
leagues amounts to 135, in the following proportion :
—In the Grey League 46, in that of God’s Houfe
53, and in the League of Ten Jurifditftions 36. The mi¬
nifters of thefe churches enjoy but very fmall falaries.
The richeft benefices do not perhaps yield more thitn
20I. or at moft 25k per annum, and the pooreft
fometimes fcarcely 61. This fcanty income is at¬
tended with many inconveniences. It obliges the
clergy wdio have families to follow fome branch of
traffic, to the negleft of their ecclefiaftical ftudies, and
to the degradation of the profeffional charadfer. Ano¬
ther inconvenience is fuperadded to the narrownefs of
their income. In moll communities the minifters,
though confirmed by the fynod, are chofen by the
people of the pariih, and are folely dependent on their
bounty. For thefe reafons, the candidates for holy
orders are generally extremely ignorant. They can¬
not fupport that expence which is requifite to purfue
their ftudies ; they are not animated with the expec¬
tation of a decent competence ; and, from the depen¬
dent mode of their eledtion, are not encouraged to de-
ferve their promotion by a confiftent dignity of cha¬
racter.
GRIST, in country affairs, denotes corn ground, or
ready for grinding.
GRIT, or gritftone, a kind of ftone which is ufed
for building and for millftones and grindftones ; and
fometimes for filtering wrater.
GROAT, an Engliffi money of account, equal to
four pence. Other nations, as the Dutch, Polanders,
Saxons, Bohemians, French, &c. have likewife their
groats, groots, groches, gros, &c. In the Saxon times,
no filver coin bigger than a penny was ftruck in Eng¬
land, nor after the conqueit, till Edward III. wffio^
about the year 1351, coined groffes, i. e. groats, or great
pieces, which went for 4d. a-piece : and fo the matter
ftood till the reign of Henry VIII. who, in 1504, firft
coined {hillings.
Groats, in country affairs, oats after the hulls are
off, or great oat-meal.
GROCERS, anciently were fuch perfons as en-
groffed all merchandife that was vendible ; but now
they are incorporated, and make one of the companies
of the city of London, which deals in fugar, foreign
fruits, fpices, &c.
GROENLAND, or Spitzberg-en. See Green¬
land.
GROGRAM, a kind of fluff made of filk and?
mohair.
GROIN, that part of the belly next the thigh.
Groin, among builders, is the angular curve made
by the interfeftion of two femi-cylinders or arches j
and is either regular or irregular.—A regular groin is
when the interfering arches, whether lemicircular or-
femielliptical, are of the fame diameters and heights.
An irregular- groin is where one of the arches is iemi-
circular and the other femielliptical.
GROMWELL. See Lithospermum, Botany
Index.
GRONINGEN, the moft northerly of the Seven
United
Grift
GUO [ n
Groningen United Provinces, is bounded on the north by the
II . German ocean j on the fouth, by the county of Drenthej
Gronovius.^ on t]le jjy t]ie bidiopric of Munfter, and the prin¬
cipality of Eaft-Priefland *, and on the weft by the
province of Friefland, from which it is parted by the
river Lawers. Its greateft length from fouth-eaft to
north-weft is about 47 miles 5 but its breadth is very
unequal, the greateft being about 33 miles. Here
are rich paftures, large herds of great and fmall cattle,
plenty of fea and river fifli, and of turf, with fome fo-
refts and corn-land. There are feveral rivers in the
province, of which the principal is the Hunfe j and
a great number of canals and dykes. The ftates
confift of the deputies of the town of Groningen, and
the Ommeland, or circumjacent country $ and hold
their aflemblies always in the town of Groningen.
The province had anciently governors, under the title
of burgraves; but their power being limited, the
people enjoyed great privileges. Afterwards it became
fubjedt to the bilhop of Utrecht j but ftiook off his
yoke at laft, and recovered its liberty. In 153^
fubmitted to Charles V. and iu 1579 acceded to the
union of Utrecht. The colleges before the revolution
wex-e much the fame here as in the other provinces, viz.
the provincial ftates, council of ftate, provincial tribunal,
and chamber of accounts; and fix deputies were fent to
the ftates-general. Of the eftabliihed clergy there are
160 minifters, which form feven claffes, whofe annual
fynod is held, by turns, at Groningen and Appin-
gedam.
Groningen, the capital of the province of that name,
is fituated about 1 2 miles from the neareft fhore of the
German ocean, at the conflux of feveral rivulets, which
form the Hunfe and Fivel. Ships of confiderable bur¬
den can come up to the city, in confequence of which
it enjoys a pretty good trade. It was formerly very
ftrong, but its fortifications are now much neglected.
The univerfity here was founded in 1615, and is well
endowed out of the revenues of the ancient monafte-
ries. The town, which was formerly one of the
Hanfe, and has ftill great privileges, is large and po¬
pulous, being the feat of the high colleges, and con¬
taining three fpacious market-places, and 27 ttreets,
in which are many fine houfes, befides churches and
other public ftruftures. By the river Fivel and the
Fms, it has a communication with Weftphalia. In
1672 it made fuch a gallant refiftance againft the bi-
fhop of Munfter, that he is faid to have loft 10,000
men before it. Rodolphus Agricola and Vefelius, two
of the moft learned men of the age in which they lived,
were born here. Under the jurifdiftion of this city is
a confiderable diftrift, called the Gorecht. E. Long.
6. 25. Lat. 53. 10.
GRONOVIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs; axxd in the natural method ranking
under the 34th order, Cucurbikieett, See Botany
Jndex.
GRONOVIUS, John Frederic, a very learned
critic, was born at Hamburgh in 1613 ; and having
travelled through Germany, Italy, and France, was
made profefibr of polite learning at Deventer, and af¬
terwards at Leyden, where he died in 1671. He pu-
blilhed, 1. Diatribe in Statii, &c. 2. De fe/iertiis. 3.
Correfl editions of Seneca, Statius, T. Livy, Pliny’s
3
Grofe.
2 ] G R O
Natural Hlftory, Tacitus, Aulus Gellius, Phtedrus’s Gronovita
Fables, &c. with notes j and other works.
Gronovius, James, fon of the preceding, and a __
very learned man, was educated firft at Leyden, then
went over to England, where he viiited the univerfities,
confulted the curious MSS. and formed an acquain¬
tance with feveral learned men. He was chofen by
the grand duke to be profeffor at Pifa, with a confi¬
derable ftipend. He returned into Holland, after he
had refided two years in Tufcany, and confulted the
MSS. in the Medicean library. In 1679, he was in¬
vited by the curators of the univerfity to a profeffor-
flxip 5 and his inaugural differtation was fo highly
, approved of, that the curators added 400 florins to
his ftipend, and this augmentation continued to his
death in 1716. He refufed feveral honourable and
advantageous offers. His principal works are, The
Treafure of Greek Antiquities, in 13 vols. folio; and a
great number of differtations and editions of ancient
authors. He was compared to Schioppus for the vi¬
rulence of his ftyle; and the feverity with which he
treated other great men who differed from him, expofed
him to juft cenfure.
GROOM, a name particularly applied to feveral
fuperior officers belonging to the king’s houfehold, as
groom of the chamber, gxoom of the ftole. See Stole,
and Wardrobe.
Groom is more particularly ufed for a fervant ap¬
pointed to attend on horfes in the liable.—The word
is formed from the Flemifh grom, “ a boy.”
GROOVE, among miners, is the lhaft or pit funk
into the earth, fometimes in the vein, and fometimes
not.
Groove, among joiners, the channel made by their
plough in tlie edge of a moulding, ftyle, or rail, to put
their pannels in, in wainfeotting.
GROSE, Francis, Efq. F. A. S. was born about
the year 1731, and was the fon of Mr Francis Grofe, a
jeweller of Richmond, by whom the coronation crown
of George II. was filled up. Young Grofe obtained
an independent fortune by the death of his father, which
happened in the year 1769. He was paymafter and ad¬
jutant in the Surry militia, but diffipation fo far prevent
ed him for fome time from paying proper attention to
his duty, that in his own humorous mode of exprefling
himfelf, he kept but two books of accounts, his right
and left hand pockets. The Ioffes which this thought-
lefs conduct occafioned him, awakened his dormant ta¬
lents, and he refolved to turn his attention Xo literary
purfuits. His education was claflical, to which he uni¬
ted an excellent tafte for drawing, which induced him
to commence his “ Views of Antiquities in England
and Wales.” He began this work m numbers in i773j
and completed it in 177^ i h he obtained both
reputation and profit, the latter of which his almoft un¬
pardonable liberality had rendered extremely needful.
In 1777 he added other two volumes to his Engliftx views,
which included the ifiands of Guernfey and Jerfey,
finilhed in 1778. AH his expeaations were fully gra¬
tified by the publication of this work, and during the
remainder of his life he continued to publifn others,
which in general increafed his reputation as an author,
and always tended to -cugment his wealth. In the
fumraer of I7®9 a vilit to Scotland, aiid U
1790
Grof-.
G R O [ i
1790 began to publifh in numbers, bis views taken in
that country. He next proceeded to Ireland, with a
view to give a fimilar delcription of that country ; but
on the 6th of May 1791, while at Dublin in the houfe
of Mr Horne, he was initantly feizcd at table with an
apoplefhc fit, and immediately expired. He was buried
in Drumcondra churchyard near Dublin.
Although his literature was very refpedlable, it was
even exceeded by his good humour, by his convivial
and friendly turn of mind. As both at home and
abroad he was always in the bell company, his know¬
ledge of the world was fo extenfive, that his converfa-
tion was always ufeful and entertaining. He was free
from the malignity and pride of fome authors, for as he
felt the independence of his own talents, he fcorned to
degrade others. Of the moft carelefs, open, and ait-
lefs difpofition, he was often the prey of the deiigning,
and has more than once embarraffed himfelf by too im¬
plicit confidence in the probity of others. A tale of
diftrefs never failed to touch his heart, and make the
tear of commiferation glide down his cheek.
Eelides the works formerly mentioned, he publifh-
ed a treatife on ancient armour and weapons ; a claf-
fical dictionary of the vulgar tongue, military antiqui¬
ties, &c.
GROSS, a foreign money, in divers countries, an-
ftvering to our groat.
Gross is ufed among us for the quantity of twelve
dozen.
Gross weight, is the weight of merchandifes and
goods, with their duft and drofs, as alfo of the bag,
calk, chelf, &c. wherein they are contained j out of
which grofs weight, allowance is to be made of tare
and tret.
Gross,. or Grojfus, in our ancient law-writers, de¬
notes a tiling abfolute, and not depending on another.
1 hus, villain in grofs, villanus in grojfo, was a fervant
who did not belong to the land, but immediately to the*
pei ion of the lord 5 or a lervile perfon not appendant,
or annexed to the lord or manor, and to go along with
the tenures as appurtenant to it; but like other per-
ional goods and chattels of his lord, at his lord’s plea-
fure and difpofal.
Gross, advowfon in. See Advowson.
Gross-beak, the trivial name of the cocothraufes,
or haw-finch, which is the loxia cocothraufies. See
Ornithology Index.
GROSSULARIA, the goofeberry. See Ribes
Botany Index.
GROTESQUE, or Grotesk, in fculpture and
'painting, fomewhat whimfical, extravagant, and mon-
ftrous; confifting either of things that are merely
imaginary, and have no exiftence in nature j or of
things fo dirtorted, as to raife furprife and ridicule.
1 he names arife hence, that figures of this kind were
anciently much ufed to adorn the grottoes wherein the
tombs of eminent perfons or families were inclofed.
Such was that of Ovid, whofe grotto was difcovered
neai Rome about one hundred years ago.
GROIIUS, Hugo, or more properly Hugo de
Groot, one of the greateft men in Europe, was born at
Dellt in 1583. He made fo rapid a progrefs in his ftu-
dies, that at the age of 15 he had attained a great know¬
ledge m philolophy, divinity, and civil law: and a
yet greater proficiency in polite literature, as appeared
VOL. X. Part I. ^ > rr
r3 ] G R O
by the commentary he had made at that age on Mar-
tianus Capella. In I59^» he accompanied the Dutch
ambaflador into France, and was honoured with leveral
marks of efteem by Henry V. He took his degree
of docrtor of laws in that kingdom; and at his return
to his native country, devoted himfelf to the bar, and
pleaded before he wras 17 years of age. He w-as not
24 when he was appointed attorney-general. In 161^
he fettled in Rotterdam, and was nominated fvndic of
that city j but did not accept of the office till a pro-
mife was made him that he ffiould not be removed
from it. T his prudent precaution he took from his
forefeeing, that the quarrels of the divines on the doc¬
trine of grace, which had already given rife to many
fadions in tlm rtate, would occafion revolutions in the
d’^ef cities. The fame year he was fent into England,
on account of the divifions that reigned between the
traders of the two nations, on the right of firtiing in
the northern feas j but he could obtain no fatisfadion.
He was afterwards fent to England, as it is thought’
to perfuade the king and the principal divines to
favour the. Arminians; and he had feveral con¬
ferences with King James on that fubjed. On his
return to Elolland, his attachment to Barnevelt in¬
volved him in great trouble ; for he was feized, and
Sentenced to perpetual imprifonment in 1619, and to
forfeit all.his goods and chattels. But after having been
treated with great rigour for above a year and a half
in his confinement, he was delivered by the advice and
artifice of his wife, who having obferved that his keepers
had often fatigued themfelves with fearching and exa¬
mining a great trunk full of foul linen which ufed to
oe wafhed at Gorkum, but now let to pafs without open¬
ing it, flic advifed him to bore holes in it to prevent his
bemg tliiled, and then to get into it. He complied
with this advice, and was carried to a friend’s houfe
in Gorkum ; where drefling himfelf like a mafon, and
taking a rule and trowel, he parted through the market¬
place, and ffepping into a boat wxmt to Valvet in
Brabant. Here he made himfelf knowm to fome Ar¬
minians, and hired a carriage to Antwerp. At firlt
there was a defign of profecuting his wife, who rtaid
in the prifon ; and fome judges were of opinion that
fhe ought to be kept there in her hufband’s ftead: hou^-
ever, ffie was releafed by a plurality of voices, and uni-
yerfally applauded for her behaviour. He now retired
into France, where he met with a gracious recep¬
tion from that court, and Louis XIII. fettled a pen-
hon upon him. Having refided there eleven years
he returned to Holland, on his receiving a very kind
letter from Frederic Henry prince of Orange : but
Ins enemies renewing their perfecution, he went to
Hamburgh; where, in 1634, Queen Chriftina of
biveden made him her counfellor, and fent him am-
b. ‘dor "?to France. Alter having difeharged the du¬
ties ol this office above eleven years, he returned in
order to give an account to Queen Chriftina of’his
embafly ; when he took Holland in his w'ay, and re¬
ceived many honours at Amfterdam. He was intro¬
duced to her Swediffi majerty at Stockholm ; and
there begged that ffie would grant his difmiffion, in
older that he might return to Holland. This he ob¬
tained with difficulty ; and the queen gave him many
marks of her efteem, though he had many enemies
at this court. As he was returning, the ffiip in
F which
Grot! us.
\
G IV O [n
Grotfcaw which he embarked was call arvay on the coaft of Po¬
ll merania ; and being now fick, he continued his jour-
, Gr^tt0 , ney by land 5 but was forced to flop at Roftock, where
he died, on the 28th of Auguft 1645. His body
Was carried to Delft, to be interred in the fepulchre
of his anceftors. Notwithftanding the embaffies in
which he was employed, he compofed a great num¬
ber of excellent works } the principal of which are,
1. A treatife De jure belli et pacts, which is efteem-
cd a mafter-piece. 2. A treatife on the truth of the
Chriftian religion. 3; Commentaries on the Holy
Scriptures. 4. The hillory and annals of Holland.
5. A great number of letters. All which are written
in Latin.
GROTSCAW, a town of Turkey in Europe, in
the province of Servia, where a battle w7as fought be¬
tween the Germans and Turks, in the year 1739, in
which the Germans ivere forced to retreat with lofs.
E. Long. 21. o. N. Lat. 45, O.
GROTSKAW, a ftrong town of Germany, capital
of a province of the fame name in Silefia. It is very
agreeably feated in a fruitful plain. E. Long. 17- 35*
N. Lat. 50. 42.
GROTTO, or Grotta, a large deep cavern or
den in a mountain or rock. Hhe word is Italian,
grotta, formed, according to Menage, &c. from the
Latin crypta. Du Cange obferves, that grotta was ufed
in the fame fenfe in the corrupt Latin.
The ancient anchorites retired into dens and grot¬
toes, to apply themfelves the more attentively to medi¬
tation.
Okey-hole, Elden-hole, Peak’s-hole, and Pool’s-
hole, are famous among the natural caverns or grottoes
of our country.
The entrance to Okey-hole, on the fouth fide of
Mendip-hills, is in the fall of thofe hills, which is be-
fet all about with rocks, and has near it a precipitate
defeent of near twelve fathoms deep, at the bottom of
which there continually iflues from the rocks a confi-
derable current of water. The naked rocks above the
entrance {how thenifelves about 30 fathoms high, and
the whole afeent of the hill above is about a mile, and
is very fleep. As you pafs into this vault, you go at
firft upon a level, but advancing farther, the way is
found to be rocky and uneven, fometimes afeending and
fometimes defeending. I he roof of this cavern, in the
higheft part, is about eight fathoms from the ground,
but in many particular places it is fo low, that a man
muft ftoop to get along. The breadth is not lefs vari¬
ous than the height, for in fome places it is five or fix
fathoms wade, and in others not more than one or two.
It extends itfelf in length about twTo hundred yards.
People talk much of certain ftones in it, refembling
men and w7omen, and other things 5 but there is little
matter of curiofity in thefe, being only {hapelefs lumps
of a common fpar. At the fartheft part of the cavern
there is a good ftream of water, large enough to drive
a mill, which paffes all along one fide of the cavem,
and at length hides down about fix or eight fathoms
among the rocks, and then preffing through the clefts
of them, difeharges itfelf into the valley. The river
within the cavern is well ftored w ith eels, and has fome
trouts in it ; and thefe cannot have come from with-
there being lo great a fall near the entrance. In
dry fummers, a" great number of frogs are feen all along
i ] G it o
this cavern, even to the farther part of it $ and on the Grotto,
roof of it, at certain places, hang vaft numbers of bats, as 1 v
they do in almoft all caverns, the entrance of which is
either level, or but {lightly afeending or defeending j
and even in the more perpendicular ones they are fome¬
times found, provided they are not too narrow, and are
fufficiently high. The cattle that feed in the paftures
through which this river runs, have been knowm to die
fuddenly fometimes after a flood 5 this is probably
owing to the waters having been impregnated, either
naturally or accidentally, with lead ore.
Elden hole is a huge profound perpendicular chafm,
three miles from Buxton, ranked among the natural
wonders of the Peak. Its depth is unknown, and is
pretended to be unfathomable. Cotton tells us he
feunded 884 yards j yet the plummet ftill drew. But
he might ealily be deceived, unlefs his plummet was
very heavy $ the weight of a rope of that length might
well make the landing of the plummet fcarce percei¬
vable.
Peak’s-hole, and Pool’s-hole, called alfo the Devil's
A—fe, are two remarkable horizontal fprings under
mountains ; the one near Caftleton, the other juft by
Buxton. They feem to have owed their origin to the
fprings which have their current through them •, when
the water had forced its way through the horizontal
fiflures of the ftrata, and had carried the loofe earth
away with it, the loofe ftones muft fall down of courfe i
and where the ftrata had few or no fiflures, they re¬
mained entire •, and fo formed thefe very irregular
arches, which are now fo much wondered at. The
water which paffes through Pool’s hole is impregnated
with particles of limeftone, and has incrufted the whole
cavern in fuch a manner that it appears as one fohd
rock.
In grottoes are frequently found cryftals of the rock,
flalaftites, and other natural conglaciations, and thofe
often of an amazing beauty. M. Homberg conjec¬
tures, from feveral circumftances, that the marble pil¬
lars in the grotto of Antiparos vegetate or grow.
That author looks on this grotto as a garden, whereof
the pieces of marble are the plants $ and endeavours to
Ihow, that they could only be produced by fome ve¬
getative principle. See Antipargs.
At Foligno in Italy is another grotto, confifting of
pillars and orders of architefture of marble, with their
ornaments, &c. fcarcely inferior to thofe of art j but
they all grow downwards : fo that if this too be a gar¬
den, the plants are turned upfide down.
Grotto del Cani, a little cavern near Pozzuoli, four
leagues from Naples, the air of which is of a mephitical
or noxious quality ; whence alfo it is called bocca ve-
tienofa, the poifonous mouth.
“ Two miles from Naples (fays Dr Mead), juft by the
Lago de Agnano, is a celebrated mofeta, commonly call¬
ed la Grotto del Cani, and equally deftruftive to all with¬
in the reach of its vapours. It is a fmall grotto about
eight feet high, twelve long, and fix broad 5 from the
ground arifes a thin, fubtile, warm fume, vifible enough
to a difeerning eye, which does not fpring up in little
parcels here and there, but in one continued ftream,
covering the whole furface of the bottom of the cave 3
having this remarkable difference from common va¬
pours, that it does not like fmoke difperfe itfelf into
the air, but quickly after its rife falls back again, and
returns
G R O [ii
returns to the earth j the colour of the fides of the
grotto being the meafure of its afcent: for fo far it is
of a darkiih-green, but higher only common earth.
And as I myfelf found no inconveniency by Handing in
it, fo no animal, if its head be above this mark, is the
leaft injured. But when, as the manner is, a dog, or
any other creature, it forcibly kept below it *, or, by
reafon of its fmallnefs, cannot hold its head above it, it
prelently lofes all motion, falls down as dead, or in a
fwoon ; the limbs convulfed and trembling, till at laft
no more figns of life appear than a very weak and al-
molt infenlible beating of the heart and arteries } which,
if the animal be left a little longer, quickly ceafes too,
and then the cafe is irrecoverable j but if it be fnatched
out, and laid in the open air, it foon comes to life again,
and fooner if thrown into the adjacent lake.” The
fumes of the grotto, the fame author argues, are no
real poifon, but ad chiefly by their gravity ; elfe the
creatures could not recover fo foon, or if they did,
fome fymptoms, as faintnefs, &c. would be the conie-
quence of it. He adds, “ that in creatures killed there¬
with, when difleaed, no marks of infeaion appear *,
and that the attack proceeds from a want of air, by
which the circulation tends to an entire ftoppage } and
this fo much the more, as the animal infpires a fluid of
a quite different nature from the air, and fo in no re-
fpea fit to fupply its place. Taking the animal out,
while yet alive, and throwing it into the neighbouring
lake, it recovers : this is owing to the coldnefs of the
water, which promotes the contraflion of the fibres,
and fo.aflifts the retarded circulation $ the fmall portion
of air which remains in the veficulae, after every expi¬
ration, may be fuflacient to drive out the noxious fluid.
After the fame manner, cold water a£ts in a dehqutum
animi: the lake of Agnano has no greater virtue in it
than others.”
The air in this grotto was for a long time reckon¬
ed to be of a poifonous nature, and thought tofuffocate
the animals which breathed it. Dr Hales imagined
that it deftroyed the elafticity of the air, caufed the
veficles of the lungs to collapfe, and thus occafioned
hidden death.—It is now, however, found that this air
is nothing elfe than fixed air, or carbonic acid gas,
which iffues from the earth in that place in great
quantity.
Grotto del Serpi, is a fubterraneous cavern near
the village of Saffa, eight miles from the city of Brac-
cano in Italy, defcribed by Kircher thus: “ The grotto
delferpi is big enough to hold two perfons. It is per¬
forated with feveral fiftular apertures, fomewhat in
manner of a fieve j out of which, at the beginning of
the fpring feafon, iffues a numerous brood of young
fnakes of divers colours, but all free from any particu¬
lar poifonous quality. In this cave they expofe their
lepers, paralytics, arthritics, and elephantiac patients,
quite naked ; where, the warmth of the fubterraneous
fleams refolving them into a fweat, and the ferpents
clinging varioully all around, licking and fucking
them, they become fo thoroughly freed of all their
vicious humours, that, upon repeating the operation
for fome time, they become perfeftly reftored.”
This cave Kircher vifited himfelf j and found it
warm, and every way agreeable to the defcriptiou
given of it. He faw the holes, and heard a mur¬
muring hiding noife in them. Though he miffed fee-
Grotto,
Grove.
5 1 . G R 0
ing the ferpents, it not being the feafon of their creep¬
ing out •, yet he faw a great number of their exuviae, ^
or floughs, and an elm growing hard by laden with
them.-
The difcovery of this cave was by the cure of a Mufeum
leper going from Rome to fome baths near this place. ^
Lofing his way, and being benighted, he happened
upon this cave. Binding it very warm, he pulled off
his clothes *, and being weary and fleepy, had the good
fortune not to feel the lerpents about him till they had
wrought his cure.
Milky Grotto, Crypt a Laclea, a mile diftant from
the ancient village of Bethlehem, is faid to have been
thus denominated on occafion of the bleffed Virgin,
who let fall fome drops of milk in giving fuck to Je-
fus in this grotto. And hence it has been commonly
fuppofed, that the earth of this cavern has the virtue
of reftoring milk to women that are grown dry, and
even of curing fevers. Accordingly, they are always
digging in it, and the earth is fold at a good rate to
fuch as have faith enough to give credit to the fable.
An altar has been built on the place, .and a church juft
by it.
Grotto, is alfo ufed for a little artificial edifice
made in a garden, in imitation of a natural grotto.
The outfides of thefe grottoes are ufually adorned with
ruftic architedlure, and their infide with {hell-work,
foffils, &c. finilhed likewife with jets d’eau or foun¬
tains, &c.
A cement for artificial grottoes may be made thus :
Take two parts of white rofin, melt it clear, and add
to it four parts of bees wax : when melted together,
add two or three parts of the powder of the flone you
defign to cement, or fo much as will give the cement
the colour of the ftone : to this add one part of
flower of fulphur: incorporate all together over a
gentle fire, and afterwards knead them with your
hands in warm water. With this cement the ftones,
{hells, &c. after being well dried before the fire, may
be cemented.
Artificial red coral branches, for the embellifliment
of grottoes, may be made in the following manner :
Take clear rofin, diffolve it in a brafs-pan ; to every
ounce of which add two drams of the fineft vermilion :
when you have ftirred them well together, and have
chofen your twigs and branches, peeled and dried, take
a pencil and paint the branches all over whilft the
compofition is warm , afterwards Ihape them in imita¬
tion of natural coral. This done, hold the branches
over a gentle coal fire, till all is fmooth and even as if
poliflied. In the fame manner white coral may be
prepared with white lead, and black-coral with lamp¬
black.
A grotto may be built with little expence, of glafs,
cinders, pebbles, pieces of large flint, {hells, mofs,
ftones, counterfeit coral, pieces of chalk, &c. all
bound or cemei^ed together with the above defcribed
cement.
GROVE, in Gardening, a fmall wood impervious «
to the rays of the fun.
Groves have been in all ages held in great venera¬
tion. The profenchce, and high-places of the Jews,
whither they reforted for the purpofes of devotion,
v/ere probably fituated in groves : See Jofhua xxiv. 26.
The profeuchae in Alexandria, mentioned by Philo,
P 2 had
GKO [ j
had groves about them, becaufe he complains that the
Alexandrians, m a tumult againft the Jews, cut down
the trees of their profeuchse.
J he ancient Romans had a fort of groves near feve-
ral of their temples, which were coniecrated to fome
god, and called /uci, by antiphrafis, a non iucendo, as
being lhady and dark, d he veneration which the an¬
cient druids had for groves is -well known.
Modern groves are not only great ornaments to
gaidens : but are alio the greatelt relief againlt the
violent heats of the fun, affording fhade to walk under
in the hottell parts of the day, when the other parts
°f garden are ufelefs; fo that every garden is de¬
fective which has not fhade.
Groves are of two forts, viz. either open or clofe.
Open groves are fuch as have large fhady trees, which
Rand at fuch diftances, as that their branches ap¬
proach fo near to each other as to prevent the rays
of the fun from penetrating through them.
^ Clofe groves have frequently large trees Handing in
them j but the ground under thefe is filled with
ihrubs or underwood ; fo that the walks which are in
them are private, and fcreened from winds : by which
means. they are rendered agreeable for walking, at
thofe times when the air is either too hot or too cold
in the more expofed parts of the garden. Thefe are
often contrived io as to bound the open groves, and
-icquently to hide the walls or other inclofures of the
garden : and when they are properly laid out, with
dry walks winding through them, and on the fides of
thefe fweet-fmelling flirubs and flowers irregularly
planted, they have a charming effeft.
Grove, Henry, a learned and ingenious Prefby-
teiian divine, was born at launton in Somerfetfhire, in
1683. Having obtained a fufficient flock of claffical li¬
terature, he went through a courfe of academical learn¬
ing, under the reverend Mr Warren of Taunton, who
had a flourifhing academy. He then removed to Lon¬
don, and fludied fome time under the reverend Mr
Rowe, to wdiom he was nearly related. Here he
contradled a friendfhip wdth feveral perfons of merit,
and particularly with Dr Watts, which continued till
his death, though they were of different opinions in
feveral points warmly controverted among divines. Af¬
ter two years fpent under Mr Rowe, he returned into
the country, and began to preach with great reputa¬
tion 5 when an exa£t judgment, a lively imagination,
and a rational and amiable reprefentation of "Chriflia-
nity, delivered in a fweet and well-governed voice,
rendered him generally admired ; and the fpirit of de¬
votion which prevailed in his fermons procured him
the efleem and friendfhip of Mrs Singer, afterwards
Mrs Row, which (he expreffed in a fine ode on death,
addreffed to Mr Grove. Soon after his beginning to
preach, he married ; and on the death of Mr Warren,
was chofen to fucceed him in the academy at Taunton.
This obliging him to refide there, he preached for
18 years to two fmall congregations in the neigh¬
bourhood ; and though his falary from both was lefs
than twenty pounds a-year, and he had a growing
family, he went through it cheerfully. In 1708, he
publifhed a piece, entitled, The Regulation of Diver-
fions, drawn up for the ufe of his pupils. About the fame
time, he entered into a private difpute by letter with
Dr Sajpauel Clarke : but they not being able to con-
] G r o
yince each other, the debate was dropped with expref- G
lions of great mutual efleem. He next wrote feveral —
papers printed m the Speftator, viz. Numbers 588.
601. 626. 635. Ihe latl was republifhed, by the di-
ledion of Dr Gibfon biihop of London, in the Evi-
dences of the Chriflian Religion, by Jofeph Addifon,
Eiq. In. 1725, Mr James, his partner in the aca¬
demy, dying, he fucceeded him in his pafloral charge
at Fulwood, near launton, and engaged his nephew
to undertake the.other parts of Mr James’s work as
tutor j and in this fituation IVIr Grove continued till
his death, which happened in 1738. His great con¬
cern with his pupils, was to infpire and cherifh in
them a prevailing love of truth, virtue, liberty, and
genuine religion, without violent attachments or pre¬
judices in favour of any party of Chriflians. He re-
pieiented truth and virtue in a mofl engaging light $
and though his income, both as a tutor and a minifler,
was . infutficient to fupport his family, without break¬
ing into his paternal eflate, he knew not how to refufe
the call of charity. Befides the above pieces, he wurote,
1. An Effay towards a demonflration of the Soul’s
Immortality. 2. An Effay on the Terms of Chriftian
Communion. 3. The Evidence of our Saviour’s Re-
furreclion confidered. 4. Some Thoughts concerning
the Proof of a Future State from Reafon. 5. A Dif-
courfe concerning the Nature and Defign of the Lord’s
Supper. 6. Wildom the firft fpring of A6lion in the
Deity.. 7. A Difcourfe on Saving Faith. 8. Mifcel-
lanies in profe and verfe. 9. Many Sermons, &c. Af¬
ter his deceafe, his poflhumous wTorks were publifhed
by fubfcription, in four volumes otilavo, with the
names of near 'joo fubfcribers, among whom wTere
foine of the belt judges of merit in the eftablifhed
church.
GROUND, in painting, the furface upon which
the figures and other r’jedls are reprefented.
The ground is pro, erly underflood of fuch parts of
the piece as have nothing painted on them, but retain
the original colour upon which the other colours are
applied to make the reprefentations.
A building is faid to ferve as a ground to a figure
when the figure is painted on the building.
Ihe ground behind a pidlure in miniature is com¬
monly blue or crimfon, imitating a curtain of fattin
or velvet.
Ground, in etching, denotes a gummy compofi-
tion fmeared over the furface of the metal to be etched,
to prevent the aquafortis from eating, except in fuch
places where this ground is cut through with the point
of a needle. See Etching.
GROUND-Hngling, fifhing under water without a float,
only with a plumb of lead, or a bullet, placed about
nine inches from the hook ; which is better, becaufe
it wall roll on the ground. This method of fifhing
is mofl proper in cold weather, when the fifh fwim
very low.
The morning and evening are the chief feafons for
the ground line in filhing for trout ; but if the day
prove cloudy, or the water muddy, you may filh at
ground all day.
GRovND-Tack/e, a fhip’s anchors, cables, &c. and
in general whatever is neceffary to make her ride fafe
at anchor.
Ground-Ivy. See Glechoma, Botany Index.
Ground-
GRO ['117] GRO
Ground
II
Grout he ad.
GRovND-Pine. See Teucrium, Botany Index.
GROUNDSEL. See Senecio, Botany Index.
GROUP, in painting and iculpture, is an ailem-
blage of two or more figures of men, beads, fruits, or
the like, which have fome apparent relation to each
other. See Painting. The word is formed of the
Italian groppo, a knot.
The Groups, a cinder of iflands lately dilcovered in
the South fea. They lie in about S. Lat. 18. 12.
and W. Long. 142. 42. They are long narrow dips
of land, ranging in all direSlions, fome of them ten
miles or upwards in length, but not more than a quar¬
ter of a mile broad. They abound in trees, particu¬
larly thofe of the cocoa nut. They are inhabited by
well-made people, of a brown complexion. Mod of
them carried in their hands a ilender pole about 14
feet in length, pointed like a fpear 5 they had likewife
fomething diaped like a paddle, about four feet long.
Their canoes were of diderent fizes, carrying from
three to fix or feven people, and fome of them hoided
a fail.
GROUSE, or Growse, Moor-fowl, or Moor-game.
See Tetrao, Ornithology Index.
GROUTHEAD, or Greathed, Robert, a learn¬
ed and famous biihop of Lincoln, was born at Stow in
Lincolndiire, or (according to others) at Stradbrook
in Suffolk, in the latter part of the twelfth century.
His parents were fo poor, that when a boy he was re¬
duced to do the meaned offices, and even to beg his.
bread ; till the mayor of Lincoln, druck with his ap¬
pearance and the quicknefs of his anfwers to certain
quedions, took him into his family, and put him to
fchool. Here his ardent love of learning, and admi¬
rable capacity tor acquiring it, foon appeared, and
procured him many patrons, by whofe adidance he
was enabled to profecute his dudies, fird at Cambridge,
afterwards at Oxford, and at lad at Paris. In thefe
three famous feats of learning, he fpent many years in
the mod indefatigable puri’uit of knowledge, and be¬
came one of the bed and mod univerfal fcholars of the
age. He was a great mader not only of the French
and Latin, but alio of the Greek and Hebrew lan¬
guages, which was a very rare accomplhhment in thofe
times. We are affured by Roger Bacon, who was inti¬
mately acquainted with him, that he fpent much of his
time for almod forty years in the dudy of geometry,
adronomy, optics, and other branches of mathematical
learning, in all which he very much excelled. Theo¬
logy was his favourite dudy, in which he read leisures
at Oxford with great applaufe. In the mean time, he
obtained feveral preferments in the church, and was at
length ele&ed and confecrated biihop of Lincoln,
A. D. 1235. In this dation he foon became very fa¬
mous, by the purity of his manners, the popularity of
his preaching, the vigour of his difcipline, and the
boldnefs with which he reproved the vices and oppofed
the arbitrary mandates of the court of Rome ; of this
lad it may be proper to give one example. Pope In¬
nocent IV. had granted to one of his own nephews
named Frederick, who was but a child, a provilion to
the fird canon’s place in the church of Lincoln that
ihould become vacant ; and lent a bull to the arch-
bidiop of Canterbury, and Innocent, then papal legate
in England, commanding them to fee the provifion
made effeftual •, which they tranfmkted to the bifiiop
of Lincoln. But that brave and virtuous prelate Grout bear].
boldly refufed to obey this unreafonable mandate, and ' v 1
fent an anfwer to the papal bull containing the follow¬
ing fevere reproaches againd his holinefs for abufing
his power: “ If we except the fins of Lucifer and
Antichrid, there neither is nor can be a greater crime,
nor any thing more contrary to the dodlrine of the
gofpel, or more odious and abominable in the fight of
Jefus Chrid, than to ruin and dedroy the fouls of men,
by depriving them of the fpiritual aid and minidry of
their padors. This crime is committed by thofe who
command the benefices intended for the fupport of able
padors, to be bedowed on thofe who are incapable of
performing the duties of the padoral office. It is im-
podible therefore that the holy apodolic fee, which
received its authority from the Lord Jefus Chrid, for
edification, and not for dedru&ion, can be guilty of
fuch a crime, or any thing approaching to fuch a
crime, fo hateful to God and fo hurtful to men. For
this would be a mod manifed corruption and abufe of
its authority, which would forfeit all its glory, and
plunge it into the pains of hell.” Upon hearing this
letter, his holinefs became frantic with rage, poured
forth a torrent of abufe againd the good bifhop, and
threatened to make him an objeiff of terror and ado-
nidnnent to the whole world. “ How dare (faid he)
this old, deaf, doating fool, difobey my commands ?
Is not his mader the king of England my fubjeft, or
rather my dave ? Cannot he cad him into prifon, and
crulh him in a moment ?” But the cardinals by degrees
brought the pope to think more calmly, and to take
no notice of this letter. “ Let us not (faid they)
raife a tumult in the church without necelfity, and
precipitate that revolt and feparation from us, which
we know mud one day take place.” Remarkable
words, when we redeft when and by whom they were
fpoken ! The bidiop did not long furvive this noble
dand againd the.grofs corruptions and tyranny of the
church of Rome : for he fell fick at his cadle of Bug-
den that fame year; and when he became fenfible that
his death was drawing near, he called his clergy into
his apartment, and made a long difcourfe to them, to
prove that the reigning pope Innocent IV. was An¬
tichrid. With this exertion his drength and fpirits
were fo much exhauded, that he expired foon after,
Oiffober 9. 1253. A contemporary hidorian, who*
was perfedly well acquainted with him, hath drawn
his character in the following manner. “ He was a
free and bold reprimander of the pope and the kincr 3
an admonidier of the prelates; a correftor of the
monks 5 an indru&or of the clergy ; a fupporter of the
dudious j a cenfurer of the incontinent ; a fcourge and
terror to the court of Rome ; a diligent fearcher of
the fcriptures; and a frequent preacher to the people.
At his table he was hofpitable, polite, and cheerful.
In the church he was contrite, devote, and folemn •
and in performing all the duties of his office he was
venerable, addive, and indefatigable. The illudrious
Roger Bacon, who was mod capable, and had the bed
opportunities of forming a true judgment of the ex¬
tent of his learning, by perufing his works, and by
frequently converfing with him, hath given this ho¬
nourable tedimony in his favour. “ Robert Grouthead
biihop of Lincoln, and his friend Friar Adam de Ma-
rifco, are the two mod learned men in the world, and
excel
G R O [ i
Growth, excel all ilie rell of mankind both in divine and human
" v knowledge.” This moft excellent and learned prelate
was a very voluminous writer, and compofed a prodi¬
gious number of treatifes on a great variety of iubjefts
in philofophy and divinity, a catalogue of which is gi¬
ven by Bale.
GROWTH, the gradual increafe of bulk and fta-
ture that takes place in animals or vegetables, to a cer¬
tain period.—The increafe of bulk in fuch bodies as
have no life, owing to fermentations excited in their
fubftance, or to other caufes, is called Expansion,
Swelling, &c.
The growth of animals, nay even of the human fpe-
cies, is fubjeft to great variations. A remarkable in-
ftance in the laft was obferved in France in the year
1729. At this time the Academy of Sciences exa¬
mined a boy who was then only feven years old, and
who meafurcd four feet eight inches and four lines high
without his fhoes. His mother obferved the ligns of
puberty on him at two years old, which continued
to increafe very quick, and foon arrived at the ufual
ftandard. At four years old he was able to lift and
tofs the common bundles of hay in ftables into the horfes
racks; and at fix years old could lift as much as a ftur-
-dy fellow of twenty. But though he thus increafed
in bodily ftrength, his underftanding was no greater
than is ufual with children of his age, and their play¬
things were alfo his favourite amufements.
Another boy, a native of the hamlet of Bouzan-
quet, in the diocefe of Alais, though of a flrong con-
ftitution, appeared to be knit and ftiflf in his joints tilt
he was about four years and a half old. During this
time nothing farther was remarkable of him than an
extraordinary appetite, which was fatisfied no other-
wife than by giving him plenty of the common ali¬
ments of the inhabitants of the country, confifting
of rye-bread, chefnuts, bacon, and water •, but his
limbs foon becoming fupple and pliable, and his body
beginning to expand itfelf, he grew up in fo extraordi¬
nary a manner, that at the age of five years he mea-
fured four feet three inches 5 fome months after, he
was four feet eleven inches; and at fix, five feet, and
bulky in proportion. His growth was fo rapid, that
one might fancy he faw him grow: every month, his
clothes required to be made longer and wdder j and
what was ftill very extraordinary in his growth, it
was not preceded by any ficknefs, nor accompanied
with any pain in the groin or elfewhere. At the
age of five years his voice changed, his beard be¬
gan to appear, and at fix he had as much as a man of
thirty ; in fliort, all the unqueftionable marks of pu¬
berty were vifible in him. It was not doubted in the
country but this child was, at five years old, or five
and a half, in a condition of begetting other children •,
which induced the reftor of the parilh to recommend
to his mother that fhe would keep him from too fa¬
miliar a converfation with children of the other fex.
Though his wit was riper than is commonly obfervable
at the age of five or fix years, yet its progrefs. was not
in proportion to that of his body. His air and man¬
ner ftill retained fomething ckildilh, though by his
bulk and ftature he refembled a complete man, which
at firft fight produced a very lingular contraft. His
voice was ftrong and manly, and his great ftrength
3 ] G R U
rendered him already fit for the labours of the country. Grub
At the age of five years, he could carry to a good di- II
fiance three meafures of rye, weighing 84 pounds ;Grubenha"
when turned of fix, he could lift up eafiiy on his ftioul-' ''t"' »
ders and carry loads of 150 pounds weight a good
way off: and thefe exercifes were exhibited by him as
often as the curious engaged him thereto by fome
liberality. Such beginnings made people think that
he would foon (hoot up into a giant. A mountebank
was already foliciting his parents for him, and flatter¬
ing them with hopes of putting him in a way of
making a great fortune. But all thefe hopes fud-
denly vanilhed. His legs became crooked, his body
flirunk, his ftrength diminifhed, his voice grew fen-
fibly weaker, and he at laft funk into a total imbecility.
In the Paris Memoirs alfo there is an account of a
girl who had her menfes at three months of age.
When four years old, flie was four feet fix inches in
height, and had her limbs well proportioned to that
height, her breafts large and plump, and the parts
of generation like thofe of a girl of eighteen •, fo that
there is no doubt but that fhe was marriageable at that
time, and capable of being a mother of children.
Thefe things are more Angular and marvellous in the
northern than in the fouthern climates, where the fe¬
males come fooner to maturity. In fome places of
the Eaft Indies, the girls have children at nine years
of age.
Many other inftances of extraordinary growth might
be brought, but the particulars are not remarkably
different from thofe already related.—It is at firft; fight
aftonithing that children of fuch early and prodigious
growth do not become giants: but when we confider, ,
that the figns of puberty appear fo much fooner than
they ought, it feems evident that the whole is only a
more than ufually rapid expanfion of the parts, as in
hot climates ; and accordingly it is obferved, that fuch
children, inftead of becoming giants, always decay and
die apparently of old age, long before the natural term
of human life.
GRUB, in Zoology, the Englifh name of the hexa-
pode worms, produced from the eggs of beetles, and
which at length are transformed into winged infetts of
the fame fpecies with their parents.
GRUBBING, in Agriculture, the digging or pull¬
ing up of the ftubs and roots of trees.
When the roots are large, this is a very trouble-
fome and laborious talk; but Mr Mortimer hath
fhown how it may be accomplifhed in fuch a manner
as to fave great expence by a very fimple and eafy
method. He propofes a ftrong iron hook to be made
about two feet four inches long, with a large iron
ring faftened to the upper part of it. This hook
muft be put into a hole in the fide of the root, to
which it muft be faftened ; and a lever being put into
the ring, three men, by means of this lever, may
wring out the root, and twift the fap-roots afunder.
Stubs of trees may alfo be taken up with the fame
hook, in which work it will fave a great deal of la¬
bour, though not fo much as in the other •, becaufe
the ftubs muft be firft cleft with wedges, before the
hook can enter the Tides of them, to wrench them out
by pieces.
GRUBENHAGEN, a town and caftle of the
duchy
l
G U A [ ii
Gruinales duchy of Brur.Mc, in Lower Saxony, remarkable for
II its mines of filver, copper, iron, and lead. E. Long.
Guaualaja- ^ N> Lat> 45>
. rx- , GRUINALES (from grus, “ a crane”), the name
of the fourteenth order in Linnaeus’s Fragments of a
Natural Method, confiding of geranium, and a few
other genera which the author confiders as allied to it
in their habit and external drufture.
GRUME, in Medicine, denotes a concreted clot of
blood, milk, or other fubdance. Hence grumous blood
is that which approaches to the nature of grume, and
by its vilcidity and dagnating m the capillary veilels
produces feveral diforders.
GRUPPO, or Turned Shaze, a mufical grace, de¬
fined by Playford to confid in the alternate prolation ■
of two tones in juxtapofition to. each other, with a
clofe on the note immediately beneath the lower of
them. See Shake.
GRUS, in antiquity, a dance performed yearly by
the young Athenians around the temple of Apollo, on
the day of the Delia. I he motions and figures of this
dance were very intricate, and varioufly interwoven }
fonie of them being intended to exprefs the windings
of the labyrinth wherein the minotaur was killed by
Thefeus.
Gltus, in Jlflronomij, a fouthern condellation, not
vifible in our latitude. The number of dars m tnis
condellation, according to Mr Sharp’s Catalogue, is
13.
" Grus. See Ardea, Ornithology Index.
GRUTER, James, a learned philologer, and one
of the mod laborious writers of his time, rvas born at
Antwerp in 1560. He was but a child when his fa¬
ther and mother, being perfecuted for the Protedant
religion by the duchefs of Parma, governefs of the Ne¬
therlands, carried him into England. He imbibed the
elements of learning from his mother, who was one of
the mod learned women of the age, and beddes French,
Italian, and Englidr, was a complete midrefs of Latin,
and well fkilled in Greek. He fpent fome years in the
univerfity of Cambridge j after w'hich he went to that
of Leyden to dudy the civil lawr •, but at lad applied
himfelf wholly to polite literature. After travelling
much, he became profeffor in the univerfity of Heidel-
burgh j near which city he died in 1627. He wrote
many wmrks $ the mod confiderable of which are, 1. A
large colleflion of ancient infcriptions. 2. Thefaurus
criticus. 3. Delicice poetaru?n Gallorum, Italorum, et
Belgarum, (b'c.
GRUYERS, a town of Swifferland, in the canton
of Friburgh, with a cadle. It is famous for its cheefe,
which bears the fame name. E. Long. 7.33. N. Lat.
46- 35* . . , p .
GRY, a meafure containing one-tenth of a line.
A line is one-tenth of a digit, and a digit one-tenth
of a foot, and a philofophical foot one-third of a pendu¬
lum, whofe diadromes, or vibrations, in the latitude of
45 degrees, are each equal to one-fecond of time, or
one-fixtieth of a minute.
GRYLLUS, a genus of infefts, belonging to the
order Hemiptera. See Entomology Index.
GRYPHITES, crow’s stone, an old name for a
mineral found in clay and gravel pits.
GUADALAJARA, or Guadalaxara, a town
of Spain, in New Cadile, and did rid of Alcala, feated
9 1 G U A
on the river Herares. W. Long. 2. 47. N. Lat. 40. Cuadalaj*..
36.
Guadalajara, a confiderable town of North A-Guadalupe.
merica, and capital of a rich and fertile province of the s—-y—J
fame name, with a bidiop’s fee. W. Long. 114. 59.
N. Lat. 20. 20.
GUADALAVIAR, a river of Spain, which rifes
on the confines of Arragbn and New Cadile, and, run¬
ning by Turvel in Arragon, erodes the kingdom of
Valencia, paffes by the town of the fame name, and
o If r- To 1 lo
low Valencia.
GUADALQUIVER, one of the mod famous ri¬
vers of Spain, rifes in Andalufia, near the confines of
Granada, and running quite through Andalufia, by
the towns of Baiza, Andaxar, Cordova, Seville, and
St Lucar, falls at lad into the bay of Cadiz.
GUADALUPE, a handfome town in Spain, in
Edramadura, with a celebrated convent, whofe druc-
ture is magnificent, and is immenfely rich. It is feat¬
ed on a rivulet of the fame name. W. Long. 4. 45.
N. Lat. 39. 12.
Guadalupe, one of the Caribbee iflands, belonging
to the French, the middle of which is feated in about
N. Lat. 16 30. W. Long. 61. 20. It was taken by
the French in 1794, but retaken the fame year.
This iiland, which is of an irregular figure, may be
about 80 leagues in circumference. It is divided into
twro parts by a fmall arm of the fea, which is not above
two leagues long, and from 15 to 40 fathoms broad.
This canal, known by the name of the Salt River,
is navigable, but will only carry veffels of 50 tons bur¬
den.
That part of the illand which gives its name to the
whole colony is, towards the centre, full of craggy
rocks, where the cold is fo intenfe, that nothing will
grow upon them but fern, and fome ufelefs dirubs co¬
vered with mofs. On the top of thefe rocks, a moun¬
tain called la Souphrierc, or the Briniflone Mountain, ri¬
fes to an immenfe height. It exhales, through various
openings, a thick black fmoke, intermixed with fparks
that are vilible by night. From all thefe hills flow
numberlefs fprings, which fertilize the plains below,
and moderate the burning heat of the climate by a re-
fredung dream, fo celebrated, that the galleons which
formerly ufed to touch at the Windward iflands, had
orders to renew their provifion with this pure and falu-
brious water. Such is that part of the iiland properly
called Guadalupe. That which is commonly called
Grand Terre, has not been fo much favoured by nature.
It is indeed lefs rugged *, but it wants fprings and rivers.
The foil is not fo fertile, or the climate fo wholefome or
fo pleafant.
No European nation had yet taken pofieflion of this
ifland, when 550 Frenchmen, led on by two gentlemen
named Loline and DupleJJis, arrived there from Dieppe
on the 28th of June 1635. They had been very im¬
prudent in their preparations. Their provifions were
fo ill chofen, that they were fpoiled in the paffage, and
they had fhipped fo few, that they were exhauded in
two months. They were fupplied with more from the
mother-country. St Chridopher’s, whether from fcar-
city or defign, refufed to fpare them any 5 and the fird
attempts in hufbandry they made in the country could!
not as yet afford any thing. No refource was left for
G U A [i
■•pe. the colony but from the favages; but the fuperriuities
of a people, who cultivate but little, and therefore had
never laid up any llores, could not be very confiderable.
The new comers, not content with what the favages
might freely and voluntarily bring, came to a refolution
to plunder them ; and hollilities commenced on the
l6th of January 1636.
The Caribs, not thinking themfelves in a condition
openly to refift an enemy who had fo much the advan¬
tage from the fuperiority of their arms, dehroyed their
own provifions and plantations, and retired to Grande
Terre, or to the neighbouring iflands. From thence
the moll defperate came over to the ifland from which
they had been driven, and concealed themfelves in the
thickeft parts of the forefls. In the day-time, they
Ihot with their poifoned arrows, or knocked down
Tvith their clubs, all the Frenchmen who were fcatter-
ed about for hunting or lilhing. In the night, they
burned the houfes and deltroyed the plantations of their
unjull fpoilers.
A dreadful famine was the confequence of this kind
of war. The colonilfs were reduced to graze in the
fields, to eat their own excrements, and to dig up dead
bodies for their fubfiifence. Many who had been
flaves at Algiers, held in abhorrence the hands that had
broken their fetters ; and all of them curled their exilf-
ence. It was in this manner that they atoned for the
crime of their invafion, till the government of Aubert
brought a peace with the fa wages at the end of the year
1640. The remembrance, however, of hardlhips en¬
dured in an invaded illand, proved a powerful incite¬
ment to the cultivation of all articles of immediate ne-
celhty ; which afterwards induced an attention to thofe
of luxury confumed in the mother-country. The few
inhabitants who had efcaped the calamities they had
drawn upon themfelves, were foon joined by fome dif-
contented colonills from St Chriltopher’s, by Europe¬
ans fond of novelty, by failors tired of navigation, and
by fome lea-captains, who prudently chofe to commit
to the care of a grateful foil the treafures they had faved
from the dangers of the fea. But Hill the profperity
of Guadalupe v;as Hopped or impeded by obllacles ari-
ling from its fituation.
The facility with wdiich the pirates from the neigh¬
bouring iilands could carry off their cattle, their Haves,
their very crops, frequently brought them into a defpe¬
rate fituation. Intefline broils, arifing from jealoufies
of authority, often diflurbed the quiet of the planters.
The adventurers w7ho went over to the Windward
iilands, difdaining a land that was fitter for agriculture
than for naval expeditions, were eafily drawn to Marti-
nico by the convenient roads it abounds with. The
protection of thofe intrepid pirates brought to that ifland
all the traders wTho flattered themfelves that they might
buy up the fpoils of the enemy at a low price, and all
the planters w’ho thought they might fafely give them¬
felves up to peaceful labours. This quick population
could not fail of introducing the civil and military go¬
vernment of the Caribbee iflands into Martinico. From
that time the French miniflry attended more ferioufly
to this than to the other colonies, which were not fo
immediately under their direClion $ and hearing chiefly
of this ifland, they turned all their encouragements
that way.
It was in confequence of this preference, that in
%
20 ] G U A
1700 the number of inhabitants in Guadalupe amount-Guadalupe,
ed only to 3825 white people, 325 favages, free ne-'—~v——^
groes, mulattoes, and 6725 flaves, many of whom
were Caribs.
At the end of the year 1755* ti16 colorw wras peo¬
pled with 9643 whites, 41,140 flaves of afl ages and
of both lexes. Her faleable commodities were the
produce of 330 fugar-plantations, and 15 plots of in¬
digo ; befides cocoa. coflee, and cotton. Such was the
Hate of Guadalupe when it was conquered by the Bri-
tilh in the month of April 1759.
France lamented this lofs \ but the colony had rea1-
fon to comfort themfelves for this difgrace. During a
fiege of three months, they had feen their plantations
deilroyed, the buildings that ferved to carry on their
works burnt down, and fome of their flaves carried off,
Flad the enemy been forced to retreat after all thefe de-
vaHations, the ifland w7as ruined. Deprived of all af-
fiflance from the mother-country, which w7as not able
to fend her any iuccouis j and expecting nothing from
the Dutch (who, on account of their neutrality, came
into her roads), becaufe flie had nothing to offer them
in exchange ; ihe could never have fubfiffed till the en-
fuing harvefl.
The conquerors delivered them from thefe apprehen-
fions. '1 he Britiffi, indeed, are no merchants in their
colonies. The proprietors of lands, wdio moflly refide
in Europe, lend to their reprefentatives whatever they
want, and draw the whole produce of the effate by the
return of their fliip. An agent fettled in fome fea-port
of Great Britain is intrufled with the furnilhing the
plantation and receiving the produce. This wTas im-
prafticable at Guadalupe •, and the conquerors in this
refpeft wrere obliged to adopt the cuffom of the con¬
quered. The Britifli, informed of the advantage the
French made of their trade with the colonies, haffened;
in imitation of them, to fend their Ihips to the conquer¬
ed ifland ; and fo multiplied their expeditions, that they
overHocked the market, and funk the price of all Eu¬
ropean commodities. The coloniffs bought them at a
very low price *, and, in confequence of this plenty, ob¬
tained long delays for the payment.
To this credit, which was neceffary, wTas foon added
another arifing from fpeculation, which enabled the co¬
lony to fulfil its engagements. A great number of ne¬
groes w?ere carried thither, to haffen the growth and
enhance the value of the plantations. It has been faid
in various memorials, all copied from each other, that
the Englifh had Hocked Guadalupe with 30,000 du¬
ring the four years and three months that they remain¬
ed maflers of the ifland. The regiflers of the cuflom-
houfes, which may be depended on, as there could be
no inducement for an impofition, atteff that the num¬
ber was no more than 18,721. This wras fufficient to
give the nation well-grounded hopes of reaping great
advantages from their new conqueH. But their hopes
were fruilrated $ and the colony, with its dependencies,
was reflored to its former poffeffors by the treaty of
peace in July 1763.
By the furvey taken in 1767, this ifland, including
the fmaller iflands, Defeada, St Bartholomew7, Mari-
galante, and the Saints, dependent upon it, contains
11,863 white people of all ages and of both fexes, 752
free blacks and mulattoes, 72,761 flaves \ which makes
in all a population of 85,376 fouls.
The
QUA [12
Guadiana The produce of Guadalupe, including xyhat is pour-
11 ed in from the fmall iflands under her dominion, ought
Gualeor. t0 verv COnfiderable. But in 1768 it yielded to the
mother-country no more than 140,418 quintals of line^
fugar, 23,603 quintals of raw fugar, 34,205 quintals of
coffee, 11,955 quintals of cotton, 456 quintals ot cocoa,
and 1884 quintals of ginger. Guadalupe was taken by
the Britifh in 1794; but it was retaken the fame
year.
GUADIANA, a large river of Spain, having its
fource in New Caftile, and, pafling crofs the high^
mountains, falls down to the lakes called Ojos of
Guadiana y from whence it runs to Calatrava, IMedelin,
Merida, and Badajox in Eftremadura of .Spain ; and
after having run for fome time in Alentejo in i oitugal,
it pafl'es on to feparate the kingdom oi Algarve from
Andalufia, and falls into thq bay or gulf of Cadiz, be¬
tween Caftro Marino and Agramonte.
GUADIX, a town of Spain, in the kingdom of
Granada, with a bifhop’s fee. It was taken from the
Moors in 125:3, who afterwards retook it, but the
Spaniards again got pofieffion of it in 14^9 ^
feated in a fertile country, in W. Long. 2. 47. N. Lat.
37. 4.
GUAJACUM, Lignum Vita:, or Pock wood; a
genus of plants belonging to the dccandua clafs } and
in the natural method ranking under the 14^1 order,
Gruinales. See Botany and Materia Medic a
Index.
GUALEOR, Gualior, or Gowalier, a large town
of Indoftan in Afia, and capital of a province of the
fame name, with an ancient and celebrated fortrefs of
great ftrength. It is fituated in the very heart of Hin-
doftan Proper, being about 80 miles to the fouth of
Agra, the ancient capital of the empire, and 130 from
the neareit part of the Ganges. From Calcutta it is,
by the neareft route, upwards of 800 miles, and 910 by
the ordinary one ; and about 280 from the Britifh fron¬
tiers. Its latitude is 26. 14. and longitude 78. 26. from
Greenwich.
In the ancient divifion of the empire it is claffed in
the foubah of Agra, and is often mentioned in hiitory.
In the year 1008, and during the two following centu¬
ries, it was thrice reduced by famine. It is probable
that it mull in all ages have been deemed a military
poll of the utmoft confequence, both from its fituation in
refpeft to the capital, and from the peculiarity of its
fite, which was generally deemed impregnable. With
refpeft to its relative pofition, it muft be conlidered that
it ftands on the principal road leading from Agra to
Malwa, Guzerat, and the Decan : and that too, near
the place where it enters the hilly traft which advances
from Bundelcund, Malwa, and Agimere, to a parallel
with the river Jumnah, throughout the greatefl part of
its courfe. And from all thefe circumflances of gene¬
ral and particular fituation, together with its natural
and acquired advantages as a fortrefs, the poffeffion of
it was deemed as neceffary to the ruling emperors of
Hindoftan as Dover caftle might have been to the Sax¬
on and Norman kings of England.—Its palace was
ufed as a Hate prifon as early as 1317, and continued
to be fuch until the downfal of the empire.—On the
final difmemberment of the empire, Gualeor appears to
have fallen to the lot of a rajah of the Jat tribe; who
alfumed the government of the dillridt in which it is
Vol. X. Part I.
i ] G U A
immediately fituated, under the title of Rana of Go-* GuaIeor:
hud or Gohd. Since that period it has changed maf- v—•
ters more than once $ the Mahrattas, whofe dominions
extend to the neighbourhood of it, having fome-
times poffeffed it, and at other times the Rana : but
the means of transfer were always either famine or
treachery, nothing like a liege having ever been at¬
tempted.
Gualeor was in the poffeffion of Madajee Scindia, a
Mahratta chief, in 1779, at the clofe of which year
the council-general of Bengal concluded an alliance
with the Rana •, in confequence of which four batta¬
lions of fepoys oi 500 men each, and fome pieces or
artillery, were fent to his affitlance, his diftridt being
overrun by the Mahrattas, and himfelf almoft Ihut up
in his fort of Gohud. The grand objedf of this alliance
was to penetrate into Scindia’s country, and finally to
draw Scindia himfelf from the weftern fide of India,
where he was attending the’ motions of General God¬
dard, who was then employed in the redudfion of Gu¬
zerat ; it being Mr Hattings’s idea, that when Scindia
found his own dominions in danger, he would detach
himfelf from the confederacy, of which he was the
principal member, and thus leave matters open for an
accommodation with the court of Poonah. It fell out
exadlly as Mr Haffings predidted. Major William
Popham was appointed to the command of the little
army fent to the Rana’s affiftance ; and was very fuc-
cefsful, as well in clearing his country of the enemy,
as in driving them out of one of their own moft valu¬
able diftridts, and keeping poffeffion of it : and Mr Ha-
Ilings, who juftly concluded that the capture of Gua-
lebr, if practicable, would not only open the way into
Scindia’s country, but would alfo add to the reputa¬
tion of our arms in a degree much beyond the rilk and
expence of the undertaking, repeatedly expreffed his
opinion to Major Popham, together with a wiih that
it might be attempted } and founding his hopes of
fuccefs on the confidence that the garrifon would pro¬
bably have in the natural ftrength of the place. It
was accordingly undertaken •, and the following account
of the place, and the manner of our getting poffeflion
of it, was written by Captain Jonathan Scott, at that
time Perfian interpreter to Major Popham, to ms bro¬
ther Major John Scott.
“ The fortrefs of Gualeor ftands on a vaft rock of
about four miles in length, but narrow, and of unequal
breadth, and nearly ftat at the top. The fides are fo
fteep as to appear almoft perpendicular in every part ;
for where it was not naturally fo, it has been feraped
away j and the height from the plain below is from
200 to 300 feet. The rampart conforms to the edge
of the precipice all round ; and the only entrance to
it is by fteps running up the fide of the rock, defended
on the fide next the country by a wall and baftions,
and farther guarded by feven ftone gateways, at certain
diftances from each other. Therarea within is full of
noble buildings, refervoirs of water, wells, and culti¬
vated land ; fo that it is really a little diftridl in it-
felf. At the north-weft foot of the mountain is the
town, pretty large, and well built ; the houfes all of
ftone. To have befieged this place would be vain, for
nothing but a furprife or blockade could have carried
it.
“ A tribe of banditti from the diftridt of the Rana
C,) had
G U A [12
had been accuflomed to rob about this town, and once
in the dead of night had climbed up the rock and got
into the fort. This intelligence they had communica¬
ted to the Rana, who often thought of availing himfelt
of it, but was fearful of undertaking an enterprile of
fuch mcment with his own troops. At length he in¬
formed Major Popham of it, who fent a party of the
robbers to conduct fome of his own fpies to the fpot.
They accordingly climbed up in the night, and found
that the guards generally went to deep after their
rounds. Popham now ordered ladders to be made •, but
with fo much fecrecy, that until the night of furprife
only myfelf and a few others knew it. On the 3d of
Auguft, in the evening, a party was ordered to be in
readinefs to march under the command of Captain Wil¬
liam Bruce j and Popham put himfelf at the head of
two battalions, which w7ere immediately to follow the
{forming party. To prevent as much as poflible any
noife in approaching or afcending the rock, a kind of
Ihoes of woollen cloth were made for the fepoys, and
duffed with cotton. At 11 o’clock the wdrole detach¬
ment marched from the camp at Reypour, eight miles
from Gualeor, through unfrequented paths, and reach¬
ed it at a little before daybreak. Juft as Captain Bruce
arrived at the foot of the rock, he faw the lights which
accompanied the rounds moving along the rampart, and
heard the fentinels cough (the mode of fignifying that
all is well in an Indian camp or garrifon), which might
have damped the fpirit of many men, but ferved only
to infpire him with more confidence, as the moment
for aflion, that is, the interval between the palling the
rounds was now afcertained. Accordingly when the
lights were gone, the wooden ladders were placed a-
gainit the rock, and one of the robbers firft mounted,
and returned wuth an account that the guard was retired
to fleep. Lieutenant Cameron, our engineer, next
mounted, and tied a rope-ladder to the battlements of
the wall •, this kind of ladder being the only one adapt¬
ed to the purpofe of fcaling the wall in a body (the
wooden ones only ferving to afcend from crag to crag
of the rock, and to affift in fixing the rope-ladders).
When all was ready, Captain Bruce with 20 fepoys,
grenadiers, afcended without being difcovered, and
fquatted down under the parapet } but before. a rein¬
forcement arrived, three of the party had fo little re-
colle&ion as to fire on fome of the garrifon who hap¬
pened to be lying alleep near them. This had nearly
ruined the whole plan : the garrifon were of courfe
alarmed, and ran in great numbers towards the place
but ignorant of the ftrength of the affailants (as the
men fired on had been killed outright), they fulfered
themfelves to be flopped by the warm fire kept up by
the fmall party of the grenadiers, until Major Popham
him/elf, with a confiderable reinforcement, came to
their aid. The garrifon then retreated to the inner
buildings, and difcharged a few rockets, but foon af¬
terwards retreated precipitately through the gate •,
whilft the principal officers, thus defected, afl'embled
together in one houfe, and hung out a flag. Major
Popham fent an officer to give them affurance of quar¬
ter and protection 5 and thus, in the fpace of two
hours, this important and altoniffiing fortrefs was com¬
pletely in our poffeffion. We had only 20 men wound¬
ed and one killed. On the fide of the enemy, Bapogee
2 ] G U A
the governor was killed, and molt of the principal offi¬
cers wounded.”
Thus fell the ftrongefl fortrefs in Hindoflan, garri-
foned by a chofen body of 1200 men, on Augull 4.
1780 ; and which, before the capture of it by the
Britilh, was pronounced by the princes of Hindoitan,
as far as their knowledge in the military art extended,
to be impregnable. In 1783 Madajee Scindia befieged
this fortrefs, then poffelfed by the Rana of Gohud,
with an army of 70,000 men, and effedled the reduc¬
tion by the treachery of one of the Rana’s officers,
who formed the pla# of admiffion of a party of Scin-
dia’s troops} thefe were immediately fupported by ano¬
ther party, wffio attacked an oppofite quarter, and got
admiffion alfo.
GUAM, the largefl: of the Ladrone iflands in the
South fea, being about 40 leagues in circumference.
It is the only one among the innumerable iflands that
lie fcattered in the immenfe South fea which has a
town built in the European ftyle, with a regular fort,
a church, and civilized inhabitants. The air is excel¬
lent, the water good, the garden fluffs and fruits are
exquifite, the flocks of buffaloes innumerable, as are
thofe of goats and hogs, and all kinds of poultry
abound in an affonifhing degree. There is no port in
which worn-out failors can be more fpeedily reftored,
or find better or more plentiful refrefhments, than in
this.
But Guam did not formerly enjoy this ftate of
abundance. When it was firft difcovered by Magel¬
lan in 1521, with the other eight principal iflands
that lie north of it, which, wdth a multitude of fmaller
ones, form together that archipelago known by the
name of the Ladrones, they were all crowded with in¬
habitants, but afforded no refreihments to navigators
except fifh, bananas, cocoa nuts, and bread fruit j and
even thefe could not be procured but by force, amidit
(bowers of the arrows and lances of the natives. I he
Spaniards carried thither from America the firft flock
of cattle, of fowls, of plants, and feeds, and fruits, as
w'ell as garden fluffs, which are all now found in fuch
abundance.
The Ladrone iflands, and Guam in particular, were
covered wdth inhabitants wffien they w7ere difcover¬
ed. It is faid that Guam alone contained upon its
coaft more than 20,coo people. Thefe men were fe¬
rocious favages and bold thieves, as all the iflanders in
the South feas are, undoubtedly becaufe they w'ere un¬
acquainted with the rights of property 5 but they were
fo favage, fo incapable of fupporting the yoke of ci¬
vilization, that the Spaniards, who undertook to bring
them under the regulations of law and order, have
feen their numbers almoft annihilated within the fpaCe
of two centuries. Under the government of their
miflionaries, thefe fierce iflanders, after having long
defended, by cruel wTars, the right of living like wdld
beads under the guidance of inftincl, being at laid ob¬
liged to yield to "the fuperiority of the Spanifh arms,
gave themlelves up to defpair : they took the refolu-
tion of adminiftering potions to their women, in order
to procure abortions, and to render them fterile, that
they might not bring into the wrorld, and leave behind
them, beings that were not free, according to the
ideas that they had of liberty. A refolution fo vio¬
lent,
G U A [ i
Guam, lent, and fo contrary to the views and intentions of
—m——* nature, was perfifted in with fo much obftinacy in the
nine Ladrone iflands, that their population, which at
the time of the difcovery confided of more than 60,000
fouls, does not now exceed 800 or 900 in the whole
extent of the archipelago. About 20 or 30 years ago,
the fcattered fragments of the original natives were
colledled and eflablifhed in the ifland of Guam, where
they now begin to recover by the wife precautions, and
prudent, though tardy, exertions of a government more
adapted to the climate of thefe iilands and to the ge¬
nius of their inhabitants.
The principal fettlement, which the Spaniards call
the town of Agana, is fituated about four leagues
north-eaft of the landing-place, on the fea-fhore, and
at the foot of fome hills, not very high, in a beautiful
well-watered country. Belides this, there are 21
fmaller fettlements of Indians round the ifland, all on
the fea-fhore, compofed of five or fix families, who
cultivate fruits and grain, and employ themfelves in
filhing.
The centre of the ifland is dill uncleared. The
trees are not very tall, but they are fit for the building
of houfes and of boats. The foreds are in general
very thick. The Spaniards at fird cleared certain
portions of land to turn them into favannahs for the
feeding of cattle. The formation of favannahs confids
in multiplying within the foreds fmall cleared fpots
feparated only by thickets and rows of trees, and
kept clean from fhrubs of every kind. The Spaniards
fow thefe fpots with grafs feeds, and other indigenous
plants that are fit for padurage. Thefe meadows, be¬
ing effe&ually fhaded on every quarter, preferve their
frefhnefs, and afford the docks and herds a fhelter
from the fun and the great heat of noon. The cattle
that were formerly brought to the favannahs of Guam
from America have multiplied adonidnngly : they are
become wild, and mud be (hot when wanted, or taken
by dratagem.
The woods are likewife full of goats, of hogs, and
fowls, which were all originally brought thither by the
Spaniards, and are now' wild. The defh of all thefe
animals is excellent. In the favannahs, and even in
the heart of the foreds, there is a vad multitude of
pigeons, of parroquets, of thrufhes, and of black¬
birds.
Among the indigenous trees of the country, the mod
remarkable are, the cocoa-nut tree and the bread-fruit
tree. The woods are alfo filled with guav as, bannanas,
or plantains of many varieties, citrons, lemons, and
oranges, both fweet and bitter, and the fmall dwarf
thorny china-orange wdth red fruit. The caper-budi
abounds in all the Ladrone iflands 5 and as it is con-
ftantly in flower, as well as the citron and orange
flirubs, with many other of the indigenous plants,
they perfume the air with the mod agreeable fmells,
and delight the eye with the riched colours.
The rivers of Guam, which are either rivulets or
torrents, abound in fifli of an excellent quality : the
Indians, however, eat none of them, but prefer the in¬
habitants of the fea. The turtle, wrhich grow here as
large as thofe in the ifland of Afcenfion, are not eaten
either by the Indians or Spaniards.
The cultivated crops lately introduced are, the rice,
the maize, the indigo, the cotton, the cocoa, the fu-
3 ] G u A
gar-cane, which have all fucceeded. That of tue Guim
maize, efpecially, is of adonilhing fertility: it is com- II
mon to find in the fields where this grain is cultivated pliar^ntep;
plants of twelve feet high, bearing eight or ten fpikes
from nine to ten inches in length, fet round with w'ell-
filled feeds. The gardens are dored with mangoes
and pine-apples. The former is one of the fined fruits
imaginable : it was brought from Manilla, and may be
eaten in great quantity without any bad confequences.
—Horfes have been brought to Guam from Manilla,
and affes and mules from Acapulco. The Indians have
been taught to tame and domedicate the ox, and to
employ him in the draught.
This ifland, the land of which rifes' gradually from
the fea-fliore towards the centre by a gentle acclivity,
is not very mountainous. The inhabitants fay, that
its foil is equally rich and fertile over the whole ifland,
except in the northern part, which forms a peninfula
almod deditute of water. But in the red, you can¬
not go a league without meeting a rivulet. Upon pe¬
netrating a little way into the interior part of the coun¬
try, to the ead and the fouth of Agana, many fprings
of fine water are found, forming, at little didances,
bafons of pure water, which, being fliaded by thick
trees, preferve a mod agreeable coolnefs in fpite of the
heat of the climate.
The indigenous inhabitants are fuch as they were
defcribed by Magellan $ of fmall dature, fuihciently
ugly, black, and in general dirty, though they are
continually in the water. The women are for the
mod part handfome, well made, and of a reddifli co¬
lour. Both fexes have long hair. This fcanty people
have become by civilization, gentle, honed, and hofpi-
table. They have, however, at the fame time acqui¬
red a vice that was unknown to their favage ancedors.
The men are a little addifted to drunkennefs, for they
drink freely of the wine of the cocoa-nut. They love
mufic and dancing much, but labour little. They are
paflionately fond of cock-fighting. On Sundays and
holidays they gather together in crowds after the fer-
vice, at the door of the church ; where each Indian
brings his cock td match him with that of his neigh¬
bour, and each bets upon his own.—The miflion of
Guam is now in the hands of the Augudine friars, who
have fupplanted the Jefuits. E. Long. 1430 13'. N.
Lat. 130 10'.
GUAMANGA, a confiderable town of South A-
merica, and capital of a province of the fame name in
Peru, and in the audience of Lima, with a bifhop’s
fee. It is remarkable for its fweatmeats, manufactures,
and mines of gold, filver, loaddone, and quickfilver.
W. Long. 740 15k S. Lat. 130 10'.
GUANUGO, a rich and handfome town of South
America, and capital of a didrict of the fame name in
the audience of Lima. W. Long. 750 ij'. S. Lat.
9- 55- v
GUANZAVELCA, a town of South America,
in Peru, and in the audience of Lima. It abounds
in mines of quickfilver. W. Long. 740. 39'. S. Lat.
12. 36.
GUARANTEE, or Warrantee, In Law, a term
relative to warrant or warranter, properly fignifying
him whom the warranter undertakes to indemnify or
fecure from damage.
Guarantee is more frequently ufed for a warranter,
£L2 or
G U A [ 124 ]
or a perfon who undertakes and obliges hxmfelf to fee afiemble at
a fecond perfon perform what he has ftipulated to the
third. See Warranty.
GUARANTY, in matters of polity, the engage¬
ment of mediatorial or neutral ftates, whereby they
plight their faith that certain treaties {hall be invio¬
lably obferved, or that they will make war a gain it the
aggreffor.
GUARD, in a general fenfe, lignifies the. defence
or prefervation of any thing} the act of oblerving what
paifes. in order to prevent furprife} or the care, pre¬
caution, and attention, we make ufe of to pi event any
thing from happening contrary to our intentions or
inclinations.
Guard, in the military art, is a duty pertormed
by a body of men, to fecure an army or place from
being lurprifed by an enemy. In garnfon the guards
are relieved every day : hence it comes that every fol-
dier mounts guard once every three or four days in
time of peace, and much oftener in time of war. See
Honours.
Advanced Guard, is a party of either hone or foot,
that marches before a more confiderable body, to give
notice of any approaching danger. Ihefe guards are
either made ftronger or weaker, according to fitu-
ation, the danger to be apprehended from the enemy,
or the nature of the country.
Van Guard. See Advanced Guard.
Artillery Guard, is a detachment from the army
to fecure the artillery w'hen in the field. Their corps
de garde is in the front of the artillery park, and their
fentries difperfed round the fame. This is generally
a 48-hours guard •, and, upon a march, this guard
marches in the front and rear of the artillery, and
muft be fure to leave nothing behind : if a gun or
waggon breaks down, the officer that commands
the°0guard is to leave a fufficient number of . men
to affift the gunners and matroffes in getting it up
again.
‘ Artillery Quarter-Guard, is frequently a non-com-
miffioned officer’s guard from, the royal regiment of
artillery, whofe corps de garde is ahvays in the iiont of
their encampment.
Artillery Rear-Guard, confifts in a corporal and fix
men, ported in the rear of the park.
Corps de Garde, are foldiers entrufted with the
' guard of a port, under the command of one or more
officers. This word alfo fignifies the place where the
guard mounts. r
Grand Guard j three or four fquadrons of horie,
commanded by a field-officer, ported at about a mile
or a mile and a half from the camp, on the right and
left wings, towards the enemy, for the better {ecurLy
o£ the camp.
Forage Guard, a detachment fent out to fecure
foragers, and who are ported at all places, where
either the enemy’s party may come to difturb the fo¬
ragers, or where they may be fpread too near the
enemy, fo as to be in danger of being taken. This
guard confifts both of horie and foot, and muft re¬
main on their ports till, the foragers are all come off
the ground.
Main Guard, is that from which all other guards
are* detached. Thofe who are for mounting guard
G U A
their refpeftive captain’s quarters, and
march from thence to the parade in good order;
where, after the whole guard is drawm up, the {mall
guards are detached to their refpeftive ports : then
the fubalterns throw lots for their guards, who are all
under the command of the captain of the main guard.
This guard mounts in garrifon at different hours, ac¬
cording as the governor pleafes.
Piquet Guard, a good number of horfe and foot,
always in readmefs in cafe of an alarm : the horfes
are generally faddled all the time, and the riders
booted.
The foot draw up at the head of the battalion,
frequently at the beating of the tat-too} but after¬
wards return to their tents, where they hold them-
felves in readmefs to march upon any fudden alarm.
This guard is to make refiitance in cafe of an attack,
until the army can get ready.
Baggage Guard, is ahvays an officer’s guard, who
has the care of the baggage on a march. The wag¬
gons ffiould be numbered by companies, and follow
one another regularly : vigilance and attention in tne
paffage of hollow ways, woods, and thickets, mult be
ftrittly obferved by this guard.
Quarter Guard, is a imall guard commanded by a
fubaltern officer, potted in the front of each battalion,
at 222 feet before the front of the regiment..
Rear Guard, that party of the army which brings
up the rear on a march, generally compofed of all the
old grand guards of the camp. The rear-guard of
a part is frequently eight or ten horfe, about $oo
paces behind the party. Hence the advance-guard
going out upon a party, form the rear-guard in their
retreat.
Rear Guard, is alfo a corporal’s guard placed in the
rear of a, regiment, to keep good order in that part of
the camp.
Standard Guard, a fmall guard under a corporal,
out of each regiment of horfe, who mount on foot in
the front of each regiment, at the diitance of 20 feet
from the ftreets, oppofite the main ftreet.
French Guard, only mounts in the time of a fiege,
and fometimes confifts of three, four, or fix battalions,
according to the importance of the fiege. I his guard
muft oppofe the befieged when they tally out, proteft
the workmen, &c.
Provq/l Guard, is always an officer’s guard that at¬
tends the provoft in his rounds, either to prevent de-
fertion, marauding, rioting, &c. See Provost.
Guard, in fencing, implies a pofture proper to de¬
fend the body from tR fword of the antagonift.
Ordinary Guards, fuch as are fixed during the cam¬
paign, and relieved daily.
Extraordinary Guards, or detachments, which are
only commanded on particular occafions, eithei tor the
further fecurity of the camp, to cover the foragers, or
for convoys, efcorts, or expeditions.
Guards, alfo imply the troops kept to guard the
king’s perfon, and confift both of horfe and foot.
Horfe Guards, in England, are gentlemen chofen
for their bravery, to be entrufted with the guard of
the king’s perfon ; and were divided into four troops,
called the if, 2d, $d, and. tyh troop of horfe-guards.
The firft troop was raifed in the year 1660, and the
command
Guard.
G U A [12
uard. command given to Lord Gerard j the iecond in 1601,
and the command given to Sir Philip Howard ; the
third in 1693, and the command given to Earl I'ever-
fliam ; the fourth in 1702, and the command given to
Earl Newburgh. Each troop had one colonel, two
lieutenant-colonels, one cornet and major, one. guidon
and major, four exempts and captains, four brigadiers
and lieutenants, one adjutant, four tub-brigadiers and
cornets, and 60 private men. But the four troops are
now turned into two regiments of life-guards.
Horfe-Grenadier Guards, are divided into two tioops
called the \ft and id troops of horfe-grenadier guards.
The firft troop was raffed in 1693, and the command
given to Lieutenant-general Cbolmondeley ; the fecond
in 1702, and the command given to Lord Forbes.
Each troop has one colonel, lieutenant-colonel, one
guidon or major, three exempts and captains, thre.e
lieutenants, one adjutant, three cornets, and 6o pii-
vate men.
Teamen of the Guard, firft raifed by Henry VIL
ip the year 1483. They are a kind of pompous foot-
guards to the king’s perfon ; and are generally called
by a nickname the Beef Eaters. They were anciently
250 men of the firft rank under gentry and of larger
ftature than ordinary, each being required, to be fix
feet high. At prefent there are but 100 in conftant
dutv, and 70 more not on duty ; and when any one
of the too dies, his place is fuppiied out of the 70.
They go drefled after the manner of King Henry VIIPs
time. Their firft commander or captain was the earl
of Oxford, and their pay is 2s. 6d. per day.
Foot Guards, are p-egiments of foot appointed for
the guard of his majefty and his palace. I here are
three regiments of them, called the xji, id, and ^d,
regiments of foot-guards. They were raifed in the year
1660 ; and the command of the firft given to Colonel
Ruffel, that of the fecond to General Monk, and the
third to the earl of Linlithgow. The firft . regiment
is at prefent commanded by one colonel, one lieutenant-
colonel, three majors, 23 captains, one captain-lieu¬
tenant, 31 lieutenants, and 24 enfigns ; and contains
three battalions. The fecond regiment has one colo¬
nel, one lieutenant-colonel, two majors, 14 captains,
one captain-lieutenant, 18 lieutenants, 16 enfigns, and
contains only two battalions. The third regiment is
the fame as the fecond.
The French Guards are divided into thofe within,
and thofe without the palace.—The firft are the gardes
du corps, or body-guards; which confift of four com¬
panies, the firft of which companies was anciently
Scots. See Scots Guards, infra.
The guards without are the Gens d'Armes, light
horfe, mufqueteers, and two other regiments, the one
of which is French and the other Swifs.
New arrangements, however, have taken place in
this department as wTell as others fince the late revolu¬
tion.
Scots Guards, a celebrated band, which formed
the firft company of the ancient gardes du corps ©f
France.
It happened from the ancient Jntercourfe between
France and Scotland, thpt the natives of the latter king¬
dom had often diftinguifhed themfelves in the fervice of
the former. On this foundation the company of Scots
guards, and the company of Scots gendarmes, were in-
5 1 G U A
ftituted.—Both of them owed their inftitution to Guard. <
Charles VIL of France, by whom the firft Handing ^
army in Europe was formed, anno 1434 ? ■^md tnexr
fates cannot but be interefting to Scotfmen. See Gen¬
darmes.
Valour, honour, and fidelity, muft have been very
confpicuous features of the national charafter of the
Scots, when fo great and civilized a people as the
French could be induced to chooie a body qf them,
foreigners as they were, for guarding the perions ot
their fovereigns.—Of the particular occafion and ica-
fons of this predilection we have a recital by Louis XII.
a fucceeding monarch. After fetting forth the (ervic.es
which the Scots had performed for Charles VII. in t
expelling the Englifh out of h ranee, and reducing the
kingdom to his obedience, he adds—“ Since which Htf °f
reduction, and for the fervice of the Scots upon that^ ^
occafion, and for the great loyalty and virtue which he^^ ma_
found in them, he feledled 200 of them for the guard ^er 0f re.
of his perion, of whom he made an hundred men atqueftsto
arms, and an hundred life-guards: And the hundred that prince^
men at arms are the hundred lances of our ancient or¬
dinances ; and the life-guard men are thoie or our
guard who Hill are near and about our perfon.•’—As
to their fidelity in this honourable ftation, the hifto-
rian, fpeaking of Scotland, fays, “ lire French have
fo ancient a friendftiip and alliance with the Scots, that
of 400 men appointed for the king’s life-guard, there
are an hundred of the faid nation who are the neareft
to his perfon, and in the night keep the keys of the
apartment where he ileeps. 1 here are, moreover, an
hundred complete lances and two hundred yeomen of
the faid nation, befides feveral that aredifperfed through
the companies: And for fo long a time as they have
ferved in France, never hath there been one of them
found that hath committed or done any fault againft
the kings or their ftate ; and they make ufe of them as
of their own fubjefts.”
The ancient rights and privileges of the Scottifti
life-guards were very honourable ; efpecially of the
twenty-four firft. The author of the Ancient Alli¬
ance fays, “ On high holidays, at the ceremony of
the royal touch, the ereclion of knights of the king’s
order, the reception of extraordinary ambaffadors, and
the public entries of cities, there muft be fix of their
number next to the king’s perfon, three on each fide ;
and the body of the king muft be carried by thefe
only, wherefoever ceremony requires. They have the
keeping of the keys of the king’s lodging at night, the
keeping of the choir of the chapel, the keeping the
boats where the king pafles the rivers; and they have
the honour of bearing the wftiite filk fringe in their
arms, which in France is the coronne coleur. The keys
of all the cities where the king makes his entry are
given to their captain in waiting or out of waiting.—.
He has the privilege, in waiting or out of waiting, at
ceremonies, fuch as coronations, marriages, and fu¬
nerals of the kings, and at the baptifm and marriage
of their children, to take duty upon him. 'The coro¬
nation robe belongs to him; and this company, by the
death or change of a captain, never changes its rank,
as do the three others.”
This company’s firft commander, who is recorded
as a perfon of great valour and military accomplilh-
ments, was Robert Patillock, a native oi Dundee
G U A [ 126 ] G U A
Guard, and the band, ever ardent to diflinguiflr itfelf, contx-
Ouardian. nued in great reputation till the year 1578. From
that period, the Scots guards were lefs attended to,
and their privileges came to be iixvaded. In the year
1612, they remonllrated to Louis XIII. on the fub-
jeft of the injuftice they had fuffered, and fet before
him the fervices they had rendered to the crown of
France. Attempts were made to re-eftablilh them
on their ancient foundation ; but no negociation for
this purpofe was effeftual. The troops of France
grew jealous of the honours paid them : the death
of Francis II. and the return of Mary to Scotland,
at a time when they had much to hope, were unfor¬
tunate circumilances to them : the change of religion
in Scotland was an additional blow ; and the acceflion
of James VI. to the throne of England difunited al¬
together the interefts of France and Scotland. The
Scots guards of France had therefore, latterly, no
connexion with Scotland but the name.
GuARD-Botit, a bo?t appointed to row the rounds
amongft the flxips of war which are laid up in any
harbour, &c. to obferve that their officers keep a good
looking-out, calling to the guard-boat as ffie paffes, and
not fuffering her crew to come on board, without hav¬
ing previoully communicated the watch-word of the
night.
GuARn-Ship, a veflel of war appointed to fuperin-
tend the marine affairs in a harbour or river, and
to fee that the (hips which are not commiffioned
have their proper watchword kept duly, by fend¬
ing her guard-boats around them every night. She
is alfo to receive feamen who are impreffed in the time
.of war.
GUARDIAN, in Lau\ a perfon who has the charge
of any thing 5 but more commonly it lignifies one who
has the cuftody and education of fuch perfons as have
not fufficient difcretion to take care of themfelves and
their own affairs, as children and idiots.
Their bufinefs is to take the profits of the minor’s
lands to his ufe, and to account for the fame : they
ought to fell all moveables within a reafonable time,
and to convert them into land or money, except the
minor is near of age, and may want fuch things him-
felfj and they are to pay intereft for the money in
their hands that might have been fo placed out j in
which cafe it will be prefumed that the guardians made
ufe of it themfelves. They are to fuftain the lands of
the heir, without mdking deftru&ion of any thing
thereon, and to keep it fafely for him : if they com¬
mit wafte on the lands, it is a forfeiture of the guardi-
anlhip, 3 Edw. I. And where perfons, as guardians,
hold over any land, without the confent of the perfon
wffio is next entitled, they (hall be adjudged trefpaf-
fers, and ffiall be accountable ; 6. Ann. cap. xviii.
Guardian, or Warden, of the Cinque ports, is an of¬
ficer who has the jurifdiftion of the cinque-ports, with
all the power that the admiral of England has in other
places.
Camden relates, that the Romans, after they had
fettled themfelves and their empire in our ifland, ap¬
pointed a magiftrate, or governor, over the eaft parts
wffiere the Cinque-ports lie, with the title of comes litto-
ris Saxoniciper Britanniam; having another, who bore
the like title, on the oppofite fide of the fea. Their
bufinefs was to ftrengthcn the fea coaft with munition,
1
againlt the outrages and robberies of the barbarians j Guardian
and that antiquary takes our warden of the Cinque- .11
ports to have been ere&ed in imitation thereof. TheGuatima1a'.
wardenffiip is a place of value, luppofed -vorth 7000I.
per annum.
Guardian of the Spiritualities, the perfon to whom
the fpiritual jurifdidion of any diocefe is committed,
during the time the fee is vacant. A guardian of the*
ipiritualities may likewife be either fuch in law, as the
archbilhop is of any diocefe within his province ; or
by delegation, as he whom the archbilhop or vicar-
general for the time appoints. Any fuch guardian
has power to hold courts, grant licences, difpenfations,
pi'obates of wills, &c.
GUAREA, a genus of plants belonging to the oc-
tandria clafs. See Botany Index.
GUARINI, Battista, a celebrated Italian poet,
born at Ferrara in 1538. He was great-grandfon to
Guarino of Verona, and was fecretary to Alphonfo
duke of Ferrara, who intrufted him with feveral im¬
portant commiffions. After the death of that prince,
he was fucceffively fecretary to Vipcenzio de Gonza-
ga, to Ferdinand de Medicis grand duke of Tufca-
ny, and to Francis Maria de Feltri duke of Urbino.
But the only advantages he reaped under thefe various
mailers were great encomiums on his wit and compofi-
tions. He was well acquainted with polite literature j
and acquired immortal reputation by his Italian poems,
efpecially by his Bajior Fido, the moll known and ad¬
mired of all his works, and of which there have been
innumerable editions and tranflations. He died in
1612.
GUARDIA, or Guarda, a town of Portugal, in
the province of Beira, with a bilhop’s fee. It con¬
tains about 2300 inhabitants, is fortified both by art
and nature, and has a ftately cathedral. W. Long. 6.
37. N. Lat. 40. 20.
Guardi a-Alferez, a town of Italy, in the kingdom
of Naples, and in the Contado di Molife, with a bi-
ffiop’s fee. E. Long. 14. 36. N. Lat. 41. 39.
GUARGALA, or Guerguela, a town of A-
frica, and capital of a fmall kingdom of the fame name,
in Biledulgerid, to the fouth of Mount Atlas. E.
Long. 9. 55. N. Lat. 28. o.
GUARIBA, the name of a fpecies of monkey.
See Simia, Mammalia Index.
GU AST ALL A, a llrong town of Italy, in the
duchy of Mantua, with the title of a duchy, remark¬
able for a battle between the French and Imperialilfs
in 1734. It was ceded to the duke of Parma in 1748,
by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. It is feated near the
river Po, in E. Long. 10. 38. N. Lat. 44. 55.
GUATIMALA, the audience and province of, in
New Spain, is above 750 miles in length, and 450 in
breadth. It is bounded on the well by Soconjufco, on
the north by Verapax and Honduras, on the eaft by
Nicaragua, and on the fouth by the South fea. It a-
bounds in chocolate, which they make ufe of inftead of
money. It has 12 provinces under it: and* the native
Americans, under the domiixions of Spain, profefs
Chriftianity, mixed indeed with many of their own fu-
perftitions. There is a great chain of high mountains,
which runs acrofs it from eaft to weft, and it is fub-
je£t to earthquakes and ftorms. It is, however, very
fertile; and produces befides chocolate, great quanti-
Giiat'ma’a
II
Gudgeon.
G U E
tics of cochineal and cotton, indigo, tvoad,
and honey.
GuatiMALA, St Jago de, is the capital of the above
audience, with a bifhop’s fee, and an univeriity. It
carries cn a great trade, efpecially in chocolate. W.
Long. 90. 30. N. Lat. 14. o.
St Jago de Guatimala was almoft ruined in 1541, by
a ftorm and an eruption from the volcanic mountain
Guatimala. It was afterwards rebuilt at a good di-
ftance from this mountain. But in 1773, it was again
deftroyed by a terrible earthquake. The town then
contained 60,000 inhabitants •, but no traces of it now
remain •, 8000 perfons perifhed by this earthquake, and
the lofs has been eilimated at 15 millions ilerling.
GUAVA. See Psidtum, Botany Index.
GUAXACA, a province in the audience of Mexi¬
co, in New Spain, which is very fertile in wheat, In¬
dian corn, cochineal, and caflia. It is bounded by the
gulf of Mexico on the north, and by the South fea on
the fouth. It contains mines of gold and lilver. Guax-
aca is the capital town.
Guaxaca, the capital town of the above province,
with a bilhop’s fee. It is without walls, and does not
contain above 20C0 inhabitants $ but it is rich, and
they make very fine fweet-meats and chocolates. It
has feveral rich convents, both for men and women.
W. Long. 100. N. Lat. 17. 25.
GUAYRA, a dillridl of the province of La Plata,
in South America, having Krafil on the eaft, and Pa¬
raguay on the weft.
GUBEN, a handfome town of Germany, in Low¬
er Lufatia, feated on the river Neifte, and belonging to
the houfe of Saxe Marfenburg. E. Long. 14. 59. N.
Lat. 51. 55.
GUBER, a kingdom of Africa, in Negroland. It
is furrounded with high mountains ) and the Villages,
which are many, are inhabited by people who are em¬
ployed in taking care of their cattle and ftieep. There
are alfo abundance of artificers, and linen-weavers,
who fend their commodities to Tombuto. The whole
country is overflowed every year by the inundations of
the Niger, and at that time the inhabitants fow their
rice. There is one town which contains almoft 6000
families, among whom are many merchants.
GUBIO, a town of Italy, in the territory of the
church, and in the duchy of Urbino, with a bilhop’s
fee. E. Long. 12. 38. N. Lat. 43. 18.
GUDGEON, a fpecies of cyprinus. SccCyprinus,
Ichthyology Index.
This fifti, though fmall, is of fo pleafant a tafte,
that it is very little inferior to fmelt. They fpawn
twice in the fummer feafon ; and their feeding is much
like the barbels in ftreams and on gravel, flighting all
manner of flies: but they are eafily taken with a fmall
red worm, fiftiing near the ground j and being a lea¬
ther-mouthed fifti, will not eafily get off the hook when
ftruck.—The gudgeon may be fiftied for with float,
the hook being on the ground ; or by hand, with a
running line on the ground, without cork or float.
But although the fmall red worm above-mentioned is
the beft bait for this fifli, yet wrafps, gentles, and cad-
baits wflll do very well. You may alfo fifti for gudgeons
with twm or three hooks at once, and find very plea¬
fant fport, where they rife any thing large. When
you angle for them, ftir up the fand or gravel with a
[ 127 ] G U E
balfam, long pole ; this will make them gather to that place, GtSc'geon
bite fafter, and with more eagernefs. , II.
Sea Gudgeon, Roch-Jijh, or Black Goby. See Gobius, ,Guer^lc e,<
Ichthyology Index.
GUEBRES, or Gabres. See Gabres.
GUELPHS, or Guelfs, a celebrated fadlion in
Italy, antagonifts of the Gibelins. See Gibelins.
The Guelphs and Gibelins filled Italy with blood
and carnage for many years. The Guelphs flood for
the Pope, againft the emperor. Their rife is referred
by fome to the time of Conrad III. in the twelfth
century 5 by others to that of Frederick I. and by
others to that of his fucceffor Frederick II. in the thir¬
teenth century.
The name of Guelph is commonly faid to have been
formed from JVe/f, or Welfo, on the following occafion:
the emperor Conrad III. having taken the duchy of
Bavaria from Welfe VI. brother of Henry duke of
Bavaria, Welfe, aflifted by the forces of Roger king
of Sicily, made wrar on Conrad, and thus gave birth
to the faftion of the Guelfs.
Others derive the name Guelfs from the German
Wolff, on account of the grievous evils committed by
that cruel faftion : others deduce the denomination
from that of a German called Guelfe, w'ho lived at Pi-
ftoye 5 adding, that his brother, named Gibel, gave his
name to the Gibelins. See the article Gibelins.
GUELDERLAND, one of the united provinces,
bounded on the weft by Utrecht and Holland, on the
eaft by the bilhoprick of Munfter and the duchy of
Cleves, on the north by the Zuyder fea and Overyffel,
and on the fouth it is feparated from Brabant by the
Maefe. Its greateft extent from north to fouth is about
47 miles, and from weft to eaft near as much j but its
figure is very irregular. The aix here is much healthier
and clearer than in the maritime provinces, the land
lying higher. Excepting fome part of what is called
the Li?Aioe, the foil is fruitful. It is watered by the
Rhine, and its three branches, the Wahal, the Yffel,
and the Leek, belides leffer dreams. In 1079, it was
raifed to a county by the emperor Henry IV. and in
1339 to a duchy by the emperor Louis of Bavaria. It
had dukes of its own till 1528, when it was yielded up
to the emperor Charles V. In 1576, it acceded to the
union of Utrecht. It is divided into three diftricls,
each of which has its ftates and diets. Thofe for the
whole province are held twice a-year at the capital
towns. The province fends 19 deputies to the ftates-
general. Here are computed 285 Calvinift minifters,
14 Roman Catholic congregations, 4 of the Lutheran
perfuafion, befides 3 others of Remonftrants and Ana-
baptifts. The places of moft note are Nimeguen,
Zutphen, Arnheim, Harderwyft, Loo, &c.
GUELDRES, a ftrong town of the Netherlands,
in the duchy of the fame name. It wras ceded to the
king of Pruflia, by the peace of Utrecht, and is feated
among marlhes. E. Long. 6. N. Lat. 51. 30. It fur-
rendered to the French in 1794.
GUERCINO. See Barbieri.
GOERICKE, Otto or Otho, a German philofo-
pher of confiderable eminence, w'as born in 1602, and
died at Hamburg in 1686. In conjunction with Tor¬
ricelli, Pafchal, and Boyle, he contributed much to
the farther explanation of the properties of air. He
WTas counfellor to the elector of Brandenburg, and bur-
gomaftqi
G U I
Giurnfey goiTiafler of Magdeburg, but his greateft celebrity was
J1 derived from his philofophical difcoveries, in a particu-
i OuK.na. ^ manner the invention of the air-pump. Mr Boyle
indeed made approaches towards the difcovery of it
much about the fame time, but with that candour
which is ever the charafteritlic of great and enlighten¬
ed minds, he confeffed that the merit of it belonged
exclufively to Guericke, the account of whoie experi¬
ments firft enabled him to bung his defign to any
thing like maturity. Our author has alto the merit of
inventing the two brats hemifpheres, by which the
preffure of the air is illuftrated, and an inftrument tor
determining the changes in the hate of the atmotphere,
■which fell into difufe on the invention of the barome¬
ter. By confulting his tube he predicted approaching
ftorms, on which account he was deemed a forcerer by
the ignorant multitude. It is worthy of obferyation,
that w hen his brafs hemifpheres were applied to each
other, and the air exhaufted, it refilled the efforts of
lixteen horfes to draw them afunder. He compoied fe-
veral treatifes in natural philofophy, the principal or
which is entitled Kxpentnenta MagdeburgicaJ 1672,
folio, which contains his experiments on a vacuum.
GUERNSEY, an iiland in the Englilh channel,
on the coaft of Normandy, fubject to Britain j but (as
wTell as the adjacent ifiands) governed by its own laws.
See JERSEY. It extends from call to welt in the form
of a harp, and is thirteen miles and a half from the
fouth-weft to north call, and tw'elve and a half, where
broadelt, from eaft to weft. The air is very healthy,
and the foil naturally more rich and fertile than that
of Jerfey 5 but the inhabitants negledf the cultivation
of the land for the fake of commerce : they are, how¬
ever, fufficiently fupplied with corn and cattle, both
for their own ufe and that of their Ihips. 1 he iflanu
is well fortified by nature w7ith a ridge of rocks, one
of which abounds with em^ry, ufed by lapidaries in the
polilhing of Hones, and by various other artificers.
Here is a better harbour than any in Jerfey, w'hich
occafions its being more reforted to by merchants *, and
on the fouth fide the Ihore bends in the form of a cref-
cent, enclofing a bay capable of receiving very large
Ihips. The ifland is full of gardens and orchards *,
whence cyder is fo plentiful, that the common people
tile it inftead of fmall beer, but the more wealthy drink
[French wine.
GUETTARDA, a genus of plants belonging to
the monoecia clafs, and in the natural method ranking
under the 38th order, Tricoccce. See Botany Index.
GUIANA, a large country of South America, is
bounded on the eaft and north by the Atlantic ocean,
and the river Oroonoko j on the fouth, by the river
of the Amazons 5 and on the weft, by the provinces
of Grenada and New Andalufia, in lerra Firma, from
which it is feparated both on the wTeft and north by
the river Oroonoko. It extends above 1200 miles
from the north-eaft to the fouth-weft, that is, from
the mouth of the river Oroonoko to the mouth of the
river of the Amazons, and near 600 in the contrary
direftion.
Moft geographers divide it into two parts, calling
the country along the coaft Caribbeana Proper, and
the interior country Guiana Proper : The Lift is alfo
ftyled El Dorado by the Spaniards, on account of the
immenfe quantity of gold it is luppofed to contain.
G U T
The Portuguefe, French, and Dutch, have all fet- Guiana,
tlem.rnts along the coaft. What lies fouth of Cape
North belongs to the firft of thefe nations 5 the coaft;
between Cape North and Cape Orange is poffoiTed by
the natives 5 French Guiana, Old Cayenne, or Equi-
noclial France, extends from Cape Orange, about
240 miles along the coaft, to the river Marani 5 where
the Dutch territory begins, and extends to the mouth
of the Orooncko.
Along the coaft, the land is low7, marlhy, and fub-
ject to inundations in the rainy feafon, from a multi¬
tude of rivers which defcend from the inland moun¬
tains. Hence it is, that the atmofphere is fuffocating,
hot, moift, and unhealthful, efpecially where the
w7oods have not been cleared away. Indeed, the Eu¬
ropeans are forced to live in the moft difagreeable fi-
tuations, and fix their colonies at the mouths of the
rivers, amidft ftinking marlhes, and the putrid ooze
of fait moralfes, for the convenienny of exportation
and importation.
“ Dutch Guiana (according to the account of a phy-
fician who refided feveral years at Surinam) was firft
difcovered by Columbus in 1498. It lies between the
70 of north and the 50 of fouth latitude, and between
the 530 and 6o° of longitude weft from Eondon. It
is bounded on the north and eaft, by the Atlantic ; on
the w eft, by the rivers Oroonoko and Negroe 5 and on
the fouth, by the river of the Amazons.
“ It was formerly divided among the Spaniards,
Dutch, French, and Portuguefe 5 but, except its fea
coaft, and lands adjacent to its rivers, it has hitherto
remained unknown-to all but its original natives \ and
even of thefe, it is only w7hat w7ere the Dutch territo¬
ries that foreigners have any knowledge of} for thole
of the Spaniards, French, and Portuguefe, are inaccef-
fible to them.
“ This country, on account of the diverfity and fer¬
tility of its foil, and of its vicinity to the equatoi-,
which paffes through it, affords almoit all the produc¬
tions of the different American countries between the
tropics, befides a variety peculiar to itfelf.”
Dutch Guiana was formerly the property of the
Englilh, who made fettlements at Surinam, where a
kind of corrupt Englifh is ftill fpoken by the negroes.
The Dutch took it in the reign of Charles the Second j
and it w7as ceded to them by a treaty in 1674, in ex¬
change for w7hat they had poffeffed in the province now
called New York.
The land for 50 miles up the country from the fea-
coaft is flat; and, during the rainy feafons, covered
two feet high w7ith water. This renders it inconceiv¬
ably fertile, the earth, for 12 inches deep, being- a
ftratum of perfeft manure : an attempt was once made
to carry fome of it to Barbadoes 5 but the wood-ants
fo much injured the veffel, that it was never repeated.
The excefiive richnefs of the foil is a difadvantage, for
the canes are too luxuriant to make good lugar } and
therefore, during the firfl: and fecond crops, are convert¬
ed into rum.
There are fome trees on this part; but they are
fmall and low, confifting chiefly of a fmall fpecies of
palm, intermixed w7ith a leaf near 30 feet long and
three feet wide, which grow7s in clufters, called a
Trocelie, and at the edges of running-water, w7ith
mangroves.
Farther
[ 123 ]
G U I
Farther inward the country riies j
though flill fertile, is lefs durable. It is covered with
forefts of valuable timber, that are always green ; and
there are fome fandy hills, though no mountains; in
the French territories, however, there are mountains,
according to the report of the Indians, for they have
never been vifited by any other people.
In this country the heat is feldom difagreeable :
the trade-winds by day, the land breezes in the even¬
ing, and the invariable length of the nights, with
gentle dews, refreih the air, and render it temperate
and falubrious. There are two wet feafons and two
dry, of three months each, in every year 5 and, du¬
ring more than a month in each wet feafon, the rain
is inceffant. The dry feafons commence fix weeks
before the equinoxes, and continue fix weeks after.
The wet feafons are more wholefome than the dry,
becaufe the rains keep the waters that cover the low
lands, next the fea, frefii and in motion ; but during
the dry feafon it ftagnates, and, as it waftes, becomes
putrid, fending up very unwholefome exhalations.
Bloflbms, green and ripe fruit, are to be found upon
the fame tree in every part of the year. There are
fome fine white and red agates in Guiana, which re¬
main untouched j and mines of gold and filver, which
the Dutch will not fuffer to be wrought.
The inhabitants of Guiana are either natives, who
are of a reddifii brown j or negroes and Europeans $ or
a mixed progeny of thefe in various combinations.
The natives are divided into different tribes, more or
lefs enlightened and polifhed, as they are more or lefs
remote from the fettlements of the Europeans. They
allow polygamy, and have no divifion of lands. The
men go to war, hunt, and fifti; and the women look
after domeftic concerns, fpin, weave in their fafhion,
and manage the planting of cafiava and manive, the
only things which in this country are cultivated by the
natives. Their arms are bows and arrows $ fharp poi-
foned arrows, blown through a reed, which they ufe
in hunting : and clubs made of a heavy wood called
iron-wood. They eat the dead bodies of thofe that
are flain in war; and fell for (laves thofe they take pil-
foners j their wars being chiefly undertaken to furnilh
the European plantations. All the different tribes go
naked. On particular occafions they wear caps of
feathers j but, as cold is wholly unknown, they cover
no part but that which dillinguifhes the fex. They
are cheerful, humane, and friendly ; but timid, except
when heated by liquor, and drunkennefs is a very com¬
mon vice among them.
Their houfes confift of four (lakes fet up in a qua¬
drangular form, with crofs poles, bound together by
(lit nibbees, and covered with the large leaves called
troctlies. Their life is ambulatory $ and their houfe,
which is put up and taken down in a few hours, is
all they have to carry with them. When they remove
from place to place, which, as they inhabit the banks
of rivers, they do by water in fmall canoes, a few
veffels of clay made by the wTomen, a flat (lone on
which they bake their bread, and a rough (lone on
which they grate the roots of the caffava, a hammock
and a hatchet, are all their furniture and utenfils j
mod of them, however, have a bit of looking-glafs
framed in paper, and a comb.
Their poifoned arrows are made of fplinters of a
Vol. X. Part I.
t 129 ] GUI
and the foil, hard heavy wood, called cacario; they are about 12
inches long, and fomewdrat thicker than a coarfe knit¬
ting needle : one end is formed into a (harp point ;
round the other is -wound fome cotton, to make it fit
the bore of the reed through which it is to be blown.
They will blow thefe arrows 40 yards with abfolute
certainty of hitting the mark, and with force enough
to draw blood, which is certain and immediate death.
Againll this poifon no antidote is known. The In¬
dians never ufe thefe poifoned arrows in war, but in
hunting only, and chiefly againft the monkeys j the
flelh of an animal thus killed may be fafely eaten, and
even the poifon itfelf (wallowed with impunity.
GUIAQUIL, alfo denominated byfomeGuAiAQUlL,
a city, bay, harbour, and river, in Peru, South Ameri¬
ca. The city is the fecond of Spanifh origin, being as
old as the year 1534. It lies on the weft fide of the
river of the fame name, in i° iT S. Lat. and 790 17'
W. Long. It is divided into the old and new towns,
between which there is a communication by means of a
wooden bridge. It is two miles in extent, and defend¬
ed by two forts. The churches, convents, and houfes,
are of wood, and it contains about 20,000 inhabitants.
The wromen are celebrated for their perfonal charms,
polite manners, and elegant drefs. This place is mod
of all noted for a (hell-fifh no larger than a nut, which
produces the mod beautiful purple dye in the w'orld.
It is the blood of the fi(h, preffed out by a particular
procefs. The commerce here is very confiderable, the
produdlions of the country alone forming the greateft
part of it, which confift of timber, fait, horned cattle,
mules, and colts, pepper, drugs, and a kind of wool
much finer than cotton, made ufe of for mattreffes and
beds.
GUIARA, a fea-port towm of South America, and
on the Caracca coaft. The Englilh attempted to take
it in 1739 and 1743 j but they w^ere repulfed both
times. W. Long, 66. 5. N. Lat. 10. 35.
GUICCIARDINI, Francisco, a celebrated hi-
(lorian, born at Florence in 1482. He profeffed the
civil law with reputation, and wras employed in feve-
ral embaflies. Leo X. gave him the government of
Modena and Reggio, vand Clement VII. that of Ro¬
magna and Bologna. Guicciardini was alfo lieutenant-
general of the pope’s army, and diftinguiftied himfelf
by his bravery on feveral occafions $ but Paul III. ha¬
ving taken from him the government of Bologna, he
retired to Florence, where he was made counfellor of
(late, and was of great fervice to the houfe of Medi-
cis. He at length retired into the country to wnite
his hiftory of Italy, which he compofed in Italian,
and which comprehends what paffed from the year
1494 to 1532. This hiftory is greatly efteemed; and
was continued by John Baptift Adriani, his friend.
He died in 1540.
Guicciardini, Lewis, his nephew, compofed a
hiftory of the Low Countries, and memoirs of the af¬
fairs of Europe, from 1530 to 1560. He wrote with
great fpirit againft the perfecution of the duke d’Alva,
for which he imprifoned him. Died in 1583.
GUIDES, in military language, are {dually the
country people in the neighbourhood of an encamp¬
ment j who give the army intelligence concerning the
country, the roads by w’hich they are to march, and
the probable route of the enemy.
R GUIDIj
GUI [ 130 ] GUI
GUIDI, Alexander, an eminent Italian poet, born
at Pavia in 1650. Having a defire to fee Rome, he
there attradled the notice of Queen Chriftina of Swe¬
den, who retained him at her court ; he alfo obtain¬
ed a confiderable benefice from Pope Innocent XI. and
a penfipn from the duke of Parma. For a good office
he did the ftate of Milan with Prince Eugene, he was
enrolled among the nobles and decurions of that town j
and died in 1712. Nature had been kinder to his in¬
tellects than to his exterior form •, his body was fmall
and crooked, his head was large, and he was blind of
his right eye. A collection of his works was publilhed
at Verona in 1726.
GUIDO ARETIN. See Aretin.
Guido Reni, an illuitrious Italian painter, born at
Bologna in 1595. In his early age he was the dif-
ciple of Denis Calvert, a Flemiffi mailer of good re¬
putation ; but afterwards entered himfelf in the fchool
of the Caracci. He firlt imitated Ludovico Caracci j
but fixed at lait in a peculiar ftyle of his own, that
fecured him the applaufe of his owrn time and the ad¬
miration of pofterity. He w-as much honoured, and
lived in fplendor : but an unhappy attachment to gam¬
ing ruined his circumltances; the j-efleCtion of which
brought on a languiihing diforder, that put an end to
his life in 1642. There are feveral defigns of this great
mailer in print, etched by himfelf.
GUIDON, a fort of flag or Itandard borne by the
king’s life-guard ; being broad at one extreme, and al-
moit pointed at the other, and flit dr divided into two.
The guidon is the enfign or flag of a troop of horfe-
guards. See Guard.
Guidon, alfo denotes the officer who bears the gui¬
don. The guidon is that in the horfe-guards which the
enfign is in the foot. The guidon of a troop of h'orfe
takes place next below the cornet.
Guidons, guidones, or fchola guidonum, was a com¬
pany of prielts eltablilhed by Charlemagne, at Rome,
to conduft and guide pilgrims to Jerulalem, to vilit
the holy places : they were alfo to affilt them in cafe
they fell lick, and to perform the lalt offices to them in
cafe they died.
GUIENNE, a large province of France, nowr^form-
ing the department of Gironde and that of Lot and Ga¬
ronne, bounded on the north by Saintogne, Angoumois,
and Limofin *, on the ealt by Limolin, Auvergne, and
Languedoc } on the fouth by the Pyrenees, Lower
Navarre, and Bearn; and on the wTelt by the ocean.
It is about 225 miles in length, and 200 in breadth.
It is divided into the Upper and Lower. The Upper
comprehends Querci, Rouergue, Armagnac, the terri¬
tory of Comminges, and the county of Bigorre. The
Lowrer contains Bourdelois, Perigord, Agenois, Con-
domois, Bazadois, the Lander, Proper Gafcony, and
the diltriCt of Labour. The principal rivers are, the
Garonne, the Adour, the Tam, the Aveiron, and the
Lot. Bourdeaux is the capital town.
GUILANDINA, the nickar tree, a genus of
plants belonging to the decandria clafs, and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the 33d order, Zomw/tfcc*?.
See Botany Index.
GUILD, (from the Saxon guildane, to “ pay”), lig-
nifies a fraternity or company, becaufe every one was
gildare, i. e. to pay fomething towards the charge
and fupport of the company. As to the original of
thefe guilds or companies: It wTas a law among the <
Saxons, that every freeman of fourteen years of age
fliould find fureties to keep the peace, or be commit¬
ted : upon which certain neighbours, confilting of ten
families, enter into an affociation, and become bound
for each other, either to produce him who committed
an offence, or to make fatisfaftion to the injured par¬
ty : that they might the better do this, they raifed a
fum of money among themfelves, which they put into
a common flock j and when one of their pledges had
committed an offence, and was fled, then the other nine
made fatisfadtion out of this flock, by payment oi: mo¬
ney, according to the offence. Becaufe this affociation
confifled of ten families, it was called a decennary : and
from hence came out later kinds of fraternities. ^ But
as to the precife time when thefe guilds had their ori¬
gin in England, there is nothing of certainty to be
found ; lince they were in ufe long before any formal
licence wras granted to them for fuch meetings. It
feems to have been about the dole of the eleventh cen¬
tury, fays Anderfon, in his Hiftory of Commerce, vol. i.
p. 70. that merchant-guilds, or fraternities, w-hich
w7ere aftenvards ffyled corporations, came firft into ge¬
neral ufe in many parts of Europe. Mr Madox, in his
Firma Burgi, chap. i. $ 9. thinks, they w^ere hardly
known to our Saxon progenitors, and that they might
be probably brought into England by the Normans ;
although they do not feem to have been very nume¬
rous in thofe days. The French and Normans might
probably borrow them from the free cities of Italy,
where trade and manufadtures were much earlier pro¬
pagated, and wffiere poflibly fuch communities were firit
in ufe. Thefe guilds are now companies joined to¬
gether, with laws and orders made by themfelves, by
the licence of the prince.
Guild, in the royal boroughs of Scotland, is (till
ufed for a company of merchants, who are freemen of
the borough. See Borough.
Every royal borough has a dean of guild, who is
the next magiftrate below the bailiff. He judges ot
controverfies among men concerning trade, diiputes
between inhabitants touching buildings, lights, water-
courfes, and other nuifances $ calls courts, at which
his brethren of the guild are bound to attend j ma¬
nages the common flock of the guild; and amerces and
colledts fines.
Guild, Gild, or Geld, is alfo ufed among our anci¬
ent writers, for a compenfation or muldt, for a fault
committed.
GviLD-Hall, or Gild-Hall, the great court of judi¬
cature for the city of London. In it are kept the
mayor’s court, the ffieriff’s court, the court ot hutt¬
ings, court of confidence, court of common council,
chamberlain’s court, &c. Here alfo the judges fit
upon nifiprius, &c.
GUILDFORD, or Guldeford, a borough-town
of Surry, fituated on the river Wey, 31 miles fouth-
weft of London. Near it are the ruinous_walls of an
old caftle, this having been in the Saxon times a royal
villa, wThere many of our kings ufed to pafs the
feftivals. Here is a corporation confifting of a mayor,,
recorder, aldermen, &c. which fent members to parlia¬
ment ever fince parliament had a being. The great
road from London to Chichefter and Portfmouth lies
through this town, which has always been famous for
GUI [13
Guillemot good inns, the cleaneft of linen, and other excellent
. ,11 . accommodations ; and the affizes are often held here.
Guihotine. jts manufa$;ory formerly was cloth, of which there are
Hill fome fmall remains. Here is a fchool founded by
King Edward VI. alfo an almfhoufe endowed with
lands worth 300I. a-year, of which 100I. to be em¬
ployed in fetting the poor at work, and the other 200I.
for the maintenance of a matter, 12 brethren, and 8
fitters, who are to have 2s. 6d. a-week. Ihere are,
befides, two charity-fchools for 30 boys and 20 girls.
TThere were three churches in this town, but one of
them fell down in April 1740. There is a fine circu¬
lar courfe for horfe-matches, which begin when the
Newmarket races are ended. King Vlilliam III. found¬
ed a plate of 100 guineas to be run for here every May,
and ufed to honour the race with his prefence, as did
once King George I. The river Wey is made navigable
to the town, and by it a great quantity of timber is
carried to London, not only from this neighbourhood,
but from Suffex and Hampfhire woods, above 30 miles
off, from whence it is brought hither in the fummer by
land carriage. This navigation is alfo of great fupport
to Farnham market, corn bought there being brought
to the mills on this river within feven miles dittance,
and, after being ground and dreffed, is fent down in
barges to London. The road from hence to Farnham
is very remarkable, for it runs along upon the ridge of
a high chalky hill, called St Catharine's, no wider than
the road itfelf, from whence there is an extenfive pro-
fpecft, viz. to the north and north-wett, over Baglhot
Heath, and the other way into Suffex, and almoft to
the South Downs. The town fends two members to
parliament; and gives title of earl to the North family.
GUILLEMOT. See Colymbus, Ornithology
Index.
GUILLIM, John, of Welfh extra&ion, was born
in Herefordfhire about the year 1565. Having com¬
pleted his education at Brazen-nofe college, Oxford,
he became a member of the college of arms in Lon¬
don *, and he was made rouge croix purfuivant, in
which poll he died in 1621. He publittied, in 1610,
a celebrated work, entitled the Difplay of Heraldry,
folio, which has gone through many editions. To the
fifth, which came out in 1679, was added A Treatife
of Honour Civil and Military, by Captain John Loggan.
GUILLOTINE, the name of an inftrument intro¬
duced by the authors of the French revolution, for be¬
heading thofe who were condemned to death. The de¬
cree for ufing it paffed on the 20th of March 1792, by
order of the national affembly. It was not a new in¬
vention, properly fpeaking, but the revival of an in¬
ftrument known before. It feems to have been firft
ufed under the name of maiden, in the barony of Hali¬
fax in Yorkfhire, and it was likewife fet up in Scot¬
land, but we have no good authority for afferting that
it was ever ufed, although fome are of opinion that Re¬
gent Morton, wrho brought a model of it from England,
fuffered by it himfelf. See Maiden.
Guillotine, the fuppofed inventor, a phyfician of
Lyons, and a member of the national affembly, thought
it an honour conferred upon his name, by having it
united with this inftrument of death. His invention
was expenfive, and it received the moft unqualified ap-
plaufe, both from the members and from the galleries.
The propriety of ufing it was referred to a committee,
1 ] G U I
with inftruftions to take the opinion of the moft able Guinea.
furgeons refpetting it. M. Louis, an eminent i'urgeon
of Paris, declared it well fitted for the talk, and com¬
mended the judgment of M. Guillotine in the contri¬
vance. His difeovery upon this occafion was rewarded
by the legiilature with a donation of 2000 livres; and
it was ordered to be printed in the Paris Journals.
As far as this inftrument diminiihes the duration of
the dreadful conflidt with death, it may be deemed mer¬
ciful, and is, in this refpeft, preferable to the hanging
of malefactors by the neck ; but the agitation of the
mind is probably augmented by the long feries of pre¬
paratory operations. The hands of the criminal are
tied behind his back 5 he is ftretched on his mce on a
ftrong plank. He is then fattened to the plank, his
neck is adjufted to the block, and a balket placed be¬
fore him to receive his head, which in the fpeedieft
manner muft take up fome time, although we recoliedt
to have read of 21 (viz. Brilfot and his party) who
were all decapitated in the courfe of 36 minutes.
The conftrudtion of the guillotine has been varioufly
modified, and was at length made fo portable as to
conftitute part of the travelling equipage of a commif-
fioner from the national affembly ; and a reprefenta-
tion of it was put upon the coins, as an ornament.
On a piece of ten fous value, which wras ftruck at
Mentz in the year 1793, there was for the device, the
fafees and axe of ancient Rome, crowned with a red
cap, and furrounded by a laurel wTreath, having for an
infeription, Republique Frangoife, I793> (an 2)*
GUINEA, a large trad! of country lying on the
weft fide of the continent of Africa, extends along the
coaft three or four thoufand miles, beginning at the
river Senegal, fituated about the 17th degree of north
latitude (being the neareft part of Guinea as well to
Europe as to North America). From that river to the
river Gambia, and in a foutherly courfe to Cape Sierra
Leona, is comprehended a coaft of about *]00 miles $
being the fame trad! for wdiich Queen Elizabeth grant¬
ed charters to the firft traders to that coaft. From
Sierra Leona, the land of Guinea takes a turn to the
eafhvard, extending that courfe about 15GO miles, in¬
cluding thofe feveral divifions known by the names of the
Grain Coajl, the Ivory Coaji, the Gold Coaji, and the
Slave Coajl, with the large kingdom of Benin. From
thence the land runs fouthward along the coaft about
1200 miles, which contains the kingdoms of Congo
and Angola; where the trade for flaves ends. From
which to the fouthermoft cape of Africa, called the
Cape of Good Hope, the country is fettled by Caffres
and Hottentots, who have never been concerned in
the making or felling Haves."
1. Of the parts which are above mentioned, the firft
is that fituated on the great river Senegal, which is
faid to be navigable more than 1000 miles, and is by
travellers deferibed to be very agreeable and fruitful.
Mr Brue, principal fadlor for the French African
company, who lived 16 years in that country, after
deferibing its fruitfulnefs and plenty near the fea,
adds *, “ The farther you go from the fea, the coun- * AfiUJt
try on the river feems the more fruitful and well im- Colha.
proved, abounding with Indian corn, pulfe, fruit,
Here are vaft meadows, which feed large herds of1
great and fmall cattle, and poultry numerous: the
villages that lie thick on the river, Ihow the country
R 2 if
GUI [ 132 ] GUI
Guinea, is well peopled.” The fame author, in the account of
' a voyage he made up the river Gambia, the mouth of
which lies about 300 miles fouth of the Senegal, and
is navigable about 600 miles up the country, fays,
“ that he was furprifed to fee the land fo well culti¬
vated 5 fcarce a fpot lay unimproved •, the low lands
divided by fmall canals were all fowed with rice, &c.
the higher ground planted with millet, Indian corn,
and peafe of different forts *, their beef excellent j
poultry plenty and very cheap, as well as all other
necelfaries of life.” Mr Moore, who was fent from
England about the year 1735, in the fervice of the
African company, and refided at James hort on the
river Gambia, or in other faftories on that river, about
five years, confirms the above account of the fruitful-
nefs of the country. Captain Smith, who was fent in
the year 1726 by the African company to furvey their
fettlements throughout the whole coafl of Guinea,
* Voyage to fayS «• the country about the Gambia is pleafant and
Guinea, fruitful $ provifions of all kinds being plenty and ex-
P’3*» 34’ ceeding cheap.” The country on and between the
two above-mentioned rivers is large and extenfive, in¬
habited principally by thofe three Negro nations known
by the name of ’Jalofs, Yulis% and Matuhngos. The
Jalofs polfefs the middle of the country. The Fulls
principal fettlement is on both fides of the Senegal:
great numbers of thefe people are alfo mixed with the
Mandingos 5 which laft are moftly fettled on both
fides the Gambia. The government of the Jalofs is
reprefented as under a better regulation than can be
expefted from the common opinion we entertain of
the negroes. We are told in Aflley’s Colleftion,
“ That" the king has under him feveral minillers of
date, who aflift him in the exercife of juftice. The
grand jerafo is the chief juftice through all the king's
dominions, and goes in circuit from time to time to
• hear complaints and determine controverfies. Fhe
king’s treafurer exercifes the fame employment, and
has under him alkairs, who are governors of towns or
villages. That the kondi, or viceroy, goes the cir¬
cuit with the chief juftice, both to hear caufes and in-
fpe£l into the behaviour of the alkadi, or chief ma-
giftrate of every village in their feveral diftridls.” Vaf-
concelas, an author mentioned in the Colleftion, fays,
“ the ancienteft are preferred to be the prince’s coun-
fellors, who keep always about his perfon; and the
men of moft judgment and experience are the judges.”
The Fulis are fettled on both fides of the river Sene¬
gal : their country, which is very fruitful and popu¬
lous, extends near 400 miles from eaft to weft. They
are generally of a deep tawny complexion, appearing
to bear fome affinity to the Moors, whofe country
they join on the north : they are good farmers, and
make great harveft of corn, cotton, tobacco, &c. and
breed great numbers of cattle of all kinds. But the
moft particular account we have of thefe people is
\ 'Travels from Moore, who faysf, “ Some of thefe Fuli blacks,
into dijlant wh0 dwell on both lides the river Gambia, are in fub-
farts of jgftion to the Mandingos, amongft whom they dwell,
Africa, haying been probably driven out of their country by
5?' ' war or famine. They have chiefs of their own, who
rule with much moderation. Few of them will drink
brandy, or any thing ftronger than water and fugar,
being ftrift Mahometans. Their form of government
goes&on eafy, becaufe the people are of a good quiet
difpofition, and fo well inftru&ed in what is right, that Guinea,
a man who does ill is the abomination of all, and none v
will fupport him againft the chief. In thefe countries
the natives are not covetous of land, defiring no more
than what they ufe j and as they do not plough with
horfes and cattle, they can ufe but very little j there¬
fore the kings are willing to give the Fulis leave to
live in their country, and cultivate their lands. If any
of their people are known to be made Haves, all the
Fulis will join to redeem them ; they alfo fupport the
old, the blind, and lame, amongft themfelves j and as
far as their abilities go, they fupply the neceffities of
the Mandingos, great numbers of whom they have
maintained in famine.” The author, from his own
obfervations, fays, “ They were rarely angry, and
that he never heard them abufe one another.”
The Mandingos are faid by Mr Brue before men¬
tioned, “ to be the moft numerous nation on the
Gambia, befides which, numbers of them are difperfed
over all thefe countries 5 being the moft rigid Maho¬
metans amongft the negroes, they drink neither wine
nor brandy, and are politer than the other negroes.
The chief of the trade goes through their hands.
Many are induftrious and laborious, keeping their
grounds well cultivated, and breeding a good ftock of
cattle f. Every town has an alkadi, or governor, f Afleyt
who has great power j for molt of them having two
common fields of clear ground, one for corn, and the *)’
other for rice, the alkadi appoints the labour of all
the people. The men work the corn ground, and
the women and girls the rice ground ; and as they all
equally labour, fo he equally divides the corn amongfl:
them ; and in cafe any are in want, the others fupply
them. This alkadi decides all quarrels, and has the
firft voice in ail conferences in town affairs.” Some
of thefe Mandingos, who are fettled at Galem, far up
the river Senegal, can read and write Arabic tolerably;
and are a good hofpitable people, who carry on a
trade with the inland nations. “ They are extremely
populous in thofe parts, their women being fruitful,
and they not fuffering any perfon amongft them, but
fuch as are guilty of crimes, to be made Haves.” We
are told from Jobfon, “ That the Mahometan Ne¬
groes fay their prayers thrice a-day. Each village
has a prieft who calls them to their duty. It is fur-
prifing (fays the author), as well as commendable, to
fee the modefty, attention, and reverence they obferve
during their worlhip. He alked fome of their priefts
the purport of their prayers and ceremonies j their
anfwer always was, “ that they adored God by pro-
ftrating themfelves before him j that by humbling
themfelves they acknowledged their own infignificancy,
and farther intreated him to forgive their faults, and
to grant them all good and neceffary things, as well
as deliverance from evil.” Jobfon takes notice of fe¬
veral good qualities in thefe negro priefts, particular¬
ly their great fobriety. They gain their livelihood by
keeping fchool for the education of the children. The
boys are taught to read and write. They not only
teach fchool, but rove about the country, teaching
and inftnufting, for which the whole country is open
to them ; and they have a free courfe through all
places, though the kings may be at war with one an-
ther.
The three fore-mentioned nations pra£lice feveral
trades,
GUI
Guinea, trades, as fmlths, potters, faddlers, and weavers. Their
 j fmiths work particularly neat in gold aud lilver, and
make knives, hatchets, reaping hooks, fpades, and (hears
to cut iron, &c. Their potters make neat tobacco
pipes, and pots to boil their food. Some authors fay,
that weaving is their principal trade : this is done by
the women and girls, who fpin and weave very fine
cotton cloth, which they dye blue or black.. Moore
fays, the Jalofs particularly make great quantities of the
cotton cloth *, their pieces are generally 27 yards long,
and about nine inches broad, their looms being very
narrow j thefe they few neatly together, fo as to fupply
the ufe of broad cloth.
It was in thefe parts of Guinea that M. Adanfon,
correfpondent of the Royal Academy of Sciences at
Paris, was employed from the year 1749 }° year
* 753» wholly in making natural and philotophical ob-
fervations on the country about the rivers Senegal and
Gambia. Speaking of the great heats in.Senegal, he
^Twyartto fays*, “ it is to them that they are parti/indebted for
Senegal, Stc. the fertility of their lands j which is fo great, that, with
p. 308. little labour and care, there is no fruit nor grain but
grows in great plenty.”
Of the foil on the Gambia, he fays, “ it is rich and
deep, and amazingly fertile; it produces fpontaneouf-
ly, and almoft without cultivation, all the necelfaries
of life, grain, fruit, herbs, and roots. Every thing
matures to perfection, and is excellent in its kind.”
One thing which always furprifed him, was the pro¬
digious rapidity with which the fap of trees repairs
any lofs they may happen to fuftain in that country ,
“ And I was never (fays he) more altonilhed, than
when landing four days after the locutts had devoured
all the fruits and leaves, and even the buds of the trees,
to find the trees covered with new leaves, and they
did not feem to me to have fuffered much.” “ It was
then (fays the fame author) the. fith feafon ; you
might fee them in fhoals approaching towards land.
Some of thefe ihoals were 50 fathoms fquare, and the
fifh crowded together in fuch a manner, as to roll up¬
on one another, without being able to fwim. As foon
as the negroes perceive them coming towards land,
they jump into the water with a balket in one hand,
and fwim with the other. They need only to plunge
and to lift up their bafket, and they are fure to return
loaded wdth fiih.” Speaking of the appearance of the
country, and of the difpofition of the people, he fays,
“ which way foever I turned mine eyes on this plea-
fant fpot, I beheld a perfeCl image of pure nature *,
an agreeable folitude, bounded on every fide by charm¬
ing landfcapesj the rural fituation of cottages in the
mid ft of trees j the eafe and indolence of the negroes,
reclined under the ftiade of their fpreading foliage j
the fimplicity of their drefs and manners j the whole
revived in my mind the idea of our firft parents, and I
fsemed to contemplate the world in its primitive ftate.
They are, generally fpeaking, very good-natured, foci-
ablepand obliging. I was not a little pleafed with this
my firft reception 5 it convinced me, that there ought
to be a confiderable abatement made in the accounts I
had read and heard everywhere of the favage charac¬
ter of the Africans. I obferved, both in the negroes and
Moors great humanity and fociablenefs, which gave me
itrong hopes that I fhould be very fafe amongft them,
and meet with the fuccefs I defired in my inquiries af-
GUI
ter the curiofities of the country.” He was agreeably Guinea. ^
amufed with the converfation of the negroes, their fa- ^
bles, dialogues, and wdtty (lories with which they enter¬
tain each other alternately, according to their cuftom.
Speaking of the remarks which the natives made to him
with relation to the ftars and planets, he fays, “ it is
amazing that fuch a rude and illiterate people Ihould
reafon fo pertinently in regard to thofe heavenly bodies;
there is no manner of doubt, but that with proper inftru-
ments, and a good will, they would become excellent
aftronomers.”
2. That part of Guinea known by the name of the
Grain and Ivor?/ Coajl extends about 500 miles. I he
foil is faid to be in general fertile, producing abun¬
dance of rice and roots } indigo and cotton thrive with¬
out cultivation, and tobacco would be excellent if
carefully manufactured} they have fi(h in plenty;
their flocks greatly increafe *, and their trees are loaded
with fruit. They make a cotton cloth, which fells
well on the coaft. In a word, the country is rich, and
the commerce advantageous, and might be greatly aug¬
mented by fuch as would cultivate the friendftiip of the
natives. Thefe are reprefented by fome writers as
rude, treacherous people j whilft: feveral other authors
of credit give them a very different charafter, de-
fcribing them as fenfible, courteous, and the faireft
traders on the coaft of Guinea. In the ColleCHon, they
are faid j[ to be averfe to drinking to excefs, and fuchi|A°bii.
as do are feverely pumlhed by the king’s' order. P-
On inquiry why there is fuch a difagreement in the
charadler given of thefe people, it appears, that though
they are naturally inclined to be kind to ftrangers,
with whom they are fond of trading, yet the frequent
injuries done them by Europeans have occafioncd their
being fufpicious and (hy: the fame caufe has been
the occafion of the ill treatment they have fometimes
given to innocent ftrangers, who have attempted to
trade with them. As the Europeans have no fettle-
ment on this part of Guinea, the trade is carried on by
fignals from the (hips, on the appearance of wrhich the
natives ufually come on board in their canoes, bring¬
ing their gold-duft, ivory, &c. which has given oppor¬
tunity to fome villanous Europeans to carry them off
with their effeCts, or retain them on board till a ran-
fom is paid. It is noted by fome, that fince the Eu¬
ropean voyagers have carried away feveral of thefe
people, their miftruft is fo great, that it is very difficult
to prevail on them to come on board. Smith remarks,
“ As we paffed along this coaft, we very often lay be¬
fore a town, and fired a gun for the natives to come
off j but no foul came near us : at length we learnt by
fome (hips that were trading down the coaft, that the
natives came feldom on board an Englifti (hip, for fear
of being detained or carried off: yet at laft fome ven¬
tured on board } but if thefe chanced to fpy any arms,
they would all immediately take to their canoes, and
make the beft of their way home. They had then in
their poffeflion one Benjamin Crols^ the mate of an
Englifti veffel, who was detained by them to make re-
prifals for fome of their men, who had formerly been *
carried away by fome Euglifti veffel.” In the Collec¬
tion we are told, “ This villanous cuftom is too often
prattifed, chiefly by the Briftol and Liverpool (hips,. .
and is a great detriment to the flave-trade on the wind- gj Qui^ca^
ward coaft.” John Snock, mentioned in Bofman |, p, 440>.
when
[ 133 1
G U I
[ *3+ ]
G U I
p. 441.
1 Aflleys
Coiua.
vol. ii.
P S65-
§ Smith's
V y age to
■Guinea,
£• 5U.
•Guinea, uhen on tlie coaft, wrote, “ We caft anclior, but not
one negro coming on board, I went on fhcre 5 and after
having itaid a while on the ftrand, fome negroes came
to me j and being defirous to be informed why they
did not come on board, I was anfvvered, that about
two months before, the Englifh had been there with
two large veffels, and had ravaged the country, de-
llroyed all their canoes, plundered their houfes, and car¬
ried off fome of their people, upon which the remain¬
der fled to the inland country, where moft of them
were at that time •, fo that there being not much to be
done by us, wTe were obliged to return on board. When
I inquired after their wars with other countries, they
told me they w'ere not often troubled with them •, but
if any difference happened, they chofe rather to end
I!Deferiftkn^e Jifpute amicably than to come to arms ||.” He
of <juinca, found the inhabitants civil and good-natured. Speak¬
ing of the king of Rio Seftro, lower down the coaft,
he fays, “ He wTas a very agreeable, obliging man 5
and all his fubjefts are civil, as w7ell as very labori¬
ous in agriculture and the purfuits of trade.” Mar-
chais | fays, “ That though the country is very popu¬
lous, yet none of the natives (except criminals) are
fold for flaves.” Vaillant never heard of any fettle-
ment being made by the Europeans on this part of
Guinea ; and Smith remarks J, “ That thefe coafts,
which are divided into feveral little kingdoms, and
have feldom any wars, is the reafon the flave-trade is
not fo good here as on the Gold and Slave Coaft,
where the Europeans have feveral forts and factories.”
A plain evidence this, that it is the intercourfe with
the Europeans, and their fettlements on the coaft,
which gives life to the flave-trade.
3. Next adjoining to the Ivory Coaft are thofe called
the Gold Coajl and the Slave Coaft; authors are not
agreed about their bounds, but their extent together
along the coaft may be about 500 miles. And as
the policy, produce, and economy of thefe tv/o king¬
doms of Guinea are much the fame, they fhall be de-
fcribed together.
Here the Europeans have the greateft number of
forts and fa&ories j from whence, by means of the ne¬
gro faftors, a trade is carried on above 700 miles back
in the inland country ; whereby great numbers of flaves
are procured, as well by means of the wars which arife
amongft the negroes, or are fomented by the Eu¬
ropeans, as thofe brought from the back country.
Here we find the natives more reconciled to the
European manners and trade.} but, at the fame time,
much more inured to war, and ready to aflift the Euro¬
pean traders in procuring loadings for the great num¬
ber of veffels w’hich come yearly on thofe coafts for
flaves. This part of Guinea is agreed by hiftorians to #
be, in general, extraordinary fruitful and agreeable j
producing (according to the difference of the foil)
vaft quantities of rice and other grain, plenty of fruit
and roots, palm wine and oil, and fiflr in great abund¬
ance, with much tame and wild cattle. Bofman,
principal faftor for the Dutch at D’Elmina, fpeaking
of the country of Axim, which is fituated towards the
beginning of the Gold coaft, fays, “ The negro in¬
habitants are generally very rich, driving a great trade
with the Europeans for gold : That they are induftri-
oufly employed either in trade, fifhing, or agriculture
.but chiefly in the culture of rice, which grows here
1
in an incredible abundance, and is tranfported hence Guinea,
all over the Gold coaft : the inhabitants, in lieu, re- '
turning full fraught with millet, jamms, potatoes, and
palm oil.” The fame author, fpeaking of the country
of Ante, fays, “ This country, as w7ell as the Gold
coaft, abounds with hills, enriched with extraordinary
high and beautiful trees} its valleys, betwixt the hills,
are wide and extenfive, producing in great abundance
very good rice, millet, jamms, potatoes, and other
fruits, all good in their kind.” He adds, “ In Ihort,
it is a land that yields its manurers as plentiful a crop
as they can wifh, with great quantities of palrh wine
and oil, befides being well furniflied with all forts of
tame as well as wild beafts } but that the laft fatal wars
had reduced it to a miferable condition, and ftripped it
of mort of its inhabitants.” The adjoining country
of Fetu, he fays, “ was formerly fo powerful and po¬
pulous, that it ftruck terror into all the neighbouring
nations •, but it is at prefent fo drained by continual
wars, that it is entirely ruined } there does not remain
inhabitants fufficient to till the country, though it is
fo fruitful and pleafant that it may be compared to the
country of Ante juft before defcribed 5 frequently (fays
our author), when walking through it before the laft
war, I have feen it abound wdth fine w7ell built and po¬
pulous towms, agreeably enriched with vaft quantities
of corn, cattle, palm wine, and oil. The inhabitants
all apply themfelves wuthout any diftindlion to agri¬
culture; fome fow corn } others prefs oil, and . draw
wine from palm trees, wdth both which it is plentifully
ftored.”
Smith gives much the fame account of the before-
mentioned parts of the Gold coaft } and adds, “ the
country about D’Elmina and Cape Coaft is much the
fame for beauty and goodnefs, but more populous*, and
the nearer we come towards the Slave coaft, the more
delightful and rich all the countries are, producing all
forts of trees, fruits, roots, and herbs, that grow with¬
in the torrid zone.” Barbot alfo remarks *, with re-* *
fpedl to the countries of Ante and Adorn, “ That the Defcripthu
foil is very good and fruitful in corn and other pro- °f Guinea,
duce *, which it affords in fuch plenty, that befides what ^
ferves for their own ufe, they always export great
quantities for fale : they have a competent number of
cattle, both tame and wdld, and the rivers are abundantly
ftored with fifti } fo that nothing is wanting for the fup-
port of life, and to make it eafy.” In the Colleflion
it is faid “ That the inland people on that part of the
coaft employ themfelves in tillage and trade, and fup-
ply the market wuth corn, fruit, and palm wine} the
country producing fuch vaft plenty of Indian corn,
that abundance is daily exported as w'ell by Euro¬
peans as blacks reforting thither from other parts.”
Thefe inland people are faid to live in great union
and friendftiip, being generally well tempered, civil,
and traftable j not ant to ftied human blood, except
W'hen much provoked} and ready to aflift one ano¬
ther. In the Colleftion it is faid, “ That the fifh-
ing bufinefs is efteemed on the Gold Coaft next to tra¬
ding } that thofe who profefs it are more numerous
than thofe of other employments. That the greateft
number of thefe are at Kommendo, Mina, and Kor-
mantin } from each of which places there go out every
morning (Tuefday excepted, which is the Fetifli day
or day of reft), five, fix, and fometimcs eight hundred
canoes,
GUI [ i
Guinea, canoes, from 13 to 14 feet long, which fpread them-
   felves two leagues at fea, each filherman carrying in his
canoe a fwoid, with bread, water, and a little fire on
a large ftone to roaft fifh. Thus they labour till noon,
when the fea breeze blowing frefli, they return on the
fhore, generally laden with fifh ; a quantity of wdrich
the inland inhabitants come downi to buy, which they
fell again at the country markets.”
Smith fays. “ The country about A era, where the
Englifli and Dutch have each a ftrong fort, is very de¬
lightful, and the natives courteous and civil to ftran-
gers.” He adds, “ That this place feldom fails of an
extraordinary good trade from the inland country,
efpecially for flaves, whereof feveral are fuppofed to
come from very remote parts, becaufe it is not un¬
common to find a Malayan or two amongft a parcel of
other flaves : The Malay people are generally natives
of Malacca, in the Eaft Indies, fituated feveral thoufand
miles from the Gold Coaft.” They differ very much
from the Guinea negroes, being of a tawny complexion,
with long black hair.
Moft parts of the Slave coaft are reprefented as
equally fertile and pleafant with the Gold coaft. The
kingdom of Whidah has been particularly noted by
travellers. Smith and Bofman agree, “ That it is one
of the moft delightful countries in the wwld. The
great number and variety of tall, beautiful, and fhady
trees, which feem planted in groves *, the verdant fields
everywhere cultivated, and no otherwife divided than
by thofe groves, and in fome places a fmall foot-path,
together with a great number of villages, contribute
to afford the moft delightful profpedf j the whole coun¬
try being a fine, eafy, and almoft imperceptible afeent
for the fpace of 40 or 50 miles from the fea. That the
farther you go from the fea, the more beautiful and po¬
pulous the country appears. That the natives were
kind and obliging, and fo induftrious, that no place
which w-as thought fertile could efcape being planted,
even within the hedges which inclofe their villages.
And that the next day after they had reaped, they low¬
ed again.”
Snelgrave alfo fays, “ The country appears full of
towns and villages 5 and being a rich foil, and well
cultivated, looks like an entire garden.” In the Col-
ledfion, the hufbandry of the negroes is deferibed to
be carried on with great regularity. “ The rainy fea-
fon approaching, they go into the fields and woods,
to fix on a proper place for fowing j and as here is no
property in ground, the king’s licence being obtained,
the people go out in troops, and firft clear the ground
from bufhes and weeds, which they burn. The field
thus cleared, they dig it up a foot deep, and fo let it
remain for eight or ten days, till the reft of their
neighbours have difpofed their ground in the fame
manner. They then confult about fowing, and for
that end affemble at the king’s court the next Fetifh
day. The king’s grain muft be fown firft. They
then go again to the field, and give the ground a fe-
cond digging, and fow their feed. Whilft “ the king
or governor’s land is fowing, he fends out wine and
flefh, ready dreffed, enough to ferve the labourers.
Afterwards, they in like manner fow the ground al¬
lotted for their neighbours as diligently as that of the
king’s, by whom they are alfo fbafted; and fo con¬
tinue to wroik in a body for the public benefit till
35 1 GUI
every man’s ground is tilled and fowed. None but Guinea,
the king, and a few great men, are exempted from
this labour. Their grain foon fprouts out of the
ground. When it is about a man’s height, and be¬
gins to ear, they raife a wooden houfe in the centre
of the field, covered with ftraw, in which they fet
their children to watch their corn, and fright away the
birds.”
Bofman fpeaks in commendation of the civility,
kindnefs, and great induftry of the natives of Whi¬
dah. This is confirmed by Smith, who fays “ The
natives here feem to be the moft gentleman-like ne¬
groes in Guinea, abounding with good manners and
ceremony to each other. The inferior pay the utmoft
deference and refpeft to the fuperior, as do wives to
their hufbands, and children to their parents. All
here are naturally induftrious, and find conftant em¬
ployment j the men in agriculture, and the wTomen in
fpinning and weaving cotton. The men, whofe chief
talent lies in hufbandry, are unacquainted with arms j
otherwife, being a numerous people, they could have
made a better defence againft the king of Dahomy,
who fubdued them without much trouble.” Accord¬
ing to the Colleftion, there are, throughout the Gold
coaft, regular markets in all villages, furnifhed with
provifions and merchandife, held every day in the week
except Tuefday, whence they fupply, not only the in¬
habitants, but the European fliips. The negro wo¬
men are very expert in buying and felling, and ex¬
tremely induftrious ; for they will repair daily to mar¬
ket from a confiderable diftance, loaded like pack-
horfes, wTith a child perhaps at their back, and a heavy
burden on their heads. After felling their wares,,
they buy fifh and other neceffaries, and return home
loaded as they came. There is a market held at Sabi
every fourth day, alfo a weekly one in the province
of Apologua, which is fo reforted to, that there are
ufually 5000 or 6000 merchants. Their markets are fo
well regulated and governed, that feldom any diforder
happens $ each fpecies of merchandife and merchants
have a leparate place allotted them by themfelves.
The buyers may haggle as much as they will, but it
muft be without noife or fraud. To keep order, the
king appoints a judge ; who, with four officers well
armed, infpedls the markets, hears all complaints, and
in a fummary way decides all differences 5 he has
power to feize, and fell as flaves, all who are catch-
ed in ftealing or difturbing the peace. In thefe mar¬
kets are to be fold men, women, children, oxen, flreep,
goats, and fowls of all kinds ; European cloths, linen
and woollen j printed calicoes, filk, grocery wTare,
china, gold-dull, iron in bars, &c. in a word, moft
forts of European goods, as well as the produce of
Africa and Afia. They have other markets, refem-
bling our fairs, once or twice a-year, to which all the
country repair j for they take care to order the day fo
in different governments as not to interfere with each
other.”
With refpedl to government, Smith fays *, “ that * Smith,
the Gold coaft and Slave coaft are divided into diffe-P'1?.^*
rent diftridls, fome of which are governed by their
chiefs or kings: the others, being more of the na¬
ture of a commonwealth, are governed by fome of
the principal men, called Caboceros; wTho, Bofman'
fays, are properly denominated civil fathers, whofe pro¬
vince^.
G U I
[ 136 ]
G U I
Guinea.
Borman,
p. 119.
} CollcSi,
vol. iii.
p. 228.
Vince is to take care of the welfare of the city or vil¬
lage, and to appeafe tumults.” But this order of go¬
vernment has been much broken fince the coming of
the Europeans. Both Bofman and Burbot mention
murder and adultery to be feverely punilhed on the
coaft, frequently by death ; and robbery by a fine pro¬
portionable to the goods ftolen.
The income of fome of the kings is large. Bofmah
fays, “ that the king of Whidah’s revenues and duties
on things bought and fold are confiderable ; he having
the tithe of all tilings fold in the market, or imported
into the country.” Both the above-mentioned authors
fay, the tax on (laves (hipped o(f in this king’s domi¬
nions, in fome years, amounts to near 20,cool.
Bofman tells us, “ the Whidah negroes have a faint
idea of a true God, afcribing to him the attributes of
almighty power and omniprefence : but God, they
fay, is too high to condefcend to think of mankind }
wherefore he commits the government of the world to
thofe inferior deities which they worlhip.” Some au¬
thors fay, the wifeft of thefe negroes are fenfible of
their miflake in this opinion ; but dare not forfake
their own religion, for fear of the populace rifmg and
killing them. This is confirmed by Smith, who fays,
that all the natives of this coaft believe there is one
true God, the author of them and all things 5 that
they have fome apprehenfion of a future (late $ and
that almoft every village has a grove, or public place
of worfhip, to which the principal inhabitants, on a
fet day, refort to make their offerings.”
In the Colle&ion it is remarked as an excellency in
the Guinea government, “ that however poor they
may be in general, yet there are no beggars to be found
amongft them *, which is owing to the care of their
chief men, whofe province it is to take care of the wel¬
fare of the city or village, it being part of their of¬
fice to fee that fuch people may earn their bread by
their labour ; fome are fet to blow the fmith’s bel¬
lows, others to prefs palm oil, or grind colours for
their mats, and fell provifion in the markets. The
young men are lifted to ferve as foldiers, fo that they
fuffer no common beggar.” Bofman afcribes a fur¬
ther reafon for this good order *f viz. “ that when a
negro finds he cannot fubfift, he binds himfelf for a
certain fum of money, and the mafter to wdiom he is
bound is obliged to find him neceffaries $ that the ma¬
fter fets him a fort of talk, which is not in the leaft
flavilh, Eeing chiefly to defend his mafter on occa-
fions, or in fowing time to work as much as him¬
felf pleafes.”
Adjoining to the kingdom of Whidah are feveral
fmall governments, as Goto, great and fmall Popo,
Ardrah, &c. all fituated on the Slave coaft, where the
chief trade for (laves is carried on. Thefe are govern¬
ed by their refpe&ive kings, and follow much the fame
cuftoms with thofe of Whidah, except that their prin¬
cipal living is on plunder and the (lave-trade.
4. Next adjoining to the Slave Coaft, is the king¬
dom of Benin, which, though it extends but about
170 miles on the fea, yet fpreads fo far inland as to be
efteemed the moft potent kingdom in Guinea. By
accounts, the foil and produce appear to be in a great
meafure like thofe before defcribed, and the natives
are reprefented as a reafonable good-natured people.
Artua fays “ they are a fincere, inoffenfive people,
2
and do no injuftice either to one another dr to (Iran- Guinea,
gers.” Smith confirms this account, and fays, “ that-y*—-
the inhabitants are generally very good-natured, and
exceeding courteous and civil. When the Europeans
make them prefents, which in their coming thither to
trade they always do, they endeavour to return them
doubly.” Bofman tells Us, “ that his countrymen
the Dutch, who were often obliged to truft them till
they returned the next year, were fure to be honeftly
paid their whole debts.”
There is in Benin a confiderable order in govern¬
ment j theft, murder, and adultery, being feverely
punifhed. Smith fays, “ their towns are governed
by officers appointed by the king, who haVe power
to decide in civil cafes, and to raife the public taxes:
but in criminal cafes, they muft fend to the king’s
court, which is held at the town of Oedo or Great
Benin. This town, which covers a large extent of
ground, is abdut 60 miles from the fefc.” Barbot
tells us, “ that it contains 30 ftreets, 20 fathoms wide,
and almoft twro miles long, commonly extending in a
ftraight line from one gate to another j that the gates are
guarded by foldiers j that in thefe ftreets markets are
held every day, for cattle, ivory, cotton, and many forts
of European goods. This large town is divided into fe¬
veral wards or diftri&s, each governed by its refpec-
tive king of a ftreet, as they call them, to adminifter
juftice, and to keep good order. The inhabitants
are very civil and good-natured, condefcending to what
the Europeans require of them in a civil w'ay.” The
fame author confirms what has been faid by others of
their juftice in the payment of their debts j and adds,
“ that they, above all other Guineans, are very ho¬
ned and juft in their dealings j and they have fuch an
averfion for theft, that by the law' of the country it is
puniftied with death.” We are told by the fame au¬
thor, “ that the king of Benin is able upon occafion
to maintain an army of 100,000 men j but that, for
the moft part, he does not keep 30,000. See the article
Benik.
5. The laft divifion of Guinea from which (laves
are imported, are the kingdoms of Congo and Ango¬
la ; thefe lie to the fouth of Benin, extending with
the intermediate land about 1200 miles on the coaft.
Great numbers of the natives of both thefe kingdoms
profefs the Chriftian religion, which was long fince
introduced by the Portuguefe, who made early fettle-
ments in that country. See Congo and Angola.
In the Colleftion it is faid, that both in Congo and
Angola, the foil is in general fruitful, producing great
plenty of grain, Indian corn, and fuch quantities of
rice, that it hardly bears ahy price, with fruits, roots,
and palm oil in plenty. The natives are generally a
quiet people, who difcover a good underftanding,
and behave in a friendly manner to ftrangers, being of
a mild converfation, affable, and eafily overcome with
reafon. In the government of Congo, the king ap¬
points a judge in every particular divifion, to hear and
determine difputes and civil caufes j the judges im-
prifon and releafe, or impofe fines, according to the
rule of cuftom j but in weighty matters, every one
may appeal to the king, before whom all criminal
caufes are brought, in which he giveth fentence} but
feldom condemneth to death. The town of Leango
ftands in the midft of four lordfhips, which abound m
corn,
r Guinea.
GUI C i37 3 GUI
corn, fruit, &.c. Here they make great quantities of
cloth of divers kinds, very fine and curious 5 the in¬
habitants are feldom idle •, they even make needle-work
caps as they walk in the ftreets. The llave-trade is
here principally managed by the Portuguefe, who carry
it far up into the inland countries. They are find to
fend off from thefe parts 15,000 flaves each year. At
Angola, about the 10th degree of fouth latitude, ends
the trade for-flaves.
As all thefe countries lie between the tropics, the air
is exceflively hot, efpecially from the beginning of Sep¬
tember to the end of March 5 which, with the coolnefs
of the nights, the frequent thick, (linking, fulphu-
reous mills, and the periodical rains, when the fiat
country is overflowed, make* it very unhealthy, efpe¬
cially to Europeans. The natives, however, are little
affe&ed with the unwholefome air. According to Bar-
bot, they keep much within doors in tempelluous
times; and when expofed to the weather, their fkins
being fuppled and pores clofed by daily anointing*
with palm oil, the weather can make but little im-
preflion on them. They generally, therefore, enjoy a
good Hate of health, and are able to procure to them-
felves a comfortable fubfiftence, with much kfs care and
toil than is neceflary in our more northern climate ;
which lafl advantage arifes not only from the warmth
of the climate, but alfo from the overflowing of the
rivers, whereby the land is regularly moiltened and
rendered extremely fertile ; and being in many places
improved by culture, abounds with grain and fruits,
cattle, poultry, &c. The earth yields all the year a
freih fupply of food : Few clothes are requiflte, and
little art necelfary in making them, or in the conllruc-
tion of their houfes, which are very Ample, principally
calculated to defend them from the tempelluous fea-
fons and wild beafls ; a few dry reeds covered with
mats ferve for their beds. The other furniture, ex¬
cept what belongs to cookery, gives the women but
little trouble ; the moveables of the greateft among
them amounting only to a few earthen pots, fome
wooden uteniils, and gourds or calabalhes; from thefe
laft, which grow almoll naturally over their huts, to
which they afford an agreeable (hade, they are abun¬
dantly flocked with good clean veffels for moft houfe-
kold ules, being of different fizes, from half a pint to
feveral gallons.
The diftempers the Europeans are fubjefl to on
this coaft, are fevers, fluxes, and colics, which are
occafioned by indifferent water and bad air; their
fettlements lying near the coail, where the fogs and
fleams arifing from the ooze and falt-marflies, and the
ftinking filh the natives dry on the beach, corrupt the
air, and render it fatal to foreigners. The moll tem¬
perate men find it difficult to preferve their health ;
but a great many haften their death by their intempe¬
rance, or negligence, expofing tbemfelves to the cold
air in the evening, after a very hot day. This hidden
change, from one extreme to the other, has often very
bad effefls in hot climates.
Of mountains in Guinea, the moft remarkable are
thofe of Sierra Leon. The principal capes are thofe
of Cape Blanco, Cape Verd, Cape Leon, Cape St
Ann’s, Cape Palmas, and Cape Three Points, Cape
Formofa, Cape Monte, Cape St John, Cape Lopas,
Cape Lede, and Cape Negro. The chief bays are
VOL. X. Part I.
tbe Cyprian or Cintra bay, and the Bite of Guinea* Giunas.
Of the rivers, the moll confiderable are thofe of Co- v-“~'
anzo and Ambrifl, the Zaara, the Lunde, the Came¬
ra'i, the Formofa, the Volta, the Sierra Leon, and
the Sherbro* All thefe run from ealt to welt (except
the Volta, wdiich runs from north to fouth), and fall
into the Atlantic.
Bolides gold, ivory, and flaves, Guinea affords indi¬
go, wax, gum-fenega, gum-tragacanth, and a variety
of other gums and drug?.
The molt ancient account we have of the country Hiftory of
of the negroes, particularly that part fituated on and I'1 ^Guinea
between the two great rivers of Senegal and Gambia,
is from the writings of two ancient authors, one an
Arabian, and the other a Moor. The firit wrote in
Arabic about the 1 2th century. His works, printed
in that language at Rome, were afterwards tranflated
into Latin, and printed at Paris under the patronage
of the famous Thuanus chancellor of France, with the
title of GdOgraphia Nubicnjis, containing an account of
all the nations lying on the Senegal and Gambia. The
father was written by John Leo, a Moor, born at Grana¬
da in Spain, before the Moors were totally expelled from
that kingdom. He refided in Africa ; but being on
a voyage from Tripoli to Tunis, was taken by fome
Italian corfairs, who finding him poffeffed of feveral
Arabian books, belides his own manufcripts, appre¬
hended him to be a man of learning, and as fuch pre*
fented him to Pope Leo X. This pope encouraging
him, he embraced the Romilh religion, and his de-
fcription of Africa was publifhed in Italian. From
thefe writings we gather, that after the Mahometan
religion had extended to the kingdom of Morocco,
fome of the promoters of it eroding the fandy deferts
of Numidia, which feparate that country from Gui¬
nea, found it inhabited by men, who, though under
no regular government, and deilitute of that know¬
ledge the Arabians were favoured with, lived in con¬
tent and peace. The firfl author particularly remarks,
“ that they never made war, or travelled abroad, but
employed themfelves in tending their herds, or labour¬
ing in the ground.” J. Leo fays, p. 65. “ That
they lived in common, having no property in land, no
tyrant nor fuperior lord, but fupported themfelves in
an equal ilate, upon the natural produce of the coun¬
try, which afforded plenty of roots, game, and honey.
That ambition or avarice never drove them into foreign
countries to fubdue or cheat their neighbours. Thus
they lived without toil or fuperfiuities.” “ The an¬
cient inhabitants of Morocco, who wore coats of mail,
and ufed fwords and fpears headed with iron, coming
amonglt thefe harmlefs and naked people, foon brought
them under fubje&ion, and divided that part of Guinea
which lies on the rivers Senegal and Gambia into 15
parts; thofe were the 15 kingdoms of the negroes,
over which the Moors prelided, and the common peo¬
ple were negroes. Thefe Moors taught the negroes
the Mahometan religion, and arts of life ; particularly
the ufe of iron, before unknown to them. About
the 14th century, a native negro, called Heli Ifchia,
expelled the Moorifh conquerors ; but though the ne¬
groes threw off the yoke of a foreign nation, they only
changed a Libyan for a negro mafter. Heli Ifchia
himfelf becoming king, led the negroes on to foreign
wars, and eftablifhed himfelf in power over a very large
S extent
GUI [ 138 ] GUI
Guinea extent of country,” Since Leo’s time, the Euro-
* '' peans have had very little knowledge of thofe 'parts of
Africa, nor do they know what became of his great
empire. It is highly probable that it broke into pieces,
and that the natives again refumed many of their an¬
cient cuftoms} for in the account publhhed by Moore,
in his travels on the river Gambia, we find a mixture
of the Moorifh and Mahometan cuftoms, joined with
the original fimplicity of the negroes. It appears by
accounts of ancient voyages, colle&ed by Hackluit,
Purchas, and others, that it was about 50 years before
the difcovery of America, that the Portuguefe at¬
tempted to fail round Cape Bojador, which lies be¬
tween their country and Guinea : this, after divers
repulfes occaftoned by the violent currents, they
effedled j when landing on the weftem coafts of
Africa, they foon began to make .incurfions into the
country, and to feize and carry off the native in¬
habitants. As early as the year 1434, Alonzo Gon¬
zales, the firft wdto is recorded to have met with
the natives, being on that coall, purfued and attack¬
ed a number of them, when fome were wounded, as
was alfo one of the Portuguefe } which the author re¬
cords as the firft blood fpilt by Chriftians in . thofe
parts. Six years after, the fame Gonzales again at¬
tacked the natives, and took 1 2 prifoners, with whom
he returned to his veffels: he afterwards put a woman
on fhore, in order to induce the natives to redeem the
prifoners j but the next day 150 of the inhabitants ap¬
peared on horfes and camels, provoking the Portu¬
guefe to land ; which they not daring to venture, the
natives difcharged a volley of ftones at them, and went
off. After this, the Portuguefe ftill continued to fend
veffels on the coaft of Africa : particularly we read of
their falling on a village, wffence the inhabitants fled,
and, being purfued, 25 were taken j “ he that ran
beft (fays the author), taking the moft. In their
way home they killed fome of the natives, and took
^3 more prifoners. Afterwards Dinifanes Eagrama,
with twTo other veffels, landed on the ifland Arguin,
where they took 54 Moors $ then running along the
coaft 80 leagues farther, they at feveral times took 50
{laves; but here feven of the Portuguefe were killed.
Then being joined by feveral other veffels, Dinifanes
propofed to deftroy the ifland, to revenge the lofs of the
ieven Portuguefe ; of which the Moors being apprifed,
fled, fo that no more than 12 w^ere found, whereof
only four could be taken, the reft being killed, as alfo
one of the Portuguefe.” Many more captures of this
kind on the coaft of Barbary and Guinea are recorded
to have been made in thofe eany times by the Por¬
tuguefe 5 who, in the year 1481, erefted their firft
fort at D’Elmina on that cooft, from whence they
foon opened a trade for flaves with the inland parts of
Guinea.
From the foregoing accounts, it is undoubted, that
the practice of making flaves of the negroes owes its
©rigln to the early incurfions of the Portuguefe on the
coaft of Africa, folely from an inordinate defire of gain.
This is clearly evidenced from their own hiftorians,
particularly Cada Mofto, about the year 1453, who
writes *, “ That before the trade was fettled for pur-
chafing ’flaves from the Moors at Arguin, fometimes
P° 57V. four, and fometimes more Portuguefe veffels, were ufed
to come to that gulf, well armed) and landing by
night, wTould furprife fome fiihermen’s villages : that Guinea,
they even entered into the country, and carried oft ’ v
Arabs of both fexes, whom they fold in Portugal.”
And alfo, “ That the Portuguefe and Spaniards, fet¬
tled on four of the Canary ifiands, would go to the
other iiland by night, and feize fome of the natives of
both fexes, whom they fent to be fold in Spain.”
After the fettlement of America, thofe devaftations,
and the captivating the miferable Africans, greatly in-
creafed.
Anderfon, in his Hiftory of Trade and Commerce,
p. 336, fpeaking of what paffed in the year 1508,
writes, “ That the Spaniards had by this time found
that the miferable Indian natives, whom they had
made to work in their mines and fields, wTere not fo
robuft and proper for thofe purpofes as negroes brought
from Africa : wherefore they, about that time, began
to import negroes fer that end into Hifpaniola, from
the Portuguefe fettlements on the Guinea coafts j and
alfo afterwards for their fugar-works.”
It wras about the year 1551, towards the latter end
of the reign of Edward VI. when fome London mer¬
chants fent out the firft Englifti (hip on a trading voy¬
age to the coaft of Guinea. This was foon followed by
feveral others to the fame parts 5 but the Englifti not
having then any plantations in the Weft Indies, and
confequently no occafion for negroes, fuch {hips tra¬
ded only for gold, elephants teeth, and Guinea pepper.
This trade was carried on at the hazard of lofing their
{hips and cargoes, if they had fallen into the hands of
the Portuguefe, who claimed an exclufive right of
trade, on account of the feveral fettlements they had
made there. In 1553, we find Captain Ihomas Wind¬
ham trading along the coaft wdth 140 men, in three
{hips, and failing as far as Benin, which lies about
3000 miles dowm the coaft, to take in a load of pep¬
per. Next year John Loke traded along the coaft of
Guinea, as far as D’Elmina, when he brought away
confiderable quantities of gold and ivory. He {peaks
wrell of the natives, and fays, “ That whoever will deal
writh them muft behave civilly, for they will not traffic
if ill ufed.” In 1555, William Tow-erfon traded in a
peaceable manner with the natives, who made com¬
plaint to him of the Portuguefe, who were then fettled
in their caftle at D’Elmina; faying, “ They were bad
men ; wffio made them flaves if they could take them,
putting irons on their legs.”
This bad example of the Portuguefe was foon fol-
lowed by fome evil difpofed Englilhmen : for the fame
Captain Towerfon relates *, w That in the courfe of * ColleSHv
his voyage, he perceived the natives near D’Elmina un-vol.i.
willing to come to him, and that he was at laft attack-P*
ed by them j which he underftood was done in revenge
for the wrong done them the year before by one Cap¬
tain Gainfti, who had taken aw'ay the negro captain’s
fon and three others, with their gold, &c. This
caufed them to join the Portuguefe, notwith ft aiming
their hatred of them, againft the Engliih. ’ The next
year Captain Towerfon brought thefe men back again 3
whereupon the negroes {flowed him mufth kindnefs.
Quickly after this, another inftance of the fame kind
occurred ifi the cafe of Captain George Fenner, who
being on the coaft with three veffels, was alfo attacked
by the negroes, wffio wounded feveral of his people,
and violently carried three of his men to their town.
GUI
[
Guinea. The captain fent a meffenger, offering any thing they
'“■V”""1 delired for the ranfom of his men : but they refufed to
deliver them letting him know, “ That three weeks
before, an Engliih (hip, which came into the road, had
carried off three of their people $ and that till they
were brought again, they would not rellore his men,
even though they ftiould give their three ihips to re-
leafe them.” It was probably the evil condudl of
thefe and fome other Englilhmen which tvas the occa-
fion of what is mentioned in Hill’s Naval Hiffory, viz.
“ That when Captain Hawkins returned from his firft
voyage to Africa, Queen Elizabeth fent for him, wdten
(lie expreffed her concern, left any of the African ne¬
groes (hould be carried off without their free confent j
which (he declared would be deteftable, and rvould call
down the vengeance of heaven upon the undertakers.”
Hawkins made great promiles, which neverthelefs he
did not perform ; for his next voyage to the coaft
appears to have been principally calculated to procure
negro (laves, in order to fell them to the Spaniards in
the Weft Indies 5 which occalioned the fame author to
life thefe remarkable words : “ Here began the horrid
pra&ice of forcing the Africans into llavery ; an in-
juftice and barbarity wdiich, fo fure as there is ven¬
geance in heaven for the worft of crimes, will font*
time be the deftruftion of all tvho adl or who encou¬
rage it.” This Captain Hawkins, afterwards Sir John
Haw;kins, feems to have been the firft Englilhman who
gave public countenance to this wicked traffic : for
Anderfon, before mentioned, at p. 401. fays, “That
in the year 1562, Captain Hawrkins, affifted by fub-
(cription of fundry gentlemen, now fitted out three
ihips; and having learnt that negroes wrere a very good
commodity in Hifpaniola, he failed to the coaft of
Guinea, took in negroes, and failed with them for
Hifpaniola, where he fold them, and his Englifh com¬
modities, and loaded his three veffels with hides, fugar,
ginger, &c. with which he returned home anno 1563,
making a profperous voyage.” As it proved a lucra¬
tive bufinefs, the trade was continued both by Haw¬
kins and others, as appears from the Naval Chronicle,
p. 55 : where it is faid, “ That on the 18th of Octo¬
ber 1564, Captain John Haw-kins, with two (hips of
700 and 140 tons, failed for Africa } that on the 8th
of December they anchored to the fouth of Cape
Verd, where the captain manned the boat, and fent 80
men in armour into the country, to fee if they could
take fome negroes 5 but the natives flying from them,
they returned to their (hips, and proceeded farther
down the coaft. Here they (laid certain days, fend¬
ing their men aftiore, in order (as the author fays) to
burn and fpoil their towns and take the inhabitants.
The land they obferved to be well cultivated, there
being plenty of grain and fruit of feveral forts, and
the towms prettily laid out. On the 25th, being in¬
formed by the Portuguefe of a town of negroes called
slymba, where there was not only a quantity of gold,
but 140 inhabitants, they refolved to attack it, ha¬
ving the Portuguefe for their guide ; but by mifma-
nagement they took but ten negroes, having feven of
their own men killed and 27 wounded. They then
went farther down the coaft j when having procured a
number of negroes, they proceeded to the Weft In¬
ches, where they fold them to the Spaniards.” And
in the fame Naval Chronicle, at p. 76, it is faid, “ That
39 1 . G U 1
in the year 1567, Francis Drake, before performing Cainea..
his voyage round the wTorld, w'ent with Sir John Haw- 1" v ~ J
kins in his expedition to the coaft of Guinea, where
taking in a cargo of (laves, they determined to (leer
for the Caribbee iflands.” How Queen Elizabeth fuf-
fered fo grievous an infringement of the rights of man¬
kind to be perpetrated by her fubjecls, and how ihe
was perfuaded, about the 30th year of her reign, to
grant patents for carrying on a trade from the hortli
part of the river Senegal to 100 leagues beyond Sierra
Leona, which gave rife to the African Company *, * ^ee
is hard to account for, any otherwife than that it^Y^V-i6*.
arofe from the mifreprefentation made to her of the
fituation of the negroes, and of the advantages it was
pretended they would reap from being made acquaint¬
ed with the Chriftian religion. This was the cafe of
Louis XIII. of France : who, Labat, in his account
of the ides of America, tells us, “ w^as extremely un-
eafy at a law7 by which the negroes of his colonies were
to be made (laves; but it being ftrongly urged to him
as the readied means of their converfion to Chriftianity,
he acquiefced therewith.” Neverthelefs, fome of the
Chriftian powers did not fo eafily give way in this mat¬
ter : for we find f, “ That Cardinal Cibo, one of the + Colleithn,
pope’s principal minifters of date, w'rote a letter on be-vo''
half of the college of cardinals, or great council at^' 1 1
Rome, to the miflionaries in Congo, complaining that
the pernicious and abominable abufe of felling flaves
was yet continued ; requiring them to remedy the fame
if poffible $ but this the miffionaries law little hopes of
accomplilhing, by reafon that the trade of the country-
lay wholly in (laves and ivory.
It has been urged in juftification of this trade, that
by purehafing the captives taken in battle, they fave
the lives of fo many human creatures, who otherwife
would be facrificed to the implacable revenge of the
vidlors. But this pretence has been refuted by an ap¬
peal to reafon and faff. For if the negroes appre¬
hended they fliould be cruelly put to death if they
w7ere not fent aw7ay ; why, it is afleed, do they manu
fed fuch reluctance and dread as they generally do, at
being brought from their native country ? Smith, in
his Account, p. 28. fays, “ The Gambians abhor
flavery, and will attempt any thing, though ever fo
defperate, to avoid it.” And Thomas Philips, in his
account of a voyage he performed to the coaft of
Guinea, wnites, “ They (the negroes) are fo loth to
leave their own country, that they have often leaped
out of the canoe, boat, or (hip, into the fea, and kept
under water till they were drowned, to avoid being-
taken up.” But had the faft even been otherwife,
the above plea is urged W'ith an extreme bad grace,
when it is notorious that the very wars faid to be pro¬
ductive of fuch cruelty were fomented by the infamous
arts of the Europeans. From the foregoing accounts,
as well as other authentic publications of this kind, it
appears, that it was the unwarrantable luft of gaia
wffiich firft ftimulated the Portuguefe, and afterwards
other Europeans, to engage in this horrid traffic. By
the moll unqueftionahle relations of thofe early times,
the natives were an inoffenfive people, who, when civilly
ufed, traded amicablv with the Europeans. It is re¬
corded of thofe of Benin, the larged kingdom in
Guinea, that they were a gentle, loving people 5 and
Reynold (ays, “ They found more fincere proofs of
S 2 love
GUI [ 140 ] GUI
Gninea. love and good will from the natives, than they could
v"  find from the Spaniards and Portuguefe, even though
they had relieved them from the greatefl rmfery.”
■^nd from the fame relations there is no reafon to
think otherwife, but that they generally lived in peace
amonglt themfelves: there occurring no accounts of
any wars at that early period, nor of any fale of cap¬
tives taken in battle.
In faft, it was long after the Portuguefe hid made
a praftice of violently forcing the natives of Africa
into fiavery, that we read of the different negro nations
making war upon each other, and felling their cap¬
tives. And probably this was not the cafe, till thofe
bordering on the coaft, who had been ufed to fupply
the veffels with neceffaries, had become corrupted by
their intercourfe with the Europeans, and were excited
by drunkennefs and avarice to join them in carrying
on thofe wicked fchemes, by which thofe unnatural
wars wrere perpetrated 5 the inhabitants kept in con¬
tinual alarms j the country laid wafte ; and, as Moore
exprefl.es it, “ infinite numbers fold into fiaveryd’ But
that the Europeans are the principal caufe of there de-
vaflations, is particularly evidenced by one wdrofe con-
nedlion with the trade would rather induce him to
reprefent it in the faireft colours, viz. Captain Smith,
the perfon fent in the year 1726, by the African com¬
pany, to furvey their fettlements; who, from the in¬
formation he received of one of the faftors w’ho had
refided ten years in that country, fays, “ 1 hat the
difeerning natives account it their greateft unhappinefs,
* Smith,' that they w^ere ever vifited by the Europeans*.— That
p. it6. We Chriftians introduced the traffic of llaves j and that
before our coming they lived in peace.”
In the accounts relating to the African trade, we
find this melancholy truth farther aflerted by fame of
the principal direftors in the different faftories \ par-
■\ ColUaton, tjcu]ar}y ^ £rue fayS .f} “ Xhat the Europeans were
far from defiring to a£! as peace-makers amongft the
negroes; which would be afting contrary to their in-
tereff, fince the greater the wars, the more Haves w7ere
% p- 31* procured.” And William Bofman alfo remarks J, “ That
one of the former commanders gave large fums of
money to the negroes of one nation, to induce them
to attack fome of the neighbouring nations •, which oc-
cafioned a battle wdiich wras more bloody than the
wars of the negroes ufually are.” This is confirmed
by J. Barbot, who fays, “ That the country of D’El-
mina, which was formerly very pow erful and populous,
was in his time fo much drained of its inhabitants by
the intefline wars fomented among the negroes by
the Dutch, that there did not remain inhabitants
enough to till the country.”
It has alfo been advanced as an argument in favour
of keeping the negroes in bondage, that there are fiaves
in Guinea, and that thofe amongfl us might be fo in
their own country. Not to dwell upon the incon-
fiflenev of our giving any countenance to fiavery, be-
caufe the Africans, wdiom we efteem a barbarous and
favage people, allow of it, and perhaps the more from
our example ; the very circumftance ftated, when in¬
quired Into, muff afford caufe of blufhing, rather than
ferve as a palliation of fuch iniquitous conduft : for it
will appear, that the fiavery endured in Guinea is by
no means fo grievous as that in the colonies. Captain
Moore, fpeaking of the natives living on the liver Gam'
bia, fays, “ That fome of the negroes have many houfe
fiaves, which are their greateft glory •, that thofe fiaves
live fo wrell and eafy, that it is fometimes a hard mat¬
ter to know the llaves from their mailers or miftreffes.
And that though in fome parts of Africa they fell
their fiaves born in the family, yet on the river Gam¬
bia they think it a very wdeked thing.” The author
adds, “ He never heard of but one that ever fold a
family flave, except for fuch crimes as they would
have been fold for if they had been Tree.” And in
Aftley’s Colledlion, fpeaking of the cuftoms of the
negroes in that large extent of country farther down
the coaft, particularly denominated the Coajl of Guinea,
it is faid, “ They have not many fiaves on the coaft j
none but the king or nobles are permitted to buy or
fell any j fo that they are allowed only what are ne-
ceffary for their families or tilling the ground.” The
fame author adds, “ That they generally ufe their*
Haves wTell, and feldom corredf them.”
From the foregoing accounts of the natural difpofi-
tion of the negroes, and the fruitfulnefs of moft parts
of Guinea, w*hich are confirmed by authors of candour,
who have written from their own knowledge, it may
wTell be concluded, that the negroes acquaintance with
the Europeans might have been a happinefs to them :
but thefe, forgetful of their duty as men and Chri-
fiians, have condufted themfelves in fo iniquitous a
manner, as muft neceffarily raife in the minds of the
thoughtful and well-difpofed negroes the utmoft fcorn
and deteflation of the very name of Chriftians. All
other confiderations have given way to an infatiable
defire of gain, which has been the principal and mo¬
ving caufe of the moft deteftable and barbarous feene
that was perhaps ever afted upon the face of the earth;
inftead of making ufe of that fuperior knowledge with
wdiich the Almighty, the common Parent of mankind,
had favoured them, to ftrengthen the principle of
peace and good w ill in the breafts of the incautious
negroes, the Europeans have, by their bad example,
led them into excefs of drunkennefs, debauchery, and
avarice : whereby every paflion of corrupt nature be¬
ing inflamed, they have been eafily prevailed upon to.
make war and captivate one another, as well to fur-
niih means for the exceffes they had been habituated
to, as to iatisfy the greedy defire of gain in their pro¬
fligate employers ; who to this intent have furniihed
them with prodigious quantities of arms and ammuni¬
tion. Thus they have been hurried into confufion,
diftrefs, and all the extremities of temporal milery ;
every thing, even the powrer of their kings, has been
made fubfervient to this wicked purpofe ; for inftead
of being proteftors of their fubjefts, fome of thofe ru¬
lers, corrupted by the exceflive love of fpirituous li¬
quors, and the tempting baits laid before them by the
fadlors, have invaded the liberties of their unhappy lub-
jedls, and are become their opprefibrs.
Her it may be neceffary to obferve, that the ac¬
counts we have of the inhabitants of Guinea are
chiefly given by perfons engaged in the trade, w'ho,
from felf-interefted views, have deferibed them in fuch
colours as w-ere lead: likely to excite compaflion and
tefpeft, and endeavoured to reconcile fo manifeft a
violation of the rights of mankind to the minds of the
purchafers 5 yet they cannot but allow the negroes to
be poffeffed of fome good qualities, though they con-
trive
GUI [
Guinea, tnve as inucli as poflible to caft a (hade over tliem.
—^ particular inftance of this appears in Aftley’s Collec¬
tion, vol. ii. p. 73. ; where the author, fpeaking of the
Mandingos fettled at Galem, which is fituated 900
miles up the Senegal, after faying that they carry on
a commerce to all the neighbouring kingdoms, and
amafs riches, adds, “ That excepting the vices pecu¬
liar to the blacks, they are a good fort of people, ho-
neft, hofpitable, juft to their word, laborious, induftri-
ous, and very ready to learn arts and fciences.” Here
it is difficult to imagine what vices can be peculiarly
attendant on a people fo 'well difpofed as the author de-
fcribes thefe to be. With refpe£! to the charge fome
authors have brought againft them, as being void ol all
natural affedtion, k is frequently contradidled by
others. In vol. ii. of the Colledlion, p. 275 an<^ 629,
the negroes of North Guinea and the Gold Coaft are
faid to be fond of their children, whom they love with
tendernefs. And Bofman fays, p. 34ch 44 Not a few
in his country (viz. Holland) fondly imagine, that pa¬
rents here fell their children, men their wives, and one
/ brother the other : but thofe who think fo, deceive
themfelves ; for this never happens on any other ac¬
count but that of neceffity, or fome great crime.”
The fame is repeated by J. Barbot, p. 32^> an^ alf°
confirmed by Sir Hans Sloane in the introdudtion to
his natural hifi ory of Jamaica, j where, fpeaking of the
negroes, he fays, “ they are ufually thought to be ha¬
ters of their own children •, and therefore it is believed
that they fell and difpofe of them to ftrangers for mo¬
ney : but this is not true j for the negroes of Guinea
being divided into feveral captainfhips, as well as the
Indians of America, have wars j and befides thofe flain
in battle, many priioners are taken, w’ho are fold as
Haves, and brought thither : but the parents here, al¬
though their children are (laves for ever, yet have fo
great love for them, that no mailers dare fell or give
away one of their little ones, unlefs they care not whe¬
ther their parents hang themfelves or not.” J. Bar¬
bot, fpeaking of the occafion of the natives of Guinea
being reprefented as a treacherous people, afcribes it to
the Hollanders (and doubtlefs other Europeans) ulurp-
ing authority, and fomenting divilions between the ne¬
groes. At p. 110, he fays, “ It is well known that
many of the European nations trading amongft thefe
people, have very unjuftly and inhumanly, without any
provocation, ftolen away, from time to time, abundance
of the people, not only on this coaft, but almoft every¬
where in Guinea, who have come on board their (hips
in a harmlefs and confiding manner : thefe they have in
great numbers carried away, and fold in the plantations,
with other Haves which they had purchafed.” And al¬
though fome of the negroes may be juftly charged with
indolence and fupinenefs, yet many others are frequent¬
ly mentioned by authors as a careful, induftrious, and
even laborious people.
By an inquiry into the laws and cuftoms formerly in
ufe, and dill in force among the negroes, particularly
on the Gold Coaft, it will be found, that provifion was
made for the general peace, and for the fafety of indi¬
viduals 5 even in W. Bofman’s time, long after the
Europeans had eftablhhed the Have-trade, the natives
were not publicly enflaved, any otherwife than in pu-
nilhment for crimes, when prifoners of war, or by a
141 ] GUI
A violent exertion of the power of their corrupted kings.
Where any of the natives were Holen in order to be
fold to the Europeans, it was done fecretly, or at leaft
only connived at by thofe in powder; this appears from
Barbot and Bofman’s account of the matter, both a-
greeing that man-flealing was not allowed on the Geld
Goad. The firft fays, “ Kidnapping or Healing of
human creatures is puniffied there, and even fometimes
with death.” And Bofman, whofe long refidence on
the coafl enabled him to fpeak with certainty, fays,
“ That the law's were fevere againH murder, thievery,
and adultery $” and adds, “ That man-flealing wTas pu-
niffied on the Gold Coafl with rigid feverity, and fome¬
times with death itfelf.” Hence it may be concluded,,
that the fale of the greateft part of the negroes to the
Europeans is fupported by violence, in defiance of the
laws, through the knavery of their principal men, who
(as is too often the cafe with thofe in European coun¬
tries), under pretence of encouraging trade, and in-
creafing the public revenue, difregard the dictates of
juflice, and trample upon thofe liberties which they are
appointed to preferve.
Moore alfo mentions man-flealing as being difeounte-
nanced by the negro governments on the river Gambia j
and fpeaks of the enllaving the peaceable inhabitants,
as a violence which only happens under a corrupt admi-
niftration of juftice. He fays, “ The kings of that
country generally advife with their head men, fcarcely
doing any thing of confequence without confulting
them firrt, except the king of Barfailay, who being
fubjeft to hard drinking, is very abfolute. It is to this
king’s infatiable third for brandy, that his fubjetfts
freedoms and families are in fo precarious a fituation.
Whenever this king wants goods or brandy, he lends a
meflenger to the Engliffi governor at James Fort, to
defire he would fend a (loop there with a cargo : this
news being not at all unwelcome, the governor (ends ac¬
cordingly j againft the arrival of the (loop, the king
goes and ranfacks fome of his enemies towns, feizing
the people, and felling them for fuch commodities as
he is in want of, which commonly are brandy, guns,
powder, balls, piftols, and cutlafles, for his attendants
and fokliers ; and coral and filver for his wives and
concubines. In cafe he is not at war with any neigh¬
bouring king, he then falls upon one of his own towns,
which are numerous, and ufes them in the fame man¬
ner. Pie often goes with fome of his troops by a town
in the day time, and returning in the night, fets fire to
three parts of it, and putting guards at the fourth,
there feizes the people as they run out from the fire j
he ties their arms behind them, and marches them ei¬
ther to Joar or Cohone, where he fells them to the Eu-
Guinea:
ropeans.'7
M. Brue, the French direflor, gives much the fame
account, and fays *, “ That, having received goods,
he wrote to the king, ’that if he had a fufficient num- _
ber of (laves, he was ready to trade with him. This p. 96
prince, as well as the other negro monarchs, has always
a fure way of fupplying his deficiencies, by felling his
own fubje&s, for which they feldom want a pretence.
The king had recourfe to this method, by feizing 300
of his own people, and fent word to the director that
he had the (laves ready to deliver for the goods.” It
feems the king -wanted double the quantity o# goods
which-
G U I
Guinea, which the factor would give him for thefe 300 flaves;
y faftor refilling to trull him as he was already
in the cornpany''s debt, and perceiving that this refufal
had put the king much out of temper, he propofed
that he Ihould give him a licence for taking fo many
more of his people as the goods he Hill wanted were
worth : but this the king refufed, faying, “ It might
occalion a dillurbance among his fubjedts.” Except
in tlifc above inllanee, and fome others, where the
power of the negro kings is unlawfully exerted over
their fubjedls, the llave-trade is carried on in Guinea
with fome regard to the laws of the country, wdiich al¬
low of none to be fold but prifoners taken in their
national wars, or people adjudged to ilavery in punilh-
ment for crimes •, but the largenefs of the country, the
number of kingdoms or commonwealths, and the great
encouragement given by the Europeans, afford frequent
pretences and opportunities to the bold defigning profli¬
gates of one kingdom, to furprife and feize upon not
only thofe of a neighbouring government, but alfo the
weak and helplefs of their own } and the unhappy peo¬
ple, taken on thofe occalions, are, with impunity, fold
to the Europeans. Thefe pradlices are doubtlefs difap-
proved of by the moll confiderate amongll the negroes $
for Bofman acquaints us, that even their national wars
are not agreeable to fuch. He fays, “ If the perfon
who occalioned the beginning of the war be taken, they
will not ealily admit him to ranfom, though his weight
of gold Ihould be offered, for feat he Ihould in future
form fome new defign againil their repofe.”
We lhall conclude this article with the following ac¬
count of the Ihocking methods ufed in the carrying on
of the Have-trade, as defcribed by fadlors of different
rations.
* AP}eh Mr Moore *, fadlor for the Englilh African Com-
•?ol. ii.p. 28. pany on -]ie rjver Gambia, writes, “ That there are a
number of negro traders, calledyowcoer, or merchants,
w ho follow" the Have-trade as a bufinefs 5 their place of
relidence is fo high up the country as to be fix weeks
travel from James Eort, which is fituated at the mouth
of that river. Thefe merchants bring dowm elephants
teeth, and in fome years 2000 Haves, moll of which,
they fay, are prifoners taken in war. They buy them
from the different princes who take them •, many of
them are Bumbrongs and Petcharies; nations who
each of them have different languages, and are brought
from a vaff w ay inland. Their way of bringing them
is tying them by the neck with leather thongs, at about
a yard dillant from each other, 30 or 40 in a firing,
having generally a bundle of corn or elephants teeth
upon each of their heads. In their way from the
mountains, they travel through very great woods,
where they cannot for fome days get water ; fo they
carry in fiiin bags enough to fupport them for a time.
I cannot (adds Moore) be certain of the number of
merchants who follow this trade, but there may, per¬
haps, be about 100, who go up into the inland
country with the goods which they buy from the
white men, and with them purchafe, in various coun¬
tries, gold, Haves, and elephants teeth. Befides the
Haves which the merchants bring down, there are many
bought along the river: Thefe are either taken in w’ar,
as the former are, or men condemned for crimes ; or
eJfe people Jlolen, which is very frequent.— Since the
G u I
Have-trade has been ufed, all punifliments are changed Guinea,
into flavery ; there being an advantage on fuch con-
demnation, theyJlrain for crimes very hard, in order to
get the hemft of felling the criminal.'1''
John Barbot, the French faffor, in his account of
the manner by which the flaves are procured, fays,
“ The Haves fold by the negroes are for the moil part
prifoners of war, or taken in the incurfions they make
into their enemies territories; others are ftolen away by
their neighbours, when found abroad on the road, or
in the woods j or elfe in the corn-fields, at the time of
the year when their parents keep them there all the day
to fcare away the devouring fmall birds.” Speaking
of the tranfaflions on that part of Guinea called the
Slave Coajl, where the Europeans have the mod fadlo-
ries, and from whence they7 bring away much the
greateil number of Haves, the fame author fays, “ The
inhabitants of Goto do much mifchief in Healing thofe
flaves they fell to the Europeans from the upland
country.—*—That the inhabitants of Popo excel the
former •, being endowed with a much larger lhare of
courage, they rob more fuccefsfully, by which means
they increafe their riches and trade.” The author par¬
ticularly remarks, “ That they are encouraged in this
practice by the Europeans: fometimes it happens, ac¬
cording to the fuccefs of their inland excurfions, that
they are able to furnifli 2DO flaves or more in a few
days.” And he fays, “ The blacks of Fida, or Whi-
dah, are fo expeditious in trading for flaves, that they
can deliver 1000 every month.”—“ If there happens
to be no Hock of flaves there, the factor mufl truH the
blacks with his goods, to the value of 150I. or 200L
which goods they carry up into the inland country to
buy flaves, at all markets for above 600 miles up the
country, where they are kept like cattle in Europe ;
the flaves fold there being generally prifoners of war,
taken from their enemies like other booty, and perhaps
fome few fold by their own countrymen, in extreme
want, or upon a famine, as alfo fome as a punifliment
of heinous crimes.” So far Barbot’s account. That
given by Bofman is as follows: “ When the flaves
which are brought from the inland countries come to
Whidah, they are put in prifon together; wrhen we
treat concerning buying them, they are all brought out
together in a large plain, wEere, by our furgeons, they
are thoroughly examined, and that naked, both men
and women, without the leail dillindlion or modefly.
Thofe which are approved as good, are fet on one fide $
in the meanwhile a burning iron, with the arms or
name of the company, lies in the fire, with which ours
are marked on the breafi. When we have agreed with
the owner* of the flaves, they are returned to their
prifons; where, from that time forward, they are kept
at our charge, and cofl us twopence a-day each Have,
which ferves to fubfifl them like criminals on bread and
water ; fo that to fave charges, we lend them on board
our Hiips the very firfi opportunity 5 before which,
their maflers Hrip them of all they have on their backs,
fo that they come on board Hark naked, as w-ell wo¬
men as men. In which condition they are obliged to
continue, if the sialler of the fliip is not fo charitable
(which he commonly is) as to beflow fomething on
them to cover their nakednefs. Six or feven hundred
are fometimes put on board a veffel. where they lie as
clofe
[ 142 ]
3
G U
Guinea, clofe together as it is poffible for them to be crowd-
   ' ed (a).”
When the great income which arifes to the negro
kings on the Slave Coail:, from the Haves brought
through their feveral governments to be fhipped on
board the European veffels, is confidered, we have no
caufe to wonder that they give fo great a countenance
to that trade. Bofman fays, “ That each (hip which
comes to Whidah to trade, reckoning one with another,
either by toll, trade, or cuftom, pays about 400I. and
fometimes 50 (hips come hither in a year.” Barbot
confirms the fame, and adds, “ That in the neighbour¬
ing kingdom of Ardah, the duty to the king is the va¬
lue of 70 or 80 fiaves for each trading (hip which is
near half as much more as at Whidah. Nor can the
Europeans concerned in the trade, with any degree of
propriety, blame the African kings for countenancing
it, while they continue to fend veffels on purpofe to
take in the (laves which are thus llolen, and that they
are permitted, under the fanftion of national laws, to
fell them to the colonies.
According to Mr Ramfay, the annual Britifh ex¬
ports to thefe coalts are eftimated at 500,000k includ¬
ing a confiderable quantity that is annually exchanged
with American and other foreign traders there j about
50,000k of this is returned in ivory, gold dull, gum,
&.c. The greateft part of the profits of the Have-trade
is raifed on the fugar plantations. If by eftabliflung
factories, and encouraging civilization on the coaft of
Africa, and returning fome of our Weft Indian Haves
to their original country, we tried to make up for our
paft treachery to the natives, and inftru&ed the inhabi.
tants in the culture of tobacco, indigo, cotton, rice,
&c. to barter with us for our manufactures, and fupply
us with thofe articles, our demand for which has been
fo advantageous to America, great would be our pro¬
fits. Were Africa civilized, and could we preoccupy
the affeCtions of the natives, and introduce gradually
our religion, manners, and language among them, we
ilrould open a market that would fully employ our ma¬
nufacturers and feamen, morally fpeaking, till the end
of time. And while we enriched ourfelves, we ftiould
contribute to their happinefs. For Africa, in its high-
eft probable ftate of culture, could not poftibly interfere
with the ftaple of Britain, fo as to hinder an extenfive
and mutually advantageous trade from being carried on
between the countries. The great difference of climate
and foil muft always diftinguiih the fupplies and wants
of each.
Ihe Have-trade, indeed, has been long confidered as
di(graceful to an enlightened age 5 and in this country
a fpirit is arifen which feems bent on annihilating it al¬
together, or fo changing the nature of it as to blend
humanity with policy. During the feflion 1788, the
philanthropy of parliament, fupported by that of the
nation, paid a very particular attention to this odious
branch of traffic. It was, however, a fubjeft of too
comprehenfive a nature, and too materially conneded
with our African commerce at large and our Weft In¬
dian colonies, to come to an immediate decifion upon
G U I
it. Parliament, therefore, w-as obliged to content it- Guinea,
felf for that time with a temporary bill to regulate the "y
(hipping and carrying Haves in Britifh veffels from
thofe coafts. But the public attention has been fmce
kept awake by a great variety of publications on both
fides of the queftion 5 and the final arrangement of this
important bufinefs, in which the honour of the Britilli
commerce and the Britiffi charadler, as well as the hap¬
pinefs of millions of our fable African brethren, is in¬
volved, is expefted to take place during the prefent
feffion 1791.—This traffic in human beings is not,
hotvever, without its advocates. But the molt fpecious
arguments of its ableft defenders reach no farther than
political expediency, wdrich can never alter the real na¬
ture of things. That in queftion would not remain lefs
an unjuft, cruel, and wicked trade, in its very nature
effentially and unalterably wrong. Its abolition, there¬
fore, not in a raffi, but in as gentle and equitable a way
as circumftances will allow, is devoutly to be wilhed,
and it is hoped may be accompliffied.
New-GuiNEA, or Papua, a long and narrow ifiand
of the Eaft Indies, which is yet but imperfectly knowm.
It was fuppofed to be connefted with New Holland,
until Captain Cook difeovered the (trait which feparates
them. New Guinea, including Papua, its north-weft-
ern part (which according to Bougainville’s conjedture
is feparated from it by a (trait), reaches from the equa¬
tor to the 12th degree of fouth latitude, and from 131
to 150 degrees eaft longitude j in one part it does not
appear to be above 50 miles broad. It was firft vifited
by an European (hip in 1529. Saavedra, a Portuguefe,
W'ho made the difeovery of the north-weft part of this
country, called it Terra de Papuas, or Papos. Van
Schouten, a Dutch difeoverer, afterwards gave the
name of New Guinea to its fouth-weftern part. Admi¬
ral Roggewain alfo touched here ; and before him Dam-
pier, 1 ft January 1700. Captain Cook made the coaft..
of New Guinea, in latitude 6 degrees 15 minutes, lon¬
gitude 138 eaft, on the 3d of September, and landed
in the pinnace, accompanied by Mr Banks, Dr Solan-
der, nine of the fliip’s crewq and fervants well armed,
and leaving two feamen to take care of the boat, ad¬
vanced fome little way up the country •, but coming to
the (kirts of a thick wood, they judged it prudent to
proceed no farther, left they ffiould fall into an ambuf-
cade of the natives, and their retreat to the boat be cut
off. Having advanced about a quarter of a mile from
the boat, three Indians ruffied out of the wood with a
hideous Hiout; they threw their darts, and ftiowed fuch
a hoftile difpofition, that the party, to prevent the de-
ftrudlion of thefe people, returned to the boat, as they
had no intention forcibly to invade their country, either
to gratify their appetites or curiofity, and it was evident
nothing could be done upon friendly terms. When
they got on board the boat, they rowed along the fliore,
and the number of Indians affembled feemed to be be¬
tween 60 and 100. They made much the fame appear¬
ance as the New Hollanders, being dark naked, and
their hair cropped Hiort. All the ■while they were
(houting defiance, and throwing fomething out of their
hand
[ 143 1
(a) Here .t is r.eceTary to observe, that the number of Haves to be taken on board Britith fhips is nowretrulatedi
qy law. r c
GUI I 1
Guinea, hand width burnt exaaiy like gunpowder, but made
  v ' no report 5 what thefe fires were, or for what purpofe
intended, could not be guelfed at •, tho.e v-’M difc lar¬
ked them had in their hands a fhort piece ot itick, pol-
fiblva hollow cane, which they fwung fide wife from
them, and immediately fire and fmoke limed, exatt y
refembline the difcharge of a mufket, and of no longer
duration. This wonderful phenomenon was obferved
from the {hip ; and the deception was fo great, that the
people on board* thought they had fire-arms 5 and even
in the boat, if they had not been fo near as that tney
muft have heard the report, if there had been any, they
{hould have thought they had been firing volleys.. Af¬
ter looking at them attentively for fome tune, without
taking any notice of their ilathing.and vociferation, the
failors fired fome mufkets over their beads. Upon hear¬
ing the balls rattle among the trees, they walked Tei-
furely away, and the boat returned to the ihip. UPon
examining fome weapons which the natives had thrown,
they were found to be light darts, about four feet long
very ill made, of a reed or bamboo cane, and pointed
with hard wood in which there were many barbs.
They were difcharged with great force, for at 60 yards
diftance they went beyond the? party •, but m what
manner they were thrown could not be exactly feen.
But the general opinion was, that they were t^own
with a flick in the manner praftifed by the New Hol¬
landers. . 1 * f
The land here is very low, ^is every other part o
the coaft ; but it is covered with a luxuriance of wood
and herbage that can fcarcely be conceived. Here the
cocoa-nut, plantain, and bread-fruit, flounfh m the
hl ar^ve^little acquainted with the natural hifto-
ry of this country 5 but its zoology is worthy of atten¬
tion, from its flriking and romantic nature. It feems
to be the peculiar refidence of the beautitul and fingu-
lar birds of Paradife, of which Mr Pennant has enume¬
rated about 12 fpeffies. They are conjured to breed
here, but are generally taken in the neighbouring
ifiands of Arroo, to which they retire during the wet
monfoon, in flocks of 30 or 40. Their cry during
their flight, has a llrong reiemblance to that of a flar-
Lg ; but when furprifed with a ftrong gale, they croak
like ravens, and mount into the fuperior regions o the
air. Their food feems to be berries, or, as fome think,
nutmegs and butterflies. They are (hot with blunt ar¬
rows, or taken with vifeus or bird-lime Here hkewiie
are moft elegant parrots and loriesand the crowned
pigeon is faid to be equal m fize to a turkey.
Added to thefe are the iflands of WaiJ00 and _ Sal-
watt i, Arroo and Timorland, the firft of which is o
confiderable magnitude, containing about 100,000 inha¬
bitants ; the fecond is alfo populous, but they are more
ferocious than the people of Waijoothe produdtion
of the third is chiefly fago, and the inhabitants fell
captives at Banda, which they feize on the mam land.
Timorland is of confiderable extent, but fo very litt e
known to geographers, that no particular account can
be Guinea?a gold cola, ftruck and current in Britain
The value or r«e of guinea! lias varied : it was firft
firuck on the footing of 20!. by the fcaraty of gold was
.afterwards advanced to 21S. fid. but it is now funk to
2i s. 3
4+1 G U L
The pound weight troy of gold is cut into 44 Paif3
and a half; each part makes a guinea, ibis coin, took
its denomination guinea, becaufe the gold, of which tne
firft was ftruck, was brought from that part of Africa
called Guinea ; for this reafon it likewife bore the xm-
preffion of an elephant.
GuiNEA-Company. See Company, African.
GviNEA-Hcn. See Numida, Ornithology Index.
GuiNEA-Pig. See Mus, Mammalia Index.
GuiNEA-lVheat. See Zea, Botany Index.
GUIPUSCOA, the north-eaft divifion of the pro¬
vince of Bifcay in Spain, fituated on the confines of
Navarre. .
GUISE, a fmall town of France in the department
of Aifne, and in Tierache, with a very ilrong caftle,
and the title of a duchy. It is feated on the river Ode,
in E. Long. 3. 42. N. Lat. 49. 54. r
Guise, Henri/, of Lorrain, duke of Guife, eldeft ion
of Francois of Lorrain duke of Guife, memorable in
the hittory of France as a gallant officer; but an impe¬
rious, turbulent, feditious fubjeft, who placed himielt
at the bead of an armed force, and called his reoel
band The League. The plan was formed by the car¬
dinal, his younger brother; and under the pretext
of defending the Roman Catholic religion, the king
Henry III. and the freedom of the ftate, againft the
deiign of the Huguenots, or French Proteftants, they
carried on a civil war, maffacred the Huguenots, and
governed the king, who forbid bis appearance at Pa¬
ris ; but Guife now became an open rebel, entered the
city againft the king’s exprefs order, and put to the
fword all who oppofed him ; the ftreets being barrica¬
ded to prevent bis progrefs, this fatal day is called m
the French hiftory, The day of the barricades. Matters
of Paris, the policy of the Guifes failed them : for t ey
fuffered the king to efcape to Blois, though he was de-
ferted in his palace at Paris by his very guards. At
Blois Henry convened an aflembly ot the ftates 01
France ; the duke of Guife had the boldnefs to appear
to a fummons fent him for that purpofe : a forced re¬
conciliation took place between him and the king, by
the advice of this aiTembly ; but it being accidentally
difeovered, that Guife had formed a defign to dethrone
the king, that weak monarch, jnftead of refo.utely
bringing him to juftice, had him privately affafli-
nated, December 23. 1558, m the 38th year of h.s
age. His brother the cardinal {hared the fame fate the
i e GUITTAR, Guitarra, a mufical inftrument of
the ftiinged kind, with five double rows of firings ;
of which thofe that are brafs are in the middle, except
it be for the burden, an oftave lower than the fourth.
  This inftrument was firft ufed in Spain and oy
the Italians. In the former country it is ftill grea y
in vogue. There are few of that nation who cannot
play on the guittar ; and with this inftrument they fe-
renade their miftreffes at night. At Madrid, and other
cities in that country, it is common to meet mfthe
ftreets young men equipped with a gmttar and a dark
lanthorn, who, taking their ftation under the windows,
fing. and accompany their voices with this mftrument,
and there is fcarce an artificer or day-labourer m any of
the cities or principal towns who does no., enter.am
himfelf with his guittar. .
GULDENSTAFDT, John Anthony, pbyficjan
tnmlen-
fta< dt.
G tr l [ i
and naturalift, was born at Riga, April 26. 1745 ; re¬
ceived the rudiments of his education in that town; and
in J 763 was admitted into the medical college of Ber¬
lin. He completed his ftudies at Frankfort upon the
Oder, and in 1767 received the degree of M. D. in
that univerfity. On account of his knowledge of fo¬
reign languages, and the confiderable progrefs he had
made in natural hiltory, he was confidered as a fit
perfon to engage in the expeditions which were planned
by the Imperial academy. Being invited to St Peterf-
burg, he arrived in that city in 1768, was created ad¬
junct of the academy, and afterwards, in 1770, mem¬
ber of that fociety, and profefibr of natural hiftory.
In June 1768 he fet out upon his travels, and was ab-
fent feven years. From Mofcow, where he continued
till March 1769, he palled to Voronetz, Tzaritzin,
Aftracan, and Killar, a fortrefs upon the wellern (hore
of the Cafpian, and clofe to the confines of Perfia. In
1770 he examined the dillri&s watered by the rivers
leiek, Sunfha, and Alkfai, in the eaftern extremity of
Caucafus ; and in the courfe of the enfuing year pene¬
trated into Olfetia, in the higheft part of the fame
mountain ; where he colledled vocabularies of the lan¬
guages fpoken in' thole regions, made inquiries into the
hillory of the people, and difcovered fome traces of
Chriftianity among them. Having vifited Cabarda
and the northern chain of the Caucafus, he proceeded
to Georgia, and was admitted to an audience of Prince
Heraclius, who was encamped about ten miles from Teflis.
Having palled the winter here, and in examining the
adjacent country, he followed in fpring the prince to
the province of Kaketia, and explored the fouthern di-
itrichs inhabited by the 1 urcoman Tartars in the com¬
pany of a Georgian magnate, whom he had cured of a
dangerous diforder. In July he palled into Imeretia,
a country, which lies between the Cafpian and Black
feas, and is bounded on the call by Georgia, on the
north by Ofletia, on the weft by Mingrelia, and on the
fouth by the Turkilh dominion?. He penetrated into
the middle chain of Mount Caucafus, vifited the con¬
fines of Mingrelia, Middle Georgia, and Eaftern and
Lower Imeretia ; and, after efcaping many imminent
dangers from the banditti of thofe parts, fortunately re¬
turned to Killar on the 18th of November, where he
pafifcd the winter, colle&ing various information con¬
cerning the neighbouring Tartar tribes of the Cauca¬
fus, and particularly the Lefgees. In the following
iummer he journeyed to Cabarda Major, continued his
courfe to Mount Belhton, the higheft point of the firft
ridge of the Caucafus; infpeaed the mines of Madlhar,
and went to T cherkafk. upon the Don. From thence
he made expeditions to Azof and Taganrog, and then,
along the new limits to the Dnieper. He finilhed this
year’s route at Krementlhuk, in the government of
New Rulha. In the enfuing fpring he was proceed¬
ing to Crim Tartary ; but receiving an order of recal
he returned through the Ukraine to Mofcow and St
Peterfhurg, where he arrived in the month of March
I775- Upon his return, he was employed in arran¬
ging his papers ; but before he could finilh them for
the prefs, was feized with a violent fever, which car¬
ried him to the grave in March 1781. His writings
which have been hitherto publifhed confift of a number
of curious treatifes, of which a lift is given in Coxe’s
Travels, vol. i. p. .162.
Vol. X. Part I.
45 1 GUM
GULA, in Anatomy, the oefophagus or gullet j that
conduit by wdiieh animals take down food into the rto-,
mach. See Anatomy, N° 92.
GULE of August, the day of St Peter ad vincula,
which is celebrated on the firft of Auguft. It is called
the yule of Auguft, from the Latin gula, “ a throat,”
for this reafon, that one Quirinus, a tribune, having
a daughter that had a difeafe in her throat, went to
Pope Alexander, the fixth from St Peter, and defired
of him to fee the chams that St Peter was chained
with under Nero; wdiich requeft being granted, and
fhe, killing the chains, was cured of her difeafe;
w’hereupon the Pope inftituted this feaft in honour of
St Peter j and, as before, this day was termed only
the kalends of Auguft, it was on this occafion called
indifferently either the day of St Peter ad-vincula,
from what wrought the miracle 5 w the gule of Au¬
guft, from that part of the virgin whereon it was
wrought.
GULES, in Heraldry, a corruption of the French
word geules, which in this fcience fignifies “ red,” and
is reprefented in engraving by perpendicular lines. It
may ferve of itfelf to denote martial prowefs, boldnefs,
and hardinefs; for the ancients ufed this colour to
make themfelves terrible to their enemies, to ftir up
magnanimity, and to prevent the feeing of blood, by
the likenefs of the colours; for which reafon perhaps it
is ufed by the Englifh. But, according to G. Leigh,
if this tinflure is compounded with
Gula
Gurrt.
Or.
Arg.
Azu.
Ver.
Pur. I «
Sab. J
f Defire.
| Envy.
Ardour.
Strength.
Juftice.
p Wearinefs.
T his colour is by the generality of the Englilh heralds
ranked before azure ; but French heralds, N. Upton
and his followers, prefer azure to it.
GULF, a broad and capacious bay comprehended
between two promontories, and fometimes taking the
name of a fea when it is very extenfive ; but particu¬
larly when it only communicates with the fea by means
of a ftrait. Such are the Euxine or Black fea, other-
wife called the Gulf of Conftantinofile; the Adriatic
fea, called alfo the Gulf of Venice; the gulf of Si¬
dra near Barbary 5 and the gulf of Lyons near France.
All thefe gulfs are in the Mediterranean. There are
befides, the gulf of Mexico, the gulf of St Laurence’
and the gulf of California, which are in North Ame¬
rica. There are alfo the gulf of Perfia, otherwife
called the Red fea, between Perfia and Arabia ; the
gulf of Bengal in India ; and the gulfs of Cochin-
china and Kamtfchatka, near the countries of the fame
name.
The word , comes from the French golfe, and that
from the Italian golfo, which fignify the fame. Some
deduce thefe. further from the Greek y,A^s 5 which
Guiihart again derives from the Hebrew gob Du
Cange derives, them from the barbarous Latin gulfum
or RuJtts) which fignify the fame thing.
See Larus, Ornithology Index.
GULLET. See Gula, Anatomy, N° 92.
GUM (Gummi), is a concrete vegetable juice, of no
particular fmell or tafte, becoming vifeous and tena-
T
-*• Clous
GUM
[ 146 ]
GUN
Gntn, cious when moiftened with water ; totally diffolving in
Gums. water into a liquid, more or lefs glutinous in propor-
v' tion to the quantity of the gum •, not diffolving in vi¬
nous fpirits or in oils *, burning in the fire to a. black
coal, without melting or catching flame ; fuffering no
diflipation in the heat of boiling wrater.
The true gums are gum arabic, gum tragacanth,
gum fenegal, the gum of cherry and plum trees and
fuch like. All elfe have more or lefs of refin in them.
Gum Arabic is the produce of a fpecies of Mimosa;
which fee in CHEMISTRY and Materia Medica /«-
dex. , , .
Gum Senegal, is a gum refembling gum arable,
which is brought from the country through which the
river Senegal runs, in loofe or fingle drops : but thefe
are much larger than thofe of the gum arabic ufually
are •, fometimes it is of the bignefs of an egg, and
fometimes much larger: the furface is very rougher
wrinkled, and appears much lefs bright than the in¬
ner fubftance where the maffes are broken. It has no
fmell, and fcarce any tafte. It is probably produced
from a tree of the fame kind with the former. The
virtues of it are the fame with the gum arabic ; but it
is rarely ufed in medicine, unlefs as mixed with the
gum arabic; the dyers and calico printers confume
the great quantities of it that are annually imported.
The negroes diffolve it in milk, and in that ftate make
it a principal ingredient in many of their dilhes, and
often feed on it thus alone.
Gvm Tragacanth, the gum of the tragacanth, a thorny
bulh growing in Crete, Afia, and Greece. See A-
STRAGAEUS, Botany Index.
Other fubftances known by the name of gums are as
follows :
Gum Ammoniac. See Ammoniac.’]
Gum Elemi. See Amyris. j See Chemistry
Gvm Kino. See Kino.
Gum Guaiacum. See Guaiacum.
Gum Lacca. See Coccus and
Lacca. . .
Gum, among gardeners, a kind of gangrene inci¬
dent to fruit trees of the ftone kind, arifing from a
corruption of the fap ; which, by its vifcidity, not be¬
ing able to make its way through the fibres of the tree,
is, by the protrufion of other juice, made to extrava-
■fate and ooze out upon the bark. . .
When the diftemper furrounds the branch, it admits
of no remedy; but when only on one part of a bough,
it fhould be taken off to the quick, and fome cow-
dung clapped on the wound, covered over with a linen
cloth, and tied down. M. Quintinie directs to cut oil
the morbid branch two or three inches below the part
affefled. ,
GUMMA, a fort of venereal excrelcence on the
neriofteum of the bones.
GUMS, in Anatomy, the hard flelhy fubftance m
either jaw, through which the teeth fpring from the
jaw-bone. See Anatomy, N° 105.
v The gums are apt to become fpongy, and to iepa-
rate from the teeth but the caufe is frequently a ftony
kind of cruft, which forms itfelf therein, which, when
leparated, the gums foon return to their former ftate,
T . • n iii *.T _  /-ar tninfiilinn nr
Gurt
V and Materia
Medica Index.
This diforder, when not manifeft in any other part,
fometimes appears in this : indeed, when, a fcorbutic
diforder invades the whole habit, its firft fymptom is
a putrid ftate of the gums.
GUN, in the military art, a fire arm, or weapon of
offence, which forcibly difeharges a ball or other hard
and folid matter through a cylindrical tube, by means of
inflamed gun-powder. See GuN-PoirDF.R.
The word gun now includes moft of the fpecies of
fire-arms; piftols and mortars being almoft the only
ones excepted from this denomination. They are di¬
vided into great and fmall guns : the former including
all that we alfo call cannon, ordnance or artillery:
the latter includes mulquets, carabines, mufquetoons,
blunderbuffes, fowling-pieces, &c.
It is not known at what time thefe weapons were
firft invented. Though, comparatively fpeaking, the
introduiftion of guns into the weftern part of the world
is but of a modern date ; yet it is certain that in iome
parts of Afia they have been ufed, though in a very
rude and imperfe6I manner for many ages.—Pfcilo-
ftratus fpeaks of a city near the river Hyphafis m the
Indies, which was faid to be impregnable, and that its
inhabitants wrere relations of the gods, becaufe they threw
thunder and lightning upon their enemies. Hence fome
imagine that guns were ufed by the eaftern nations even
in the time of Alexander the Great: but however this
may be, many of our modern travellers aflert that they
were ufed in China as far back as the year of Chrift 85,
and have continued in ufe ever fince.
The fuft hint of the invention of guns in Europe is
in the works of Roger Bacon, who flouriihed in the
1 2th century. In a treatife' written by him about the
year 1280, he propofes to apply the violent explofiye
force of gun-powder for the deftrudion of armies. In
13 20, Bartholomew Schwartz, a German monk, is
commonly faid to have invented gun-powder though
it is certainly known that this compofition is delcnbed
by Bacon in fome of his treatifes long before the time
of Schwartz. The following is faid to have been the
manner in which Schwartz invented gun-powder. Ha¬
ving pounded the materials for it in a mortar, which
he afterwards covered with a ftone, a fpark of fire ac¬
cidentally fell into the mortar and fet the mixture on
fire ; upon which the explofion blew the ftone to a con-
fiderable diftance. Hence it is probable that Schwartz
might be taught the fimpleft method of applying it m
war ; for Bacon feems rather to have conceived the
manner of ufing it to be by the violent effort of the name
unconfined, and which is indeed capable of producing
aftonilhing effeds *. The figure and name of mortars * See G«»-
given to a fpecies of old artillery, and their employ mentor.
(which was throwing great ftone bullets at an elevation),
very much corroborates this conjedure.
Soon after the time of Schwartz, we find guns
commonly made ufe of as inftruments of war. Great
guns were firft ufed. They were originally made of
iron bars foldered together, and fortified with Strong
iron hoops ; fome of which are ftill to be feen, viz one
in the Tower of London, two at Woolwich, and one
in the royal arfenal at Lilhon. Others were made of
thin ftieets of iron rolled up together and hooped ; and
bparated, the gums foon return to their tormer l ate emei-mncies they were made of leather, with plates
efpecially if rubbed with a mixture of the infufipn of on e™erSe"Co^e;;e^efe pieces were made in a rude
rofes four parts, and the tinflure of myrrh one part. °l* - - - -
The feurvy is another diforder which aneds the gums.
ot iron or uuppci. j-..—w   - —
and imperfed manner, like the firft effays of many new
r inventions.
GUN [147
Gun. inventions. Stone balls were thrown out of them, and
 1 a fmall quantity of powder ufed on account of their
weaknefs. Thefe pieces had no ornaments, were placed
on their carriages by rings, and were of a cylindrical
form. When or by whom they were made is uncer¬
tain : the Venetians, however, ufed cannon at the liege
of Claudia Jeffa, now called Chioggia, in 1366, which
were brought thither by two Germans, with fome
powder and leaden balls} as likewife in their wars with
the Genoefe in 1379' Edward III. made ufe of
cannon at the battle of Creffy in X34^» anc^ at ^ie ^"ieSe
of Calais in 1347. Cannon were made ufe of by the
Turks at the liege of Conflantinople, then in poffel-
fion of the Chriltians, in J394> an^ of I452>
that threw a weight of toolb. but they generally burll:
either the firft, lecond, or third fhot. Louis XII. had
one call at Tours, of the fame lize, which threw a
ball from the Ballile to Charenton. One of thofe fa¬
mous cannon was taken at the liege of Dieu in I54^>
by Don John de Callro j and is in the caftle of St jui-
liao da Barra, 10 miles from Lilbon : its length is 20
feet 7 inches, diameter at the c/entre 6 feet 3 inches,
and it difeharges a ball of xoolb. It has neither dolphins,
rings, nor button j is of a curious kind of metal; and
has a large Indoltan infeription upon it, wdiich fays it
was call in 1400.
Formerly the cannon 'were dignified with uncommon
names ; for in 1 503, Louis XII. had 12 brafs can¬
non call, of an extraordinary lize, called after the
names of the 12 peers of France. The Spanilh and
Portuguefe called them after their faints. The empe¬
ror Charles V. when he marched before Tunis, founded
the 12 apoftles. At Milan there is a 70 pounder,
called the Pimontelle; and one at Bois-le-duc, called
the Devil. A 60 pounder at Dover-callle, called ^ueen
Elizabeth's pocket-pijiol. An 80 pounder in the Tower
of London (formerly in Edinburgh-callle), called
Mounts-meg. An 80 pounder in the royal arfenal at
Berlin, called the Thunderer. An So pounder at Ma¬
laga, called the Terrible. Two curious 60 pounders
in the arfenal at Bremen, called the MeJJengers of bad
news. And, laMy, an uncommon 70 pounder in the
caltle of St Angelo at Rome, made of the nails that
fallened the copper plates which covered the ancient
Pantheon, with this infeription upon it: Ex clavis
trabalibus portions Agrippce.
In the beginning of the 15th century thefe uncom¬
mon names were generally abolilhed, and the following
more univerfal ones took place, viz.
Pounders.
Cannon royal, or")   R
carthoun J ^
Ballard cannon,
or ^ carthoun
4 Carthoun
Whole culverins
Demi culverins
Falcon
f lowed fort — 5
Sacker < ordinary rr 6
(.larged dze = 8
Balililk “48
Serpentine rr 4
Afpic =: 2
J =36
= 24
= 18
= 9
- 6
Cwt.
about 90
79
60
50
3°
25
J3
18
85
8
7
] GUN
Pounders Cwt.
Dragon =6 12
Syren =60 81
Falconet I ~ 3, 2, &. 1 15, 10, 5
Moyens, which carried a ball of 10 or 12 ounces.
Rabinet, which carried a ball of 16 ounces.
Thefe curious names of beads and birds of prey
were adopted on account of their fvviftnefs in motion
or of their cruelty; as the falconet, falcon, facker,
and culverin, &c. for their fwiftnefs in flying j the ba-
lililk, ferpentine, afpike, dravg©n, fyren, &c. for their
cruelty.
At prefent cannon take their names from the weight
of the ball they difeharge. Thus a piece that difehar¬
ges a ball of 24 pounds is called & 24 pounder; one
that carries a ball of 1 2 pounds is called a 12 poun¬
der \ and fo of the red, divided into the following
forts, viz.
Ship guns, confiding in 42, 36, 32, 24, 18, 12,
9, 6, and 3 pounders.
Garrifon guns, in 42, 32, 24, 18, 12, 9, and 6
pounders.
Battering guns, in 24, 18, and 12 pounders.
Field-pieces, in 12, 9, 6, 3, 2, l|, 1, and \
pounders.
Mortars are thought to have been fully as ancient
as cannon. They wrere employed in the wars of
Italy, to throw balls of red-hot iron, dones, &c. long
before the invention of fliells. Thefe lad are thought
to be of German invention, and the ufe of them in war
to have been taught by the following accident. A citi¬
zen of Venlo, at a certain fedival celebrated in honour
of the duke of Cleves, threw a number of fliells, one
of which fell on a houfe and fet fire to it, by which
misfortune the greated part of the town was reduced
to aflies. The fird account of fliells ufed for military
purpofes is in 1435, when Naples was befieged by
Charles VIII. Hiflory informs us with more certainty,
that fliells were thrown out of mortars at the fiege of
Wachtendonk in Guelderland, in 1588, by the earl
of Mansfeld. Mr Malter, an Englifli engineer, fird
taught the French 'the art of throwing fliells, which
they pradlifed at the fiege of Motte in 1634. The
method of throwing red-hot balls out of mortars was
firft certainly put in pradlice at the fiege of Stralfund
in 1675 by the ele£lor of Brandenburgh •, though fome
fay in 1653 at the fiege of Bremen. For the proper
dimenfions of guns, their weight, the metal of which
they are formed, &c. fee the article Gunnery.
Muikets were firft ufed at the fiege of Rhege in the
year 1521. The Spaniards were the firft who armed
part of their foot with thefe weapons. At firft they
were very heavy, and could not be ufed without a reft.
They had match-locks, and did execution at a great
diftance. On their march the foldiers carried only
the reds and ammunition, and had boys to bear their
muikets after them. They Were very flow in loading,
not only by reafon of the unwieldinefs of their pieces,
and becaufe they carried the powder and baH feparate,
but from the time it took to prepare and adjuft the
match j fo that their fire was not near fo brilk as ours
is now. Afterwards a lighter matchlock-mulket,
came in ufe; and they carried their ammunition in
bandeliers, to which were hung feveral little cafes of
T 2 wood
Gun.
G UN
[ US ]
GUN
Gumlelia, wood covered with leather, each containing a charge
, Ginmcr. ^ 0£ p0W(ler. 'I he balls were carried loofe in a pouch,
v ‘ and a priming-horn hanging l^y their fide. The muf-
kets with refts were ufed as late as the beginning of
the civil wars in the time of Charles I. The lighter
kind fucceeded them, and continued till the beginning
of the prefent century, when they alfo w7ere difufed,
and the troops throughout Europe armed with fire¬
locks.
GUNDELIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
fyngenefia clafs j and in the natural method ranking
under the 49th order, Compojitce. See Botany
Index.
GUNELLUS. See Blennius, Ichthyology
Index.
GUNNER, an'oflicer appointed for the fervice of
the cannon, or one (killed to fire the guns.
In the Tower of London, and other garrifons, as Gunnera.
well as in the field, this officer carries a field-ftaft, and * '■
a large powder-horn in a firing over his left Ihoulder :
he marches by the guns •, and when there is any appre-
henfion of danger, his field-flaff is armed with match.
His bufinefs is to lay the gun to pafs, and to help to
load and traverfe her.
Majler Gunner, a patent-officer of the ordnance,
who is appointed to teach all fuch as learn the art of
gunnery, and to certify to the mafier-general the abi¬
lity of any perfon recommended to be one of the king’s
gunners. To every fcholar he adminifters an oath
not to ferve, without leave, any other prince or ftate j
or teach any one the art of gunnery but fuch as have
taken the faid oath.
GUNNERA, a genus of plants belonging to the
gynandria clafs. See Botany Index.
GUNNERY,
1 S the art of charging, directing, and exploding fire-
arms, as cannons, mortars, mulkets, &c. to the beft
advantage.—As this art depends greatly on having the
guns and ihot of a proper fize and figure, and v\ell
adapted to each other, it hence follows that the proper
dimenfions, &c. of cannon and fmall arms come pro¬
perly to be confidered under the prefent article.
Sect. I. Hiflory of Gunnery.
1
Hillory. The ancients, who knew not the ufe of gunpowder
and fiie-arms, had notwithHanding machines which
were capable of difeharging ftones, darts, and arrows,
with great force. Thefe were adluated chiefly by the
elaftic force of ropes, or of ftrong fprings, and re¬
quired a great number of men to work them $ for
which reafon, the explofton of gunpowder, as adting
inftantaneoufly, and feemingly with irrefifiible force,
feemed to be a moft proper fuccedaneum for all the
powers by which the military engines in former times
were adluated. It foon appeared, however, that this
force was not very eafily applied. Though the expe¬
riment of Bartholomew Schwartz, mentioned under the
article Gun, had given a good hint towards this ap¬
plication in a fuccefsful manner, yet the violent re-
adtion of the inflamed powder on the containing veffels
rendered them very apt to burfi, to the great danger
of thofe who flood near them. The gunpowder in
tbofe days, therefore, was much weaker than it is now
made; though this proved a very infufficient remedy for
the inconvenience above mentioned. It was alfo foon
difeovered, that iron bullets of much lefs weight than
fione ones would be e £e efficacious if impelled by
greater quantities of ftronger powder. This occafioned
an alteration in the matter and form of the cannon,
which were now cart of brafs. Thefe were lighter and
more manageable than the former, at the fame time
tlrat they were ilronger in proportion to their bore.
Thus they were capable of enduring greater charges
of a better pow’der than what had been formerly ufed ;
and their iron bullets (which were from 40 to 60
pounds weight) being impelled with greater velocities,
were more effeclual than the heaviefi fiones could ever
prove. This change took place about the latter end
of the 15th century.
By this means powder compounded in the manner
now pradlifed over all Europe came firfi in ufe. But
the change of the proportion of materials was not the
only improvement it received. The method of grain-_
ing it is undoubtedly a confiderable advantage. At
firit the powder w7as- always in the form of fine meal,
fuch as it was reduced to by grinding the materials
together. It is doubtful whether the firft graining
of powder was intended to increafe its ftrength, or
only to render it more convenient for filling into Imall
charges and the charging of fmall arms, to which
alone it was applied for many years, whilft meal-powder
was f 11 made ufe of for cannon. But at lafi the ad¬
ditional ftrength which the grained powder was found
to acquire from the free paffage of the air between the
grains, occafioned the meal-powder to be entirely laid
afide.
For the laft two hundred years, the formation of
cannon hath been very little improved ; the beft pieces
of modern artillery differing little in their proportions
from thofe ufed in the time of Charles V. Indeed
lighter and fhorter pieces have been often propofed
and effayed j but though they have their advantages
in particular cafes, yet it feems now to be agreed
that they are altogether infufficient for general fervice.
But though the proportions of the pieces have not
been much varied within that period, yet their ufe and
application have undergone confiderable alterations;
the fame ends' being now accomplifhed by fmaller
pieces than what were formerly thought necelfary.
Thus the battering cannon now7 univerfally approved
of are thofe formerly called demi-cannons, carrying a
ball of 24 pounds weight $ it being found by experi¬
ence, that their ftroke though lefs violent than that
of larger pieces, is yet fufficiently adapted to the
•ftrength of the ufual profiles of fortification ; and that
the facility of their carriage and management, and the
ammunition they ipare, give them great advantages
beyond the whole cannons formerly employed in ma-
Sea. 1L GUNNERY. 149
Theory king breaches. The method alfo of making a breach,
J by tirft cutting off the whole wall as low as poffible
before its upper part is attempted to be beat down,
feems alfo to be a confiderable modern improvement
in the practical part of gunnery. But the moft con-
fiderable imnrovement in the practice is the method
of firing with fmall quantities of powder, and eleva¬
ting the piece fo that the bullet may juft go clear of
the parapet of the enemy, and drop into their works.
By this means the bullet, coming to the ground at a
fmall angle, and with a fmall velocity, does not bury
itfelf, but bounds or rolls along in the direction in
which it wras fired : and therefore, if the piece be pla¬
ced in a line with the battery it is intended to filence,
or the front it is to fweep, each ihot rakes the wdiole
length of that battery or front; and has thereby a
much greater chance of difabling the defendants, and
difmounting their cannon, than it wrould have if fired
in the common manner. This method was invented
by Vauban, and was by him ftyled Batterie a Ricochet.
It was firft put in praftice in the year 1692 at the fiege
of Aeth.—Something fimilar to this was put in pra&ice
by the king of Pruffia at the battle of Rolbachin 1757.
He had feveral fix-inch mortars, made with trunnions
and mounted on travelling carriages, which fired
obliquely on the enemy’s lines, and amongft their horfe.
They were charged with eight ounces of powder, and
elevated at an angle of one degree fifteen minutes, and
did great execution j for the iheils rolling along the
line with burning fufes made the ftouteft of the enemy
not wait for their burfting.
Sect. II. Theory of Gunnery.
Theory of The ufe of fire-arms had been known for a long
gunnery, time before any theory concerning them was attempted,
iiift at- The firft author who wrote profeffedly on the ftight of
Tartaleaby cannon'^lot vvas Tartalea. In 1537 he publiihed a
book, at Venice, entitled Nova Scientia; and after-
wards another, entitled ^ucefiti et Inventioni diverji,
printed at the fame place in 1546, in which he treats
profeffedly on thefe motions. His difcoveries were but
few, on account of the imperfe£I ftate of mechanical
knowledge at that time. However, he determined,
that the greateft range of cannon was with an elevation
of 45 degrees. He likewife determined, (contrary to
the opinion of pradlitioners), that no part of the track
deferibed by a bullet was a right line; although the
curvature was in fome cafes fo little, that it was not
attended to. He compared it to the furface of the
fea ; which, though it appears to be a plane, is yet un¬
doubtedly incurvated round the centre of the earth.
He alfo affumes to himfelf the invention of the gun¬
ner’s quadrant, and often gave (hrewd gueffes at the
event of fome untried methods. But as he had not
opportunities of being converfant in the pradlice, and
founded his opinions only on fpeculation, he was con¬
demned by moft of the fucceeding writers, though often
Without any fufficient reafon. The philofophers of
thofe times alfo intermeddled in the queftions hence
arifing j and many difputes on motion were fet on foot
(efpecially in Italy,) which continued till the time of
Galileo, and probably gave rife to his celebrated Dia¬
logues on motion. Thefe were publifhed in the year
1638 j but in this interval, and before Galileo’s doc¬
trine was thoroughly eftablilhed, many theories of the Theory. .
motion of military projeftiles, and many tables of their “ ^ '
comparative ranges at different elevations, were pu¬
blifhed 5 all of them egregioufty fallacious, and utter¬
ly irreconcileable with the motions of thefe bodies.
Very few of the ancients indeed refrained from in¬
dulging themfelves in fpeculations concerning the dif¬
ference betwixt natural, violent, and mixed motions •,
although fcarce any two of them could agree in their
theories. ,
It is ftrange, however, that, during all thefe con- Expbri-
tefts, fo few of thofe who were intrufted with the ments by
charge of artillery thought it worth while to bring dlfi^rent
thefe theories to the teft of experiment. Robins
informs us, in his Preface to the New Principles of0f arti4ery.
Gunnery, that he had met with no more than four
authors who had treated on this fubjedf. The firft
of thele is Collado, who has given the ranges of a fal¬
conet carrying a three-pound Ihot to each point of the
gunner’s quadrant. But from his numbers it is ma-
nifeft, that the piece was not charged with its cufto-
mary allotment of gunpowder. The relults of his
trials were, that the point-blank fhot, or that in which
the path of the ball did not fenfibly deviate from a
right line, extended 268 paces. At an elevation of
one point (or 7*4 of the gunner’s quadrant) the range'
W3S 594 paces $ at an elevation of two points, 794
paces j at three points, 954 paces j at four, joioj.
at five, 1040*, and at fix, 1053 Paces* At the fe-
venth point, the range fell between thofe of the third
and fourth ; at the eighth point, it fell between the
ranges of the fecond and third *, at the ninth point,
it fell between the ranges of the firft and fecond j at
the tenth point, it fell between the point-blank di-
flance and that of the firft point; and at the eleventh
point, it fell very near the piece.—The paces fpoke
of by this author are not geometrical ones, but com¬
mon fteps.
The year after Collado’s treatife, another appeared
on the fame fubjeft by one Bourne an Englilhman.
His elevations were not regulated by the points of
the gunner’s quadrant, but by degrees : and he afeer-
tains the proportions between the ranges at different
elevations and the extent of point-blank ftiot. Ac¬
cording to him, if the extent of the point-blank fhot
be reprefented by 1, the range at 50 elevation wall be
2^, at io° it wrill be 3y, at 150 it will be 4^, at
20° it will be 4^, and the greateft random will be
54. This laft, he tells us, is in a calm day when the
piece is elevated to 420 ; but according to the ftrength
of the wind, and as it favours or oppofes the flight
of the fhot, it may be from 450 to 36°.—He hath not
informed us with w’hat piece he made his trials j
though by his proportions it feems to have been a
fmall one. This however ought to have been attended
to, as the relation between the extent of different ran¬
ges varies extremely according to the velocity and den-
fity of the bullet.
After him Eldred and Anderfon, both Englifhmen,
publifhed treatifes on this fubjefr. The firft publifh¬
ed his treatife in 1646, and has given the adtual ranges
of different pieces of artillery at frnall elevations, all
under ten degrees. His principles were not rigoroully
true, though not liable to very confiderable errors j
yet, in confequence of their deviation from the truth,.
he.:
-theory.
itfew theo
ry bjr An-
jderfon.
GUNN
lie found it impoflible to make fome of his experiments
agree with his principles.
In 1638, Galileo printed his dialogues on motion.
In thefe he pointed out the general laws obferved by
nature in the production and compofition of motion •,
and was the firft who defcribed the aCtion and eftects
of gravity on falling bodies. On thefe principles he
determined, that the flight of a cannon fliot, or any
other projeftile, would be in the curve of a parabola,
except in as far as it was diverted from that track by
the reliftance of the air. He has alfo propofed the
means of examining the inequalities which arife from
thence, and of difcovering what fenfible effeCls that
reliftance would produce in the motion of a bullet at
fome given diftance from the piece.
Though Galileo had thus Ihown, that, independent
of the reliftance of the air, all projeftiles would, in
their flight, defcribe the curve of a parabola j yet
thofe who came after him, feem never to have imagi¬
ned that it was necelfary to conlider how far the ope¬
rations of gunnery were affeCted by this reliftance.
The fubfequent writers indeed boldly aflerted, without
making the experiment, that no confiderable variation
■could arife from the refiftance of the air in the flight
of Ihells or cannon Ihot. In this perfuafion they fup-
ported themfelves chiefly by conlidering the extreme
rarity of the air, compared with thofe denfe and pon¬
derous bodies j and at laft it became an almoft generally
eftabliihed maxim, that the flight of thefe bodies was
nearly in the curve of a parabola. _ yv
In 1674, Mr Anderfon above mentioned publilh-
ed his treatife on the nature and effeCls of the gun $ in
which he proceeds on the principles of Galileo,. and
ftrenuoufly afferts, that the flight of all bullets is in
the curve of a parabola j undertaking to anfwer all
obje&ions that could be brought to the contrary. The
fame thing was alfo undertaken by Mr Blondel, in a
treatife publilhed at Paris in 1683 j where, after long
difcuflion, the author concludes, that the variations
from the air’s refiftance are fo flight as fcarce to merit
notice. The fame fubjeft is treated of in the Philofo-
phical Tranfaftions, N° 216. p. 68. by Dr Halley,
and he alfo, fwayed by the very great difproportion be¬
tween the denfity of the air and that of iron or lead,
thinks it reafonable to believe, that the oppofltion of
the air to large metal-ftiot is fcarcely difcernible 5 al¬
though in fmall and light (hot he owns that it muft be
accounted for. .
But though this hypothefts went on imoothly in
fpeculation •, yet Anderfon, who made a great number
of trials, found it impoflible to fupport it without fome
new modification. For though it does not appear
that he ever examined the comparative ranges of eitner
cannon or mulket ftiot when fired with their umal
velocities, yet his experiments on the ranges of (hells
thrown with fmall velocities (in comparifon of thole
above mentioned), convinced .^him that their whole
track was not parabolical. But inftead of making
the proper inferences from hence, and concluding the
refiftance of the air to be of confiderable efficacy, he
framed a new hypothefis •, which was, that the (hell or
bullet, at its firft difcharge, flew to a certain diftance
in a right line, from the end of which line only it be-
aan to defcribe a parabola. And this right line,
which he calls the line of the mpulfe of the fire, he
E R Y. Sed. II.
fuppofes to be the fame in all elevations. Thus, by Theory,
afiigning a proper length to this line of impulfe, it was v
always in his power to reconcile any twro (hots made
at different angles, let them differ as widely as we
pleafe to fuppofe. But this he could not have done wfith
three (hots nor indeed doth he ever tell us the event
of his experiments when three ranges were tried at one
time. 6
When Sir Ifaac Newton’s PrAev/vb was publi(hed,Lav's °r
he particularly confidered the refiliance of the air
projectiles which moved with fmall velocities •, but as |owlJ
he never had an opportunity of making experiments Njewton.
on thofe which move with fuch prodigious fwiftnefs,
he did not imagine that a difference in velocity could
make fuch differences in the refiftance as are nowT found
to take place. Sir Ifaac found, that, in fmall velocities,
the refiftance was increafed in the duplicate proportion
of the fwnftnefs with which the body moved ; that is,
a body moving with twice the velocity of anotner of
equal magnitude, would meet with four times as much
refiftance as the firft, with thrice the velocity it wmuld ^
meet with nine times the refiftance, &c.— This prm-Erroneous
ciple itlelf is now found to be erroneous w ith regard to in military
military projediles ; though, if it had been properly ProJeailes*
attended to, the refiftance of the air might even from
thence have been reckoned much more confiderable
than was commonly done. So far, however, were
thofe who treated this fubjedl fcientifically, from giving
a proper allowance for the refiftance of the atmofphere,
that their theories differed moft egregioufly from the
truth. Huygens alone feems to have attended to
this principle : for, in the year J 690, he publiftied a
Treatife on Gravity, in which he gave an account of
fome experiments tending to prove, that the track of
all projefliles moving wnth very fvvift motions was
widely different from that of a parabola. All the reft
of the learned acquiefced in the juftnefs ol Galileo’s
do&rine, and very erroneous calculations concerning
the ranges of cannon were accordingly given. I\or
w7as any notice taken of thefe errors till the year 1716. 8
At that time M. Reffons, a French officer of artillery,
diftinguiffied by the number of fieges at which he hadw^_jy
ferved, by his high military rank, and by his abilities in ferem from
his profeflion, gave in a memoir to the Royal Aca-the truth,
demy, of which he was a member, importing, that,
“ although it was agreed, that theory joined with
pradlice did conftitute the perfeflion of every art 5 yet
experience had taught him, that theory was of very
little fervice in the ufe of mortars: That the w7orks of
M. Blondel had juftly enough deffribed the feveral
parabolic lines, according to the different degrees of
the elevation of the piece j but that pradlice had con¬
vinced him, there was no theory in the effeft of gun¬
powder 5 for having endeavoured, writh the gieateft pre-
cifion, to point a mortar agreeably to thefe calculations,
he had never been able to eftablilh any (olid foundation
upon them.”
From the hiftory of the academy, it doth not appear
that the fentiments of M. Reffons were at any time
controverted, or any reafon offered for the failure o
the theory of projefliles when applied to. ufe. No¬
thing farther, however, was done till-the time of Ben- ?
iaipin Robins, who in 1742 publiftied a treatife, en-Mr Robins
titled. New7 Principles of Gunnery, in which he hathfirft h tro-
trented particularly not only pf the refiftance of tr ,e
atmofphere.
Sect. II. GUN
Theoiy. atraorpliere, but almolb every thing dfe relating to the
—1 flight of military projeftiles, and indeed advanced the
theory of gunnery much nearer perfection than ever it
was before.
Hisniethcd ^ thing confldered by Mr Robins, and which
of determi- is indeed the foundation of all other particulars rela-
ning the tJve to gunnery, is the explofive force of gunpowder,
torce of This he determined to be owing to an elaftic fluid
der.P°'V fimilar to our atmofphere, having its elaftic force great¬
ly increafed by the heat. “ If a red-hot iron (fays he)
be included in a receiver, and the receiver be exhauft-
ed, and gunpowder be then let fall on the iron, the
powTder will take fire, and the mercurial gage will fud-
denly defcend upon the explofion ; and though it im¬
mediately afcends again, it will never rife to the height
it firft flood at, but will continue deprefled by a fpace
proportioned to the quantity of powder which was let
fall on the iron.—The fame prodiuftron likewife takes
place when gunpowder is fired in the air : for if a fmall
quantity of powder is placed in the upper part of a
glafs tube, the lower part of which is immerfed in wa¬
ter, and the fluid be made to rife fo near the top, that
only a fmall portion of air is left in that part where
the gunpow’der is placed ; if in this fituation the com-,
munication of the upper part of the tube with the ex¬
ternal air is clofed, and the gunpowder fired, 'which
may be eafily done by means of a burning-glafs, the
water will in this experiment defcer.d on the explofion,
as the quickfilver did in the laft •, and will always con¬
tinue deprefl'ed below' the place at which it flood be¬
fore the explofion. The quantity of this depreflion
will be greater if the quantity of powder be increafed,
or the diameter of the tube be diminifhed.
“ When any confiderable quantity of gunpowder
is fired in an exhaufted receiver, by being let fall on a
red-hot iron, the mercurial gage inftantly defcends
upon the explofion, and as fuddenly afcends again.
After a few vibrations, none of which except the firft
are of any great extent, it feemingly fixes at a point
lower than where it flood before the explofion. But
even when the gage has acquired this point of appa¬
rent reft, it ftill continues rifing for a confiderable
time, although by fuch imperceptible degrees, that it
can only be difcovered by comparing its place at di-
llant intervals : how'ever, it wall not always continue
to afcend ; but will rife flow'er and flower, till at laft: it
will be abfolutely fixed at a point lower than wdrere the
mercury flood before the explofion. The fame cir-
cumftances nearly happen, when powder is fired in the
upper part of an unexhaufted tube, whofe lower part
is immerfed in water.
“ That the elafticity or preflure of the fluid produ¬
ced by the firing of gunpowder is, ceteris paribus, di¬
rectly as its denfity, may be proved from hence, that
if in the fame receiver a double quantity of ponder be
let fall, the mercury will fubfide twice as much as in
the firing of a Angle quantity. Alfo the defcents of
the mercury, when equal quantities of powder are fired
in different receivers, are reciprocally as the capacities
of thofe receivers, and confequently as the denfity of
produced fluid in each. But as, in the ufual method of
trying this experiment, the quantities of pow'der are
fo very fmall that it is difficult to afcertain thefe pro¬
portions with the requifite degree of exaClnefs, I took
a.large receiver containing about 520 inches, and Jet-
N E It Y. iS4
ting fall at once on the red-hot iron one dram or the Theory.^
fixteenth part of an ounce avoirdupois of pow'der, the ^
receiver being firft nearly exhaufted ; the mercury, after
the explofion, was fubfided two inches exactly, and all
the powder had taken fire. Then heating the iron a
fecond time, and exhaufting the receiver as before, two
drams were let down at once, which funk the mer¬
cury three inches and three quarters 5 and a fmall part
of the pow'der had fallen befide the iron, which (the
bottom of the receiver being w'et) did not fire, and the
quantity which thus efcaped did appear to be nearly
fufficient, had it fallen on the iron, to have funk the
mercury a quarter of an inch more ; in which cafe the
twm defcents, viz. tw’o inches and four inches, would
have been accurately in the proportion of the refpec-
tive quantities of pow'der •, from which proportion, as
it was, they very little varied.
“ As different kinds of gunpowder produce diffe¬
rent quantities of this fluid, in proportion to their dif¬
ferent degrees of goodnefs, before any definite deter¬
mination of this kind can take place, it is neceffary to
afcertain the particular fpecies of powder that is pro-
pofed to be ufed. (Here Mr Robins determines in
all his experiments to make ufe of government-powder,
as confiding of a certain and invariable proportion of
ihaterials, and therefore preferable to fuch kinds as
are made according to the fancy of private perfons.)
“ This being fettled, we muft further premife thefe
two principles : 1. That the elafticity of this fluid in-
creafes by heat and diminifhes by cold, in the fame
manner as that of the air ; 2. That the denfity of
this fluid, and confequently its weight, is the fame
w'ith the weight of an equal bulk of air, having the
fame elafticity and the fame temperature. Now from
the laft experiment it appears, that Ts- °f an ounce
avoirdupois or about 27 grains Troy of pow'der, funk
the gage, on its explofion, two indjies ; and the mercury
in the barometer Handing at near 30 inches, rfths of
an ounce avoirdupois or 410 grains Troy, would have
filled the receiver w'ith a flliid whofe elafticity would
have been equal to the w'hole preffure of the atmo¬
fphere, or the fame with the elafticity of the air we
breathe ; and the contents of the receiver being about
520 cubic inches, it follows, that T^ths of an ounce of
powder wall produce 52.0 cubic inches of a fluid poffef-
fing the fame degree of elafticity w'ith the common air ;
whence an ounce of powder will produce near 575 cu¬
bic inches of fuch a fluid.
“ But in order to afcertain the denfit^ of this fluid,
w'e muft confider what part of its elafticity, at the time
of this determination, was owfing to the heat it recei¬
ved from the included hot iron and the warm receiver.
Now the general heat of the receiver being manifeftly
lefs than that of boiling water, which is known to in-
creafe the elafticity of the air to fomewhat more than
■f- of its augmented quantity ; I colled from hence and
other circumftances, that the augmentation of elaftici¬
ty from this caufe was about -f of the whole : that is,
if the fluid arifing from the explofion had been reduced 1
to the temperature of the external air, the defcent of
the mercurial gage, inftead of two inches, W’ould have
been only i-E inch; whence 575, reduced in the propor¬
tion of five to four, becomes 460 ; and this laft number
reprefents the cubic inches of an elaftic fluid equal in
denfity and elafticity w'itb common air, which are produ-
. ced-
GUNN
ced from the explofion of I ounce avoirdupois of gun¬
powder •, the weight of which quantity of fluid, accord¬
ing to the ufual eftimation of the weight of air, is 13 I
grains; whence the weight of this fluid is ^4 or
nearly of the weight of the generating powder. The
ratio of the bulk of gunpowder to the bulk of this fluid
may be determined from confidering that 17 drams
avoirdupois of powder fill two cubic inches, if the
powder be well lhaken together: therefore, augmenting
the number laft found in the proportion of 16 to 17,
tlie refulting term 488^- is the number of cubic inches oi
an elaftic fluid, equal in denfity ■with the air produced
from twro cubic inches of powder : whence the ratio of
the refpeclive bulk of the powder, and of the fluid pro¬
duced from it, is in round numbers as I to 244.”—
This calculation was afterwards juftified by experi¬
ments.
“ Jf this fluid, inftead of expanding when the pow¬
der was fired, had been confined in the fame fpace which
the powder filled before the explofion j then it would
have had, in that confined ftate, a degree of elafticity
244 times greater than that of common air ^ and this
independent of the great augmentation which this elafti¬
city would receive from the a61 ion of the fire in that
inllant.
“ Hence, then, we are certain, that any quantity of
pcwder, fired in a confined Ipace, which it adequately
fills, exerts, at the inftant of its explofion, againft the
fides of the veffel containing it, and the bodies it im¬
pels before it, a force at leaft 244 times greater than
•the elafticity of the common air, or, which is the lame
thing, than the preffure of the atmofphere j and this
without confidering the great addition which this force
will receive from the violent degree of heat with which
it is aflx6ted at that time.
“ To determine how far the elafticity of air is aug¬
mented when heated to the extremeft degree of red-
hot iron, I took a piece of a mulket-barrel about fix
inches in length, and ordered one end to be clofed up
entirely j but the other end wTas drawn out conicaliy,
and finilhed in an aperture of about of an inch in
diameter. The tube thus fitted, was heated to the ex¬
tremity of a red heat in a fmitb’s forge 5 and was then
immerfed with its aperture downwTards in a bucket of
water, and kept there till it was cool j after which it
was taken out carefully, and the water which had en¬
tered it in cooling was exadlly weighed. I he heat gi¬
ven to the tube at each time, w-as the beginning ol
what workmen call a white heat; and to prevent the
ruftiing in of the aqueous vapour at the immerfion,
which would othervvife drive out great part of. the air,
and render the experiment fallacious, I had an non wiie
filed tapering, fo as to fit the aperture of the tube, and
with this I always flopped it up before it was taken
from the fire, letting the wire remain in till the whole
was cool, when, removing it, the due quantity of wa¬
ter would enter. The weight of the water thus taken
in at three different trials w>as 610 grains, 595 grains,
and 600 grains, refpe6lively. The content of the whole
cavity of the tube was 796 grains of water j whence
the fpaces remaining unfilled in thefe three experi¬
ments were 186, 201, and 196 grains refpeaively.
Thefe fpaces undoubtedly contained all the air which,
when the tube was red-hot, extended through its whole
concavity j confcquently the elafticity’’ of the air, when
E R Y. Sed. II.
heated to the extreme heat of red-hot iron, was to the Theory,
elafticity of the fame air, when reduced to the tempe-' " ~ "
rature of the ambient atmofphere, as the whole capacity
of the tube to the refpedtive fpaces taken up by the
cooled air: that is, as 796 to 186, 201, 1965 or
taking the medium of thefe three trials, as 796 to
194t-
“ As air and this fluid appear to be equally afte61ed
by heat and cold, and confequently have their elaftici-
ties equally augmented by the addition of equal degrees
of heat to each 5 if we fuppofe the heat with which
the flame of fired powder is endowed to be the fame
with that of the extreme heat of red-hot iron, then
the elafticity of the generated fluid wall be greater at the
time of the explofion than afterw’afds, when it is re¬
duced to the temperature of the ambient air, in the
ratio of 79610 194-f nearly. It being allowed then,
(which furely is very reafonable), that the flame ot
gunpowder is not lefs hot than red-hot iron, and the
elafticity of the air, and confequently of the fluid
generated by the explofion, being augmented in the
extremity ot this heat in the ratio of 194t 79^»
it follows, that if 244 be augmented in this ratio, the
refulting number, which is 999 3 ’ will determine how
many times the elaflicity of the flame of fired powder
exceeds the elafticity of common air, luppofing it to
be confined in the fame fpace which the pow’der filled
before it was fired.—-Hence then the abfolute quanti¬
ty of the preffure exerted by gunpow'der at the mo¬
ment of its explofion may be affigned } for, fince the
fluid then generated has an elafticity of 999 T’ cr
round numbers 1000 times greater than that of the
atmofphere, and fince common air by its eiafticity. ex¬
erts a preffure on any given fuvface equai to the weight
of the incumbent atmofphere with which it is in equni-
brio, the preffure exerted by fired powder before it di¬
lated itfelf is icoo times greater than the preffure of li¬
the atmofphere: and' confequently the quantity of Prodigious
this force, on a furface of an inch fquare, amounts toP^6-^^
above fix tons weight \ which force, however, diminiflies
as the fluid dilates itfelf.
“ But though we have here fuppofed that the heat
of gunpowder, when fired in any confiderable quanti¬
ty, is the fame with iron heated to the extremity of
/ed heat, or to the beginning of a white heat,, yet it
cannot be doubted but that the fire produced in the
explofion is fomewhat varied (like all other fires) by
a treater or lels quantity of fuel j and it may be
prefumed, that, according to the quantity of powder
fired together, the flame may have all the different de¬
grees, from a languid red heat to that fufficient for
the vitrification of metals. But as the. quantity of
powder requifite for the produ6tion of this laft men
tioned heat, is certainly greater than what is ever fired
together for any military purpofe, wre cannot be far from
our fcope, if we fuppofe the heat of fuch quantities as
are ufually fired to be nearly the fame with that or red-
hot iron } allowing a gradual augmentation to this
heat in larger quantities, and diminiihing it when the
quantities are very fmall.
Having thus determined the force of the gunpow-Mr Robins’s
der, Mr Robins next proceeds to determine the veloci-™^ot
tv with which the ball is difeharged. The folution ofning the
this problem depends on the twro following principles. ve.iocjt;es
1. That the a6lion of the powder on the bullet ceafes of balls,
Sea. IT.
GUNNERY.
153
Theory, as, foon as the bullet is got out of the piece. 2» That
^ all the powder of the charge is fired.and converted into
elaftic fluid, before the bullet is fenlibly moved from its
place.
“ i he firfl of thefe (fays Mr Robins) will appear-
manifeft when it is confideied how fuddenly the flame
will extend itfelf on every fide, by its own elallicity,
when it is once got out of the mouth of the niece 5 for
by this means its force will then be diffipated, and
the bullet no longer fenfibly affedled by it.
“ 1 he fecond principle is indeed lefs obvious, be-
13 ing contrary to the general opinion of almoft all writers
Inftantane- on this fubjedf. It might, however, be fufficient for the
ous firing proof of this position, to obferve the prodigious com-
of powder. prefflon of
the flame in the chamber of the piece.
Thofe who attend to this circumflance, and to the
eafy paffage of the flame through the intervals of the
grains, may foon fatisfy themfelves, that no one grain
contained in that chambet can continue for any time
uninflamed, when thus furrounded and preffed by fuch
an aftive fire. However, not to rely on mere fpecula-
tion in a matter of fo much confequence, I confi-
dered, that if part only of the powder is fired, and
that faccellively } then by laying a greater weight be¬
fore the charge (fuppofe two or three bullets inllead
of one), a greater quantity of powder would neceflarily
be fired, fince a heavier weight would be a longer time
in paffing through the barrel. Whence it Ihould fol¬
low, that two or three bullets would be impelled by a
much greater force than one only. But the contrary
to this appears by experiment 5 for, firing one, two,
and three bullets laid contiguous to each other with
the fame charge refpe&ively, I have found that their
velocities were not much different from the reciprocal
of their fubduplicate quantities of matter ; that is, if
a given charge would communicate to one bullet a ve¬
locity ot 1700 feet in a fecond, the fame charge would
communicate to two bullets a velocity from 1 250 to
1300 feet in a fecond, and to three bullets a velocity
from 1050 to 1110 feet in the fame time. From
hence it appears, that, whether a piece is loaded with
a greater or lefs weight of bullet, the adtion is nearly
the lame ; fince all mathematicians know, that if bo¬
dies, containing different quantities of matter, are fuc-
ceffively impelled through the fame fpace by the fame
power acting with a determined force at each point
of that fpace j then the velocities given to thefe diffe¬
rent bodies will be reciprocally in the fubduplicate
ratio of their quantities of matter. The excefs of the
velocities of the two and tnree bullets above what
they ought to have been by this rule (which are
that of 1200 and 980 feet in a fecond), undoubtedly
arifes-fsom the flame, which, efcaping by the fide of
the firit bullet, a£ls on the furface of the fecond and
third.
“ Now, this excefs has in many experiments been
imperceptible, and the velocities have been recipro¬
cally in the fubduplicate ratios of the number of bul¬
lets, to fufficient exactnefs; and where this error has
been greater, it has never arifen to an eighth part of
the whole j but if the common opinion was true, that
a finall part only of the powder fires at firft, and other
parts of it fucceffively as the bullet paffes through the
barrel, and that a confiderable part of it is often blown
out Ox the piece without firing at all ; then the velocity
Vol. X. Part I. J
which three bullets received from the explofion ought Theory,
to have been much greater than we have found it to 'v~’, '
be—But the truth of the fecond poflulate more fully
appears from thofe experiments, by which it is ffiown,
that the velocities of bullets may be afcertained to the
fame exactnefs when they are adted on through a bar¬
rel of four inches in length only, as when they are dif-
ebarged from one of four feet. 14
“ With refpedl to the grains of powder which are ^y Come
often blown out unfired, and which are always urged ^;!Wtler 15
as a proof of the gradual firing of the charge, I be-of^he ^
lieve Diego Uffano, a perfon of great experience in mouth of
the art of gunnery, has given the true reafon for thisa^annon
accident; which is, that fome fmall part of the charge
is often not rammed up with the relt, but is left in the'”^ LrL
piece before the wad, and is by this means expelled by
the blalt of air before the fire can reach it. I muff
add, that in the charging of cannon and fmall arms,
efpecially after the firft time, this is fcarcely to be avoid¬
ed by any method I have yet feen pradtifed. Perhaps,
too, there may be fome few grains in the beft powder,
of fuch an heterogeneous compofition as to be lefs
lufceptible of firing ; which, I think, I have myfelf ob-
ferved : and thefe, though they are furrounded by the
flame, may be driven out unfired. * 15
“ Thefe poftulates being now allowed to be juft, let Demonftia-
AB reprefent the axis of any piece of artillery, A the
breech, and B the muzzle ; DC the diameter of its red powder-
bore, and DEGC a part of its cavity filled with pow-on the ball,
der. Suppofe the ball that is to be impelled to liep,ate
with its hinder furface at the line GE ; then the pref-
fure exerted at the explofion on the circle of which"’*
GE is the diameter, or, which is the fame thing, the
preffure exerted in the diredfion FB on the furface of
the ball, is eafily known from the known dimenfions of
that circle. Draw any line FH perpendicular to FB,
and AI parallel to FH : and through the point H,
to the afymptotes IA and AB, deferibe the hyperbola
KHN£: then, if FH reprefents the force impelling
the ball at the point F, the force impelling the ball at
any other point as at M, will be reprefented by the
line MN, the ordinate to the hyperbola at that point.
For when the fluid impelling the body along has di¬
lated itfelf to M, its denfity will be then to its origi¬
nal denfity in the fpace DEGC reciprocally as the
fpaces through which it is extended ; that is, as FA
to MA, or as MN to FH ; but it has been fliown,
that the impelling force or elafticity of this fluid is di-
redlly as its denfity ; therefore, if FH reprefents the
force at the point F, MN will reprefent the like force
at the point M.
“ Since the abfolute quantity of the force impelling
the ball at the point F is known, and the weight of the
ball is alfo known, the proportion" between the force
with which the ball is impelled and its own gravity is
known. In this proportion take FH to FL, and
draw LP parallel, to hB ; then, MN the ordinate to
the hyperbola in any point will be to its part MR, cut
off by the line LP, as the impelling force of the pow¬
der in that point M to the gravity of the ball ; and
confequently the line LP will determine a line propor¬
tional to the uniform force of gravity in every point;
whilft the hyperbola HN£) determines in like” manner
fuch ordinates as are proportional to the impelling
force of the powder in every point 5 whence by the
U 39 th
gunnery.
of Sir Ifaac Newton’s IVincipia, carry it nearly at the rate of 15.07
ogtli Prop. oF lib. — —  
the areas FLPB and FHQB are in the duplicate pro¬
portion of the velocities which the ball would acquire
when acted upon by its own gravity through the fpace
FB, and when impelled through the fame fpace by tne
force of the powder. But lince the ratio of AF to
AB and the ratio of FH to FL are known, the ratio
of the area FLPB to the area FHQB is known j and
thence its fubduplicate. And fmee the line FB .s gi¬
ven in magnitude, the velocity which a_ heavy body
w’ould acquire when impelled through this line by its
own gravity is known *, being no other than the telo-
city it would acquire by falling through a fpace equal
to that line : find then another velocity to which this
laft mentioned velocity bears the given ratio of the iub-
duplicate of the area FLPB to the area FHQB $ and
this velocity thus found is the velocity the ball will ac¬
quire when impelled through the fpace FB by the ac¬
tion of the inflamed powder. .
“ Now to give an example of this : Let us iuppoie
AB, the length of the cylinder, to be 45 inches, its
diameter DC, or rather the diameter of the ball, to be
-Uhs of an inch j and AF, the extent of the powder
to be 2 jth inches } to determine the velocity which
will be communicated to a leaden bullet by the explo-
fion, fuppofing the bullet to be laid at firft with its iur-
face contiguous to the powder.
“ By the theory we have laid down, it appears,
that at the firft inftant of the explofion the flame will
exert, on the bullet lying clofe to it, a force 1000
times greater than the preflure of the atmofphere. 1 he
medium preffure of the atmofphere is reckoned equal
to a column of water 33 feet in height; ivhence, lead
being to water as 11,345 to 1, this preffure will be
equal to that of a column of lead 34,9 inches m height.
Multiplying this by icoo, therefore, a column of lead
34,900 inches (upwards of half a mile) in icignt,
would produce a preflure on the bullet equal to what
is exerted by the powder in the firft inftant of tne ex¬
plofion : and the leaden ball being |ths of an inch m
diameter, and confequently equal to a cylinder of lead
of the fame bafe half an inch in height, the preffure at
firft adling on it will be equal to 3490° X 2» °r 69yGO
times its weight: whence FL to FH is as 1 to 69800 j
and FB to FA as 45—24, or 42I to if, that is, as
339 tp 21 ; whence the reftang^ FLPB is t:o the redt-
angle AFHS as 339 to 2 1 X 69800, that is, as I to
4324.—And from the known application of the loga¬
rithms to the menfuration of the hyperbolic fpaces it
follows, that the reftangle AFHS is to the area FHQB
as 43,429, &c. is to the tabular logarithm ofthat
is, of Vt° which is 1,2340579 j wdience the ratio of
the reftangle FLPB to the hyperbolic area FHQB is
compounded of the ratios of 1 to 4324 and ot
,42429, &c. to 1,2340579 j which together make up
the ratio of 1 to 12263, the fubduplicate of which is
the ratio of 1 to 110,7 ; and in this ratio is the velo¬
city which the bullet would acquire by gravity m fall¬
ing through a fpace equal to FB, to the velocity the
bullet will acquire from the adlion of the powder im¬
pelling it through FB. But the fpace FB being 424
inches, the velocity a heavy body will acquire m fall¬
ing through fuch a fpace is known to be what would
Sea. 11.
feet in a fecond •, Theory.
—      -- -J' - I . p 1   1
whence the velocity to which this has tue ratio ot i to
1 10,7 is a velocity which would carry the ball at the
rate of 1668 feet in one fecond. And this is the ve¬
locity which, according to the theory, the bullet m
the prefent circumftances would acquire from the ac¬
tion of the powder during the time of its dilatation.
“ Now this velocity being once computed for one
cafe, is eafily applied to any other } for if t.ie cavity
DEGC left behind the bullet be only in part filled
with powder, then the line HF, and confequently the
area FHQB will be diminifhed in the proportion of
the whole cavity to the part filled. If the diameter ot
the bore be varied, the lengths AB and AF remaining
the fame, then the quantity of powder and the furface
of the bullet which it ads on, will be varied m tne
duplicate proportion of the diameter, but the weight
of the bullet will vary in the triplicate proportion 01
the diameter •, wherefore tiie line I H, which is directly
as the abfolute impelling force of the powder,^ and re¬
ciprocally as the gravity of the bullet, will change in
the reciprocal proportion of the diameter tne bui-
let. If AF, the height of the cavity left behind the
bullet, be increafed or diminifhei, the rectangle of the
hyperbola, and confequently the area correfponding to
ordinates in any given ratio, will be increafed or dimi-
niftied in the fame proportion. From all which it
follow’s, that the area FHQB, which is in the dupli¬
cate proportion of the velocity of the impehed body,
will be diredtly as the logarithm (where AB rs-
prefents the length of the barrel, and Ah the length
of the cavity left behind the bullet) j alio direftly as
the part of' that cavity filled with powder •, and m-
verfelv, as the diameter of the bore, or rather of the
bullet, likewife direftly as AF, the height of the cavity
left behind the bullet. Confequently the velocity be-
in^ computed as above, for a bullet of a determined
diameter, placed in a piece of a given length, and
impelled by a given quantity of pow’der, occupying a
given cavity behind that bullet 5 it follows, that by means
of thefc ratios, the velocity of any other bullet may
be thence deduced ; the neceffary circumftances of its
pofition, quantity of powder, &c. being given. Where
note, That in the inftance of this fuppofition, we have
fuppofed the diameter of the ball to be -Itbs of an inch }
whence the diameter of the bore will be fomething
more, and the quantity of powder contained m the
fpace DEGC will amount exadly to 1 2 pennyweights,
a fmall w’ad of tow included.
“ In order to compare the velocities communicated
to bullets by the explofion, with the velocities refult-
ing from the theory by computation, it is neceilaiy
that the adhial velocities with which bullets move
ftiould be difeovered. The only methods hitherto prac-
tifed for this purpofe, have been either by. oblerving
the time of the flight of a fhot through a given fpace,
or by meafuring the range of a (hot at a given eleva¬
tion ; and thence computing, on the parabolic hypo-
thefls what degree of velocity would produce this
rancJ The firft method labours under this infurmount-
able difficulty, that the velocities of thefe bodies are
often fo fwift, and confequently the time obferved is
fo ftiort, that an imperceptible error in that time may
occalion
Sea. II. GUNNERY,
Theory, occafion an error in the velocity thus found of 2, 3,
V" ' ^ or 6co feet, in a fecond. The other method
is fo fallacious, by reafon of the refiftance of the at-
mofphere (to which inequality the firft is alfo liable),
that the velocities thus affigned may not perhaps be
the tenth part of the aftual velocities fought.
“ The limpleft method of determining this veloci-
T5 ty is by means of the inftrument reprefented fig. 2.
Machine where ABCD reprefents the body of the machine
difcovering COmpofed of the three poles B, C, D, fpreading
ties of bul* at ^ottora» an<^ j°^n'nS together at the top A •, being
lets. U " the fame with what is vulgarly ufed in lifting and
weighing very heavy bodies, and is called by workmen
the triangles. On two of thefe poles, towards their
tops, are fcrewed on the fockets RS j and on thefe
fockets the pendulum EFGHIK is hung by means of
its crofs-piece EF, which becomes its axis of fuf-
penfion, and on which it muft be made to vibrate
with great freedom. The body of this pendulum is
made of iron, having a broad part at bottom, and its
lower part is covered with a thick piece of wood
GKIH, which is fattened to the iron by fcrews. Some¬
thing kwer than the bottom of the pendulum there is
a brace OP, joining the two poles from which the pen¬
dulum is fufpended •, and to this brace there is fatten¬
ed a contrivance 3V1NU, madewith two edges of fteel,
bearing on each other in the line UN, fomething in
the manner of a drawing-pen ; the ftrength with
which thefe edges prefs on each other being diminiih-
ed or increafed at pleafure by means of a fcrew Z
going through the upper piece. There is fattened to
the bottom of the pendulum a narrow ribbon LN,
which paffes between thefe fteel edges, and which af¬
terwards, by means of an opening cut in the lower
J7 piece of fteel, hangs loofely down, as at W.
Method of “ 'Phis inftrument thus fitted, if the weight of the
ufing the pendulum be known, and likewife the refpeftive di-
snadune. ftances 0f jts centre of gravity, and of its centre of
ofcillation from its axis of lufpenfion, it will thence be
known what motion will be communicated to this
pendulum by the percuflion of a body of a known
weight moving with a known degree of celerity, and
linking it in a given point j that is, if the pendulum
be fuppoftd at reft before the percuflion, it will be
known what vibration it ought to make in confequence
of fuch a determined blow •, and, on the contrary, if
the pendulum, being at reft, is ftruck by a body of a
known weight, and the vibration which the pendulum
makes after the blow is known, the velocity of the
linking body may from thence be determined.
“ Hence then, if a bullet of a known weight lirikes
the pendulum, and the vibration, which the pendulum
makes in confequence of the ftroke, be afcertained 5
the velocity with which the ball moved is thence to be
known.
“ Now the extent of the vibration made by the pen¬
dulum after the blow, may be meafured to great ac¬
curacy by the ribbon LN. For let the prefiure of the
edges UN on the ribbon be fo regulated by the fcrew
Z, that the motion of the ribbon between them may
be free and eafy, though with fome minute refiftance;
then fettling the pendulum at reft, let the part LN be¬
tween the pendulum and the edges be drawn ftrait,
but not lirained, and fix a pin in that part of the rib¬
bon which is then contiguous to the edges : let now a
ball impinge on the pendulum ; then the pendulum Theory,
fwinging back wTill draw out the ribbon to the juft ex- ”L~
tent of its vibration, which will confequently be deter¬
mined by the interval on the ribbon between the edges
UN and the place of the pin.
“ The wTeight of the wdiole pendulum, wood and all
w'as 561b. 3 oz. its centre of gravity was 52 inches
diftant from its axis of fufpenfion, and 200 of its fmall
fwings were performed in the time of 253 feconds ;
whence its centre of ofcillation (determined Irom hence)
in 62yd inches diftant from that jxis. The centre of
the piece of wmod GKIH is diftant from the fame axis
66 inches.
‘‘ In the compound ratio of 66 to 62-y, and 66 to 52,
take the quantity of matter of the pendulum to a 4th
quantity, which will be 42 lb. \ oz. Now geometers
wall know, that if the blow be ftruck on the centre of
the piece of wood GKIH, the pendulum will refill to
the ftroke in the fame manner as if this laft quantity of
matter only (421b. 4-oz.) was concentrated in that
point, and the reft of the pendulum was taken away ;
whence, fuppofing the weight of the bullet impin¬
ging in that point to be the -j-'^h 0f a pound, or the
TiTth of this quantity of matter nearly, the velocity of
the point of ofcillation after the ftroke will, by the
laws obferved in the congrefs of fuch bodies as rebound
not from each other, be the °f ^ie velocity the
bullet moved with before the rtroke ; whence the ve¬
locity of this point of ofcillation after the ftroke being
afcertained, that multiplied by 505 will give the velo¬
city w'ith which the ball impinged.
“ But the velocity of the point of ofcillation after
the ftroke is ealily deduced from the chord of the arch,
through which it afcends by the blow ; for it is a well-
knowm propofition, that all pendulous bodies afcend
to the fame height by their vibratory motion as they
would do, if they were proje&ed direflly upwards
from their loweft point, with the fame velocity they
have in that point ; wherefore, if the verfed fine of
the afcending arch be found (which is eafily deter¬
mined from the chord and radius being given), this
verfed fine is the perpendicular height to which a
body projected upwards with the velocity of the point
of ofcillation would arife ; and confequently what that
velocity is, can be eafily computed by the common
theory of falling bodies.
“ For inftance, the chord of the arch, defcribed by
the afcent of the pendulum after the ftroke meafured
on the ribbon, has been fomctimes 175th inches; the
diftance of the ribbon from the axis of fufpenfion is
yi^th inches; whence reducing ly^th in the ratio
of 7i^th to 66, the refulting number, which is nearly
16 inches, will be the chord of the arch through which
the centre of the board GKIH afcended after the
ftroke ; nowT the verfed fine of the arch, whofe chord
is 16 inches, and its radius 66, is 1.93939 ; and the
velocity which would carry a body to this height, or,
which is the fame thing, the velocity which a body
would acquire by defcending t’ rough this fpace, is
nearly that of 34th feet in 1".
“ To determine then the velocity with which the
bullet impinged on the centre of the wood, when the
chord of the arch defcribed by the afcent of the pen¬
dulum, in confequence of the blowq wras 174th inches
meafured.on the ribbon, no. more is neceffary than to
U 2 multiply
#
i8
Cautions to
G U
multiply 3|tli by 505, and the refulting number 1641
will be the feet which the bullet would defcribe in 1",
if it moved with the velocity it had at the moment of
its percuffion : for the velocity of the point of the pen¬
dulum, on which the bullet ft ruck, we have juit now
determined to be that of 3^th feet in 1" •, and we have
before fhown, that this is the 3-Jyth of the velocity of
the bullet. If then a bullet wreighifig Vjth of a pound
Hr ikes the pendulum in the centre of the wood GK1H,
and the ribbon be drawn out x inches by the blow ^
the velocity of the bullet is that of 1641 feet in i,h
And fince the length the ribbon is drawn is always
nearly the chord of the arch deferibed by the afeent,
(it being placed fo as to differ infenilbly from thofe
chords which moft frequently .occur), and thefe chords
are known to be in the proportion of the velocities of
the pendulum acquired from the ilroke-, it follows, that
the proportion between the lengths of ribbon drawn
out at different times, will' be the lame with that of
the velocities of the impinging bullets •, and confe-
quently, by the proportion of thefe lengths of ribbon
to 173-th, the proportion of the velocity with wdiich
the bullets impinge, to the known velocity of 1641
feet in 1", will be determined.
cautions iu “ Hence then is fhown in general how the velocities
be obfeived of bullets of all kinds may be found out by means of
in making tins inffrument; but that thofe wTho may be difpofed
theie espe- experiments may not have unforefeen dif-
nments. ficultqes to qrUggle with, we fhall here fubjoin a few
obfervations, which it will be neceffary for them to at¬
tend to, both to fecure fuccefs to their trials and iaie-
t^ to their perfons.
“ And fir ft, that they may not conceive the piece of
wood GKIH to be an unneceffary part of the ma¬
chine,- we muft inform them, that if a bullet impelled
by a full charge of powder fhould ftrike direftly on tne
iron, the bullet would be beaten into fhivers by the
flroke, and thefe fhivers would rebound back with fuch
violence, as to bury themfelves in any wood they
chanced to light on, as I have found by hazardous ex¬
perience ; and befides the danger, the pendulum will
not in this inftance afeertain the velocity of the bullet,
becaufe the velocity with which the parts of it re¬
bound is unknown.
“ The weight of the pendulum, and the thicknefs of
the wood, muff be in fome meafure» proportioned to
the fize of the bullets which are ufed. A pendulum
of the weight here deferibed will do very well for all
bullets under three or four ounces, if the thicknefs of
the board be increafed to feven or eight inches for the
heavieft bullets-, beech is the tougheft and propereft
wood for this purpofe.
“ It is hazardous (landing on the fide of the pendu¬
lum, unlefs the board be fo thick, thaf the greateft
part of the bullet’s force is loft before it comes at the
iron -, for if it ftrikes the iron with violence, the fhivers
of lead, which cannot return back through the wood,
will force themfelves out between the wood and iron,
and will fly to a confiderable diftance.
“ As there is no effeftual way of faftening the wood
to the iron but by ferews, the heads of which muft
through the board ; the bullets will fometimes
N N E 1! Y.
light on thofe ferews, from whence the fhivers will dif-
perfe themfelves on every fide.
“ When in thefe experiments fo fmall a quantity ot
Sea. IT.
powder is ufed, as will not give to the bullet a velocity Theory,
of more than 400 or 500 feet in 1" ; the bullet will 1 v~—■*
not flick in the wood, but will rebound from it entire,
and (if the wood be of a very hard texture) with a very
confiderable velocity. Indeed I have never examined
any of the bullets which have thus rebounded, but I
have found them indented by the bodies they have
ftruck againft in their rebound.
“ To avoid then thefe dangers, to the braving of
which in philofophical refearches no honour is annex¬
ed it will be convenient to fix whatfoever barrel is
ufed, on a ftrong heavy carriage, and to fire it with a
little flow match. Let the barrel too be very well for¬
tified in all its length 5 for no barrel (I fpeak of muf-
ket barrels) forged with the ufual dimenfions will bear
many of the experiments without burfting. The bar¬
rel I have moft relied on, and which I procured to be
made on purpofe, is nearly as thick at the muzzel as
at the breech j that is, it has in each place nearly the
diameter of its bore in thicknefs of metal.
“ The powder ufed in thefe experiments ftiould be
exactly weighed : and that no part of it be fcattered
in the barrel, the piece muft be charged with a laddie
in the fame manner as is pra&ifed with cannon 5 the
wad ftiould be of tow, of the fame weight each time,
and no more than is juft neceflary to confine the pow¬
der in its proper place : the length of the cavity left
behind the ball ftiould be determined each time with
exadlnefs; for the increafing or diminiftiing that fpace
will vary the velocity of the (hot, although the bullet
and quantity of powder be not changed. The diftance
of the mouth of the piece from the pendulum ought to
be fuch, that the impulfe of the flame may not ad on
the pendulum j this will be prevented in a common
barrel charged with half an ounce of powder, if it be at
the diftance of 16 or 18 feet: in larger charges the
impulfe is fenfible farther off-, I have found it to ex¬
tend to above 25 feet ; however, between 25 and 18
feet is the diftance I have ufually chofen.” l9
With this inftrument, or others fimilar to it, Mr Account of
Robins made a great number of experiments on bar- Mr Ko-
rels of different lengths, and with different charges of“‘"*^e*‘
powder. He hath given us the refults of 61 of thefe j '
and having compared the adual velocities with the
computed ones, his theory appears to have come as
near the truth as could well be expeded. In feven of
the experiments there was a perfed coincidence -, the
charges of powder being fix or twelve pennyweights -,
the barrels 45, 24.312, and 7.06 inches in length.
The diameter of the firft (marked A) was ^ths of an
inch -, of the fecond (B) was the fame ; and of D, 83
of an inoin In the firft of thefe experiments, another
barrel (C) was ufed, whofe length was 12.375 inches,
and the diameter of its bore jjth inch.—In 14 more
of the experiments, the difference between the length
of the chord of the pendulum’s arch ftiown by the
theory and the adual experiment was -rV-k of an inch
over or under. This ftiowed an error in the theory
varying according to the different lengths of the chord
from tTi- to 3-V of the whole -, the charges of powder
were the fame as in the laft.—In 16 other experiments
the error was TZoths of an inch, varying from to
-/T of the whole j the charges of powder were 6, 8,
9, or 1 2 pennyweights.—In feven other experiments,
the error was T*aths of an inch, varying from to
Sea. II. GUNNERY. IS7
Theory, —y of the whole j the charges of powder fix or twelve
i—pennyweights. In eight experiments, the difference
was T\lhs of an inch, indicating an error from to
.U- of the whole ; the charges being 6, 9, 1 2, and 24
pennyweights of powder. In three experiments, the
error was T5Q-t!ft, varying from —gth to T\th of the
whole j the charges 8 and 12 pennyweights of powder.
In two experiments the error was -/g-ths, in one cafe
amounting to fomething leis than TV, in the other to
of the whole; the charges 12 and 36 penny¬
weights of powder. By one experiment the error was
feven, and by another eight, tenths ; the firft amount¬
ing to -/oth nearly, the latter to almoft l-th of the
whole : the charges of powrder 6 or 12 pennyweights.
The laft'errors however, Mr Robins aferibes to the
wind. The two remaining experiments varied from
theory by 1.3 inches* fomewhat more than -Jth of
the whole : the charges of powder were 12 penny¬
weights in each; and Mr Robins aferibes the error to
the dampnefs of the powder. In another cafe, he
aferibes an error of TSo-ths to the blait of the powder on
20 the pendulum.
His conclu- From thefe experiments Mr Robins deduces the fol-
fions from lowing conclufions. “ The variety ot thefe experi-
them. ments, and the accuracy with which they correfpond
to the theory, leave us no room to doubt of its cer¬
tainty. This theory, as here eftabliihed, fuppofes,
that, in the firing of gunpowder, about -rg-ths of its
fubftance is converted by the hidden inflammation into
a permanently elaftic fluid, whofe elafticity, in pro¬
portion to its heat and denfity, is the fame with that
of common air in the like circumffances ; it farther
fuppofes, that all the force exerted by gunpowder in
its moft violent operations, is no more than the a&ion
of the elafticity of the fluid thus generated ; and thefe
principles enable us to determine the velocities of bul¬
lets impelled from fire-arms of all kinds; and are fully
fufficient for all purpofes where the force of gunpow¬
der is to be eftimated.
“ From this theory many deductions may be made
of the greateft confequence to the praflical part of
gunnery. From hence the thicknefs of a piece, which
will enable it to confine, without burfting, any given
charge of powder, is eafily determined, fince the effort
of the powder is known. From hence appears the
inconclufivenefs of what feme modern authors have ad¬
vanced, relating to the advantages of particular forms
' of chambers for mortars and cannon ; for all their la¬
boured fpeculations on this head are evidently founded
on very erroneous opinions about the aflion of fiijed
powder. From this theory too we are taught the ne-
ceflity of leaving the fame fpace behind the bullet,
when we would, by the fame quantity of powder,
communicate to it an equal degree of velocity ; fince,
on the principles already laid down, it follows, that the
fame powder has a greater or lefs degree of elafticity,
according to the different fpaces it occupies. The
method which I have always pradlifed for this pur-
pofq has been by marking the rammer ; and this is
a maxim which ought not to be difpenfed with when
cannon are fired at an elevation, particularly in thofe
called by the French batteries a ricochet.
“ From the continued affion of the powder, and its
manner of expanding deferibed in this theory, and the
length and weight of the piece, one of the moft effen-
tial circumftances in the well directing of artillery Theory,
may be ealily afeertained. All praftitioners are agreed,
that no (hot can bt? depended on, unlefs the piece be
placed on a folid platform : for if the platform ftiakes
with the firft impulfe of the powder, it is impoffible
but the piece mult aifo ftiake : which will alter its di¬
rection, and render the Ihot uncertain. To prevent
this accident, the platform is ufually made extremely
firm to a confiderable depth backwards; fo that the
piece is not only well fupported in the beginning of
its motion, but likewife through a great part of its
refcoil. However, it is fufficiently obvious, that when
the bullet is feparated from the piece, it can be no
longer affefted by the trembling of the pkee or plat»
form; and, by a very eafy computation, it will be
found, that the bullet will be out of the piece before
the latter hath recoiled half an inch : whence, if the
platform be fufficiently folid at the beginning of the
recoil, the remaining part of it may be much {lighter;
and hence a more compendious method of conftrudling
platforms may be found out.
“ From this theory alfo it appears how greatly
thefe authors have been miftaken, who have attributed
the force of gunpowder, or at leaft a coniiderable part
of it, to the aCfion of the air contained either in the
powder or between the intervals ot the grains : tor
they have fuppofed that air to exilt in its natural ela¬
ftic ftate, and to receive all its addition of force from
the heat of the exploflon. But from what hath been
already delivered concerning the increafe of the air’s •
elafticity by heat, we may conclude that the heat of
the exploflon cannot augment this elafticity to five
times its common quantity; conlequently the force
ariling from this caufe only cannot amount to more
than the 200th part of the real force exerted on the
occaflon.
“ If the whole fubftance of the powder was con¬
verted into an elaftic fluid at the inftant of the explo-
lion, then from the known elafticity of this fluid af-
figned by our theory, and its known denfity, we could
ealily determine the velocity with which it would be¬
gin to expand, and could thence trace out its future
augmentations in its progrefs through the barrel : but
as we have fliown that the elalfic fluid, in which the
activity of the gunpowder conlifts, is only Toths of the
fubftance of the powder, the remaining ths will, in
the explofion, be mixed with the elaftic part, and will
by its weight retard the aftivity of the explofion :
and yet they will not be fo completely united as to
move with one common motion ; but the unelaftic
part will be lefs accelerated than the reft, and fome
will not even be carried out of the barrel, as appears
by the coniiderable quantity of uneftuous matter which
adheres to the infide of all fire-arms after they have
been uled. Thefe inequalities in the expanfive motion
of the flame oblige us to recur to experiments for its
accurate determination. 1 2I
“ The experiments made ufe of for this purpofe were Experi-
of two -kinds. The firft: was made by charging thements
barrel A with 12 pennyweights of powder, and a^21^"
fmall wad of tow only ; and then placing its mouth velocity 0f
19 inches from the centre of the pendulum. On firing fired gun-
it in this fituation, the impulfe of the flame made it powder,
afeend through an arch whofe chord was 13.7 inches ;
whence, if the whole fubftance of the powder was
fuppofed..
GUNN
fuppofed to ftrlke againft tke pendulum, and each part
to (trike with the fame velocity, that common velocity
muft have been at the rate of about 2650 feet in a
fecond.—But as feme part of the velocity of the Hame
was loll in-paffing through 19 inches of air j I made
the remaining experiments in a manner not liable to
this inconvenience.
“ I fixed the barrel A on the pendulum, fo that its
axis might be both horizontal and alfo perpendicular
to the plane UK ; or, which is the fame thing, that
it might be in the plane of the pendulum’s vibration:
the height of the axis of the piece above the centre of
the pendulum was fix inches •, and the weight of the
piece, and of the iron that fattened it, &c. was 1 2jlb.
The barrel in this fituation being charged with 12
pennyweights of powder, without either bail or wad,
only put together with the rammer on the difeharge
the pendulum afeended through an arch whofe chord
was 10 inches, or reduced to an equivalent blow in
the centre of the pendulum, fuppofing the barrel
away, it would be 14.4 inches nearly.—The fame ex¬
periment being repeated, the chord of the afeending
arch was 10.1 inches, which, reduced to the centre,
is 14.6 inches.
“ To determine what difference of velocity there
was in the different parts of the vapour, I loaded
the piece again with 12 pennyweights of powder,
and rammed it down with a wad of tow, weighing
one pennyweight. Now, I conceived that this wad
being very light, would prefently acquire that veloci¬
ty with which the elaftic part of the fluid would ex¬
pand itfelf when uncompreffed *, and I accordingly
found, that the chord of the afeending arch was by
this means increafed to 12 inches, or at the centre to
17.3 ; whence, as the medium of the other two ex¬
periments is 14.5, the pendulum afeended through ...1
arch 2.8 inches longer, by the additional motion of
one pennyweight of matter, moving wdth the velo¬
city of the fwifteft part of the vapour-, and. conie-
quently the velocity with which this pennyweight of
matter moved, was that of about 7000 feet in a fe-
cond.
“ It will perhaps be obje&ed to this determina¬
tion, that the augmentation of the arch through which
the pendulum vibrated in this cafe was not all of it
owing to the quantity of motion given to the wad,
but part of it was produced by the confinement of the
powder, and the greater quantity thereby fired. But
if it were true that a part only of the powder fired
when there was no wad, it would not happen that in
firing different quantities of powder without a. wad,
the chord would increafe and decreafe nearly in the
ratio of thefe quantities j which yet I have found it to
do : for with nine pennyweights that chord was 7 3
inches, which with 12 pennyweights we have feen
was only 10, and 10. x inches \ and even with three
pennyweights the chord was two inches y deficient from
this proportion by .5 only for which defeat two other
valid reafons are to be afligned.
“ And there is (till a more convincing proof that
all the powder is fired, although no wad be placed be¬
fore the charge, which is, that the part of. the recoil
a riling from the expanfion of powder alone is found to
be no greater when it impels a leaden bullet before it,
fhan when the farqe quantity is fired without any wad
E R Y.
Seft. IT.
to confine it. We have feen that the chord of the arch Theory. ,
through which the pendulum rofe from the expanfive —y~-~
force of the powder alone is 10, or 10.1 and the
chord of that arch, when the piece was charged in the
cuftomary manner with a bullet and wad, I found to
be the fir ft time 2 2^, and the fecond 22^, or at a
medium 22.56. Now the impulfe of the ball and
wad, if they were fuppofed to ftrike the pendulum in
the fame place in which the barrel was fufpended, with
the velocity they had acquired at the mouth of the
piece, would drive it through an arch whofe chord
would be about 1 2.3 j as is known from the weight
of the pendulum, the weight and pofition of the bar¬
rel, and the velocity of the bullet determined, by our
former experiments -, whence, fubtratfling this num¬
ber 12.3 from 22.56, the remainder 10.26 is nearly
the chord of the arch which the pendulum would have
afeended through from the expanfion of the powder
alone with a bullet laid before it. And this number,
10.26, differs but little from 10.1, which w-e have
above found to be the chord of the afeending arch,
when the fame quantity of powder expanded itfelf
freely without either bullet or wad before it.
“ Again, that this velocity of 7000 feet in a fe¬
cond is not much beyond what the moft aftive part
of the flame acquires in expanding, is evinced from
hence, that in fome experiments a ball has been found
to be difeharged wfith a velocity of 2^00 feet in a fe¬
cond ; and yet it appeared not that the aftion of the
powder w7as at all dimintthed on account of this immenfe
celerity : confequently the degree of fwiftnefs with
which, in this inftance, the powder followed the ball
without lofing any part of its preffure, muft have been
much (hort of what the powder alone w:ould have ex¬
panded with, had not the ball been there.
“ From thefe determinations may be deduced, the
force of petards y (ince their action depends entirely
on the impulfe of the flame and it appears that a
quantity of powder properly difpofed in fuch a ma¬
chine, may produce as violent an effort as a bullet of
twice its weight, moving with a velocity of 1400 or
1500 feet in a fecond. 1 , u 2h .
“ In many of the experiments already recited, the^ bullet
ball was not laid immediately contiguous to the pow-
der, but at a fmall diftance, amounting, at the g.eate(t ve-
moft. only to an inch and a half. In thefe cafes the iocity when
theory agreed very well with the experiments. But bid at a di-
if a bullet is placed at a greater .diftance from the^'^^
powder, fuppofe at 12, 18, or 24 inches, we. cannot^,
then apply to this ball the fame principles which may
be applied to thofe laid in contact, or nearly fo, with
the powder j for when the furface of the fired powder
is not confined by a heavy body, the flame dilates it-
frlf with a velocity far exceeding that which it can
communicate to a bullet by its continued preffure.: con¬
fequently, as at the diftance of 1 2, 18, or 24 inches,
the powder will have acquired a coniiderable degree
of this velocity of expanfion, the firff motion ot .the
ball will not be produced by'the continued preffure
of the powder, but by the acffual percuflion of the
flame-, and it will therefore begin to move with a
quantity of motion proportioned to the quantity of
this flame, and the velocities of its refpeaive parts.
“ From hence then it follows, that the velocity of
the bullet, laid at a confiderable diftance before the
charge,
Sea. II.
GUNNER Y.
J59
Theory, charge, ought to be greater than what would be com-
—1 municated to it by the preffure of the powder afting
in the manner already mentioned : and this dedu£tion
from our theory we have confirmed by manifold expe¬
rience 5 by which we have found, that a ball laid in
the barrel A, with its hinder part 11 ^ inches from its
breech, and impelled by 12 pennyweights of powder,
has acquired a velocity of about 1400 feet in a ie-
cond ; when, if it had been aided on by the prefiure
of the flame onlv, it would not have acquired a velocity
of 1 2CO feet in a fecond. The fame we have found
to hold true in all other greater difiances (and alfo
in lefler, though not in the fame degree), and in all
quantities of powder : and we have likewife found,
that thefe effecls nearly correfpond with what has been
already laid down about the velocity of expanfion and
the elafiic and unelaflic parts of the flame.
“ From hence too arifes another confideration of
great confequence in the praflice of gunnery ; which
is, that no bullet fliould at any time be placed at a con-
liderable diitance before the charge, unlefs the piece is
extremely well fortified : for a moderate charge of pow¬
der, when it has expanded itfelf through the vacant
fpace, and reaches the ball, will, by the velocity each
part has acquired, accumulate itfelf behind the ball,
and thereby be condenfed prodigioufly $ whence, if the
barrel be not extremely firm jn that part, it mull, by
means of this reinforced elaflicity, infallibly burft. The
truth of this reafoning I have experienced in an exceed-
ing good Tower-mufket, forged of very tough iron j
for charging it with 1 2 pennyweights of powrder, and
placing the ball 16 inches from the breech, on firing it,
the part of the barrel juft behind the bullet wns fwelled
out to double its diameter like a blo wn bladder, and two
large pieces of two inches long were burft out of it.
“ Having feen that the entire motion of a bullet
laid at a confiderable diftance from the charge, is ac¬
quired by tw7o different methods in w'hich the pow’der
a£ts on it; the firft being the percuffion of the parts
of the flame with the velocity they had refpe&ively
acquired by expanding, the fecond the continued pref¬
iure of the flame through the remaining part of the bar¬
rel ; I endeavoured to feparate thefe different actions,
and to retain that only which arofe from the continued
preffure of the flame. For this purpofe I no longer
placed the powder at the breech, from whence it would
have full fcope for its expanfion j but I fcattered it as
uniformly as I could through the whole cavity left be¬
hind the bullet •, imagining that by this means the pro-
greflive velocity of the flame in each part would be pre¬
vented by the expanfion of the neighbouring parts ; and
I found, that the ball being laid 1inches from the
breech, its velocity, inftead of 1400 feet in a fecond,
which it acquired in the laft experiments, was now no
more than 1100 feet in the fecond, which is 100 feet
ihort of what according to the theory ftiould arife from
the continued prefiure of the powder only.
“ The reafon of this deficiency was, doubtlefs, the
inteftine motion of the flame : for the afcenfion of the
powder thus diftributed through fo much larger a fpace
than it could fill, muft have produced many reverbera¬
tions and pulfations of the flame; and from thefe in¬
ternal agitations of the fluid, its preffure on the con¬
taining furface will (as is the cafe of all other fluids)
be conliderably diminifhed j and in order to avoid this
irregularity, in all other experiments I took care to Theory,
have the powder clofely confined in as fmall a fpace ttsv
poflible, even when the bullet lay at fame httle diftance
from it.
“ With regard to the refiftance of the air, which fo of the re-
remarkably affects all military projeftiles, it is neceffary fiftance of
to premife, that the greateft part of authors have efta-^
blilhed it as a certain rule, that while the fame bodycf bulj’ets>
moves in the fame medium, it is always refifted in the
duplicate proportion of its velocity; that is, if the relifted
body move in one part of its track with three times the
velocity with which it moved in fome other part, then
its refiflance to the greater velocity will be nine times
the refiftance to the lefler. If the velocity in one
place be four times greater than in another, the reftft-
ance of the fluid will be 16 times greater in the firft
than in the fecond, &c. This rule, however, though
pretty near the truth when the velocities are confined
within certain limits, is exceflively erroneous when ap¬
plied to military projecliles, where fuch refiftances often
occur as could fcarcely be effected, on the commonly
received principles, even by a treble augmentation ol
its denfity.
“ By means of the machine already defcribed, I have
it in my power to determine the velocity with which a
ball moves in any part of its track, provided I can di¬
rect the piece in fuch a manner as to caufe the bullet to
impinge on the pendulum placed in that part : and
therefore, charging a mulket barrel three times fuccef-
fively with a leaden ball three-fourths of an inch in dia¬
meter, and about half its weight of powder ; and tak¬
ing fuch precaution in weighing of the powder and pla¬
cing it, that I was affured, by many previous trials, tha£
the velocity of the ball could not differ by 20 feet in
a lecond from its medium quantity ; I fired it againfl:
the pendulum placed at 25, 75, and 125 feet diftance
from the mouth of the piece refpeflively ; and I found
that it impinged againft the pendulum, in the firft cafe,
with a velocity of 1670 feet in a fecond ; in the fecond
cafe, with a velocity of 1550 feet in a fecorid ; and in
the third cafe, with a velocity of 1425 feet in a fe¬
cond ; fo that, in palling through 50 feet of air, the
bullet loft a velocity of 1 20 or 125 feet in a fecond ;
and the time of its palling through that fpace being
about-jV or-^3-'of a fecond, the medium quantity of
reliftance muft, in thefe inftances, have been about 1 20
times the weight of the ball ; which (as the ball was
nearly TrT of a pound) amounts to about lolb. avoirdu¬
pois.
“ Now, if a computation be made according to the
method laid down for compreffed fluids in the 38th pro-
polition of Newton’s Principia, fuppofing the weight
of water to that of air as 850 to 1, it will be found,
that the refiftance to a globe of three-fourths of an inch
diameter, moving with a velocity of about 1600 feet im
a fecond, will not, on thefe principles, amount to any
more than 4^1b. avoirdupois ; whence, as we know that
the rules contained in that propolition are very accurate
with regard to flow motions, we may hence conclude,,
that the refiftance of the air in flow motions is lefs than
that in fwift motions, in the ratio of 4^ to 10 ; a pro¬
portion between that of 1 to 2, and 1 to 3.
“ Again, I charged the fame piece a number of
times with equal quantities of powder, and balls of
the fame weight, taking all pollible care to give to
every
i6o . G U N N
Theory, evtry iliot an equal velocity ; and, firing three times
’ —' again ft the pendulum placed only 25 feet from tee
mouth of the piece, the medium of the velocities with
which the ball impinged was nearly that of 1690 feet
in a fecond : then removing the piece 17 t feet from the
pendulum, I found, taking the medium of five fnocS,'
that the velocity with which the ball impinged at this
diftance was 130c feet in a fecond 5 whence the balk
in paffing through 150 feet of air, loft a velocity O;
about 390 feet in a fecond j and the renftance comput¬
ed from thefe numbers comes out fomething more than
in the preceding inftance, it amounting here to between
II and 12 pounds avoirdupois j whence, accoiding to
thefe experiments, the refifting power of the air to fwift
motions is greater than to flow ones, in a ratio which
approaches nearer to that of 3 to I than in the pieced-
ing experiments.
Having thus examined the refiftance to a velocity
of 1700 feet in a fecond, I next examined the reiiftance
to fmaller velocities : and for this purpofe, 1 charged
the fame barrel with balls of the fame diameter, but
with lefs powder, and placing the pendulum at 25 feet
diftance from the piece, 1 fired againft it five times with
an equal charge each time : the medium velocity with
which the ball impinged, was that of 1180 feet in a
fecond ; then, removing the pendulum to. the diftance
of 250 feet, the medium velocity of five {hots, made
at this diftance, was that of 950 feet in a fecond .
whence the ball, in palling through 225 feet of air, loft
a velocity of 230 feet in a fecond : and as it pafled
through that interval in about -ry of a fecond, the re¬
fiftance to the middle velocity will come out to be near
334. times the gravity of the ball, or 2lb. 1002. avoir¬
dupois. Now,' the refiftance to the fame velocity, ac¬
cording to the laws obferved in flower motions, a-
mounts to Vr °f ^ie fame ftuant^y ’ wfience> a ve^°-
cityof 1065 feet in a fecond, the refifting power of
* the air is augmented in no greater a proportion than
that of 7 to 11 j whereas we have feen in the former
experiments, that to ftill greater degrees of velocity the
augmentation approached very near the ratio of one to
three. r ■> r r
“ But farther, I fired three fnot, of the fame fize
and weight with thofe already mentioned, over a large
piece of water ; fo that their dropping into the water
being very difcernible, both the diftance and time 01
their flight might be accurately afcertained. Each
fhot was'’ difcharged with a velocity of 400 feet m a
fecond •, and I had fatisfied myfelf by many previous
trials of the fame charge with the pendulum that I
could rely on this velocity to ten feet in a fecond. Lne
£rft {hot flew 313 yards in four feconds and a quarter,
the fecond flew'319 yards in four feconds, and the
third 373 yards in five feconds and a half. According
to the theory of refiftance eftabliftied for flow motions,
the firft {hot ought to have fpent no more than 3.2
feconds in its flight, the fecond 3.28, and the third
4 feconds j whence it is evident, that every {hot was
retarded confiderably more than it ought to have been
had that theory taken place in its motion 5 confequent-
ly the refiftance of the air is very fenfibly increafed,
even in fuch a fmall velocity as that of 400 feet in a fe-
Plate “ As no large (hot are ever projedled in practice
CCXLVIII witlj velocities exceeding that of 1700 feet m a lecond,
fig- 3* 2
E R Y. Sea. 1L
it will be fufficient for the purpofes of a pradlical gun- theory,
ner to"determine the refiftance to all lefler velocities
which may be thus exhibited. Let AB be taken to
AC, in the ratio of 1700 feet in a fecond to the
givefty velocity to which the refifting power of the air
is required. Continue the line AB to D, fo that
BD may be to AB, as the refifting power of the air
to flow nations is to its refifting power to a velocity
of 1700 feet in a fecond j then fhall CB be to AB
as the reliiiiny power of the air to flow motions is to
its refifting power to the given velocity reprefented
by AC.
“ From the computations and experiments already
mentioned, it plainly appears, that a leaden ball of
three-fourths of an inch diameter, and weighing nearly
li oz. avoirdupois, if it be fired from a barrel ot 45
inches in length, with half its weight ci powder, wnl
ifiue from that piece with a velocity which, if it weie
uniformly continued, would carry it near I'yoo eet m
a fecond!—If, inftead of a leaden ball, an iron one, of
an equal diameter, was placed in the lame fituation in
the fame piece, and was impelled by an equal quantity
of powfler, the velocity of iuch an iron bullet wourd
be greater than that of the leaden one in tne fubdupli-
cate ratio of the fpecificate gravities of lead and iron ;
and fuppofing that ratio to be as tnree to two, and
computing on the principles already laid down, it will
appear, th^t an iron bullet of 24 lb. weight, ftiot from
a piece of 10 feet in length, wuth i61b. 01 powder, will
acquire from the explofion a velocity which, if uni¬
formly continued, would carry it nearly 1650 feet in a
fecond.
“ This is the velocity which, according to our theory,
a cannon-ball of 241b. iveight is difcnarged withwdien
it is impelled by a full charge of powder j but if, in¬
ftead of a quantity of powder weighing tivo-thirds 01
the ball, we fuppofe the charge to be only half the
weight of it, then its velocity wall on the fame princi¬
ples be no more than 1490 feet in a fecond. The fame
would be the velocities of every lefler bullet fired with
the fame proportions of powder, if the lengths of all
pieces were conftantly in the fame ratio wfith the diame¬
ters of their bore ; and although, according to the ufual
dimenfions of the fmaller pieces of artillery, this pio-
portion does not abways hold, yet the difference is not
great enough to occafion a very great variation from
the velocities here afligned as will be obvious to any
one who ftiall make a computation thereon. But m
thefe determinations we fuppofe the windage to be no
more than is juft fufficient for putting down the bullet
eafily; whereas in real fervice, either through negli¬
gence or unfldlfulnefs, it often happens, that the dia¬
meter of the bore fo much exceeds the diameter of the
bullet, that great part of the inflamed fluid^ dcapes by
its fide ; whence the velocity of the ffiot m this cale
may be confiderably lefs than what we have affigned.
However, this perhaps may be _ comperdated by the
greater heat which in all probability attends tne firing
of thefe large quantities of powder.
“ From this great velocity of cannon ftiot we may Solution
clear up the difficulty concerning the point-blank ^otofthediffi-
which occafioned the invention of Anderfon’s ftrange^ty c<
hypothefis*. Here our author was deceived by his point,blank
not knowing how greatly the primitive velocity of thefllot.
heavieft ffiot is diminiffied in the courfe of its flight by * See N 5.
the
Sea. II.
GUNNERY.
161
Theory, the refifiance of the air. And the received opinion of
v' practical gunners is not more difficult to account for;
'luce, when they agree that every Ihot flies in a ftraight
line to a certain diftance from the piece, which imagi¬
nary diftance they have called the ex/eu/ of the poitit-
b/ank jhot, we need only fuppofe, that, within that di-
flance which they thus determine, the deviation of the
path of the ihot from a Itraight line is not very per¬
ceptible in their method of pointing. Now, as a Aiot
of 241b. fired with two-thirds of its weight of pow¬
der, will, at the diilance of 900 yards from the piece,
be leparated from the line of its original direction by
an angle of little more than half a degree ; thofe who
are acquainted with the inaccurate methods often ufed
in the directing of cannon will eafily allow, that fo
imall an aberration may not be attended to by the ge¬
nerality of praflitioners, and the path of the ihot may
confequently be deemed a ftraight line 5 efpecially as
other cauies of error will often intervene much greater
than what arifes from the incurvation of this line by
25 gravity.
By wcre.r- “.We have now determined the velocity of the ihot
W? ‘he ^ both when fired with two-thirds of its weight and
powder^the 'nalf its weight of powder refpeclively ; and on
velocity of this occafion I muff remark, that on the principles of
our theory, the increafing the charge of powder
will increafe the velocity of the ihot till the powder ar¬
rives at a certain quantity after which, if the powder
be increafed, the velocity of the ihot will diminilh.
The quantity producing the greateft velocity, and the
proportion between that greateft velocity and the velo¬
city communicated by greater and lefter charges, may
be thus affigned. Let AB reprefent the axis of the
piece ; draw AC perpendicular to it, and to the afymp-
totes AC and AB draw any hyperbola LF, and draw
BF parallel to AC j find out now the point D, where
the redlangle A DEG is equal to the hyperbolic area
DEFB; then will AD reprefent that height of the
charge which communicates the greateft velocity to the
ihot: whence AD being to AB as 1 to 2.71828, as
appears from the table of logarithms, from the length
of the line AD thus determined, and the diameter of
the bore, the quantity of powder contained in this
charge is eafily known. If, inftead of this charge, any
other filling the cylinder to the height AI, be ufed,
draw IH parallel to AC, and through the point H to
the fame afymptotes AC and AB defcribe the hyper¬
bola HK •, then the greateft velocity will be to the
velocity communicated by the charge A I, in the fubdu-
plicate proportion of the re&angle ADEG to the fame
reftangle diminiffied by the trilinear fpace KHE.
“ It hath been already fhown, that the refiftance of
the air on the furface of a bullet of three-fourths of an
inch diameter, moving with a velocity of 1670 feet in
a fecond, amounted to about lolb. It hath alfo been
ftiown, that an iron bullet weighing aqlb. if fired with
i61b. of powder (which is ufually efteemed its proper
battering charge), acquires a velocity of about i6po
feet in a fecond, fcarcely differing from the other:
whence, as the furface of this laft bullet is more than
44 times greater than the furface of a bullet of three-
fourths of an inch diameter, and their velocities are
nearly the fame, it follows, that the refiflance on the
larger bullet will amount to more than jqolb. which is
near 23 times its own weight.
Vol. X. Part I.
the lliot
will not
continually
increafe.
Dg- 3-
26
Exceeding
great re-
liftance of
tire air.
“ The two laft propofitions are principally aimed Theory,
againft thofe theorifts who have generally agreed in
fuppofing the flight of (hot and ftiells to be nearly in
the curve of a parabola. The reafon given by thofe
authors for their opinion is the fuppofed inconfiderable
refiftance of the air; fince as it is agreed on all fides
that the track of projefliles would be a peifedl parabola
if th ere wras no refiftance, it has from thence been too
ralhly concluded, that the interruption which the pon¬
derous bodies of Ihells and bullets would receive from
iuch a rare medium as air would be fcarcely fenfible,
and confequently that their parabolic flight would be
hereby fcarcely affefted.
“ Now the prodigious refiflance of the air to a bullet
of aqlb. weight, fuch as we have here eftablilhed it,
lufficiently confutes this reafoning ; for howT erroneous
muft that hypothelis be, w-hich neglects as inconuder-
able a force amounting to more than 20 times the
weight of the moving body But here it is neceffary
to affume a few particulars, the demonftrations of which,
on the commonly received principles, may be feen un¬
der the article Projectiles. j7
“ 1. If the refiftance of the air be fo fmall that theCom.mo!*
motion of a prqje&ed body is in the curve of a parabo-max,ms.
la, then the yxis of that parabola will be perpendicular the motion
to the horizon, and confequently the part of the curve of project
in which the body afcends will be equal and fimilar to
that in which it defcends.
“2. If the parabola in wffiich the body moves be
terminated on a horizontal plane, then the vertex of
the parabola will be equally diitant from its own extre¬
mities.
“3. Alfo the moving body will fall on thatl^jri-
zontal plane in the fame angle, and with the fame velo¬
city with which it was firft proje£led.
“4. If a body be projected in different angles but
wdth the fame velocity, then its greateft horizontal
range will be wffien it is projedled in an angle of 450
with the horizon.
“ 5- If the velocity with which the body is projedled
be known, then this greateft horizontal range may be
thus found. Compute, according to the common
theory of gravity, what fpace the projected body
ought to fall through to acquire the velocity with
which it is projedled : then twice that fpace will be
the greateft horizontal range, or the horizontal range
when the body is projedled in an angle of 450 with
the horizon.
“ 6. The horizontal ranges of a body, when pro¬
jedled wuth the fame velocity at different angles, wall
be between themfelves as the fines of twice the angle
in which the line of projedlion is inclined to the hori¬
zon.
“ 7-.If a body js projedled in the fame angle with
the horizon, but with different velocities, the horizontal
xanges will be in the duplicate proportion of thofe velo-
28
“ Thefe poftulates, which contain the principles ofProdigi°us
the modern art of gunnery, are all of them falfej for err0rs of the
hath been already ihown, that a mufket ball of’three-tCrmm°n
fourths of an inch in diameter, fired with half its wefoht
of powder, from a piece 45 inches long, moves with a
velocity of near 1700 feet in a fecond. Now, if this
ball flew in the curve of a parabola, its horizontal
range at 4 5’ would be found by the fifth poftulate to
X be
G U N N E R Y. Sed. II.
But all tie praaical writers aflure ticn of that fubjefl, we (hall here infert an accomit^of rne jry.
be about 17 miles.  
tis, that this range is really (hort of half a mile. IJiego
Ufano afiigns to an arquebufs, four feet in length, and
carrying a leaden ball of I -*-oz. weight (which is very
near our dimenlions), a horizontal range of 797 com¬
mon paces, when it is elevated between 40 and 50 de¬
grees, and charged with a quantity of fine powder
equal in weight to the ball. Merfennus alio tells us,
that he found the horizontal range of an arquebufs at
4 to be lefs than 400 fathoms, or 800 yards j whence,
as either of thefe ranges are (hort of half an Enghili
mile, it follows, that a mufket (hot, when fired with a
reafonable charge of powder at the elevation _ of 45 ,
flies not one-thirty-fourth part of the diftance it ought
to do if it moved in a parabola. Nor is this great con-
traftion of the horizontal range to be wondered at,
when it is confidered that the refiftance of this bullet
when it firft iffues from the piece amounts to 1 20 times
its gravity, as hath been experimentally demonftrated,
N° 23*
“ To prevent obj eft ions, our next infiance (hall be
in an iron bullet of 241b. weight, which is the heavieit
in common ufe for land-fervice. Such a bullet fired
a very extraordinary circumfiance which frequently
takes place therein.
“ As gravity afts perpendicularly to the horizon,
it is evident, that if no other power but gravity defieft-
ed a projefted body from its courfe, its motion would
be conftantly performed in a plane perpendicular to the
horizon, palling through the line of its original direc¬
tion ■, but we have found, that the body in its motion
often deviates from this plane, fometimes to the right
hand and at other times to the left: and this in an in-
curvated line, which is convex towards that plane, fo
that the motion of a bullet is frequently in a line hav¬
ing a double curvature, it being bent towards the ho¬
rizon by the force of gravity, and again bent out ot
its original direftion to the right or left by fome other-
force : in this cafe no part of the motion of the bullet
is performed in the fame plane, but its track will lie in
the furface of a kind of cylinder, whofe axis is perpen¬
dicular to the horizon. _
“ This propofition may be indifputably proved by the
experience of every one in the leait converfant with the
praftice of gunnery. The fame piece which wall carry
its bullet within an inch of the intended mark at 10
111 -   . 1 .
19
Rotatory
motion of
tnillets a
great fource
of deflec-
hypothefis by the fifth poftulate, it will come out to be
about 16 miles, which is between'five and fix times its
real quantity •, for the praftical writers all agree in ma¬
king it lefs than three miles.
“ But farther, it is not only when projeftiles move
with thefe very great velocities that their (light ien-
fibly varies from the curve of a parabola; the iame
aberration often takes place in fuch as move (low e-
nough to have their motion traced out by the eye •,
for there are few projeftiles that can be tj1115 e*anJ1'
ned, which do not vifibly difagree with the hrfi, ie-
cond, and third poftulates; obvioufly defending through
a curve, which is (horter and lefs inclined to the ho¬
rizon than that in which they afeended. Alio the
higheft point of their flight, or the vertex of the
curve, is much nearer the place where they fall to the
ground than to that from whence they were at tint
I§have found too by experience, that the fifth,
fixth and feventh poftulates are excefiively erroneous
when applied to the motions of bullets moving with
fmall velocities. A leaden bullet three-fourths of an
inch in diameter, difeharged with a velocity of about
400 feet in a fecond, and in an angle of 19 5 v'i
the horizon, ranged on the horizontal plane no more
than 448 yards : whereas its greateft horizontal range
being found by the fifth poftulate to be at leaft 1700
yards, the range at 190 5' ought by the fixth pofiulate
to have been 1050 yards ; whence, iti this_experiment,
the range was not three-fevenths of what it mud have
been had the commonly received theory been true.
From this and other experiments it is clearly pro¬
ved that the track deferibed by the flight even of the
heavieft (hot, is neither a parabola, nor approaching
to a parabola, except when they are projefted with
very fmall velocities. The nature of the curve really
deferibed by them is explained under the article i RO-
But as a fpecimen of the great complica-
JECTILES.
111CU UCJ.ilCJT     J r
being incurvated fidewife as well as downwards: mr
by this means the diftance between that incurvated line
and the line of direftion will increafe in a much greater
ratio than that of the diftance ; thefe lines being coin¬
cident at the mouth of the piece, and. afterwards fepa-
rating in the manner of a curve and its tangent, 11 the
mouth of the piece be confidered as the point of contaft.
To put this matter out of all doubt, however, I took a
barrel carrying a ball three-fourths of an inch diameter,
and fixing it on a heavy carriage, I fatisfied myfelf of the
fteadinefs and truth o( its direftion, by firing at a board
ifeet fquare, which was placed at 180.feet diftance;
for I found that in 16 fucceflive (hots I miffed the mark
but once. Now, the fame barrel being fixed on the fame
carriage, and fired with a fmaller quantity of powder,
fo that the (hock on the difeharge would be much lefs,
and confequently the direftion lefs changed,.! found,
that at 760 yards diftance the ball flew fometimes 100
yards to the right of the line it was pointed on, and
fometimes as much to the left. . I found, too, that
its direftion in the perpendicular line was not lefs un¬
certain, it falling one time above 200 yards (hort of
what it did at another ; although, by the niceft exami¬
nation of the piece after the difeharge, it did not appear
to have darted in the leaft from the pofition it was pla¬
ced in. , . , .
“ The reality of this doubly curvated track being
thus demonftrated, it may perhaps be afked What can
be the caufe of a motion fo different from what has been
hitherto fuppofed ? And to this I anfwer, That the de-
fleftion in queftion muft be owing to fome power aftmg
obliquely to the progreftive motion of the body;
which power can be no other than the refiftance of the
air. If it be farther alked, how the refiftance of the
air can ever come to be oblique to the progreffive mo¬
tion of the body ? I farther reply, that it may fome-
times arife from inequalities in the refitted (urface ;
but that its general caufe is doubtlefs a whirling mo¬
tion
Sed. II.
GUN
Theory, tion acquired by the bullet about its axis : for by this
motion of rotation, combined with the progreffive mo¬
tion, each part of the bullet’s furface will (trike the
air very differently from what it would do if there Was
no fuch whirl j and the obliquity of the action of the
air arifing from this caufe will be greater, as the mo¬
tion of the bullet is greater in proportion to its progref-
live one.
“ This whirling motion undoubtedly arifes from the
fridtion of the bullet againlt the Tides of the piece ;
and as the rotatory motion will in fome part of its re¬
volution confpire with the progreffive one, and in ano¬
ther part be equally oppofed to it, the refiftance of the
air on the fore part of the bullet will be hereby affedt-
cd, and will be increafed in that part where the whirl¬
ing motion confpires with the progreffive one, and di-
miniffied where it is oppofed to it; and by this means
the whole effort of the reliftance, inftead of being op-
pofite to the diredtion of the body, will become oblique
thereto, and will produce thofe effedls already mention¬
ed. If it was poffible to predidt the pofition of the axis
round which the bullet (hould whirl, and if that axis
wTas unchangeable during the whole flight of the bullet,
then the aberration of the bullet by this oblique force
would be in a given diredtion ; and the incurvation
produced thereby would regularly extend the fame wray
from one end of its track to the other. For inftance,
if the axis of the whirl was perpendicular to the hori¬
zon, then the incurvation would be to the right or left.
If that axis was horizontal, and perpendicular to the
diredlion of the bullet, then the incurvation would be
upwards or downwards. But as the firft pofition of
this axis is uncertain, and as it may perpetually ffiift in
the courfe of the bullet’s flight; the deviation of the
bullet is not neceffarily either in one certain diredlion,
or tending to the fame fide in one part of its track more
than it does in another, but more ufually is continually
changing the tendency of its defledtion, as the axis
round which it whirls muff frequently ffiift its pofi¬
tion to the progreffive motion by many inevitable acci¬
dents.
“ That a bullet generally acquires fuch a rotatory
motion, as here defcribed, is, I think, demonftrable :
however, to leave no room for doubt or difpute, I con¬
firmed it, as well as fome other parts of my theory, by
30 the following experiments.
Machine “ I caufed the machine to be made reprefented
4- BCDE is a brafs barrel, moveable on its axis,
refiftance. anc* ^djufted by means of fridlion-wheels, not repre¬
fented in the figure, as to have no fridlion worth at¬
tending to. The frame in which this barrel is fixed is
fo placed that its axis may be perpendicular to the ho¬
rizon. The axis itfelf is continued above the upper
plate of the frame, and has faftened on it a light hol¬
low cone, AFG. From the lower part of this cone
there is extended a long arm of wood, GH, which is
very thin, and cut feather-edged. At its extremity
there is a contrivance for fixing on the body, whofe re¬
fiftance is to be inveftigated (as here the globe P) 5
-and to prevent the arm GH from fwaying out of its
horizontal pofition by the weight of the annexed body
P, there is a brace, AH, of fine wire, faftened to the
top of the cone which fupports the end of the arm.
“ Round the barrel BCDE, there is wound a fine
filk line, the turns of which appear in the figure 5 and
N E R Y,
after this line hath taken a fufficient number of turns,
it is conducted nearly in a horizontal direction to the
pully L, over which it is paffed, and then a proper
weight M is hung to its extremity. If this weight
be left at liberty, it is obvious that it will defeend by
its own gravity, and will, by its defeent, turn round
the barrel BCDE, together with the arm GH, and the
body P faftened to it. And whilft the refiftance on
the arm GH and on the body P is lefs than the weight
M, that weight will accelerate its motion 5 and there¬
by the motion of GH and P will increafe, and confe-
quently their refiftance will increafe, till at laft this re¬
fiftance and the weight M become nearly equal to each
other. The motion with which M defeends, and with
which P revolves, will not then fenfibly differ from an
equable one. Whence it is not difficult to conceive,
that, by proper obfervations made with this machine,
the refiftance of the body P may be determined. The
mod natural method of proceeding in this inveftigation
is as follows : Let the machine firft have acquired its
equable motion, which it will ufually do in about five
or fix turns from the beginning j and then let it be ob-
ferved, by counting a number of turns, what time is
taken up by one revolution of the body P : then tak¬
ing off the body P and the weight M, let it be exami¬
ned what fmaller weight will make the arm GH re¬
volve in the fame time as when P was fixed to it : this
fmaller weight being taken from M, the remainder is
obvioufly equal in effort to the refiftance of the revolv¬
ing body P j and this remainder being reduced in the
ratio of the length of the arm to the femidiameter of
the barrel, will then become equal to the abfolute
quantity of the refiftance. And as the time of one re¬
volution is known, and confequently the velocity of the
revolving body, there is hereby difeovered the abfolute
quantity of the refiftance to the given body P moving
with a given degree of celerity.
“ Here, to avoid all objections, I have generally
chofen, when the body P was removed, to fix iq its
(lead a thin piece of lead of the fame weight, placed
horizontally : fo that the weight which was to turn
round the arm GH, without the body P, did alfo carry
round this piece of lead. But mathematicians will
eafily allow that there was no neceffity for this precau¬
tion. The diameter of the barrel BCDE, and of the
filk firing wound round it, was 2.06 inches. The
length of the arm GH, meafured from the axis to the
furface of the globe P, was 49.5 inches. The body
P, the globe made ufe of, was of pafteboard ; its fur¬
face very neatly coated with marbled paper. It was
not much diftant from the fize of a 1 2lb. (hot, being
in diameter 4.5 inches, fo that the radius of the circle
defcribed by the centre of the globe was 51.75 inches.
When this globe was fixed at the end of the arm, and
a weight of half a pound was hung at the end of the
ft ring at M, it was examined how foon the motion of
the defeending weight M, and of the revolving body
P, would become equable as to fenfe. With this view,
three revolutions being fuffered to elapfe, it was found
that the next 10 were performed in 2720 in lefs
than 55", and 30 in 82^."; fo that the firft 10 were
performed in 27^", the fecond in 2y±'', and the third
in 274".
“ Thefe experiments fufficiently evince, that even
with half a pound, the fmalleft weight made ufe of,
X 2 the
163
Theory.
164 G U N N
Theory, the motion of the machine was fufficiently equable after
' 7 the firft three revolutions.
“ The globe above mentioned being now fixed at
the end of the arm, there was hung on at M a weight
of -^Ib ; and io revolutions being fuftered to elapfe,
the fucceeding 20 were performed in 2i \". 1 hen the
globe being taken oft', and a thin plate of lead, equal
to it in weight, placed in its room 5 it was found, tnat
inftead of q^lb. a weight of one pound would make
it revolve in lefs time than it did before , performing
now 20 revolutions after 10 wrere elapled in the fpace
“^Hence then it follows, that from the 3 * lb. firft
hung on, there is lets than I lb. to be deducted for
the refiftance on the arm 5 and confequently the re-
fiftance on the globe itielf is not lefs than the eftoit ^of
lb. in the iituation M 5 and it appearing from the
former mealures, that the radius of the barrel is nearly
of the radius of the circle, defcribed by the centie
of the globe j it follows, that the abfolute refiftance
of the globe, when it revolves 20 times in 21Tb
(about 25 feet in a fecond), is not lefs than the 5ot^
part of two pounds and a quarter, or of 36 ounces :
and this being confiderably more than half an ounce,
•and the globe nearly the fize of a twelve-pound Ihot,
it irrefragably confirms a propofition I had formerly
had down from theory, that the refiftance of the air to
a 1 2 lb. iron (hot, moving with a velocity of 25 feet in
a fecond, is not lefs than half an ounce.
“ The reft of the experiments were made in order
to confirm another propofition, namely, that the re¬
fiftance of the air within certain limits is nearly in the
duplicate proportion of the velocity of the refifted
bodv. To inveftigate this point, there were fuccel-
lively hung on at M, weights in the proportion of the
numbers 1, 4, 9, 16; and letting 10 revolutions firft
tdapfe, the following obfervations were made on the
reft, With -Jib. the globe went 20 turns in 54V',
with 2 lb. it went 20 turns in 27^", with 4^ lb. it
went 30 turns in 274, and with 8 lb. it went 40 turns
in 27V'.' Hence it appears, that to refiftances propor¬
tioned to the numbers 1, 4, 9, 16, there correfpond
velocities of the refifted body in the proportion ot the
numbers 1, 2, 3, 4; which proves, with great nicety,
the propofition above mentioned. _ „
“ With regard to the rotatory motion, the firft ex¬
periment was to evince, that the whirling motion of a
ball combining with its progreflive motion would pro¬
duce fuch an oblique refiftance and detkaive power as
already mentioned. For this purpofe a wooden ball
of 44 inches diameter was fufpended by a double
firing, about eight or nine feet long. Now, by turn¬
ing round the ball and twilling the double firing, the
ball when left to itfelf would have a revolving motion
■nven it from the untwilling of the firing again. And
ff, when the firing was twilled, the ball w'as drawn to
a’confiderable diftanee from the perpendicular, and
there let go ; it would at firft, before it had acquired
its revolving motion, vibrate fHndily enough in the
fame vertical plane in which it firft began_ to move :
but when, by the untwifling of the firing, it had ac-
ouired a futncient degree of its whirling motion it
conftantly deflefted to the right or left of its hrft
track } and fometimes proceeded fo far as to have its
E r Y Se£t II.
direftion at right angles to that in whicn ir oegan its iheoiy. ^
motion •, and this deviation1 was not produced by the
firing itfelf, but appeared to be entirely owing to the
refiftance being greater on the one part of the leading
furface of the globe than the other. For the devia¬
tion continued when the firing was totally untwifted 5
and even during the time that the filing, by the mo¬
tion the globe had received, was twilling the contrary
way. And it was always eafy to predict, before the
ball was let go, which way it would defied, only by
confidering on which fide the whirl would be combined
with the progreflive motion 5 for on that fide always the
defledive power aded, as' the refiftance was greater
here than on the fide where the whirl and progreflive
motion were oppofed to one another.
Though Mr Robins confidered this experiment as
an inconteftable proof of the truth of bis theory, he
undertook to give ocular dernonftration of this de-
fledion of mufket-bullets even in the ftiort fpace of
100 yards. , , .
“ As all projediles (fays be), in their flight, are
aded upon by the power of gravity, the defledion of a
bullet from its primary direction, fuppofes that deflec¬
tion to be upwards or downwards in a vertical plane j
becaufe, in the vertical plane, the adion of gravity is
compounded and entangled with the defledive torce.
And for this reafon my experiments have been princi¬
pally direded to the examination of that defledion
which carries the bullet to the right or left 01 that
plane in which it began to move, l or if it appears at
any time that the bullet has ihifted from that vertical
plane in which the motion began, this will be an in¬
conteftable proof of what we have advanced. Now,
by means of fcreens of exceeding thin paper, piaced
parallel to each other at proper diftances, this defledion
in queftion may be many ways inveftigated. For by
firing bullets which fhall traverfe the icreens, the
fflpht of the bullet may be traced j and it may eafily
appear whether they do or do not keep invariably to
one vertical plane. This examination may proceed on
three different principles, which I fhall here fepaiately
explain. ,
“ For firft, an exadly vertical plane may be traced
out upon all tbefe fcreens, by which the deviation of
any finale bullet may be more readily inveftigated, on¬
ly by meafuring the horizontal diftance oi its trace
from the vertical plane thus delineated •, and by this
means the abfolute quantity of its aberration may be
known. Or if the defcription of fuch a vertical plane
fliould be efteemed a matter of difficulty and nicety, a
fecond method may be followed j which is that of reft-
ing the piece in fome fixed notch or focket, io that
though the piece may have fome little play to the
right and left, yet all the lines in which the bullet can
be direded fliall interfed each other in the centre ot
that fixed focket: by this means, if two different ihots
are fired from the piece thus fituated, the horizontal
diftances made by the two bullets on any two fcreens
ought to be in the fame proportion to each other as
the refpedive diftances of the fcreens from the_focket
in which the piece was laid. And if thefe_ horizontal
diftances differ from that proportion, then it is certain
that one of the {hots at leaft hath deviated from a ver¬
tical plane, although the abfolute quaptity of that de-
1 viation
Sea. II. GUN N
Theory, viation cannot Hence be aiTigned ; becaufe it cannot be
'—■"’‘v-"—'' known what part of it is to be imputed to one bullet,
and what to the other.
“ But if the conftant and invariable pofrtion of the
notch or focket in which the piece was placed, .be
thought too hard an hypotheils in this very nice affair •,
the third method, and which is the limpleft of all,
requires no more than that two ihot be tired through
three fcreens without any regard to the pofition of tne
piece each time : for in this cafe, if the thots diverge
from each other, and both Nkeep to a vertical plane,
then if the horizontal diftances of their traces on tne
fail lereen be taken from the like horizontal diltances
on the fecond and third, the two remainders ■will be
in the fame proportion with the diftances of the fecond
and third fcreen from the firft. And if they are not in
this proportion, then it will be certain that one of them
at leaft hath been dedetfted from the vertical plane ;
though here, as in the la.ft caie, the quantity of that
,r derleftion in each will not be known.
Remark- “ All thefe three methods I have myfelf made ufe
able devia- of at different times, and have ever found the fucceis
tions of agreeable to my expectation. But the moll eligible
the^rwht method feemed to be a compound of the two la ft.
and left. The apparatus was as follows.—Two lereens tvere fet
up in the larger walk in the Charter-houfe garden } the
firft of them at 250 feet diftance from the wall, which
was to ferve for a third fcreen } and the fecond 200
feet from the fame wall. At 50 feet before the ftrft
fcreen, or at 300 feet from the wall, there rvas placed
a large block weighing about 200 lb. w’eight, and ha¬
ving fixed into it an iron bar with a focket at its ex¬
tremity, in which the piece rvas to be laid. I he piece
itfelf was of a common length, and bored for an ounce
ball. It -was each time loaded with a ball of iy to the
pound, fo that the windage was extremely imall, and
with a quarter of an ounce of good powder. 1 he
fcreens were made of the thinneft ilTue paper •, and the
refiftance they gave to the bullet (and confequently
their probability of deflecting it) was fo imall, that a
bullet lighting one time near the extremity of one of
the lereens, left a fine thin fragment of it towards the
edge entire, which was fo very weak that it w'as difti-
cult to handle it without breaking, ft hefe things thus
prepared, five (hots wTere made with the piece refted in
the notch above mentioned \ and the horizontal diftan¬
ces between the firft fhot,,which was taken as a ftand-
ard, and the four fucceeding onces, both on the firft
and fecond fcreen and on the wall, meafured in inches,
were as follows:
1 to 2
3
4
5
I ft Screen,
1.75 R.
10 L.
1.25 L.
2.15 L.
2d Screen.
3-J5 R-
15.6 L.
4.5 L.
5.1 L.
Wall.
16.7 R.
69.25 L.
1 o L
19.0 L.
“ Here the letters R and L denote that the fhot in
queftion went either to the right or left of the firft.
“ If the pofition of the focket in which the piece
was placed be fuppofed fixed, then the horizontal di-
flances meafured above on the firft and fecond fcreen,
and on the wall, ought to be in proportion to the di¬
ftances of the firft fcreen, the fecond fcreen, and the
wall, from the focket. But by only looking over thefe
numbers, it appears, that none of them are in that pro-
E R Y.
165
portion; the horizontal diftance of the firft and third,
for inftance, on the wall being above nine inches more
than it fhould be by this analogy.
“ If, without fuppofing the invariable pofition of
the focket, we examine the comparative horizontal di¬
ftances according to the third method deferibed above,
we fhall in this cafe difeover divarications ftill more
extraordinary } for by the numbers fet down, it ap¬
pears, that the horizontal diftances of the iecond and
third fhot on the two fcreens, and on the wall, are
Theory.
as under.
ift Screen. 2d Screen. Wall.
11.75 iS-ys . 83-95
Here, if, according to the rule given above, the di¬
ftance on the firft fcreen be taken from the diftances on
the other two, the remainder will be 7, and 72.2: and
thefe numbers, if each Ihot kept to a vertical plane,
ought to be in the proportion of I to 5 •, that being
the proportion of the diftances of the fecond fcreen,
and of the wall, from the firft : but the laft number
72.2 exceeds wdiat it ought to be by this analogy by
37.2 5 fo that between them there is a deviation from
the vertical plane of above 37 inches, and this too in a
tranfit of little more than 80 yards.
“ But farther, to fhow that thefe irregularities do
not depend on any accidental circumftance of the balls
fitting or not fitting the piece, there were five fliots
more made with the fame quantity of powder as be¬
fore } but with fmaller bullets, which ran much'
looler in the piece. And the horizontal diftances be¬
ing meafured in inches from the trace of the firft bul¬
let to each of the fucceeding ones, the numbers were
as under.
1 ft Screen. 2d Screen. Wall.
1 to 2 15.6 R. 31.1 R. 94 0 R.
3 6.4 L. 12.75 L- 23-° L-
4 4.7 R. 8.5 R. 15.5 R.
5 12.6 R. 24.0 R. 63.5 R.
Here, again, on the fuppofed fixed pofition of the
piece, the horizontal diftance on the wall between the
firft and third will be found above I 5 inches lefs than
it ftiould be if each kept to a vertical plane •, and like
irregularities, though fmaller, occur in every other ex¬
periment. And if they are examined according to
the third method fet down above, and the horizontal
diftances of the third and fourth, for inftance, are com¬
pared, thofe on the firft and fecond fcreen, and on the
wall, appear to be thus.
1 ft Screen. 2d Screen. Wall.
11.1 21.25 38.5
“ And if the horizontal diftance on the firft fcreen
be taken from the other two, the remainders will be
xo.1 if, and 27.4; where the leaft of them, inftead of
being five times the firft, as it ought t© be, is 45.35
fliort of it 5 fo that here is a deviation of 45 inches.
“ From all thefe experiments, the defledtion in que¬
ftion feems to be inconteftably evinced. But to give
fome farther light to this fubjedl, I took a barrel of
the fame bore with that hitherto ufed, and bent it at
about three or four inches from its muzzle to the left,
the bend making an an^le of three or four degrees, _
with -
i66
GUNNER Y.
Sea. 1L
Theory, with the axis of the piece. This piece thus bent was
v~fired with a loofe bail, and the fame quantity of pow¬
der hitherto ufed, the fcreens of the laft experiment
being ftill continued. It was natural to expeft, that
if this piece was pointed by the general direction of its
axis, the ball would be canted to the left of that di-
rettion by the bend near its mouth. But as the bul¬
let, in palling through that bent part would, as I
conceived, be forced to roll upon the right-hand fide
of the barrel, and thereby its left fide would turn up
againft the air, and would increafe the refiftance on
that fide 5 I predicted to the company then prefent,
that if the axis on which the bullet whirled, did not
fhift its pofition after it was feparated from the piece j
then, notwithflanding the bent of the piece to the
left, the bullet itfelf might be expefted to incurvate
towards the right j and this, upon trial, did moft re¬
markably happen. For one of the bullets fired from
this bent piece paffed through the firlt fcreen about
J 4- inch diftant from the trace of one of the fhots fired
from the ftraight piece in the laft fet of experiment!.
On the fecond fcreen, the traces of the fame bullets
were about three inches diftant j the bullet from the
crooked piece pafling on both fcreens to the left of the
other : but comparing the places of thefe bullets on the
wall, it appeared that the bullet from the crooked
piece, though it diverged from the track on the two
fcreens, had now crofted that track, and was defledted
confiderably to the right of it : fo that it w as obvious,
that though the bullet from the crooked piece might
firft be canted to the left, and had diverged from the
track of the other bullet w'ith which it was compared,
yet by degrees it deviated again to the right, and a
little beyond the fecond fcreen crofted that track
from which it before diverged, and on the wall was
deflefled 14 inches, as I remember, on the contrary
fide. And this experiment is not only the moft con¬
vincing proof of the reality of this defleftion here
contended for; but is likewdfe the ftrongeft confir¬
mation that it is brought about in the very manner and
by the very circumftances which we have all along de-
fcribed.
“ I have now only to add, that as I fufpe£led the
confideration of the revolving motion of the bullet,
compounded with its progreflive one, might be confi-
dered as a fubjeft of mathematical fpeculation, and
that the reality of any defledling force thence arifing
might perhaps be denied by fome computifts upon the
principles hitherto received of the adlion of fluids $ I
thought proper to annex a few experiments, wdth a
view of evincing the ftrange deficiency of all theories
of this fort hitherto eftabliflied, and the unexpe&ed
and wonderful varieties which occur in thefe matters :
The propofition wdiich I advanced for this purpofe be¬
ing, That two equal furfaces meeting the air with the
lame degree of obliquity, may be fo differently refift-
ed, that though in one of them the refiftance is lefs
than that of a perpendicular furface meeting the fame
quantity of air, yet in another it ftiall be confiderably
32 greater.
Strange “ To make out this propofition, I made ufe of the
anomaly in machine already defcribed: and having prepared a
the refill- pafteboard pyramid, whofe bafe w7as four inches fquare,
ance 0 t .e wfi0fe planes made Angles of 45* with the' plane of
its bafe j and alfo a parallelogram four inches 411
I
breadth, and 54 in length, wrhich was equal to the fur- Theory,
face of the pyramid, the globe P wTas taken off from v
the machine, and the pyramid w'as firft fixed on •, and
2lb. being hung at M, and the pyramid fo fitted as
to move with its vertex forwards, it performed 20 re¬
volutions after the firll ten wrere elapfed in 33". Then
the pyramid being turned, fo that its bafe, which was
a plane of four inches fquare, wrent foremoft, it nowr
performed 20 revolutions with the fame weight in
384".—After this, taking off the pyramid, and fix¬
ing on the parallelogram with its longer fide perpendi¬
cular to the arm, and placing its furiace in an angle
of 450 with the horizon by a quadrant, the paralle¬
logram, with the fame weight, performed 20 revolu¬
tions in qjl".
“ Now here this parallelogram and the furface of
the pyramid are equal to each other, and each of them
met the air in an angle of 450 5 and yet one of them
made 20 revolutions in 33", whilft the other took up
434". And at the fame time it appears, that a flat
furface, fuch as. the bafe of a pyramid, which meets
the fame quantity of air perpendicularly, makes 20 re¬
volutions in 384'h which is the medium between the
other two.
“ But to give another and ftill more Ample proof
of this principle : there was taken a parallelogram four
inches broad and 84 long« This being fixed at the
end of the arm, with its long fide perpendicular there¬
to, and being placed in an angle of 430 with the hori¬
zon, there was a weight hung on at M of 34 Ih. with
which the parallelogram made 20 revolutions in 404".
But after this, the pofition of the parallelogram wras
fluffed, and it was placed with its ftiorter fide perpen¬
dicular to the arm, though its furface wTas ftill inclined
to an angle of 450 with the horizon j and now, inftead
of going flower, as might have been expedted from the
greater extent of part of its furface from the axis of the
machine, it w’ent round much fafter : for in this laft fi-
tuation it made 20 revolutions in 354", fo that there
were 5" difference in the time of 20 revolutions; and
this from no other change of circumftance than as the
larger or ftiorter fide of the oblique plane was perpen¬
dicular to the line of its dire&ion.”
In the 73d volume of the Philofophical Tranfac-
tions, feveral experiments on this fubjefl, but upon a
larger fcale, are related by Lovell Edgew'orth, Efq.
They confirm the truth of what Mr Robins advances,
but nothing is faid to explain the reafon of it. 33
Thefe are the principal experiments made by Mr Why the
Robins in confirmation of his theory, and which notart of &ua*
only far exceed every thing that had been formerly "^become
done, but even bid fair for advancing the art of gun-perfect,
nery to its ne plus ultra. It muft be obferved, how¬
ever, that in this art it is impoflible we ftiould ever ar¬
rive at abfolute perfeflion j that is, it can never be ex- •
pedled that a gunner, by any method of calculation
whatever, can be enabled to point his guns in fuch a
manner, that the ftiot fliall hit the mark if placed any
where within its range. Aberrations, which can by no
means be either forefeen or prevented, will take place
from a great number of different caufes. A variation
in the denfity of the atmofphere, in the dampnefs of
the powder, or in the figure of the ftiot, will caufe
variations in the range of the bullet, which cannot
by any means be reduced to rules, ?nd confeouently
muft
air.
Sea. II.
GUNNERY.
167
Theory, muft render the erent of each (hot very precarious. The
reftftance of the atmofphere (imply conlidered, without
any of thofe anomalies arifing from its denfity at diffe¬
rent times, is a problem, which, notwithiianding the
febours of Mr Robins and others, hath not been com¬
pletely folved : and indeed if we conhder the matter
in a phyfical light, we (hall find, that without fome other
data than thofe which are yet obtained, an exa£t folu^-
tion of it is impofiible.
It is an objection that hath been made to the mathe¬
matical philofophy, and to which in many cafes it is
moft certainly liable, that it confiders the refijlance of
matter more than its capacity of giving motion to other
matter. Hence, if in any cafe matter a£ts both as a
refifttng and a moving power, and the mathematician
overlooks its effort towards motion, founding his de-
monftrations only upon its property of refifting, fthefe
demonftrations will certainly be falfe, though they (hould
be fupported by all the powrers of geometry. It is to an
error of this kind that we are to attribute the great dif¬
ferences already taken notice of between the calcula¬
tions of Sir Ifaac Newton, with regard to the relifting
force of fluids, and what actually takes place upon trial.
Thefe calculations wTere made upon the fuppofition that
the fluid through w’hich a body moved could do no¬
thing elfe but refift it \ yet it is certain that the air (the
fluid with which we have to do at prefent) proves a
fource of motion, as well as refiftance, to all bodies which
move in it.
To underftand this matter fully, let ABC (fig. 5.) re-
prefent a crooked tube made of any folid matter, and
a, b, two piftons which exaftly fill the cavity. If the
fpace between thefe piftons is full of air, it is plain they
cannot come into contadl with each other on account of
the elafticity of the included air, but wall remain at fome'
certain diftance as reprefented in the figure. If the pi-
fton b is drawn up, the air wdiich preffes in the direc¬
tion C b ads as a refifting power, and the pifton will
not be drawn up with fuch eafe as if the whole was in
vacuo. But though the column of air prefling in the
^ diredion C b ads as a refifting power on the pifton b,
the column prefling in the diredion A a will ad as a
moving power upon the pifton a. It is therefore plain,
that if b is moved upwards till it comes to the place
marked d, the other will defcend to that marked c.
Now, if we fuppofe the pifton a to be removed, it is
plain, that when b is pulled upwards to d, the air de-
fcending through the leg AaCB will prefs on the under
fide of the pifton b, as ftrongly as it would have done
upon the upper fide of the pifton a, had it been pre¬
fent. Therefore, though the air pafling down through
the leg CB refifts the motion of the pifton b when drawn
upwards, the air prefling dowm through the leg AB for¬
wards it as much ; and accordingly the pifton b may be
drawn up or puflied down at pleafure, and with very
little trouble. But if the orifice at A is flopped, fo that
the air can only exert its refifting powder on the pifton
b, it will require a confiderable degree of ftrength to
move the pifton from b to d.
If now w’e fuppofe the tube to be entirely removed
(which indeed anfwers no other purpofe than to render
the aftion of the air more evident), it is plain, that if
the pifton is moved either up or down, or in any other
diredlion we can imagine, the air preffes as much upon
the back part of it as it refifts it on the fore part 3 and
34
The air
a&s as a
moving
power as
well as a
refifting
one.
of confequence a ball moving through the air with Theory.
any degree of velocity, ought to be as much accelera-
ted by the aftion of the air behind, as it is retarded by
the adion of that before.—Here then it is natural to
a(k, If the air accelerates a moving body as much as it
retards it, how comes it to make any refiftance at all ?
yet certain it is, that this fluid doth refift, and that
very confiderably. To this it may be anfwered, that
the air is always kept in fome certain (late or conftitu-
tion by another power which rules all its motions, and
it is*this power undoubtedly which gives the refiftance.
It is not to our purpofe at prefent to inquire what that
power is 3 but we fee that the air is often in very dif¬
ferent dates 3 one day, for inftance, its parts are vio¬
lently agitated by a ftorm ; and another, perhaps, they
are comparatively at reft in a calm. In the firft cafe,
nobody hefitates to own, that the ftorm is occafioned
by fome caufe or other, which violently refifts any
other power that would prevent the agitation of the air.
In a calm the cafe is the fame 3 for it w7ould require
the fame exertion of power to excite a tempeft in a
calm day, as to allay a tempeft in a ftormy one. Now
it is evident, that all projediles, by their motion, agi¬
tate the atmofphere in an unnatural manner 3 and conle-
quently are refilled by that power, whatever it is, which
tends to reftore the equilibrium, or bring back the at¬
mofphere to its former (late.
If no other power befides that above mentioned ad-
ed upon projediles, it is probable, that all refiftance
to their motion would be in the duplicate proportion
of their velocities 3 and accordingly, as long as the ve¬
locity is fmall, we find it generally is fo. But w’hen
the velocity comes to be exceedingly great, other four-
ces of refiftance arife. One of thefe is a fubtradion
of part of the moving power 3 which though not pro¬
perly a rejijlance, or oppofing another power to it, is
an equivalent thereto. This fubtradion arifes from
the following caufe. The air, as we have already ob-
ferved, preffes upon the hinder part of the moving bo¬
dy by its gravity, as much as it refifts the fore part
of it by the fame property. Neverthelefs, the velocity
with which the air preffes upon any body by means of
its gravity, is limited ; and it is poflible that a body
may change its place with fo great velocity that the
air hath not time to rufli in upon the back part of it
in order to aflift its progreffive motion. When this
happens to be the cafe, there is in the firft place a de¬
ficiency of the moving power equivalent to 15 pounds
on every fquare inch of furface 3 at the fame time that
there is a pofitive refiftance of as much more on the
fore part, owing to the gravity of the atmofphere,
w'hicb muft be overcome before the body can move
forward.
This deficiency of moving power, and increafe of re¬
fiftance, do not only take place when the body moves
with a very great degree of velocity, but in all motions
whatever. It is not in all cafes perceptible, becaufe
the velocity with which the body moves, frequently
bears but a very fmall proportion to the velocity with
which the air preffes in behind it. Thus, fuppofing
the velocity with which the air ruflies into a vacuum to
be i 2®o feet in a iecond, if a body moves wfith a velo¬
city of 40, or 50 feet in a fecond, the force with
which the air prefles on the back part is but ^ at the
utmoft lefs than that which refifts on the fore part of it,.,
which
168
GUNN
Theory, wliicli will not be perceptible : but if, as in the cafe ot
c.™ v—t]ie velocity of the proje&ile comes to have a
confiderable proportion to the velocity wherewith the
air rufhes in behind it $ then a very perceptible and
other wife unaccountable reliftance is obferVed, as we
have feen in the experiments already related by Mr
Robins. Thus, if the air preffes in with a velocity of
i 200 feet in a fecond, if the body changes its pmce
with a velocity of 600 feet in the fame time, there is
a reliftance of 15 pounds on the fore part, and a nret-
lure of only the back part. JLhe reliftance
therefore not only overcomes the moving power of the
-air by 7! pounds, but there is a deficiency of other
7 v pounds owing to the want of half the prelTure of
the atmofphere on the back part, and thus tne whole
lofs of the moving power is equivalent to 15 pounds;
and hence the exceeding great increafe of refiftance
obferved by Mr Robins beyond w7hat it ought to be
according to the common computations.— 1 be velocity
with which the air nifties into a vacuum is thereiore a
defideratum in gunnery. Mr Robins fuppofes that it
is the fame with the velocity of found •, and that when
a bullet moves with a velocity greater than that of
1 200 feet in a lecond, it leaves a perfeft vacuurn be¬
hind it. Hence he accounts for the great increafe of
reliftance to bullets moving with fuch velocities ; but
as he doth not take notice of the lofs of the air’s, mo¬
ving power, the anomalies of all leher velocities are inex¬
plicable on his principles. Nay, he even tells us, that
Sir Ifaac Newton’s rule for computing refiftances may
be applied in all velocities lefs than 1100 or 1 200 feet
in a fecond, though this is exprefsly contradicted by his
35 own experiments mentioned N° 23.
'[t refills by Though for thefe reafons it is evident how great du¬
bs elafticity gcujties occur in attempting to calculate the relift-
as wel1 as ance of the air to military projectiles, we have not even
1 yet difcovered all the fources of reftftance to thefe bo¬
dies when moving with immenfe velocities. . Another
powrer by which they are oppofed (and which at.lall
becomes greater than any of thole hitherto mention
ed) is the air’s elafticity. This, however, will not
begin to ftiovv itfelf in the way of refiftance till the ve¬
locity of the moving body becomes, conftderably greater
than that by which the air preffes into a vacuum. Ha¬
ving therefore nrft afcertained this velocity, which we
{hall fuppofe to be 1200 feet in a fecond, it is plain,
that if a body moves with a velocity of 1800 feet in a
fecond, it muft comprefs the air before it •, becaufe the
fluid hath neither time to expand itfelf in older to fill
the vacuum left behind the moving body, nor to rufh
in by its gravity. This comprefiion it will refill; by
its elaftic power, which thus becomes a new iomce. of
refiftance, increafing, without any limit, in proportion
VP the velocity of the moving body. If now we fup-
pofe the moving body to fet out with a velocity
of 2400 feet in a fecond, it is plain, that there is not
only a vacuum left behind the body, but the air before
it is compreffed into half its natural fpace. The lofs
of motion in the projeaile therefore is now very confi¬
derable. It firft lofes 15 pounds on every fquare inch
of furface on account of the deficiency of the moving
powrer of the air behind it j then it lofes 15 pounds
more on acount of the refiftance of the aii before it,
again it lofes 15 pounds on account of the elafticity of
the compreffed airj and laftly another 15 pounds on ac-
E R Y. Sea. II,
count of the vacuum behind, which takes off the weight Theory. ^
of the atmofphere, that would have been equivalent to v
one half of the elafticity of the air before it. The whole
reliftar.ee therefore upon every fquarc inch of furface
moving with this velocity is 60 pounds, belides that
which arifes from the power tending to preferve the
general ftate of the atmofphere, and which increafes in
the duplicate proportion of the velocity as already men¬
tioned'. If the body is fuppofed to move with a velo¬
city of 4800 feet in aTecond, the refiftance from the
air’s elafticity will then be quadrupled, or amount to
ho pounds on tne iquare inch oi iuilace *> winch added
to the other caufes, produces a refiftance or 105 pounds
upon the fquare inch •, and thus would, the refiftance
from the elafticity of the air go on continually increa¬
fing, tilt at laft the motion of the projectile would be
as effectually flopped as if it was fired againft a wall.
This obftacle therefore we are to confider as really in-
fuperable by any art whatever, and therefore it is not
advifable to ufe larger charges of powder than what,
will project the ihot with a velocity of I 200 feet in. a
fecond. * To this velocity the elafticity of the air will
not make great refiftance, if indeed it makes any a',
all: for though Mr Robins hath conjeCtured that air
ruflies into a vacuum with the velocity7 of lound, or
between 1 x and 1290 feet in a fecond } yet we have no
decifive proof of the truth of this fuppofttion. At, this
velocity indeed, according to Mr Robins, a \eiy nad-
den increafe of refiftance takes place : but this is denied
by Mr Glenie *, who fuppofes that the reliftance pro- * Hijl. of
ceeds gradually, and indeedit feems to be pretty oh - GWry,
vious, that the refiftance cannot. \try fudden/y increafe, P- 48- 5°-
if the velocity is only increafed in a fmall degree. Yet
it is certain, that the fw iff eft motions with which can¬
non-balls can be proje&ed are very foon reduced to
this ftandard ; for Mr Robins acquaints us, that “ a
24-pound ihot, when dilcharged with a velocity of
2COO feet in a fecond, will be reduced to that of
1200 feet in a lecond in a flight of little moie than $Q0
yards.” ^
In the 71ft volume of the Philofophical 'I ranfathons,* ’
Count Rumford has propoied a new method of de¬
termining the velocities of bullets, by meafuring the
force of the recoil of the piece. As in all cales ac¬
tion and re-a&ion are iuppofed to be equal to one ano¬
ther, it appears that the momentum of a gun, .or the
force of its recoil backwards, muft always be equivalent
to the force of its charge : that is, the velocity with
which the gun recoils, multiplied into its weight, is
equal to the velocity of the bullet multiplied into its
weight •, for every particle of matter, whether iolid or
fluid, that iffues out of the mouth of a piece, muft be
impelled by the aftion of fome power, which power
muft re-a£t with equal force againft. the bottom of the .
bore. Even the fine invifible elaftic fluid.that is ge¬
nerated from the powder in its inflammation, cannot
put itfelf in motion without re-acting againft the gun
at the fame time. Thus we fee pieces, when they are
fired with powder alone, recob as well as when their
charges are made to impel a weight of ihot, though
the recoil is not in the fame degree in both caies. It
is eafy to determine the velocity of the recoil m any
given cafe, by fufpending the gun in an horizontal po-
fition by two pendulous rods, and meafuring the arc of
its afeent by means of a ribbon, as mentioned under
the
Sea. II. G U N
Theory, the article Gunpowder , ahd this will give the nio-
*   ' mentum of the gun, its weight being known, and con-
fequently the momentum of its charge. But in Order
to determine the velocity of the bullet from the mo¬
mentum of the recoil, it will be neceflary to know how
much the weight and velocity of the elaftic fluid con¬
tributes to it.
“ i hat part of the recoil which arifes from the ex-
panlion of the fluid is always very nearly the fame,
whether the powder is fired alone, or whether the
charge is made to impel one or more bullets, as has
been determined by a great variety of experiments.—
If therefore a gun, fufpended according to the method
prefcribed, is fired with any given charge of powder,
but without any bullet or wad, and the recoil is ob-
ferved, and if the lame piece is afterwards fired with
the fame quantity of powder, and a bullet t»f a known
weight, the excefs of the velocity of the recoil in the
latter cafe, over that in the former, will be propor¬
tional to the velocity of the bullet •, for the difference
of thefe velocities, multiplied into the weight of the
gun, will be equal to the weight of the bullet multi¬
plied into its velocity.—Thus, if W is put equal to
the weight of the gun, U ~ the velocity of the bullet
when fired with a given charge of powder without any
bullet 5 V =r the velocity of the recoil, when the fame
charge is made to impel a bullet •, B — the weight
of the bullet, and v = its velocity •, it will be ■?; ~
V—u+w „
B ‘
1 o determine how far this theory agreed wfith prac¬
tice, an experiment was made with a charge of i6s
grains of powder tvithout any bullet, which produced
a recoil of 5.5 inches ; and in another, with a bullet,
the recoil was 5.6 inches-, the mean of which is 5.95
inches 3 anfwrering to a velocity of 1.1358 feet in a ie-
cond. In five experiments with the fame charge of
powder, and a bullet weighing 580 grains, the mean
was 14.6 inches ; and the velocity of the recoil anfwer-
ing to the length juft mentioned, is a.9880 feet in a
iecond : confequently V—U, or 2.9880—1.1358, is
equal to 1.8522 feet in a fecond. But as the veloci¬
ties of recoil are knowm to be as the chords of the arcs
through which the barrel afcends, it is not neceffary,
in order to determine the velocity of the bullet, to com¬
pute tlie velocities V and U but the quantity V U,
or the difference of the velocities of the recoil when the
given charge is fired with and without a bullet, may be
computed from the value of the difference of the
chords by one operation.—Thus the velocity anfwer-
ing to the chord 9.05 is that of 1.8522 feet in a fe¬
cond, is juft equal to V—U, as was before found.
In this experiment the weight of the barrel with its
. carnage was juft 47^. pounds, to which | of a pound
were to be added on account of the weight of the Tods
by which it was fufpended j which makes W—48
pounds, or 336,000 grains. The weight of the bul¬
let w^as 580 grains4 whence B is to W as 580 to
336,000 ; that is, as 1 to 579.31 very nearly. The
value of \ — U, anfwering to the experiments before
mentioned, was found to be 1.8522 5 confequently the
velocity of the bullets zru, v/as 1.8522X 579.31 = 1073
feet, which differs only by 10 from 1083, the veloci¬
ties found by the pendulum.
Vol. X. Part I.
N E R Y.
The velocities of the bullets mdy be found from the
recoil by a ftill more fimple method 5 for the velocities
of the recoil being as the chords meafured upon the
ribbon, if c is put equal to the chord of the recoil ex-
preffed in Englilh inches, when the piece is fired with
powder only, and C = the chord when the fame piece
is charged with a bullet: then C—c will be as V- U
V (T | W
and confequently as T~—, which meafures the
-b
velocity of the bullet, the ratio of W to B remaining
the fame.—If therefore we fuppofe a cafe in which
C—c is equal to one inch, and the velocity of the bul¬
let is computed from that chord, the velocity in any
ether cale, wherein C—c is greater or lefs than one
inch, will be found by multiplying the difference of the
chords C and c by the velocity that anfwers to the dif¬
ference of one inch.—The length of the parallel rods,
by which the piece was fufpended being 64 inches, the
velocity of the recoil, =C—c=i inch meafured upon
the ribbon, is 0.204655 parts of a foot in one fecond ;
which in this cafe is alfo the value of V—U : the ve¬
locity of the bullet, or v, is therefore 0.204655 X 579*
31 = 118.35 feet in a fecond. Hence the velocity of
the bullet may in all cafes be found by multiplying the
difference of the chords C and c by 11 8.35 5 the weight
ot the barrel, the length of the rods by which it is
fufpended, and the weight of the bullet remaining the
lame and this whatever the charge of powrder made
ufe of may be, and how-ever it may differ in ftrength
and goodnefs.
The exaiftnefs of this fecond method wall appear
from the followdng experiments. On firing the piece
with 145 grains of powder and a bullet, the mean of
three fets of experiments was 13.25, 13.15, and 13.2 5
and with the fame charge of powder without a bullet,
the recoil was 4.5, 4.3, or 4.4 : C—c therefore was
I3-2—T-r—8.8 inches 5 and the velocity of the bullets,
. =8.8 X 118.35=1045 feet in a fecond the velocities
by the pendulum coming out 10.40 feet in the fame
fpace of time.
In the far greateft number of experiments to de¬
termine the comparative accuracy of the tw-o methods,
a furprifing agreement was found betwixt the lail men¬
tioned one and that by the pendulum 5 but in fome few
the differences were very remarkable. Thus, in twro
where the recoil was 1 2.92 and 13.28, the velocity, by-
computation from the chords, is 1030 feet per fecond ;
but in computing by the pendulum it amounted only
to 900 5 but in thefe fome inaccuracy w-as fufpefted in
the experiment with the pendulum, and that the com¬
putation from the recoil was moft to be depended up¬
on. In another experiment, the velocity by the re¬
coil exceeded that by the pendulum by no lefs than
346 feet ; the former (bowing 2109, and the latter on-
I7^3 ^eet a fecond. In two others the pendulum
was alfo deficient, though not in fuch a degree. In
all thefe it is remarkable, that where the difference
was confiderable, it was ftill in favour of the recoil,
ihe deficiency in thefe experiments appears to have
been fomewhat embarrafling to our author. “ It can¬
not be fuppofed, fays he, that it arofe from any im¬
perfection in Mr Robins’s method of determining the
velocities of bullets 5 for that method is founded upon
Inch principles as leave no room to doubt of its accura-
Y cy>
GUN
Theory, cy •, and the ptacHcal ^rrors tliat ^
170
N E R Y.
Seel. IL
cy ; ana tne piacuytu. ‘•““v <_>
exoenments, and which cannot be entirely prevented, or
exactly compenfated, are in general to 'fnvall, that the
difference in the velocities cannot be attributed to them.
It is true, the effect of thofe errors is more likely to
appear in experiments made under fuch circumftances
as the prefent; for the bullet being very light ( a), the
arc of the afeent of the pendulum was but imai j and
a fmall miftake in meafuring the chord upon the rib¬
bon would have produced a very considerable error ™
computing the velocity of the bullet: 1 bus a difference
of one-tenth of an inch, more or lefs, upon the ribbon,
in that experiment where the difference was greatett,
would have made a difference in the velocity of more
than 120 feet in a fecond. But, independent of the
pains that were taken to prevent miftakes, ure unking
agreement of the velocities in fo many other expen-
ments, affords abundant reafon to conclude, that the
errors arifing from thofe caufes were in no cale very
confiderable.—But if both methods of determining the
velocities of bullets are to be relied on, then V16 dif¬
ference of the velocities, as determined by them m theie
experiments, can only be accounted for. by fuppohng
that it arofe from their having been dimimthed by the
refiftance of the air in the paffage of the bullets from
the mouth of the piece to the pendulum : and this tui-
picion will be much ftrengthened,. when we conhder
how great the refiftance of the air is to bodies that
move very fwiftly in it j and that the bullets m tbefe
experiments were not only projefted with great veloci¬
ties, but were alfo very light, and confequently more
liable to be retarded by the refiftance on that ac-
“ To put the matter beyond all doubt, let us fee
what the refiftance was that thefe bullets met with, and
how much their velocities were dimmiftied by it. _ 1 ie
weight of the bullet in the moft erroneous experiment
was 00 grains j its diameter 0.78 of an inch - and it was
proieaed with a velocity of 2109 feet in a fecond. I
now a computation be made according to the aw iard
down by Sir Ifaac Newton for comprefled fluids, it
will be found, that the refiftance to this bullet was not
Id's than pounds avoirdupois, which fom^t mg
more than 660 times its own weight. But Mr R°blt]
has {hewn by experiment, that the refiftance of the a r
to bodies moving in it with very great velocity, 1
near three times greater than Sir Ifaac has determine
• 1  1 -tAihirh this bullet was im-
has got to the diftance of two feet from the muzzle. Theory.
The diftance, therefore, between the barrel and the
pendulum, inftead of 12 feet, is to be efteemed at 10
feet : and as the bullet took up about rh Part ot a
fecond in running over that fpace, it muft in that time
have loft a velocity of about 335 feet in a fecond, as
will appear upon making the computation j and this
will very exadtly account for the apparent diminution
of the velocity in the experiment: for the difference of
the velocities, as determined by the recoil and the pen¬
dulum = 2109—1763=346 feet m a fecond is ex¬
tremely near 335 ^et in a fecond, the diminution of
the velocity by the refiftance as here determined
“ If the diminution of the velocities of the bullets
in the two fubfequent experiments be computed m like
manner, it will turn out in one 65, and in the other
33, feet in a fecond: and, making thefe correftions, the
comparifon of the two methods of afeertammg the ve¬
locities will ftand thus :
near tnree limes • 1 n ^
it 5 and as the velocity with which thiS> bullet was mi-
pelled is confiderably greater than any m Mi Robins s
experiments, it is highly probable, that the refifta"
in this inftance was at leaft 2000 times greater than
the weight of the bullet. . 1
“ The diftance from the mouth of the piece }he
pendulum was 1 2 feet ; but, as there is reafon to thm'
that the blaft of the powder, which always follows the
bullet, continues to aa upon it for fome fenfible ipace
of time after it is out of the bore, and, by urging it
on, counterbalances, or at leaft counteraas m a great
meafure, the refiftance of the air, we will fuppofe that
the refiftance does not begin, or rather that the mo¬
tion of the bullet does not 'begm to be retarded, till it
Velocities by the pendulum, 1763 1317
Refiftance of air to be added, 335 65 33
2098 1382 1x69
Velocity by the recoil, 2109 143° 128a
Difference after correaion, +11 + 4S +l19
« It appears, therefore, that notwithftanding thefe
correaions, the velocities as determined by the penau-
lum, particularly in the laft, were confiderably defici¬
ent. But the manifeft irregularity of the velocities m
thofe in fiances, affords abundant reafon to conclude,
that it muft have arifen from fome accidental cauie,
and therefore that little dependence is to be put upon
the refult of thofe experiments. I cannot take upon
me to determine pofitively what the caufe was whum
produced this irregularity, but I ftrongly fufpecl that
k arofe from the breaking of the bullets in the barrel
by the force of the explofion : for the.e buhets, as ^xas
already been mentioned, were formed of lead, mcloung
leffer bullets of plafter of Paris •, and I well remember
to have obferved at the time feveral fmall fragments ot
the plafter which had fallen down by the fide of the
pendulum. I confefs I did not then pay much atten-
Son to this circumftance, as I naturally concluded hat
it arofe from the breaking of the bullet m penetrating
the target of the pendulum ; and that the fmall pieces
of plafter I faw upon the ground fallen out o e
hole by which the bullet entered. But if the buffets
were not abfolutely broken in pieces m firing, yet
th-v were confiderably bruffed, and the plafter,
part of k were feparated from the lead, fuch a change
in the form might produce a great increafe m the re
fiftance and even their initial velocities might be af¬
fixed by it ; for their form being changed from that
of a globe to fome other figure, they might not fit the
bore? and a part of the force ot the charge might be
loft by the windage.—That this aftually happened m
the experiment laft mentioned, feems very probable,
as the velocity with which the ballet was projeaed, as
(a) They were made of lead mclofing a nucleus of Pans platlei.
Sea. in. GUN
Theory, it was determined by tlie recoil, was confiderably lefs
in proportion in that experiment than in many others
which preceded and followed it in the fame fet.
“ As allowance has been made for the refiftance of
the air in thefe cafes, it may be expected that the fame
fhould be done in all other cafes: but it will probably
appear, upon inquiry, that the diminution of the velo¬
cities of the bullets, on that account, was fo inconli-
derable, that it might fafely be neglefted : thus, for
inflance, in the experiments with an ounce of powder,
when the velocity of the bullet was more than T750
feet in a fecond, the diminution turns out no more than
25 or 30 feet in a fecond, though we fuppole the full
refiftance to have begun fo near as two feet from the
mouth of the piece ; and in all cafes where the veloci¬
ty was lefs, the effect of the refinance was lefs in a much
greater proportion : and even in this inftance, there is
reafon to think, that the diminution of the velocity,
as we have determined it, is too great : for the flame
of gunpowder expands with fuch amazing rapidity,
that it is fcarcely to be fuppofed but that it follows
the bullet, and continues to adt upon it more than two
feet, or even four feet, from the gun •, and when the
velocity of the bullet is lefs, its adtion upon it mufl: be
fenfible at a ftill greater diftance.”
As this method of determining the velocities of bul¬
lets by the recoil of the piece did not occur to Count
Rumford till after he had finifhed his experiments with
a pendulum, and taken down his apparatus, he had it
not in his power to determine the comparative flrength
of the recoil without and with a bullet; and confe-
quently the velocity with which the flame iffues from
the mouth of a piece. He is of opinion, however, that
every thing relative to thefe matters may be determi¬
ned with greater accuracy by the new method than by
any other formerly pradlifed •, and he very juftly re¬
marks, that the method of determining the velocity by
the recoil, gives it originally as the bullet fets out;
while that by the pendulum (hows it only after a part
has been deftroyed by the refiftance of the air. In the
courfe of his remarks, he criticifes upon a part of Mr
Robins’s theory, that when bullets of the fame diame¬
ter, but different weights, are difcharged from the fame
piece by the fame quantity of powder, their velocities
are in the fub-duplicate ratio of their weight. This theo¬
ry, he obferves, is manifeftly defective, as being found¬
ed upon a fuppofition, that the adlion of the elaftic
fluid, generated from the powder, is always the fame
in any and every given part of the bore when the charge
is the fame, whatever may be the weight of the bullet *,
and as no allowance is made for the expenditure of
force required to put the fluid itfelf in motion, nor for
the lofs of it by the vent. “ It is true (fays he) Dr
Hutton in his experiments found this law to obtain
without any great error; and poflibly it may hold good
with fufficient accuracy in many cafes; for it fometimes
happens, that a number of errors or adfions, whofe
operations have a contrary tendency, fo compenfate
each other, that their effedts when united are not fen¬
fible. But when this is the cafe, if any one of the
caufes of error is removed, thofe which remain will be
detedled.—When any given charge is loaded with a
heavy bullet, more of the powder is inflamed in any
very ftiort fpace of time than when the bullet is light¬
er, and the adlion of the powder ought upon that ac*
N E R Y. 17*
count to be greater; but a heavy bullet takes up long- Praftice.
er time in palling through the bore than a light one ; v' ~
and confequently more of the elaftic fluid generated
from the powder efcapes by the vent and by windage.
It may happen that the augmentation of the force, on
account of one of thefe circumftances, may be juft able
to counterbalance the diminution of it ariiing from the
other ; and if it ftiould be found upon trial, that this
is the cafe in general, in pieces as they are now con-
ftru&ed, and with all the variety of Ihot that are made
ufe of in pradlice, it would be of great ufe to know
the fail; but when, with Mr Robins, concluding too
haftily from the refult of a partial experiment, we fup-
pofe, that becaufe the fum total of the preffure of the
elaftic fluid upon the bullet, during the time of its paf-
fage through the bore, happens to be the fame when
bullets of different weights are made ufe of, that there¬
fore it is always fo, our reafonings may prove very in-
conclufive, and lead to very dangerous errors.”
In the profecution of his fubjedl Count Rumford proves
mathematically, as well as by adlual experiment, that
the theory laid down by Mr Robins in this refpeft is
erroneous. The excefs is in favour of heavy bullets,
which acquire a velocity greater than they ought to
do according to Mr Robins’s rule •, and fo confiderable
are the errors, that in one of Count Rumford’s experi¬
ments, the difference wTas no lefs than 2042 feet in a
fecond. When the weight of the bullet was increafed
four times, the adlion of the powder was found to be
nearly doubled 5 for in one experiment, when four bul¬
lets wTere difcharged at once, the collective preffure was
as 1 ; but when only a Angle bullet wras made ule of,
it was no more than 0.58255 and on the v.’iole he con¬
cludes, that the velocity of bullets is in the reciprocal
fub-triplicate ratio of their weights. Our author ob¬
ferves alfo, that Mr Robins is not only miftaken in the
particular juft mentioned, but in his conclufions with
regard to the abfolute force of gunpowder compared
with the preffure of the atmofphere 5 the latter being
to the force of gunpowder as 1 to 1000 according to
Mr Robins j but asi to 1308 according to Count. Rum¬
ford.
Sect. III. Pr office of Gunnery.
With regard to the praftical part of gunnery, which
ought to confift in dire&ing the piece in fuch a man¬
ner as always to hit the objeft againft which it is
pointed, there can be no certain rules given. The fol¬
lowing maxims are laid down by Mr Robins as of ufe
in pradlice.
1. In any piece of artillery whatever, the greater
the quantity of powder it is charged with, the greater
wall be the velocity of the bullet.
2. If tw?o pieces of the fame bore, but of different
lengths, are fired wdth the fame charge of powder, the
longer will impel the bullet with a greater celerity than
the Ihorter.
3. If two pieces of artillery different in wreight, and
formed of different metals, have yet their cylinders of
equal bores and equal lengths 5 then with like charges
of powder and like bullets they wall each of them dif-
charge their (hot with nearly the fame degree of cele¬
rity.
4. The ranges of pieces at a given elevation are no
Y 2 juft
GUNN
juft meafures of the velocity of the {hot $ for the fame
piece fired fucceffively at an invariable elevation, with
the powder, bullet, and every other circumftance as
nearly the fame as pofiible, will yet range to very dif¬
ferent diftances.
r. The greateft part of that uncertainty in the ran¬
ges of pieces which is defcribed in the preceding max¬
im, can only arife from the reuftance of the air.
6. The refiftance of the air a6ts upon proje&iles in
a twofold manner 5 for it oppofes their motion, and by
that means continually diminifties their celerity } asd
it befides diverts them from the regular track they
would otherwife follow } whence ante thofe deviations
and infleflions already treated of.
7. That adftion of the air by which it retards the
motion of projectiles, though much neglefted by wii-
ters on artillery, is yet, in many inftances, of an im-
vnenfe force j and hence the motion of thefe refitted bo¬
dies is totally different from what it wrould otner-
wife be.
g. This retarding force of the air acts wdth different
degrees of violence, according as the projectile moves
with a greater or lefs velocity } and the refiftauces
observe this law, That to a velocity which is double
another, the refiftance wffthin certain limits is fourfold j
to a treble velocity, ninefold •, and fo on.
g. But this proportion between the refiftances to
two different velocities, does not hold if one of the ve¬
locities be lefs than that of 1200 feet in a fecond, and
the other greater. For in that caie the refitlance to toe
greater velocity is near three times as much as it would
come out by a comparifon with the fmaller, accoraing
to the law explained in the laft maxim.
10. To the extraordinary power exerted by the re¬
fiftance of the air it is owing, that when two pieces of
different bores are difcharged at the fame elevation,
the piece of the largeft bore ufually ranges fartheft, pro¬
vided they are both fired with fit bullets, and the cu-
ftomary allotment of powder.
it. The greateft part of military proje&iles will _ at
the time of their difcharge acquire a whirling motion
round their axis by rubbing againlt the infide of their
refpeftive pieces ; and this whirling motion will caufc
them to ftrike the air very differently from what
they would do had they no other than a progreffive
motion. By this means it will happen, that the re¬
fiftance of the air will not always be dire&ly oppofed
to their flight; but will frequently act in a line oblique
to their courfe, and wdll thereby force theni to deviate
from the regular track they would otherwife defcribe.
And this is the true caufe of the irregularities defcribed
in maxim 4. _ .
12. From the hidden trebling the quantity of the
air’s refiftance, when the projeaile moves fwifter than
at the rate of 1 200 feet in a fecond (as hath been ex¬
plained in maxim 9), it follows, that whatever be the
regular range of a bullet difcharged with this laft
mentioned velocity, that range will be but little in-
creafed how much foever the velocity of the bullet
may be ftill farther augmented by greater charges of
powder.
' J2- If the fame piece of cannon be fucceffively fired
at an invariable elevation, but with various charges of
powder, the greateft charge being the whole weight
of the bullet jn powder, and the leaft not Ids than the
E II Y. Se&. HE
fifth part of that weight *, then if the elevation be not Practice. .
lefs than eight or ten degrees, it will be found, that v " ’
fome of the ranges with the leaft charge will exceed
fome of thofe with the greateft.
14. If two pieces of cannon of the fame bore, but
of different lengths, are fucceflively fired at the lame
elevation with the fame charge of powder •, then. it
will frequently happen, that fome of the ranges with
the fiiorter piece will exceed fome of thole with the
longer.
15. In diftant cannonadings, the advantages arifing
from long pieces and large charges of powder are but
of little moment.
16. In firing againft troops with grape-ftiot, it wnl
be found, that charges of powder much lets than thofe
generally ufed, are the moft advantageous.
1 *7. The principal operations in which large charges
of powder appear to be more efficacious than imall ones,
are the ruining of parapets, the difmounting of batte¬
ries covered by flout merlins, or battering in breach ;
for, in all thefe cafes, if the objeftbe but little removed
from the piece, every increafe of velocity will increale
the penetration of the bullet.
18. Whatever operations are to be. performed by
artillery, the leaft charges of powder with which they
can be efte&ed are always to be preferred.
19. Hence, then, the proper charge of any piece
of artillery is not that allotment of powder which will
communicate the greateft velocity to tue bullet, (as
moft praditione-rs formerly maintained; nor is it to
be determined by an invariable proportion of its weight
to the weight of the ball: but, on the contrary, it is fuch
a quantity of powder as will produce the leaft velocity
for the purpole in hand j and, inftead of bearing al¬
ways a fixed ratio to the weight of the ball, it. muft be
different according to the different bufinefs which is to
be performed. , .
20. No field-piece ought at any time to be loaded
with more than or at the utmoft -j-, of tne weight o
its bullet in powder, nor ftiould the charge ox any
battering piece exceed \ of the weight of its bullet.
21. Although precepts very different from thole wo
have here given have been often advanced by artille-
rifts, and have been faid to be derived from experience
yet is that pretended experience altogether fallacious •,
fince from our doftrine'of refiftance eftabliffied above,
it follows, that every fpeculation on the iubjeft. of ar¬
tillery, which is only founded on the experimental
ranges of bullets difcharged with confiderable velocities,
is liable to great uncertainty. 3<>
The greateft irregularities in the motion of bullets Defcnption
arc, as we have Teen, owing to the whirling motion
their axis, acquired by the friflion aga.nlt the files
the piece. The beft method hitherto known of pre¬
venting thefe is by the ufe of pieces with rifled barrels.
Thefe pieces have the infides of their cylinders cut
with a number of fpiral channels : fo that it is m reali¬
ty a female ferew, varying from the common ferews
only in this, that its threads or rifles are lefs deflected,
and approach more to a right line it being .ufual for
the threads with which the rifled barrel is indented,
to take little more than one turn in its whole length.
The numbers of thefe threads are different m each
barrel, according to the fize of the piece and the
fancy of the workman j and in like manner the depth
Sea. III. G U N
practice, to which they are cut is not regulated by any invari-
'—~v~—1 able rule.
The ulual method of charging thefe pieces is this :
When the proper quantity of powder is put down, a
leaden bullet is taken, a fmall matter larger than the
bore or the piece was before the rifles were cut: and this
bullet being laid on the mouth of the piece, and con-
fequently too large to go down of itfelf, it is forced
by a ftrong rammer impelled by a mallet, and by re¬
peated blows is driven home to the powder; and the
loftnefs of the lead giving way to the violence with
which the bullet is impelled, that zone of the bullet
which is contiguous to the piece varies its arcular
form, and takes the lhape of the inhde of the barrel j
fo that it becomes part of a male fcrew exaflly anfwer-
ing to the indents of the rifle.
In- fome parts of Germany and Switzerland, how¬
ever, an improvement is added to this pradlice •, efpe-
cially in the larger pieces which are ufed for Ihooting
at great diftances. This is done by cutting a piece
of very thin leather, or of thin fultian, in a circular
lhape, fomewhat larger than the bore of the barrel.
This circle being greafed on one fide, is laid upon the
muzzle with its greafy fide downwards ; and the bullet
being then placed upon it, is forced down the barrel
with it : by which means the leather or fufiian inclofes
the lower half of the bullet, and, by its interpofition
between the bullet and the rifles, prevents the lead
from being cut by them. But it muft be remembered,
that in the barrels where this is praclifed, the rifles
are generally (hallow, and the bullet ought not to be
too large.—But as both thefe methods of charging at
the mouth take up a good deal of time ; the rifled
barrels which have been made in Britain are con¬
trived to be charged at the breech, where the piece is
for this purpofe made larger than in any other part.
I he powder and bullet are put in through the fide of
the barrel by an opening, which, when the piece is
loaded, is then filled up with a fcrew. By this means,
when the piece is fired, the bullet is forced through
the rifles, and acquires the fpiral motion already de-
Icribed ; and perhaps fomewhat of this kind, fays Mr
Robins, though not in the manner now pradlifed, would
be of. all others the moll perfect method for the con-
ftruction of thefe kinds of barrels.
From the whirling motion communicated by the
rifles, it happens, that when the piece is fired, that
indented zone of the bullet iollows the fweep of the
iifi.es ; and thereby, befides its progreffive motion, ac¬
quires a circular motion round the axis of the piece •
which circular motion will be continued to the bullet^
a'.ter its reparation from the piece 5 and thus a bullet
dficharged from a rifled barrel is conftantly made to
whirl round an axis which is coincident with the line
of its flight. By this whirling on its axis, the aber¬
ration of the bullet, which proves fo prejudicial to all
operations in gunnery, is almofl totally prevented.
I be.reafon of this may be eaiily underftood from con-
fidering the flow7 motion of an arrow through the air.
tor example, if a bent arrow7, with its wflngsnot placed
in fome degree, in a fpiral pofition, fo as to make it
revoive round its axis as it flies through the air, were
i.iot at a mark with a true direction, it would con-
itantly deviate from it, in confequence of being
pit fled ,q one fide by the convex part oppofing the
N E R Y
air obliquely. Let us now fuppofe this defle&ion in
a flight of 100 yards to be equal to 10 yards. Now,
if the fame bent arrow were made to revolve round its
axis once every tw7o yards of its flight, its greatefi: de¬
viation would take place when it had proceeded only
one yard, or made half a revolution j fince at the end
of the next half revolution it wrould again return to
the fame direflion it had at firft ^ the convex fide of
the arrow having been once in oppofite pbfitions. In
this manner it would proceed during the whole courfe
of its flight, conflantly returning to the true path at
the end of every two yards ; and when it reached the
mark, the greateil deflection to either fide that could
happen would be equal to what it makes in proceed¬
ing one yard, equal to -yi-g-th part of the former, or
3.6 inches, a very fmall deflexion when compared
with the former one. In the fame manner, a cannon¬
ball which turns not round its axis, deviates greatly
from the true path, on account of the inequalities on
its furface; which, although finall, caufe great devia¬
tions by reafon of the refiftance of-the air, at the fame
time that the ball acquires a motion round its axis in
fome uncertain direction occafioned by the friction-'
againlt its tides. But by the motion acquired from
the rifles, the error is perpetually corre6ted in the
manner juft now7 deferibed j and accordingly fuch pieces
are much more to be depended on, and will do execu¬
tion at a much greater diilance, than the other.
The reafons commonly alleged for the fuperiority
of rifle-barrels over common ones, are, either that the
inflammation of the pow7der. is greater, by the refift¬
ance wfliich the bullet makes by being thus forced into
the barrel, and that hereby it receives a much greater
impulle j or that the bullet by the compounding of
its circular and revolving motions, did as it were bore
the air, and thereby flew to a much greater diftance
than it would otherwife have done ; or that by the
fame boring motion it made its w7ay through all folid
fubfl ances, and penetrated into them much deeper
than when fired in the common manner. But Mr
Robins hath proved thefe reafons to be altogether
erroneous, by a great number of experiments made
wflth rifle-barrelled pieces. <£ In thefe experiments (fays
he), I have found that the velocity of the bullet fired
from a rifled barrel was ufually lefs than that of the
bullet fired from a common piece with the fame pro¬
portion of powder. Indeed it is but reafonable to
expe£l that this fliould be the cafe ; for if the rifles
are very deep, and the bullet is large enough to fill
them up, the fridtion bears a very confiderable pro¬
portion to the effort of the powder. And that in this
cafe the fridtion is of confequence enough to have its
effedts obferved, I have difeovered by the continued-
ufe of the fame barrel. For the metal of the barrel
being foft, and wearing away apace, its bore by half
a year’s ule was confiderably enlarged, and confequent-
ly the depth of its rifles diminilhed ; and then I found
that the fame quantity of powder would give to the
bullet a velocity near a tenth part greater than what
it had done at firft. And as the velocity of the bul¬
let is. not increafed by the ufe of rifled barrels, fo nei¬
ther is the diftance to which it flies, nor the depth of
its penetration into iolid fubftances. Indeed thefe two
laft fuppofitions feem at firft fight too chimerical to
deferve a formal confutation. But I cannot help ob—
174
Pradlice.
GUNN
fervlng, that thofe who have been habituated to the
ufe of rided pieces are very excufable in giving way to
thefe prepoffedions. For they conftantly found, that
with them they could fire at a mark with tolerable
fuccefs, though it were placed at three or four times
the diftance to which the ordinary pieces were fup-
pofed to reach. And therefore, as they were ignorant
of the true caufe of this variety, and did not know
that it arofe only from preventing the detleftion of the
ball *, it was not unnatural for them to imagine that
the fuperiority of effeft in the rifled piece was owing
either to a more violent impulfe at firft, or to a more
eafy paffage through the air.
“ In order to confirm the foregoing theory of rifle-
barrelled pieces, I made fome experiments by -which
it might be feen whether one fide of the ball difcharged
from them uniformly keeps foremoft during the whole
courfe. To examine this particular, I took a rifled
barrel carrying a bullet of fix to the pound •, but in-
ftead of its leaden bullet I ufed a wooden one of the
fame fize, made of a foft fpringy vcood, which bent
itfelf eafily into the rifles without breaking. And fi¬
ring the piece thus loaded againfl a wall at fuch a di-
fiance as the bullet might not be ihivered by the blow,
1 always found, that the fame furface which lay fore¬
moft in the piece continued foremoft without any fen-
fible defle&ion during the time of its flight. And this
was eafily to be obferved, by examining the bullet;
as both the marks of the rifles, and the part that im¬
pinged on the veall, were fufficiently apparent. Now,
as thefe wooden bullets were but the i6th part of the
weight of the leaden ones j I conclude, that if there
had been any unequal refiftance or defle&ive power,
its eifetts muft have been extremely fenfible upon this
light body, and confequently in fome of the trials
I * made, the furface which came foremoft from the
piece muft have been turned round into another fitua-
tion.
“ But again, I took the fame piece, and, loading it
now with a leaden ball, I fet it nearly upright. Hoping
it only three or four degrees from the perpendicular in
the direction of the wind ; and firing it in this fituation,
the bullet generally continued about half a minute in
the air, it riling by computation to near three quarters
of a mile perpendicular height. In thefe trials I found
that the bullet commonly came to the ground to the
leeward of the piece ; and at fuch a diftance from it,
as nearly correfponded to the angle of its inclination,
and to the effort of the wind; it ufually falling not
nearer to the piece than too, nor farther from it than
I5°> yards. And this is a ftrong confirmation of the
almoft fteady flight of this bullet for about a mile
and a half: for were the fame trial made with a com¬
mon piece, I doubt not but the deviation would often
amount to half a mile, or perhaps confiderably more ;
though this experiment would be a very difficult one
to examine, on account of the little chance there would
be of difcovering where the ball fell.
Balls from “ It muft be obferved, however, that though the
rifled pieces bullet impelled from a rifte-barrelled piece keeps for a
will at t;me to its regular track with fufficient nicety ; yet if
length <te be "fo far extended that the track becomes
Viate run incurvated, it will then undergo conli-
derable defleaions. This, according to my expe¬
riments, arifes from the angle at laft made by the
l
their true
courfe
E R Y. Sea. m.
axis on which the bullet turns, and the direftion in Praftxce.
which it flies : for that axis continuing nearly parallel y
to itfelf, it muft necefiarily diverge from the line of
the flight of the bullet, when that line is bent from
its original direftion : and when it once happens that
the bullet whirls on an axis which no longer coincides
with the line of its flight, then the unequal refiftance
formerly defcribed will take place, and the deflecting
power hence arifing will perpetually increafe as the
track of the bullet, by having its range extended, be¬
comes more and more incurvated.— I his matter I have
experienced in a fmall rifte-barrelled piece, carrying a
leaden ball of near half an ounce weight. For this piece,
charged with one dram of powder, ranged about 550
yards at an angle of 12 degrees with lufticient regula¬
rity ; but being afterwards elevated to an angle of 24
degrees, it then ranged very irregularly, generally de¬
viating from the line of its direffion to the left, and in
one cafe not lefs than 100 yards. This apparently
arofe from the caufe above mentioned, as was confirm¬
ed from the conllant deviation of the bullet to the left;
for by confidering how the revolving motion was con¬
tinued with the progreffive one ; it appeared that a de¬
viation that way was to be expe6ted.
“ The beft remedy I can think of for this defefl is
the making ule of bullets of an egg-like form inftead
of fpherical ones. For if fuch a bullet hath its ffiorter
axis made to fit the piece, and it be placed in the bar¬
rel with its fmaller end downwards, tnen it will ac¬
quire by the rifles a rotation round its larger axis ; and
its centre of gravity lying nearer to its fore than its
hinder part, its longer axis will be conftantly forced
by the refiftance of the air into the line of its flight;
as we fee, that by the fame means arrows conftantly
lie in the line of their diredlion, however that line be
incurvated.
“ But, befides this, there is another circumftance
in the ufe of thefe pieces, which renders the flight of
their bullets uncertain when fired at a confiderable
elevation. For I find by my experiments, that the
velocity of a bullet fired with the fame quantity ot
powder from a rifted barrel, varies much more from
itfelf in different trials than when fired from a com¬
mon piece. This, as I conceive, is owing to the great
quantity of fridlion, and the impoffibility of rendering
it equal in each experiment. Indeed, if the rifles are
not deeply cut, and if the bullet is nicely fitted to the
piece, fo as not to require a great force to drive it
down, and if leather or fuftian well greafed is made
ufe of between the bullet and barrel, perhaps, by a
careful attention to all thefe particulars, great part of
the inequality in the velocity of the bullet may be pre¬
vented, and the difficulty in queftion be in lome mea-
fure obviated : but, till this be done, it cannot be
doubted, that the range of the fame piece, at an ele¬
vation, will vary confiderably in every trial; although
the charge be each time the lame. And this I have
myfelf experienced, in a number of diveifified trials,
with a rifle-barrelled piece loaded at the breech in the
Engliffi manner. For here the rifles being indented
very deep, and the bullet fo large as to fill tlnm up
completely, I found, that though it flew with fufficient
exadtnefs to the diftance of 400 or 500 yards ; yet
when it was raifed to an angle of about 1 2 degrees
fat which angle, being fired with one-fifth of its weight
v 0 in
Se£h III. G U N
Practice, in powder, its medium range is nearly 1000 yards) ; in
v—'“v——' thig Cafe, I fay, I found that its range was variable j
although the greateft care was taken to prevent any
inequalities in the quantity of porvder, or in the man¬
ner of charging. And as, in this cafe, the angle was
too fmall for the firft mentioned irregularity to produce
the obferved effedls •, they can only be imputed to the
different velocities which the bullet each time received
by the unequal adtion of the fridHon.”
Thus we fee, that it is in a manner impoffible en¬
tirely to corredt the aberrations anfing from the re-
fifiance of the atmofphere ; as even the rifle-barrelled
pieces cannot be depended upon for more than one-
half of their adlual range at any confiderable elevation.
It becomes therefore a problem very difficult of folution
to know, even within a very confiderable difiance,
how far a piece will carry its ball with any probability
of hitting its mark, or doing any execution. The bell
rules hitherto laid down on this fubjedt are thofe of
Mr Robins. The foundation of all his calculations is
the velocity with which the bullet flies off from the
mouth of the piece. Mr Robins himfelf had not op-
poitunities of making many experiments on the velo¬
cities of cannon-balls, and the calculations from fmaller
38 ones cannot always be depended upon. In the 68th
Mr Hut- volume of the Phil. Tranf. Mr Hutton hath recited a
ton’s expe- number of experiments made on cannon carrying balls
the velocity ^rom one t0 t^ree pounds weight. His machine for
of cannon * difeovering the velocities of thefe balls was the fame
with that of Mr Robins, only of a larger fize. His
charges of powder were two, four, and eight ounces;
and the refults of 15 experiments which feem to have
been the moil accurate, are as follow.
balls.
Velocity with two
ounces.
702 feet in \n
6Sz
$9$
7°3
725
Velocity with
four ounces.
106S feet in \"
10 20
54s
913
957
Velocity with
eight ounces.
1419 teet in 11'
2352
1443
1360
141 2
5)3SC7
Mean velocities 701
5)4966
993
5)6986
'397
In another courfe, the mean velocities, with the fame
ebarges of powder, were 613, 873, 1162. “ The mean
velocities of the balls in the firft courfe of experiments
(fays Mr Hutton) with two, four, and eight ounces of
powffier, are as the numbers 1, 1.4x4, and 1.993 $ but
the fubduplicate ratio of the weights (two, four, and
eight) give the numbers 1, 1.414, and 2, to which the
others are fufficiently near. It is obvious, however,
that the greateft difference lies in the laft number,
which anfwers to the greateft velocity. It will ftill be
a little more in defecl if we make the allowance for the
weights of the balls •, for the mean weights of the balls
with the two and four ounces is 18J- ounces, but of
the eight ounces it is 18^; diminiftiing therefore the
number 1.993 reciprocal fubduplicate ratio of
184- to i8|, it becomes 1.985, which falls ffiort of the
number 2 by .015, or the 133d part of itfelf. A fi-
milar defedl was obferved in the other courfe of expe¬
riments •, and both are owing to three evident caufes,
viz. 1. The lefs length of cylinder through which the
N E R Y. 175
ball was impelled ; for with the eight ounce charge it Pra&ice.
lay three or four inches nearer to the muzzle of the
piece than with the others. 2. The greater quantity
of elaftic fluid which efcaped in this cafe than in the
others by the windage. This happens from its moving
with a greater velocity *, in confequence of which, a
greater quantity efcapes by the vent and windage than
in fmaller velocities. 3. The greater quantity of powder
blown out unfired in this pafe than in that of the leffer
velocities; for the ball which was impelled with the
greater velocity, would be fooner out of the piece than
the others, and the more fo as it had a lefs length of the
bore to move through ; and if powder fire in time,
which cannot be denied, though indeed that time is
manifeftly very fhort, a greater quantity of it muft re¬
main unfired when the ball with the greater velocity
iffues from the piece, than when that which has the
lefs velocity goes out, and ftill the more fo as the bulk
of powder which was at firft to be inflamed in the one
cafe fo much exceeded that in the others.
“ Let us now compare the correfponding velocities
in both cafes. In the one they are 701, 993, 1397 ;
in the other, 613, 873, 1162. Now the ratio of the
firft two numbers, or the velocities with two ounces of
powder, is that of 1 to 1.1436, the ratio of the next
two is that of ] to 1.1375, and the ratio of the laft
is that of 1 to 1.2022. But the mean weight of the
ffiot for two and four ounces of powder was 284- oun¬
ces in the firft courfe and 18|- in this $ arid for eight
ounces of powder it was 2 84 in the firft and i8f in this.
Taking therefore the reciprocal fubduplicate ratios of
thefe weights of fliot, we obtain the ratio of 1 to 1.224
for that of the balls which were fired with 2 ounces and
four ounces of powder, and the ratio of 1 to 1.241 for
the balls which were fired with eight ounces. But the
real ratios above found are not greatly different from
thefe and the variation of the adlual velocities from
this law of the weights of ffiot inclines the fame way in
both courfes of experiments. We may nowcolledl into
one view the principal inferences that have refulted
from thefe experiments.
1. “ It is evident from them that powder fires almotl
inftantaneoufly.
2. “ The velocities communicated to balls or ffiot
of the fame weight with different quantities of powder,
are nearly in the fubduplicate ratio of thefe quantities $
a very fmall variation in defedl taking place when the
quantities of powder become great.
3. “ When ffiot of different weights are fired with
the fame quantity of powder, the velocities communi¬
cated to them are nearly in the reciprocal fubduplicate
ratio of their weights.
4. “ Shot which are of different weights, and im¬
pelled by different quantities of powder, acquire velo¬
cities which are diredlly as the fquare roots of the
quantities of powder, and inverfely as the fquare roots
of the weights of the ffiot nearly.
The velocities of the bullets being thus found as
nearly as poffible, the ranges may be found by the fol¬
lowing rules laid down by Mr Robins,
I. “Till the velocity of the projedlile furpafles Mr
that of 1100 feet in a fecond, the refiftance may be bin’s me-
reckoned to be in the duplicate proportion of thetliodof
velocity, and its mean quantity may be reckoned
v ' •' , ranges of-
bout'bulfets.
GUNN
bout lialf an ounce avoirdupois on a 12 pound fliot,
moving with a velocity of about 25 or 26 feet in a
fecond.
2. “If the velocity be greater than that of 1 too or
U K Y.
Se^. Ill
1 200 feet in a fecond, then the abfolute quantity of
the refiftance in thefe greater velocities will be near
three times as great as it fhould be by a comparifon
with the fmaller velocities.-—-Hence then it appears,
that if a projeflile begins to move with a velocity lefs
than that of' 1100 feet in 1", its whole motion may
be fuppofed to be confidered on the hypothefis of a
refiflance in the duplicate ratio of the velocity. And
if it begins to move with a velocity greater than this
laft mentioned, yet if the firft part of its motion, till
its velocity be reduced to near 1100 feet in i", be con¬
fidered feparately from the remaining part in which
the velocity is lefs than 1100 feet in 1" ; it is evident,
that both parts may be truly affigned on the fame
hypothefis ; only the abfolute quantity of the refift¬
ance is three times greater in the firft part than in the
laft. Wherefore, if the motion of a proje&ile on the
hypothefis of a refiftance in the duplicate ratio of the
velocity be truly and generally afligned, the adual
motions of refilled bodies may be thereby determined,
notwithftanding the increafed refiftances in the great
velocities. And, to avoid the divifion of the motion
into two, I ihall Ihow how to compute the whole at
one operation with little more trouble than if no iuch
increafed refiftance took place. .
“ rX'o avoid frequent circumlocutions, the diftance
to which any projedlile wmuld range in a vacuum on
the horizontal plane at 45° eluvation, I Ihall call the
potential random of that projettile 5 the diftance to
which the projeftile would range in vacuo on the hori¬
zontal plane at any angle different from 450, I Ihall call
the potential range of the projeftile at that angle •, and
the diftance to which a projeddile really ranges, I Ihall
call its adlual range. .
“ If the velocity with which a projedtile begins to
move is known, its potential random and its potential
ranee at any given angle are eafily determined from the
* See Pro. common theory of projeailes * ■, or more generally, if
pad's. either its original velocity, its potential random or its
potential range, at a given angle, are known, the other
two are eafily found out. _
“ To facilitate the computation of relifted bodies, it
is neceffary, in the'confideration of each refifted body,
to affwn a certain quantity, which I ftiall denominate
F adapted to the refiftance of that particular projec¬
tile To find this quantity F to any projeftile given,
we may proceed thus: Firft find, from the principles
already delivered, with what velocity the projeftile mult
move/ fo that its refiftance may be equal to its gravity.
Then the height from whence a body muft defceml m
a vacuum to acquire this velocity is the magnitude of
F fought. But the concifeft w^ay of finding this quan¬
tity F to any fhell or bullet is this. If it be of folid
iron multiply its diameter meafured in inches by 300,
the produft will be the magnitude of F expreffed m
yards If, inftead of a folid iron bullet, it is a fhell or
•i bullet of’fome other fubftance 5 then, as the fpecific
gravity of iron is to the fpecific gravity of the fhell or
bullet given, fo is the F correfponding to an iron bullet
of the fame diameter to the proper F For the ineil or
bullet given. The quantity F being thus affigned, the
'2.'
neceffary computations of thefe refifted motions may
be difpatched by the three following propofitions, al¬
ways remembering that thefe propofitions proceed on
the hypothefis of-the refiftance being in the duplicate
proportion of the velocity of the ' refifted body. How
to apply this principle, when the velocity is fo great
as to have its refiftance augmented beyond this rate,
fhall be Ihewn in a corrollary to be annexed to the firft
propofition.
Praftice.
A. <ft ual
ranges
expref-
fed in t
dorrefpond jj Actual
ngpoter.tialj ranges
ranges ex- expref-
preffed in F.||if d in F
Correfpont- j Adlual
ing poientia1 | ranges
’ expref-
!fed inF
ranges ex¬
preffed in F
0.01
0.0 2
O.O4
O.06
O.08
0.1
0.12
O.I4
O.I5
0.2
O.25
°*3
0 35
0.4
o-45
°*5
o-55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
°-95
1.0
1.05
1.1
1.2
1.25
1-S
*■35
1.4
M5
*■5
0.0100
0.0201
0.0405
0.0612
0.0822
0.1034
0.1 249
0.1468
0.1578
0-2 140
O.2722
0-3324
0-3947
O.459I
O.5258
O.5949
O.6664
O.7404
0.8170
0.8964
0.9787
1.0638
1.1521
1.2436
i-3383
1.4366
1-5 384
1.6439
1-7534
1.8669
1-5845
2.1066
2.2332
2.3646
2.5008
2.6422
i-55
1.6
1.65
!-7
I-75
1.8
1.85
1.9
1- 95
2.
2.05
2.1
2- 15
2.2
2.25
2-3
2-35
2.4
2-45
2-5
2-55
2.6
2.65
2-7
2- 75
2.8
2.85
2.9
2.95
3- °
3-°5
3-1
3a5
3-2
3-25
Correfpond¬
ing poten iai
ranges ex-
preffed in F.
2.7890
2- 9413
3.0994
3- 2635
3-4338
3.6107
3-7944
3- 9851
4- 1833
4.3890
4.6028
4.8249
i-°557
5- 2955
5-5446
5.8036
6.07 28
6.3526
6.6435
6.9460
7.2605
7-5875
7.9276
8.2813
8.6492
9.0319
9.4300
9.8442
10.2752
10.7237
11.1904
11.6761
12.1816
1 2.7078
13.2556
3-3
3-j5
3-4
3-45
3-5
3-55
S-6
3-65
3-7
3-75
3-8
3-85
3-9
3- 95
4.0
4- ° 5
4.1
4-I5
4.2
4-25
4-3
4-35
4.4
4-45
4-5
4-55
4.6
4.65
4-7
4-75
4-8
4.85
4.9
4- 95
5- °
13.8258
14.4195
15.0377
15.6814
16.3517
I7*°497
17.7768
18.5341
19-3229
20.1446
21.0006
21.8925
22.8218
23.7901
24.7991
25.8506
26.9465
28.0887
29.2792
30.5202
3!.8138
33.1625
34.5686
36.0346
37-5632
39-‘57I
40.8193
42.4527
44-3605
46.2460
48.2127
50.2641
52,4040
54-6363
56-9653
“ PROP. I. Given the aftual range of a given fhell
or bullet at any fmall angle not exceeding 8° or 10°, to
determine its potential range, and confequently its po¬
tential random and original velocity. ,
“ Sol. Let the adual range given be divided by the
F correlponding to the given project lie, and find the
quote in the firft column of the preceding iable : then
the correfponding number iff the fecond column mul¬
tiplied into F will be the potential range fought : and
thence by the methods already explained, the potential
random and the original velocity of the projeftile is
Siven‘ “Exam,
Practice.
Sea. III. GUNN
“ Exam. An 18 pounder, the diameter of whofe
{hot is about 5 inches,, when loaded with 2 lb. of pow¬
der, ranged at an elevation of 30 30' to the diftance of
975 yards.
<s The F correfponding to thisdbullet is 1500 yards;
and the quote of the adiual range by this number is
65 ; correfponding to which, in the fecond column, is
.817 ; whence 817 F, or 1225 is the potential
range fought; and this, augmented in the ratio of the
line of twice the angle of elevation to the radius,
gives 10050 yanis for the potential random : whence
it will be found, that the velocity of this projeftile was
that of 984 feet in a fecond.
“ Cor. ift. If the converfe of this propofition be de-
lired ; that is, if the potential range in a fmall angle
be given, and thence the adhial range be fought ; this
may be folved with the fame facility by the fame table :
for if the given potential range be divided by its cor-
refpondent F, then oppofite to the quote fought in
the fecond column, there will be found in the firll
column a number which multiplied into F wall give
the affual range required. And from hence it fol¬
lows, that if the adtual range be given at one angle,
it may be found at every other angle not exceeding
8° or 10®.
“ Cor. 2d. If the adlual range at a given fmall angle
be given, and another adfual range be given, to which
the angle is fought ; this will be determined by finding
the potential ranges correfponding to the two given
actual ranges ; then the angle correfponding to one of
thefe potertfial ranges being known, the angle corre¬
fponding to the other will be found by the common
theory of projedliles.
“ Cor. 3d. If the potential random deduced from the
aclual range by this propofition exceeds 13600 yards;
then the original velocity of the projeftile was fo great,
as to be affedled by the treble refiftance defcribed
above ; and confequently the real potential random will
be greater than what is here determined. Hovvever,
in this cafe, the true potential random may be thus
nearly affigned. Take a 4th continued proportional
to. 13000 yards, and the potential random found by
this propcfition, and the 4th proportional thus found
may. be affumed for the true potential random fought.
In like manner, when the true potential random is gi¬
ven greater than 1 3000 yards, we mull take two mean
proportionals between 13000 and this random * ; and
the firft of thefe mean proportionals mufi: be affumed
this corol- j.n^ead .of the random given, in every operation de-
3ary are belt ,lbed in propofitions and their corollaries. And
performed *his method will nearly allow for the increafed refifl-
by the table ance in large velocities, the difference only amount-
vthms' ing.t0 a feW mJnutes 511 the an8le direction of the
projected body, which, provided that angle exceeds
two or three degrees, is ufually fcarce worth attend¬
ing to.
“ Of this procefs take the following example.
“ A 24 pounder fired with 12 pounds of powder,
when elevated at 7° 15', ranged about 2500 yards.
Here the F being near 1700 yards, the quote to be
nought in the firft column is 147, to which the num¬
ber correfponding in the fecond column is 2.556;
whence the potential range is near 4350 yards, and the
potential random thence refulting 17400. But this
being more than 13000, we muft, to get the true po-
Vol. X. Part I. &
* The op-
rations di-
reftred in
this corol
E R Y. i77,
tential random, take a 4th continued proportional to Pradtice.
13000 and 17400; and this 4th proportional, which »
is about 31000 yards, is to be efteemed the true po¬
tential random fought; whence the velocity i$ nearly
that of t 730 feet in a fecond.
“ Scholium. This propofition is confined to fmall
angles, not exceeding 83 or io°. In all pofiible cafes
of pratftice, this approximation, thus limited, will not
differ from the moft rigorous folution by fo much as
what will often intervene from the variation of the den-
fity of the atmofphere in a few hours time ; fo that
the errors of the approximation are much ihort of
other inevitable errors, which arife from the nature of
this fubjedt.
“ PROP. II. Given the adlual range of a given ftiell
or bullet, at any angle not exceeding 450, to determine
its potential range at the fame angle ; and thence its
potential random and original velocity.
“ Sol. Diminiih the F correfponding to the {hell or
bullet given in the proportion of the radius to the co¬
fine of ^ of the angle of elevation. Then, by means
of the preceding table, operate with this reduced F
in the fame manner as is prefcribed in the folution of
the laft propofition, and the refult will be the potential
range fought.; whence the potential random, and the
original velocity, are eafily determined.
“ Exam. A mortar for fea-fervice, charged w-ith
3olb..of powder, has fometimes thrown its ftiell, of
i.2| inches diameter, and of 2311b. weight, to the
di ft ance of 2 miles, or 5450 yards. This at an eleva¬
tion of 450.
“ The F to this (hell, if it were folid, is 3825 yards;
but as the {hell is only £ of a folid globe, the true F
is no more than 3060 yards. This, diminiftied in the
ratio of the radius to the cofine of | of the angle of
elevation, becomes 2544. The quote of the poten¬
tial range by this diminiftied F is 1.384 ; which fought
in the firft column of the preceding table gives 2.280
for the. correfponding number in the fecond column ;
and this multiplied into the reduced F, produces 5800
yards for the potential range fought, which, as the
angle of elevation was 450, is alfo the potential ran¬
dom ; and hence the original velocity of this ftiell ap-
pears to be that of about 748 feet in a fecond.
“ Cor. The converfe of this propofition, that is, the
determination, of the actual range from the potential
range given., is eafily deduced from hence by means of
the quote of the potential range divided by the redu¬
ced F.; for this quote fearched out in the fecond column
will give a correfponding number in the firft column,
which multiplied into the reduced F, will be the ac¬
tual range fought.
Alio, if the potential random or a projedtile be
given,.or its actual range at a given angle of eleva¬
tion ; its aftual range at any other angle of elevation,
not greater than 45°, may hence be known. For the
potential random will aftign the potential range at any
given angle ; and thence, by the^method of this corol¬
lary, the actual range may be found.
“Exam. A fit mufquet-bullet fired from a piece of
the, ftandard dimenfions, with ^ of its weight in good
powder, acquires a , velocity of near 900 feet in a fe¬
cond : that is, it has a potential random of near 8400
yards, if now the a6tual, range of this bullet at 150' . }
was fought, we muft proceed thusr
“ From
GUNN
« From the given potential random it follows, that
the potential range at 150 is 4200 yards j the diame¬
ter of the ballet is ^ of an inch j and thence, as it is
of lead, its proper F is 337*5 yards> which, reduced
in the ratio of the radius to the coline of ^ De*
comes 331 yards. The quote of 4200 by this num¬
ber is 12.7 nearly •, which being fought in the fecond
column, gives 3.2 nearly for the correfponding number
in the firil column ; and this multiplied into 3,31 yards
(the reduced F) makes 1059 yards for the aftual range
fought. . , .
“ Exam. II. The fame bullet, fired with its whole
weight in powder, acquires a velocity of about 2100
feet in a fecond, to which there correfponds a potential
random of about 45700 yards.. But this number
greatly exceeding 13000 yards, it mull be reduced
by the method deferibed in the third corollary of the
firlt propofition, when it becomes 19700 yards. It
now the aftual range of this bullet at 15° be requi¬
red, we (hall from hence find, that the potential range
at 1 50 is 98 150 yards j winch, divided by the reduced
F of the laft example, gives for a quote 2975 : and
thence following the fteps preferibed above, the aftual
range of this bullet comes out 1396 yards, exceeding
the former range by no more than 337 yards} where¬
as the difference between the two potential ranges is
above ten miles. Of fuch prodigious efficacy is the
refinance of the air, which hath been hitherto treated
as too infignificant a power to be attended to in laying
down the theory of projeftiles !
“ Schol. I mull here obferve, that as the denhty
of the atmofphere perpetually varies, increafing and di-
minifhing often by TV part, and fometimes more, m
a few hours •> for that reafon I have not been over ri¬
gorous in forming thefe rules, but have confidered
them as Efficiently exaft when the errors of the ap¬
proximation do not exceed the inequalities which
would take place by a change of T‘p part in the den-
fity of the atmofphere. With this refl rift ion, the
rules of this propofition may be fafely applied in all
poffible cafes of praftice. That is to fay, they will
exhibit the true motions of all kinds of flrells and can-
non-fhot, as far as 450 of elevation, and of all muf-
ket bullets fired with their largeft cuftomary charges,
if not elevated more than’ 30°. Indeed, if experi¬
ments are made with extraordinary quantities of pow¬
der, producing potential randoms greatly furpafiing
the ufual rate ; then in large angles fome farther mo¬
difications may be neceffary. And though, as thele
cafes are beyond the limits of all praftice, it may be
thought unneceffary to confider them*,, yet, to enable
thofe who are fo difpofed to examine thefe uncommon
cafes, I fhall here infert a propofition, which will de¬
termine the aftual motion of a projedlile at 45 > ow
enormous foever its original velocity may be. . But as
this propofition will rather relate to fpeculative than
praftical cafes, inftead of fuppofing the aftual range
known, thence to affign the potential random, I mall
now fuppofe the potential random given, and the ac¬
tual range to be thence inveiligated.
it PROP. HI- Given the potential random of a gi-
Ten fhell or bullet j to determine its aftual range
Sol. Divide the given potential random by the F
eoxrefponding to the ffiell or bullet given, and call the
E R Y.
Se£t. 111.
quotient q, and let / be the difference between the ta- Practice. ^
bular logarithms of 25 and of q, the logarithm of 10
being fuppofed unity j then the aftual range fought is
3.4 F"-p2 /F — E| where the double fine of 2/F is
to be thus underflood } that if q be lefs than it
muft be—2/F j if it be greater, then it mull be -f-
2 /F. In this fblution, q may be any number not lefs
than 3, nor more than 2500.
“ Cor. Computing in the manner here laid down,
we {hall find the relation between the potential ran¬
doms, and the aftual range at 450, within the limits
of this propofition, to be as expreffed in the following
table.
Potential Randoms.
3
6
10
20
3°
40 F
50* F
F
F
F
F
F
100
200
5°°
1000
2500
2.1
2.6
3-2
3-6
3-8
4.0
4.6
S'1
5*8
6.4
7.0
Whence it appears, that, when the potential ran¬
dom is increafed from 3 F to 2500 F, the aftual range
is only increafed from 14 F to 7 F j fo that an increafe
of 2497 F in the potential random produces no great¬
er an increafe in the aftual range than 54 F, which is
not its part; and this will again be greatly dimi-
niffied on account of the increafed refiftance, which
takes place in great velocities. So extraordinary, are
the effefts of this refiftance, which we have been hi¬
therto taught fo regard as inconliderable.
« That the juftnefs of the approximations laid down
in the 2d and 3d propofitions may be eafier examined j
l {hall conclude thefe computations by inferting a
table of the aftual ranges at 45® of.a P™jeftile, which
is refitted in the duplicate proportion of its velocity.
This table is computed by methods different from thofe
hitherto deferibed, and is fufficiently exaft to ferve as
a ftandard with which the refult of our other rules
may be compared. And fince whatever errors occur
in the application of the preceding propofitions, they
will be moft fenfible at 450 of elevation, it follows^,
that hereby the utmoft limits of thofe errors may be
afligned.
Potential Randoms.
.1
•25
•5
•75
1.0
1.35
1- 5
i*75
2.0
2- 5
3- °
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
Aftual Range at 45*
.0963 F
.2282 F
•4203
.5868
•7323
.860
.978
1.083
j.179
i*349
M95
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
Potently?
Sea. III.
Pra&ice.
GUN
lions of
guns.
N E R Y.
the other, Not to ufe any brafs field-artillery, but only
iron, to leflen the great burden of our {hips 'of war,
and to carry larger calibers than thofe of other nations
of the fame rate. If the weights of our guns are di-
minifiied, they will require fewer hands to manage them,
and of confequence a fmaller number will be expofed
to danger at a time : and if we carry larger calibers,
our rates will be a match for larger (hips.
“ The advantage of ufing iron guns in the field in-
ftead of brafs, will be that the expences are leffened in
proportion to the coft of brafs to that of iron, which is
as 8 to i.
“ The only objection againft iron is, its pretended
brittlenefs: but as we abound in iron that is ftronger
and tougher than any brafs, this objedlion is invalid.
This I Can aflert, haviiig feen fome that cannot be
broken by any force, and will flatten like hammered
iron : if then we ufe fuch iron, there can be no danger
of the guns burfting in the moft fevere a&ion.
“ Though braft guns are not liable to burft, yet
they are fooner rendered unferviceable in a£l:ion than
iron. For by the foftnefs of the metal, the vent wi¬
dens fo foon, and they are fo liable to bend at the
muzzle, that it would be dangerous to fire them *, as
we found by experience at Belleifle, and where we
Of the dif- We have now only to confider that part of practical were obliged to take guns from the {hips to finilh the^
ferent parts.gunnery which relates to the proportions of the differ- fiege.
and propo- en^ part§ 0f cannon, the metal of which they are
made, &c.
Formerly the guns were made of a very great length,
and were on that account extremely troublefome and
unmanageable. The error here was firft difcovered by
accident •, for fome cannon, having been call by mi Hake
two feet and an half {hotter than the common ftandard,
were found to be equally efficacious in fervice with the
common ones, and much more manageable. This foon
produced very confiderable alterations in the form of
the artillery throughout Europe : but in no country
have greater improvements in this refpedl been made
than in our own. For a long time brafs, or rather a
kind of bell-metal, was thought preferable to calf iron
for making of cannon. The compofition of this metal
is generally kept a fecret by each particular founder.
The author of the Military Didfionary gives the fol¬
lowing proportions as the moft common, viz. “ I o
240 lb. of metal fit for calling they put 68 lb. of cop¬
per, 52lb. of brafs, and 12 lb. of tin. To 4200 lb.
of metal fit for cafting, the Germans put 3687^! lb. of
copper, 204^4 lb. of brafs, and 307^^. of tin. Ci¬
thers ufe xoo lb. of copper, 61b. of brafs, and 9 lb. of
tin j while fome make ufe of 100lb. of copper, iolb.
of brafs, and 15 lb. of tin. This compofition was both
found to be very expenfive, and alfo liable to great in¬
conveniences in the ufing. A few years ago, there¬
fore, a propofal was made by Mr Muller for ufing iron
guns of A lighter conftrudlion than the brafs ones, by
which he fuppofed that a very great faving would be
made in the expence ; and likewife, that the guns of the
new conftrudfion would be more manageable, and even
Mr Mid- efficacious, than the old ones. “ The reduction of the
hsr’s- propo- eSpence (fayS Mr Muller) of the very large artillery ne-
!the ccffai7 f°r ^ea an(l lan<l fervice, is to be confidered un-
weiglft 0fC der two heads ; the one, To dirninifh the weight 5 and
gun*.
jyg:
Pradlioe.
“ Thefe being undeniable fadls, no poffible feafon
can be affigned againft ufing iron guns in both fea and
land fervice, and thereby leffen the expences of ar¬
tillery fo confiderably as will appear by the following
tables.
Lengths and Weights of Iron Ship-Guns.
Old Pieces.
New Pieces.
Galib.
41 .
Compoli-
tion for
guns.
I 2
18
24
32
42
Length
Fi. In.
4 6
6 o
7 o
7 o
9 0
9 0
9 0
9 6
10 o
Weight.
Ciet qrs. lb.
7 1 7
12 213
17 1 14
23 2 2
32 3 3
41 1 8
48 o o
53 3 23
55 1 I2
Calib.
18
24
32
42
48
Length.
Ft. In.
3 6
4 4
5 0
5 6
6 4
7 o
7 6
8 4
8 6
Weight.
Ctut.qrs. lb.
3 3 0
7 2 0
II I O
15 ° o
22 2 O
30 O C
40 O O
52 2 O
60 o o
  i
42
“ Guns of this conftruftion appear fufficiently ftrong
from the proof of two three-pounders made for Lord
Egmont, and they even may be made lighter and of
equal fervice.
Z 2 Length
GUN
N
Length and Weight of Battering Pieces.
Old Brass. New Iron.
Galib. Length.
Ft. In.
8 o
9 | 9
I 2
18
24
32
10
Weight.
C'ivt. qrs\ lb.
19 I O
25
29
48
51
55
Calib.
I 2
18
24
32
Length.
Ft. In.
6 1
Weight.
C'ivt. qrs. lb.
9IO
*4
7 8
18
37 3
42
Total 227.
Total 151.
Diff. 72.
E R Y. Scd. III.
That is, the old fet cofls 11 times, and 63 2 over, more Pradtice.^
than the new fet •, or 11 fets of the new could be made v " '
at lefs expence than one of the old.
“ This table (hows wrhat may be faved in the navy ;
and if we add thofe on board flcops, the different gar-
rifons, and the field train, with the great expence of
their carriage in the field, it may be found pretty near
as much more.
Num.
of
Guns.
“ That thefe guns are fufficiently ftrong, is evident
from the former trial j befides, there are feveral 32
pounders of the fame dimenfions and wreight now exift-
ing and ferviceable 5 though caff in King Charles II.’s
time.
N. B. Thefe battering pieces may ferve in garri-
fons.
“ It appears from thefe tables, that no proportion has
been obferved in any guns hitherto made, in refpedl to
their length or weight, but merely by guefs.
Some Examples to flow what may be faved by this
Scheme.
The old Royal George carried loobrafs guns, which
weighed together 218.2 tons} the toncofts 130 pounds,
workmanfhip included.
The expence of thefe guns is then 28366 pounds
A fet of iron guns of the fame
number and calibers, according
to my conftrudlion, wxighs 127.8 tons
The ton coft 16 pounds, and the
whole fet - - 2044.8 pounds
The Royal George carries then
90.4 tons more than is neceffary,
and the difference between the
expence is - - 263 21.2 pounds
That is, 12.5 times more than the new iron fet cofts :
or 1 2 (hips of the fame rate may be fitted out at lefs
charge. *
A fet of the I °ld X ir°n Suns for a I 204-47 tons
A let ot the |Newj- firft rate weighs 1127.8 j t0nS
The difference between the weight
of the old and new' is - 76.6 tons
The difference between the expence
is then - - J225.6pounds
A fet of brafs battering pieces weighs 11.36 tons
A ton cofts 130 pounds, and the fet 1476.8 pounds
A fet of the new weighs - 7.55 tons
The ton cofts 16 pounds, and the fet 117.8 pounds
Weight
of
Old.
90
80
74
70
64
60
5°
44
40
36
32
28
24
20
4367
3537
3108
3091
2997
2543
2177
1881
i365
1234
963
956
593
531
421
Weight
of
New.
2556
2001
l82I
1840
1796
1305
1185
i°35
7°5
312
45°
435
285
255
19I
Differ.
l8ll 3
J536 3
1287 3
1250 8
1200 8
1238 3
992 3
846 1
660 2
922
5I3
521
308
276
230
Nhim.
of
Ships
5
9
7
32
10
23
3°
l9
8
9
7
28
23
12
Total
Difference.
9058 O
13827 3
9OI4 I
4OO16
12005
28485
29782
16078
5284
8298 o’
3596 1
14602 o
7095 1
3321 o
3453 3
Difference between the weights 2039x8 3 O
Expences T Brafs guns of two firft rates 203918 15 o
of the J_ Iron ditto - - 431 °9 5 0
We get L. 257028 o o
To this and other propofals for reducing the weight
and expence of guns great attention has been paid }
and the Carron Company in Scotland have not on-
ly greatly improved thofe of the old conftrudlion,
but a gun of a different conftrudtion, invented by
Mr Charles Gafcoigne, formerly dire&or of that work,
has been of more effeftual fervice than any hi¬
therto made ufe of. ■-—Fig. 6. reprefents the foim Plate
and proportions of the guns made at Carron, andCCXLVIII.
w’hich ferve for thofe of all fixes, from one-half Pourid'
ers and upwards. The proportions are meafured by the tjonSj
diameters of the caliber, or bore of the gun, divided 0f the guns
into 16 equal parts, as reprefented in the figure. The made at
following are the names of the different parts of a can-0arron-
non.
AB, the length of the cannon.
AE, the firft reinforce.
EF, the fecond reinforce.
FB, the chafe.
HB, the muzzle.
A 0, the cafcabel, or pomiglion.
AC, the breech.
CD, the vent-field.
FI, the chafe-girdle.
r r, the bafe-ring and ogee.
/, the vent-aftragal and fillets.
p q, the firft reinforce-ring and ogee.
V W, the fecond reinforce-ring and ogee.
X, the chafe-aftragal and fillets.
x, the-
Sea. III.
GUNNERY.
18r
Praftice.
44
life and de-
fcription of
earriages.
Defcription
of the car-
ronade.
* See Car-
ronade.
z, the muzzle-aftragal and fillets.
n, the muzzle mouldings.
tn, the fwelling of the muzzle.
A i, the breech-mouldings.
TT, the trunnions.
The dotted lines along the middle of the piece fliow
the dimenfions of the caliber, and the dotted circle
Ihows the fize of the ball. Fig. 7. {hows a cohorn
made alfo at Carron, and wrhich may be meafured by
the fame fcale.
As the breech of the cannon receives an equal im-
pulfe with the bullet from the aftion of the inflamed
gunpowder, it thence follows, that at the moment the
bullet flies off, the piece itfelf puflies backward with
very great force. This is called the recoil of the can¬
non ; and if the piece is not of a very confiderable
weight, it would fly upwards, or to a fide, with ex¬
treme violence. If again it wTas firmly faftened dowm,
fo that it could not move in the leaf!, it w7ould be very
apt to burft, on account of the extreme violence with
which the powrder wrould then act upon it. For this
reafon it hath been found neceffary to allow the recoil
to take place, and confequently all large pieces of
artillery are mounted upon carriages with wheels,
which allow' them to recoil freely 5 and thus they may
be fired without any danger. There are feveral forts
of carriages for ordnance, viz. baftard carriages, with
low wdieels and high w’heels •, fea-carriages, made in
imitation of thofe for (hip-guns; and carriages for field-
pieces, of which there are two kinds. The carriages
muff be proportioned to the pieces mounted on them.
The ordinary proportion is for the carriage to have once
and a half the length of the gun, the wheels to be half
the length of the piece in height. Four times the dia¬
meter or caliber gives the depth of the planks in the
fore end $ in the middle
Fig. 8. {how/s the gun called a carronade* invented
or rather improved by Mr Gafcoigne; and which, in
June 1779, w7as by the king and council inftituted a
(landard navy-gun, and 10 of them appointed to be ad¬
ded to each (hip of war, from a firft-rate to a (loop.
Of this gun the Carron Company have publiihed the
following account.
“ The carronade is made fo (hort, that it is worked
w’ith its carriage in the (hip’s port \ the trunnions lying
immediately over the fill of the port: it is correctly
bored ; and the (hot being perfectly round, fills the
caliber wfth fuch exaflnefs, that the lead poflible of the
impulfe of the powder efcapes, upon explofion, between
the cylinder and the (hot 5 which laft alfo is thereby
tnore truly dire£led in its flight. The bottom of the
cylinder is a hemifphere, to which the end of the car¬
tridge is not liable to (lick, and in which the fmallefl:
charge of pow'der envelopes the (hot, exhaufting nearly
the whole of its impelling force upon it : the trunnions
are placed fo as to leffen the recoil, and that the gun
cannot reft againft the (ides of the carriage, and - is ba¬
lanced with the utmoft facility. There are views caft
upon the vent and muzzle, to point the gun quickly to
an objedt at 250 and 500 yards diftance. There is a
handle A fixed upon the pommel-end of the' gun, by
which it is horizontally ranged and pointed ; and there
is a ring caft upon the cafcabel, through which the
breechin rope is reeved, the only rope ufed about thefe Pra&ice.
guns. v—-y—-
“ The carronade is mounted upon a carriage B, with
a perfectly fmooth bottom of (trong plank, without
trucks ; inftead of which there is fixed on the bottom .
of the carriage, perpendicular from the trunnions, a
gudgeon C of proper ftrength, wdth an iron w'aflier D
and pin E at the lower end thereof. This gudgeon is
let into a correfponding groove F, cut in a fecond car¬
riage G, called a Jlide-carriage ; the waftier fupported
by the pin over-reaching the under edges of the groove
H. This (lide-carriage is made with a fmooth upper
furface, upon which the gun-carriage is moved, and by
the gudgeon always kept in its right ftation to the
port} the groove in the Hide-carriage being of a fufti-
cient length to allow the gun to recoil and be loaded
w'ithin board. The Hide-carriage, the groove included,
is equally broad wflth the fore part of the gun-carriage,
and about four times the length ; the fore part of the
Hide-carriage is fixed by hinge-bolts I, to the quick-
wrork of the (hip below the port, the end lying over the
fill, clofe to the outfide plank, and the groove reaching
to the fore end j the gudgeon of the gun-carriage, and
confequently the trunnions of the gun, are over the fill
of the port when the gun is run out; and the port is
made of fuch breadth, with its (ides bevelled off with¬
in board, that the gun and carriage may range from
bow to quarter. The (lide-carriage is fupported from
the deck at the hinder end, by a wedge K, or ftep-
ftool; which being altered at pleafure, and the fore
end turning upon the hinge-bolts, the carriage can be
conftantly kept upon a horizontal plane, for the more
eafy and quick working of the gun when the drip lies
along.
“ The gun and carriages being in their places, the
breechin rope, which muft be ftrong and limber, is
reeved through the ring on the breech, then led through
an eye-bolt drove downwards, the eye (landing upright
upon the upper edge of each cheek of the gun-carriage ;
from thefe eye-bolts the ends of the breechin rope are
feized dowm as ufual to an eye-bolt driven into the
quick-work on each fide, in a line wdth the lower fur-
face of the Hide-carriage.
“ The gun being mounted and ready for aftion, is
loaded with one-twelfth part of the weight of its ball in
fervice charge of pow'der put into a w'oollen cartridge,-
and the end tied up wdth a wTorfted yarn, and placed
next to the (hot ; and wdth a (ingle ball, well rammed
home upon the pow’der, without a wadding between
them : the gun being then run out in the port, is
ranged and elevated with great facility, by means of
the handle on the pommel ; and, by the views, very
quickly pointed.—Upon difcharge, the gun attempts
to kick upwards, which being prevented by the wa(her
of the gudgeon bearing hard againft the under part of
the (lide-carriage, the recoil takes place; and the
gudgeon Hiding, backwards in the groove (the waftier
ftill bearing againft an iron plate on the under edge
of the groove), till the gun is brought up by the
breechin rope, as much re-aflion fucceeds as flackens
the rope, fo that the gun and carriage may be in-
ftantly turned fore and aft by the handle, and loaded
again.
“ This gun has many Angular advantages ever the
others...^
X 82
G U N N £ H Y.
Se<5L HI.
Pradtlce. others of light conflru<5tion.:—It is fo extremely light,
v 1 that the fmalleft Hups can carry almoft any weight of
{hot (the i 2 pounder weighing under 500 vvt. and the
other calibers in proportion), and that without being
attended with the inconveniences imputed generally to
light guns, fince it cannot injure its carriage, or jump
out of its itation in the port upon recoil j and it will
never heat.
“It can be eafily managed and worked of all cali¬
bers, from the 12 pounders downwards with two hands,
and the 18 and 24 pounders with three hands. It may
be readily ranged, pointed, and difcharged, twice in
three minutes, which doubles the flrength of the {hip
againft an enemy of equal force. It is wrought upon
a horizontal plane to windward or to leeward how
much foever the (hip lies along under a prelTure of fail j
and therefore, belides being hampered with no tackles
or other ropes, except the breechin rope, it may be
worked with as much eafe and expedition in chace or
in a gale of wind as in lying to for a£lion.—It can be
-ranged from bow to quarter, fo as to bring a broadlide
to bear in a circuit of above 10 points of the compafs
on each fide.—It is no more expenfive in ammunition
than the old guns of two-thirds lefs weight of {hot; and
it requires very few hands above the complement ne-
cefl'ary for navigating merchant-flups j and increafes
the ftrength of privateers crews, by expofing few
hands at the guns, and augmenting the number at fmall
arms.
“ Though the carronade cannot, ftridfly fpeaking,
throw its (hot to an equal diilance with a longer gun 5
yet, from the fitnefs of the {hot to its cylinder, the
powers of this gun will greatly furpafs the expectations
of fuch as are not intimately acquainted with the eftefts
of the elaltic force of fired powder, fince, with one-
twelfth part of the weight of its ball, at very imall ele¬
vations, it will range its {hot to triple the diftance at
which {hips generally engage, with fufficient velocity
for the greateft execution, and with all the accuracy in
its direction that can be attained from guns of greater
. lengths.
to its ufe1* “ There have been two feeming diftidvantages im-
anfwered. Puted to this gun, which it does not merit, viz. the
nicety of fitting the {hot to the bore of the gun, and
its incapacity to hold more than two Ihot at one
charge. But as feamen have few opportunities of
confirming themfelves in juft opinions by experiments
made on {here, and cannot, in that cafe, be fully
converfant with the fubjeft the following loofe
hints may not be inept towards removing thefe objec¬
tions.
“ It is an axiom in projedliles, That a fhot cannot be
impelled from a gun to any diftance in a dire&ion truly
parallel to the axis of the cylinder of the piece, qrwbat
is commonly called point blanks arifing from feveral well
known caufes : for, however juft may be the cylinder,
and however perfeft and fmooth may be the fphere of
its correfponding {hot, and admitting that the im-
pulfe of the powder a&s through the centre of gravity
of the {hot, and alfo that the fhot confequently leaves
the piece in a direct ion parallel to the axis of its cylin¬
der ; yet the (hot is no fooner difcharged, but it be¬
comes more or lefs infie&ed by its gravity, and deflect¬
ed, according to its velocity, by the refjlance of the air
and 'wind. 3
“ Thefe irregularities are of little importance in clofe Pra<fl!ce.
fea-fights, and being the effeft of natural caufes areu—'v*—-*
common to all. Betides thefe, the deviation of a {hot
from its true dire&ion, is further augmented by the
wflndage between the cylinder and its {hot 5 but the
greateft uncertainty in the flight of a (hot, making al¬
lowance for the adtion of its gravity, and the air’s re-
fiftance, fprings from the defefts of the {hot itfelf.
Round-lhot for {hip-guns are feldom nicely examined j
and, unlefs they are caft folid and truly globular, and
free of all hollows, roughnefs, and other outfide ble-
mifhes, and well fitted to the gun, it cannot even be
difcharged in the direchon of the axis of the piece; to
the difappointraent of thofe that ufe fuch, and to 'the
diferedit of the gun-founder, however juftly the piece
is viewed, or difparted ; but being impelled againft the
furface of the cylinder, bounds and rebounds from fide
to fide, acquires a rotatory motion, and when caft hol¬
low withal, and breaking within the cylinder before dif-
charge, (which fometimes happens, efpecially with
double charges), never fails to injure, and when often
repeated may at laft burft, the very beft guns. Round-
{hot fhould not be taken on board a {hip, without be¬
ing examined as to its fhape and furface, gaged for its
fize to the caliber of the gun, and weighed that it be
not above or below the ftandard more than half an •
ounce in the pound of its refpeftive caliber: good {hot
then, being of the fame importance to all guns, re¬
moves the firft objection.
“ If the direction of the flight of a {hot to its objeft
is affedled by fo many feeming trivial caufes, how much
more uncertain muft it be, when two or more {hot are
difcharged together from one gun : for the (hot next
the powder being impelled wfith more celerity than that
immediately before it, ftrikes againft it after difebarge,
and fometimes Anvers iffelf to pieces, and never fails to
change obliquely the direction of both ; and this hap¬
pens with round and double-headed, &c. and all dou¬
ble charges; and wdfich, from their various figures*
cannot reach an object at the fame elevations with the
round-ftiot j efpecially when thefe other (hots are of
greater weight than the round, which is often the cafe.
However frightful a broadfide with double charges may
appear at fea, more confufion is created by them, and
more time loft, within board, by the ftrain and excel-
five recoil, than real damage done without board by the
additional charge : for upon a trial on fhore, where the
effeft can be traced, it will be found, that, at 100
yards diftance, more {hot will take place within a fmall
compafs by fingle than by double charges *, and the
charges will be oftener repeated in a given time, with¬
out heating the gun : and thefe fails being eftablifhed,
remove alfo the Tecond objeilion.’b
The following account of the proof of one of thefe
guns will perhaps ferve to give a more adequate idea ot
the great ufefulnefs of them, than any deferiptien :
“ On Monday, Oil. 4. 1779, there was an experi¬
ment made at Canron, before the earl ot Oumnore,
&c. &c. with a 68 pounder carronade, nearly of the
weight of a Britiflr navy 1 2-pounder gun, and charged
with the fame quantity, (viz. 6lb.) of powder,---The
carronade was mounted, on its proper carriages, into a
port of the dimenfions of a 74 gun flap’s lower deck-
port ; was pointed without elevation, at a centre oi
eight inches diameter, marked or. a bulk’s head of the
thickneft
Sea. III. GUNN
Prattice. thickners of two feet five inches folid wood, at 163
v ' yards diftance j behind which, at 168 yards, there was
another bulk’s head of two feet four inches thick j and
behind that again, at 170 yards diftance, a bank of
E R Y. 183
earth. The fhot pierced the bulk’s heads each time, Pradhce.^
and was buried from three to four feet into the bank, ' ^
and the fplinters were thrown about to a confiderable
diftance on all fides.
1 ft fhot ftruck 1 foot 7 inches below the horizontal line, and 5 feet from the mark.
2d ditto ditto
3d do. do.
4th do.
5th do.
6th do.
7th do.
8th do.
9th do.
XOth do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
2 feet ditto, *—
through the horizontal line
ditto    —
ditto    —
2 inches below    _ —
touched the lower part of ditto
2 inches below ■■■■— —
2 feet below    —
3 inches below * —
ditto, and 2 ditto ■ 1 ■ - from ditto.
and 3 do. 4 inches from do.
do. and 2 do. 4 ditto from do.
do. zdo. xodo. from do.
do. *  10 do. from do.
do.   7 do. from do.
do.   10 do. from do.
do. I foot 9 do. from do.
do.   3 do. from do.
“ The carronade was laid each time by the views
without an inftrument j and the fhot were all to the
left of the mark, owing to a fmall error in difparting
the views; the third, fourth, and fifth fhot, made one
frafture, as did alfo fixth, feventh, and eighth, and the
fixth and eighth ftruck the fame fpot.
“ The carronade was eafily worked with four men,
and may be readily worked and difcharged on board a
fhip twice a-minute with fix men.—With fix pounds
weight of powder the fhot was impelled with a velocity
of 1400 feet a fecond.”
Defcription We have already feen of how much confequence
of rifled rifle-barrels are in order to bring the art of gunnery
♦rdnance. to perfefti0n ; as they enlarge the fpace in which the
ball will fly without any lateral deflexion to three or
four'times its ufual quantity. This improvement, how¬
ever, till very lately, only took place in mufket-barrels.
But in the beginning of the year I774> Lind, and.
Captain Alexander Blair of the 69th regiment of foot,
invented a fpecies of rifled field-pieces. Ihey are
made of caft iron, and are not bored like the common
pieces, but have the rifles moulded on the core, after
which they are cleaned out and finifhed with proper in-
ftruments.
Guns of this conftnuftion, which are intended for
the field, ought never to be made to carry a ball of
above one or two pounds weight at moft j a leaden bul¬
let of that weight being fufticient to deftroy either man
or horfe.—A pound gun, of this conftruflion, of good
metal, fuch as is now made by the Carron Company,
need not weigh above an hundred pounds weight,
and its carriage about another hundred. It can there-
ore be eafily tranfported from place to place, by a
few men j and a couple of good horfes may tranfport
fix of thefe guns and their carriages, if put into >a
cart.
But, for making experiments, in order to determine
the refifiance which bodies moving with great veloci¬
ties meet with from the air, a circumftance to which
thefe guns are particularly well adapted, or for annoy¬
ing an enemy’s Tappers that are carrying on their ap--
proaches towards a befieged place, a larger caliber may
be ufed.
Fig. 9. The length of the gun being divided into feven equal
parts, the length of the firft reinforce AB is two of
thefe parts j the fecond BC, one and of the diame¬
ter of the caliber j the chafe CD, four wanting of
the diameter of the caliber.
The diftance from the.hind part of the bafe-ring A
to the beginning of the bore, is one caliber and of
a caliber. The trunnions TT are each a caliber in
breadth, and the fame in length ; their centres are pla¬
ced three-fevenths of the gun’s length from the hind
part of the bafe ring, in fuch a manner that the axis of
the trunnions paffes through the centre line of the bore,
which prevents the gun from kicking, and breaking its
carriage. The length of the cafcabel is one caliber
and of a caliber.
The caliber of the gun being divided into 16 equal
parts j
The thicknefs of metal at the bafe-ring A from
the bore, is - - - 18.5
At the end of the firft reinforce ring B 17
At the fame place, for the beginning of the
fecond reinforce - - - 17
At the end of the fecond reinforce C 15,
At the fame place for the beginning of the
chafe c - - - 13-75
At the end of the chafe or muzzle, the mould¬
ings a D excluded * " 9
At the fvvelling of the muzzle b - 12
At the muzzle-fillet c - - 9*5
At the extreme moulding D - 8
Bafe-ring - - - 5-5
Ogee next the bafe-ring </ - 5.5
The aftragal or half-round * 4-75
Its fillet - - - I
Total aftragal and fillets at the ventfield c 4
Firft reinforce ring B - - 4.5
Second reinforce ring C - - 3.5
Its ogee - - - 3
Its aftragal - - I*5
And its fillet - - - 1
The muzzle aftragal, and fillet a « 4
Breadth of the fillet at the bafe-ring 1
Diftance of the fillet at the button from the
fillet at the bafe-ring - - 5
Breadth of the fillet at the button - 1
Diameter of the fillet at the button - 18
Diftance of the centre of the button from its
fillet - - - 12
Diameter of the button E - 18
Diameter of its neck - - 10.5
The vent fliould be placed about half an inch from
the bottom of the chamber or bore, that the cartridge
may be pricked, left fome of the bottoms of the car¬
tridge 3
J 84
Prat'iice.
GUNN
tridges fliculd be left in when the gun is fpcnged, a
circumftance which might retard the firing till the fhot
be again drawn (which is.no eafy matter), and the gun
be cleaned out. From fome experiments of Colonel
Defaguliers and Mr Muller, it has been imagined, that
the powder never has lo llrong an e lie cl as when it is
fired clofe to the bottom of the bore •, yet it is found,
by the experiments of Count de la Lippe, to have the
greateft effeft when fired near to the middle of the
charge. This he proved by firing it with tubes, intro¬
duced at a vent bored through the button and breech
of the gun, of different lengths, fo as to reach the dif¬
ferent parts of the powder. Jn the fame manner, a
mu fleet or fowling-piece is found to puflr more when
the touch-hole is placed at feme little diftance from the
bottom of the bore ; which arrfes from nothing but
the powder’s a&ing with more force, by being in¬
flamed to greater advantage ; confequently, in this cafe,
the fame quantity of powder will have a greater effeef,
than when the touch-hole is placed at the bottom of
the bore, which may be of fome ufe in hufhanding the
powder.
The above dimeiifions are taken from fome elegant
one half pound guns, which were made for the prince
of Afturias by the Carron Company.
The rifles make one fpiral turn in the length of the
bore j but go no nearer to the breech, in their full fize,
than two calibers j and then terminate with a gentle
ilope in half a caliber more, fo as not to prevent the
cartridge with the powder from being eafily fent home
to the bottom of the gun, which would otherwife con-
ilantly happen with the flannel cartridges, and even
iometimes wdth paper ones, if not made to enter very
loofely. The fhape of the rifles is femicircular, their
breadth being equal to the diameter, which is of a
caliber, and their depth equal to the femidiameter, or
4f of a caliber.
ihe bullets, fig. 10. are of lead, having.fix knobs
call on them to fit the rifles of the gun. Being thus
made of fort metal, they do not injure the rifles 5 and
may alfo fave an army the trouble of carrying a great
quantity of Ihot about with them, fince a fupply of
lead may be had in mofl: countries from roofs, &c.
which can be call into balls as occafion requires. Lead
likewife being of greater fpecific gravity than call iron,
flies to a much greater diftance.
Rifled ordnance of any caliber may be made to
carry iron-(hot for battering or for other purpofes 5
provided holes, that are a little wider at their bottoms
than at their upper parts, be call; in a zone round the
ball, for receiving afterwards leaden knobs to fit the
rifles of the cannon ; by wdiich means, the iron-lhot
will have its intended line of diredlion preferved, w ith¬
out injuring the rifles more than if the whole ball was
of lead, the rotatory motion round its axis, in the line
of its direction (which .corredts the aberration) being
communicated to it by the leaden knobs, following the
fpiral turn of the rifles in its progrefs out of the. gun.
It is particularly to be obferved, that the balls muft be
made to go eafily down into the piece, fo that the car¬
tridge with the powder and the bullet may be both fent
home together, with a fingle pufh of the hand, without
any wadding above either powder or bail ; by which
means, the gun is quickly loaded, and the ball flies
E E Y.
fed. III.
^aither than when it is forcibly driven into the gun, as Fradtice.
wxis found from many experiments. The only reafon  v 
whyin common rifled mulkets, the bullets are ram¬
med in forcibly, is this, that the zone of the ball which
is contiguous to the infide of the bore may have the
figure of the rifles imprelied upon it, in fuch a manner
ai to become part of a male ferewq exadtly fittinc the
n.cents ot the rifle, wThich is not at all neceflarv in the
prelent caie, the figure of the rifles being originally
call upon the ball. Thefe knobs retard the flight of
the bullet in fome degree ; but this fmall difadvantage
is fully made up by the eafe with which the gun is
loaded, its fervice being nearly as quick as that of a
common field-piece ; and the retardation and quantity
of the whirling motion which is communicated to the
bullet being conftantly the fame, it will not in the
leaft affect the experiments made with them, in order
to determine the refiftance of the air.
In order to hit the mark with greater certainty than 48
can be done in the common random method, thefe ?ee,C^-or ani
guns ^ are furnilhpd with a fector, the principal parts of belonging
w hicn are, 1. Ihe limb, which is divided in fuch a to this
manner as to Ihow elevations to 15 or 20 degrees. Thek,nd
length of the radius is five inches and an half, and itsoulnance*
nonius is fo divided as to fliow minutes of a degree.
2. Ihe telefcope, AB, fig. 1 1. an achromatic refrac¬
tor, is feven inches in length (fuch as is ufed on Had¬
ley’s quadrants, that are fitted for taking diftances of
the moon from the fun or ftars, in order to obtain the
longitude at fea), having crofs hairs in it. 3. The
parallel cylindric bar, CD, is of an inch in diame¬
ter, having tw^o reflangular ends EF, each half an inch
fquare and an inch long. On one fide of the end next
the limb of the feflor, is a mark correfponding to a fi-
miiar one in the hinder cock of the gun, with which it
muft always coincide when placed on the gun. The
length of the parallel bar, together with its ends, is
feven inches. The bar is fixed to the feflor by means
of two hollow cylinders, G, H, which allow the feftor
a motion round the bar. There is a finger-ferew a up¬
on the hollow cylinder G, which is flit, in order to
tighten it at pleafure upon the bar. 4. The circular
level I, fig. 11. and r 2. for fetting the plane of the
feclor always perpendicular when placed upon the gun,
is ^ of an inch in diameter. There is a fmall ferew J,
to adjuft the level at right angles to the plane of the
feflor. 5. The finger ferew b, for fixing the index
of the fe£tor at any particular degree of elevation pro-
pofed.
The line of collimation (that is, the line of vifion
cut by the interfecting point of the two crofs-hairs in
the telefcope) muft be adjufted truly parallel to the bar
of the feftcr when at o degrees. This is done by
placing the fe61or fo that the vertical hair may exafliy
cover lome very diftant perpendicular line. If it again
covers it when the feftor is inverted, by turning it half
round upon the bajq which has all the while been kept
fteady and firm, that hair is correft ; if not, correct
hali the error by means of the fmall ferews, cdct
fig. 11. and 13. at the eye-end of the telefcope, and
the other half by moving the bar; place it again to co¬
ver the perpendicular line, and repeat the above opera¬
tion till the hair covers it in both pofitions of the fec¬
tor. Then turn the feftor, till the horizontal hair co-
ver
3
Sea. IIL
G U N
Pra<flice. Ver the fame perpendicular line ; and turning the feftor
v~ half round on its bar, correct it, if wrong, in the fame
manner as you did the vertical hair.
N. B. Of the four fmall fcrews at the eye-end of
the telefcope, thole at the right and left hand move
whatever hair is vertical, and thofe at top or underneath
move whatever hair is horizontal.
On the fide of the gun upon the firlt reinforce, are
call two knobs, F, fig. 9. and 14. having their middle
part dillant from each other fix inches, for fixing on
the brafs-cocks, A, fig. 14. and 15. which receive the
redfangular ends of the parallel cylindric bar of the lec¬
tor, when placed on the gun.
The next adjuftment is to make the parallel bar, and
line of collimation of the telefcope, when'fet at o de¬
grees, parallel to the bore of the gun, and confequently
to the diredfion of the Ihot. The gun being loaded,
the cartridge pricked, and the gun primed, place the
fetlor on the cocks of the gun $ and having firlt fet the
fedtor to what elevation you judge neceffary, bring the
interfedtion of the crofs hairs in the telefcope upon the
centre of the mark, the limb of the fedtor being fet
vertical by means of the circular level, and then take
off the fedtor without moving the gun. Fire the gun ;
and if the bullet hits any wdiere in the perpendicular
line, palling through the centre of the mark, the line
of collimation of the telefcope and diredtion of the Ihot
agree : but if it hit to the right of the mark, fo much
do they differ. In order to corredf which, bring the
gun into the fame pofition it was in before firing, and
fecure it there. Then file away as much of the fore
cock, on the fide next the gun, as will let the inter-
ledfion of the crofs-hair fall lomewhere on the line paf-
fing perpendicularly through the point where the Ihot
fell '■) and it is then adjufted in that pofition, fo much
being filed oft the fide of the cock at a, fig. 14. and
15. as will allow the fide b to be fcrewed clofer, that
the ends of the parallel bar may have no lhake in the
cocks. To corredt it in the other pofition, and fo to
find the true o degrees of the gun, that is, to bring the
line of collimation of the telefcope, parallel bar, and
bore of the gun, truly parallel to each other, repeat
the above with the trunnions perpendicular to the ho¬
rizon, the fedtor being turned a quarter round upon its
bar, fo as to bring its plane vertical. The deviation of
the Ihot found in this way is corredted by deepening
■•one of the cocks, fo that the vertical hair of the tele¬
fcope may be brought to cover the line palling perpen¬
dicularly through the point where the bullet hits; the
gun being placed in the fame pofition it was in before
it was fired. This adjuftment being repeated two or
three times, and any error that remains being corredf-
ed, the gun is fit to be mounted on its carriage for fer-
vice. _ It is to be obferved, that this fedtor will fit any
gun, if the cocks and redtangular ends, &c. of the .
parallel bar be of the above dimehfions, and will be
equally applicable to all fuch pieces whofe cocks have
been adjufted, as if it had been adjufted feparately
with each of them. And if the fedor be fet at any
degree -of elevation, and the gun moved fo as to
bring the interfedtion of the crofs-hairs on the ob-
jedt to be fired at (the limb of the fedtor being verti¬
cal), the bore of the gun will have the fame elevation
above it, in the true diredtion of the Ihot, whatever
pofition the carriage of the gun is Handing in. A te-
Vol. X. Part I.
I 8>
Practice-
N E R Y.
lefcope with crofs hairs, fixed to a common rilled muf-
ket, and adjufted to the diredtion of the Ihot, will »
make any perlbn, with a very little pradtice, hit an
objedt with more precifion than the molt experienced
markfman.
For garrifon fervice, or for batteries, the Ihip or Thekcar
garrifon carriage, with two iron ftaples on each fide to riages.
Put through a couple of poles to carry thefe guns from
place to place wdth more difpatch, are as proper as any.
But, for the field, a carriage like that at fig. 16. where
the ftiafts pulh in upon taking out the iron pins a by
and moving the crofs bar A, upon which the breech of
the gun refts, as far down as the lhafts were pulhed
in, is the propereft, lince the whole can then be car¬
ried like a hand-barrow, over ditches, walls* or rough
ground, all wdiich may be eafily underftood from the
figure.
The principal advantage that will accrue from the
ufe. of rifled ordnance, is the great certainty with
wdiich any objedl may be hit when fired at with them,
fince the Ihot deviates but little from its intended line
of diredlion, and the gun is capable of being brought
to bear upon the objedt, with great exaftnefs, by means
of the telefcope and crofs-hairs. ’
The other pieces of artillery commonly made ufe of !VIort;irs
are mortars, howitzers, and royals. The mortars ai-e <lcfcnbe(J>
a kind of ftiort cannon of a large bore, with chambers
for the powder, and are made of brafs or iron. Their
ufe is to throw hollow’ Ihells filled with powder, which
falling on any building, or into the -works of a fortifi¬
cation, burft, and with their fragments deftroy every
thing near them. Carcafes are alfo throwm out of
them j which are a fort of Ihells with five holes, filled
with pitch and other materials, in order to fet build¬
ings on fire ; and fometimes balkets full of ftones, of
the fize of a man’s fill, are throwm out of them up¬
on an enemy placed in the covert-way in the time
of a fiege. The ingenious General Defaguliers con¬
trived to throw bags filled with grapelhot, contain¬
ing in each bag from 400 to 600 Ihot of different
ditnenfions, out of mortars. The effedt of thefe is
tremendous to troops forming the line of battle,
palling a defile, or landing, &c. the Ihot pouring down
like a Ihower of hail on a circumference of above 200
feet. 0 .
Mortars are chiefly diftinguilhed by the dimenfions
of their bore ; for example, a 13-inch mortar is one
the diameter of whofe bore is 13 inches, &c.—-The
land-mortars are thofe ufed in fieges, and in bat¬
tles. They are mounted on beds, and both mortar
and bed are. tranfported on block carriages. There is
likewife a kind of land-mortars mounted on travelling
carriages, invented by Count Buckeburgh, which may
be elevated to any degree ; whereas all the Englilh
mortars are fixed to an angle of 450. This cuftom,
however, does not appear to have any foundation in
reaioji. In a fiege, Ihells (hould never be thrown with
an angle of 45 degrees, excepting one cafe only ; that
is, when the battery is fo far off, that they cannot other-
wife reach the works : for when Ihells are thrown out
of the trenches into the works of a fortification, or
from the town into the trenches, they Ihould have as
little elevation as poflible, in order not to bury them-
felves, but to roll along the ground, whereby they do
much more damage, and occafion a much greater conr
•A- a fternatiom
E
186 G U N N
PraAice. {Vernation among the troops, than If they funk into the
ground. On the contrary, when (hells are thrown upon
magazines, or any other buildings, the mortars ihould
be elevated as high as poiTible, that the Ihells may ac¬
quire a greater force in their fall, and confequently do
more execution.
There are other kinds of mortars, called partridge-
mortars, hand-mortars, and jirelock-mortars ; which lail
are alfo called bombards. The partridge-mortar is a
common one, furrounded with 13 other little moitars
bored round its circumference, in the body of the me¬
tal the middle one is loaded with a {hell, and the
others with grenades. The vent of the large mortar
being fired, communicates its fire to the relt j fo that
both the fhell and grenades go off at once. Hand-
mortars were frequently ufed before the invention of
cohorns. They were fixed at the end of a ftaff four feet
and a half long, the other end being (hod with iron to
flick in the ground} and while the bombardier with one
hand elevated it at pleafure, he fired it with the other.
The firelock-mortars, or bombards, are tmall mortals
fixed to the end of a firelock. They are loaded as all
common firelocks are *, and the grenade, placed in the
mortar at the end of the barrel, is difcharged by a
flint-lock. To prevent the recoil hurting the bombar¬
dier, the bombard refts on a kind of halberd made for
that purpofe.
The chamber in mortars is the place where the pow¬
der is lodged. They are of different forms, and made
v*rioufly by diffeVent nations but the cylindric feems
to be preferable to any other form.
Howitzers The howitzer is a kind of mortar mounted on a field¬
ed royals, carriage like a gun : it difters from the common mor¬
tars in having the trunnions in the middle, whereas
thofe of the mortar are at the end. Ihe conflruftion of
howitzers is as various and uncertain as that of mortars,
excepting that the chambers are all cylindric. iheyaie
diftinguilhed by the diameter of their bore } for in-
ftance, a 10-inch howitzer is that which has a bore of
1 o inches diameter, and fo of others. 1 hey were much
more lately invented than mortars, and indeed are
plainly derived from them.
Royals are a kind of fmall mortars, which carry a
fhell whofe diameter is 5.5 inches. They are mounted
5a on beds in the fame way as other mortars. ^ <
Barts of a Tig. 17. reprefents a mortar j and the names o* its
mortar. parts are as follow.
AB, the whole length of the mortar.
AC, the muzzle.
CD, chafe.
DE, reinforce.
EF, breech.
GH, trunnions.
a, vent.
b, dolphin.
c d, vent-aftragal and fillets.
d e, breech-ring and ogee.
f g, reinforce-ring and ogee.
g h, reinforce-aftragal and fillets.
ik, muzzle-aftragal and fillets.
k l, muzzle-ring and ogee.
lm, muzzle-mouldings.
?», (boulders.
SeCt. III.
Practice.
E R Y.
Interior parts.
0, chamber.
p, bore,
y, mouth,
vent.
7 /
The mortar-beds are formed of very folid timber,
and placed upon very flrong wooden frames, fixed in
fuch a manner that the bed may turn round. The fore
part of thofe beds is an arc of a circle defcriSed from
the centre on which the whole turns. 53
There are feveral inftruments employed in the load - ^™™ents
ing of cannon. The names of thefe are as follow : loading
j. The lantern or ladle, which ferves to carry the cannon,
pow'der into the piece, and wdiich confifts of two parts,
viz. of a wooden box, appropriated to the caliber of
the piece for whieh it is intended, and of a caliber and
a half in length with its vent •, and of a piece of cop¬
per nailed to the box, at the height of a half caliber.—
This lantern muft have three calibers and a half in
length, and two calibers in breadth, being rounded at
the end to load the ordinary pieces.
2. The rammer is a round piece of wood, commonly
called a box, faftened to a flick I 2 feet long, for the
pieces from 1 2 to 33 pounders •, and 10 for the 8 and
4 pounders j which ferve to drive home the powder
and ball to the breech.
3. The fpunge is a long ftaff or rammer, with a piece
of Iheep or lamb-lkin wound about its end, to ferve for
fcouring the cannon when difcharged, before it b@
charged with frelh powder 5 to prevent any fpark of
fire from remaining in her, which w’ould endanger the
life of him who Ihould load her again.
4. Wad-fcrew confifts of two points of iron turned
ferpent-wife, to extradl the wad out of the pieces when
one wants to unload them, or the dirt which had chan¬
ced to enter into it.
5. The botefeux are flicks two or three feet long,
and an inch thick, fplit at one end, to hold an end of
the match twilled round it, to fire the cannon.
6. The priming iron is a pointed iron rod, to clear
the touch-hole of the pieces of powder or dirt j and
alfo to pierce the cartridge, that it may fooner take
fire*
'7. The primer, which muft contain a pound of powT“
der at leaf!, to prime the pieces.
8. The quoin of mire, which are pieces of wood
with a notch on the fide-to put the fingers on, to draw
them back or pulh them forward when the gunner
points his piece. They are placed on the foie of the
carriage.
9. Leaden plates, which are ufed to cover the touch-
hole, when the piece is charged, left lome dirt Ihould
enter it and flop it. . . r 1 tct f
Before charging the piece, it is well fponged, to
clean it of all filth and dirt withinfide j then the pro- them«
per weight of gunpowder is put in and rammed down j
care betng taken that the powder be not bruifed in
ramming, which weakens its effed •, it is then run over
by a little quantity of paper, hay, or the like-, and
laftly, the ball is thrown in.
To point, level, or dired the piece, fo as to play
againft any certain point, is done by the help of a qua-
& drani
sea. m.
GUN
Practice, drant with a plummet: which quadrant confifts of tw'O
branches made of brafs or wood $ one about a foot
long, eight lines broad, and one line in thicknefs;
the other four inches long, and the fame thicknefs
and breadth as the former. Between thefe branches is
a quadrant, divided into 90 degrees, beginning from
the fliorter branch, and furnilhed with thread and
plummet.
The longeft branch of this inftrument is placed in
the cannon’s mouth, and elevated or lowered till the
thread cuts the degree neceffary to hit the propofed
objeft. Which done, the cannon is primed, and then
fet fire to. The method by the fe&or, however, pro¬
pofed by Dr Lind, is certainly in all cafes to be pre¬
ferred.
A 24 pounder may very wTell fire 90 or 100 fhots
every day in fummer, and 60 or 75 in winter. In cafe
of neceffity it may fire more ; and fome French officers
of artillery aflure u£, that they have caufed fuch a piece
to fire every day 150 fhots in a fiege.—A 16 and a 12
pounder fire a little more, becaufe they are eafier ferved.
There have even been fome occafions where 200 fhots
have been fired from thefe pieces in the fpace of nine
hours, and 138 in the fpace of firing. In quick firing,
tubes are made ufe of. They are made of tin ; and
their diameter is two-tenths of an inch, being juft fuf-
ficient to enter into the vent of the piece. They are
about fix inches long, wuth a cap above, and cut ilant-
ing below, in the form of a pen j the point is {Length¬
ened with fome folder, that it may pierce the cartridge
without bending. Through this tube is drawn a quick-
match, the cap being fitted with mealed powder moift-
ened with fpirits of wine. To prevent the mealed
powder from falling out by carriage, a cap of paper or
flannel fteeped in fpirits of wine is tied over it. To
range pieces in a battery, care muft be taken to recon¬
noitre well the ground where it is to be placed, and
the avenues to it. The pieces muft be armed each with
two lanterns or ladles, a rammer, a fpunge, and two
priming-irons. The battery muft alfo be provided
with carriages, and other implements, neceffary to re¬
mount the pieces which the enemy fhould chance to
difmount.
To ferve expeditioufiy and fafely a piece in a bat¬
tery, it is neceffary to have to each a fack of leather,
large enough to contain about 20 pounds of powder
to charge the lanterns or ladles, without carrying them
to the magazine } and to avoid thereby making thofe
trains of powder in bringing back the lantern from the
magazine, and the accidents which frequently happen
thereby.
A battery of three pieces muft have 30 gabions,
becaufe fix are employed on each of the two fides or
epaulments, which make 12, and nine for each of the
two merlons.
There ought to be two gunners and fix foldicrs to
each piece, and an officer of artillery.
The gunrilr ported on the right of the piece muft
take care to have always a pouch full of powder and
two priming irons: his office is to prime the piece, and
load it With powder. The gunner on the left fetches
the powder from the little magazine, and fills the lan¬
tern or ladle which his comrade holds j after which, he
takes car# that the match be very well lighted, and
N E It Y. 187
ready to fet fire to the piece at the firft command of Pra<ftice.
the officer. 1 1 v-"”-'
There are three foldiers on the right and three on
the left of the piece. The two firft take care to ram
and fpunge the piece, each on his fide. The rammer
and fpunge are placed on the left, and the lantern or
ladle on the right. After having rammed well the wad
put over the powder and that put over the bullet, they
then take each a handfpike, which they pafs between
the foremoft fpokes of the wheel, the ends whereof
will pafs under the head of the carriage, to make the
w'heel turn round, leaning on the other end of the hand¬
fpike, towards the embrafure.
It is the office of the fecond foldier on the right to
provide wad, and to put it into the piece, as w'ell over
the powder as over the bullet j and that of his com¬
rade on the left to provide 50 bullets, and every time
the piece is to be charged to fetch one of them and
put it into the piece after the powder has been ram¬
med. Then they both take each an handfpike, wrhich
they pafs under the hind part of the wheel, to pufh it
in battery.
The officer of artillery muft take care to have the
piece diligently ferved.
In the night he muft employ the gunners and fol¬
diers, who fhall relieve thofe who have ierved 24 hours,
to repair the embrafures.
If there be no water near the battery, care muft be
taken to have a calk filled with it, in wdrich to dip the
fpunges and cool the pieces every 10 or 12 rounds.
The carriage for a mortar of 12 inches diameter
muft be 6 feet long, the flalks 12 inches long and 10
thick. The trunnions are placed in the middle of the
carriage.
The carriage of an 18 inch mortar muft be 4 feet
long, and the flalks 11 inches high and 6 thick.
1 o mount thd mortars of new invention, they ufe
carriages of call iron. ^
In Germany, to mount mortars from 8 to 9 inches, Method of
and carry them into the field, and execute them hori- managing
zontally as a piece of cannon, they make ufe of a piece mortars*
of wood 8 feet 2 inches long, with a hole in the middle
to lodge the body of the mortar and its trunnions as
far as their half diameter, and mounted on two wheels
four feet high, to which they join a vantrain propor¬
tioned to it, and made like thofe which ferve to the
carriages of cannons.
Having mounted the mortar on its carriage, the next
thing is to caliber the bomb by means of a great ca¬
liber, the two branches whereof embrace the whole
circumference of the bomb : thefe two branches are
brought on a rule where the different calibers are mark-
.ed, among which that of the bomb is found.
If no defeat be found in the bomb, its cavity is fill¬
ed, by means of a funnel, with whole gunpowder; a
little fpace or liberty is left, that when a fufee or wood¬
en tube, of the figure of a truncated cone, is driven
through the aperture (with a wooden mallet, not an
iron one for fear of accident), and faftened with a ce¬
ment made of quicklime, allies, brick-duft, and fteel-
filings, wTorked together in a glutinous water, or of four
parts of pitch, two of colophony, one of turpentine,
and one of wax, the powder may not be bruifed. This
tube is filled with a combuftible matter made of two
A a 2
ounces
188 GUNN
Pracflice. ounces of nitre, one of fulphur, and three or more of
' \r—~J gunpowder duft well rammed. See Fuzee.
This tuiee fet on fire burns fiowly till it reaches the
gunpowder, which goes oft' at once, burfting the Ihell
to pieces with incredible violence. Special care, how¬
ever, . muft be taken that the fufee be fo proportioned
as that the gunpowder do not take fire ere the ihell
arrives at the deftined place ; to prevent which, the
fufee is frequently wound round with a wet clammy
thread.
Batteries confift,—i. Of an epaulment to ftielter the
mortars from the fire of the enemy. 2. Of platforms on
which the mortars are placed. 3. Of fmall magazines
of powder. 4. Of a boyau, w’hich leads to the great
magazine. 5. Of ways which lead from the battery
to the magazine of bombs. 6. Of a great ditch before
the epaulment. 7. Of a berm or retraite.
The platforms for mortars of 12 inches muft have 9
feet in length and 6 in breadth.—The lambourds for
common mortars muft be four inches thick ; thole of a
concave chamber of 81b. of powder, 5 inches •, thofe of
1 2lb. 6 inches ; thofe of 181b. 7 inches or thereabouts.
Their length is at difcretion, provided there be enough
to make the platforms 9 feet long.—The fore part of
the platform will be lituated at two feet diftance from
the epaulment of the battery.-*-The bombardiers, to
{belter themfelves in their battery, and not be feen from
the town befieged, raife an epaulment of 7 feet or more
high, wftnch epaulment has no embrafures.
To ferve expeditioufly a mortar in battery, there are
required,—five ftrong handfpikesj a dame or rammer,
of the caliber of the conic chamber, to ram the wad
and the earth ; a wooden knife a foot long, to place
E It Y. Seft. III.
be received into the mortar by the firft folciler, and pla- Practice,
ced very ftrait in the bore or chafe of the mortar. ' v ~ ■*
The firft on the right will furnilh him with earth
to put round the bomb, which he muft take care to
ram clofe with the knife given him by the fecond on
the left.
This done, each fhall take a handfpike, which the
two firft on the right and left ftiall put under the pegs
of retreat of the fore part, and the two behind under
thofe of the hind part, and they together pulh the mor¬
tar in battery.
Afterwards the officer points or diredls the mortar.
During that time the firft foldier takes care to
prime the touch-hole of the mortar, without ramming
the powder j and -the laft on the right muft have the
match ready to fet fire to the fufee of the bomb on the
right, while the firft is ready with his on the left to fet
fire to the touch-hole of the mortar, which he ought
not to do till he fees the fufee well lighted.
The foremoft foldiers will have their handfpikes ready
to raife the mortar upright as foon as it has difcharged,
while the hindmoft on the left ffiall wdth the leraper
clean the bore and chamber of the mortar.
The magazine of powder for the fervice of the bat¬
tery muft be fituated 15 or 20 paces behind, and co-
the earth round the bomb } an iron fcraper two feet
long, one end whereof muft be four inches broad and
roundwife, to clean the bore and the chamber of the
mortar, and the other end made in form of a fpoon to
clean the little chamber 5 a kind of brancard to carry
the bomb, a (hovel, and pick-axe.
The officer who is to mind the fervice of the mortar
muft have a quadrant to give the degrees of eleva¬
tion.
Five bombardiers, or others, are employed in that
fervice j the firft muft take care to fetch the powder to
charge the chamber of the mortar, putting his priming-
iron in the touch-hole before he charges the chamber ^
and never going to fetch the powder before he has a(k-
ed his officer at what quantity of powder he defigns
to charge, becaufe more or lefs powder is wanted ac¬
cording to the diftance where it is fired j the fame will
take care to ram the wad and earth, which another
ioldier puts in the chamber.
The foldier on the right will put again two (hovelful .
of earth in the bottom of the bore, which (hould be
likewife very well rammed down.
This done, the rammer or dame is returned into its
place againft the epaulment on the right of the mor¬
tar : he takes an handfpike in the fame place to pod
himfelf behind the carriage of the mortar, in order to
help to puffi it into battery : having laid down his
handfpike, he takes out his priming-iron, and primes
the touch-hole with fine powder.
The fecond foldier on the right and left will have by
fitft time brought the bomb ready loaded, which muft
vered with boards and earth over it.—The loaded
bombs are on the fide of the faid magazine, at five or
fix paces diftance.
The officer who commands the fervice of the mortar
muft take care to difeover as much as poffible with the
eye the diftance of the place where he intends to throw
his bomb, giving the mortar the degree of elevation
according to the judgment he has formed of the di¬
ftance. Having thrown the firft bomb, he muft di-
minifli or increafe the degrees of elevation according to
the place upon which it (hall fall. Several make ufe
of tables to difeover the difterent diftances according
to the differences of the elevations of the mortar, Spe¬
cially the degrees of the quadrant from 1 to 45 : but
thefe, from the principles already laid down, muft be
fallacious.
The petard is the next piece of artillery which de- Of the pe-
ferves our attention 5 and is a kind of engine of metal, tard.
fomewhat in (hape of a high-crowned hat, ferving to
break down' gates, barricades, draw-bridges, or the
like wmrks, which are intended to be furprifed. It is
very (hort, narrow at the breech and wfide at the
muzzle, made of copper mixed with a little brafs, or
of lead with tin.
The petards are not alwrays of the fame height and
bignefs : they are commonly 10 inches high, 7 inches
of diameter a-top, and I o inches at bottom. 1 hey
weigh commonly 40, 45, and 50 pounds.
The madrier, on which the petard is placed, and
where it is tied wfith iron circles, is of two feet for its
greateft width, and of 18 inches on the fides, and no
thicker than a common madrier. Under the madrier
are two iron bars paffed crofswife, with a hook, which
ferves to fix the petard.
To charge a petard 15 inches high, and 6 or 7
inches of caliber or diameter at the bore, the infide
muft be firft very well cleaned and heated, fo that the
hand may bear the heat •, then take the beft powder
that may be found, throw over it fome fpirit of wine,
and
f
I
Sea. III. GUN
Praftice. and expofe it to the fun, or put it in a frying-pan;
v—v 1 ancj when Jt is well dried, 5 lb. or 6 lb. of this powder
is put into the petard, which reaches within three
fingers of the mouth : the vacancies are filled with tow,
and flopped with a wrooden tompion ; the mouth being
flrongly bound up with cloth tied very tight with ropes j
then it is fixed on the madrier, that has a cavity cut in
it to receive the mouth of the petard, and laftened
down with ropes.
Some, inftead of gunpowder for the charge, ufe one
of the following compofitions, viz. gunpowder feven
pounds, mercury fublimate one ounce, camphor eight
.ounces ; or gunpowder fix pounds, mercury fublimate
three ounces, and fulphur three 5 .or gunpowder fix, bea¬
ten glafs half an ounce, and camphor three quarters.
Before any of thefe pieces are appropriated for fer-
vice, it is neceiTary to have each undergo a particular
trial of its foundnefs, which is called a proof, to be
made by or before one authoriled for the purpofe, call¬
ed the proof tnqfer.
• To make a proof of the piece, a proper place is cho-
fen, which is to be terminated by a mount of earth ve¬
ry thick to receive the bullets fired againft it, that none
of them may run through it. The piece is laid on the
ground, fupported only in the- middle by a block of
wood. It is fired three times , the firfl with powTder
of the weight of the bullet, and the two others with
of the weight; after which a little more powder is put
in to finge the piece ; and after this, water, which is
impreffed with a fpunge, putting the finger on the
touch-hole to difcover if there be any cracks j which
N E R Y. 189
done, they are examined with the cat, which is a piece Practice,
of iron vyith three grafps, difpofed in the form of a tri-
angle, and of the caliber of the piece ; then it is viiited
with a w’ax-candle, but it is 0? very little fervice in the
fmall pieces, becaufe if they be a little long, the fmoke
extinguhhes it immediately. See Plate CCXLIX. ^
Befides the large pieces already mentioned, invented Of fmall
for the deftru&ion of mankind, there are others called arms*
fmall guns ; viz. mulkets of ramparts, common muikets, *
fufils, carabines, rnulketoons, and piltols.
A mulket, or mufquet, is a fire-arm borne on the
fhoulder, and ufed in war, formerly fired by the appli¬
cation of a lighted match, but at prefent with a flint
and lock. The common mulket is of the caliber of 20
leaden balls to the pound, and receivoe balls from 22
to 24 : its length is fixed to 3 feet 8 inches from the
muzzle to the touch-pan.
A fufil, or fire-lock, has the fame length and cali¬
ber, and ferves at prefent inftead of a mulket.
A carabine is a fmall fort of fire-arm, Ihorter than a
fufil, and carrying a ball of 24 in the pound, borne by
the light-horfe, hanging at a belt over the left Ihoulder.
This piece is a kind of medium between the piftol and'
the mulket; and bears a near affinity to the arquebufs,
only that its bore is fmaller. It was formerly made
with a match-lock, but afterwards with a flint-lock.
The mufquetoon is of the fame length of the cara¬
bine, the barrel polilhed, and dean within. It carries-
five ounces of iron, or feven and a half of lead, with an
equal quantity of powder.
The barrel of a piftol is generally 14 inches long.
GUN
Gunpow¬
der.
GUNPOWDER, a compofition of nitre, fulphur,
and charcoal, mixed together, and ufually granula¬
ted \ which eafily takes fire, and, when fired, rarefies
or expands with great vehemence, by means of its ela-
ftic force.
It is to this powder we owe all the aftion and elfe£I
of guns, ordnance, &c. fo that the modern military
art, fortification, &c. in a great meafure depend there¬
on.
Invention of GaspoivDER. See Gun.
Method of making Gunpowder. Dr Shaw’s receipt
for this purpofe is as follows : Take four ounces of
refined nitre, an ounce of fulphur, and fix drams of
fmall-coal : reduce thefe to a fine powder, and con¬
tinue beating them for fome time in a ftone mortar
with a wooden peftle, wetting the mixture between
whiles with water, fo as to form the whole into an uni¬
form pafte, which is reduced to grains, by palling
it through a wire-fieve fit for the purpofe 5 and in this
form being carefully dried, it becomes the common
gunpowder.
For greater quantities mills are ufually provided, by
means of which more wTork may be performed in one
day than a man can do in a hundred.
The nitre or faltpetre is refined thus : Difiblve four
pounds of rough nitre as it comes to us from the In¬
dies, by boiling it in as much water as wall commodi-
eufly ftrffice for that purpofe : then let it flioot for twTo
GUN
or three days in a covered velfel of earth, with Hicks
laid acrofs for the cryftals to adhere to. Thele cry-
ftals being taken out, are drained and dried in the
open air.
In order to reduce this fait to powder,’ they diflblve
a large quantity of it in as fmall a proportion of water
as poffible j then keep it conftantly ftirring over the
fire till the water exhales, and a white dry powder is
left behind.
In order to purify the fulphur employed, they
diffolve it with a very gentle heat ; then feum and pais
it through a double ftrainer. If the fulphur ffiould
happen to take fire in the melting, they have an iron
cover that fits on clofe to the melting-veffel, and damps
the flame. The fulphur is judged to be fufficiently
refined if it melts, without yielding any fetid odour,
between two hot iron plates, into a kind of red fub-
ftance.
The coal for the making of gunpowder is either
that of willow or hazel,, well charred in the ufual
manner, and reduced to powder. And thus the ingre¬
dients are prepared for making this commodity : but
as thefe ingredients require to be intimately mixed, and
as there would be danger of their firing if beat in a dry
form, the method is to keep them continually moift,
either with water, urine, or a folution of fal ammoniac :
they continue thus ftamping them together for 24
hours j after which the mafs is fit for corning and
drying.
Gunpow¬
der.
GUN
[
* Phil.
Tranf.
vol. ixxi.
Gun'Km’- drying in the fun, or otherwife, fo as feduloufly to pre-
i c e^'' vent its firing.
Different kinds of Gunpowder. The three ingre¬
dients of gunpowder are mixed in various proportions
according as the powder is intended for mufkets, great
guns, or mortars, though thefe proportions leem not
to be perfe£tly adjufted or fettled by competent expe¬
rience.
. Semienowitz, for mortars, direfts a hundred pounds
of faltpetre, twenty-five of fulphur, and as many of
charcoal j for great guns, a hundred pounds of fait-
petre, fifteen pounds of fulphur, and eighteen pounds
of charcoal j for mufkets and piilols, a hundred pounds
of faltpetre, eight pounds of fulphur, and ten pounds
of charcoal. Miethius extols the proportion of one
pound of faltpetre to three ounces of charcoal, and
two or two and a quarter of fulphur 5 than which,
he affirms, no gunpowder can poffibly be flronger.
He adds, that the ufual practice of making the gun¬
powder weaker for mortars than guns, is without any
foundation, and renders the expence needlefsly much
greater : for whereas to load a large mortar twenty-
four pounds of common powder is required, and conle-
quently, to load it ten times, two hundred and forty
pounds, he fhows, by calculation, that the fame effeff
•would be produced by one hundred and fifty pounds of
• • the ftrong powder.
On this fubjeft Count Rumford * obferves, that almofl
all thofe who have written upon gunpowder, particu¬
larly thofe of the laft century, have given different re¬
ceipts for its compofition 5 and he propofes it as a
query, Whether thefe differences have not arifen from
obferving that feme kinds of powder were better adapt¬
ed to particular purpofes than others, or from experi¬
ments made on purpofe to afeertain the fa£l ? “ There
is one circumffance (he fays) that would lead us to
fuppofe that this was the cafe. That kind of powder
defigned for mortars and great guns was weaker than
that intended for fmall arms : for if there is any foun¬
dation for thefe conje£lures, it is certain, that the
weakeft powder, or the heavieft in proportion to its
elaftic force, ought to be ufed to impel the heavieft
bullets j and particularly in guns that are imperfeflly
fanned, where the vent is large, and the windage very
great. I am perfectly aware (adds he), that an ob¬
jection iriay here be made, viz. that the elallic fluid
generated from gunpowder mufl: be fuppofed to have
the fame properties very nearly, whatever may be the
proportion of its feveral ingredients ; and that there¬
fore the only difference there can be in powder is, that
one kind may generate more of this fluid, and another
lefs; and that when it is generated it afts in the fame
manner, and will alike efcape, and with the fame ve¬
locity, by any paffage it can find. But to this I an-
fwer, that though the fluid may be the fame, as it un¬
doubtedly is, and though its denfity and elafticity
may be the fame in all cafes at the inftant of its ge¬
neration 5 yet in the explofion, the elaftic and unelaftic
pcjrts are fo mixed together, that I imagine the fluid
cannot expand without taking the grofs matter along
with it; and the velocity with which the flame iffues
at the vent is to be computed from the elafticity of
the fluid, and the denfity or wreight of the fluid and
grofs matter taken together, and not Amply from the
4enfity and elafticity of the fluid.”
9° ] Cx U N
. To incrfafe the length of powder, Dr Shaw thinks Gunpow-
n proper to make the grains confiderably large, and to ^er’
have it well lifted from the fmall dull. We fee that
gunpowder, reduced to dull, has little explofive force j
but when the grains are large, the flame of one grain
has a ready paffage to another, fo that the whole par¬
cel may thus take fire nearly at the fame time, other-
wife much force may be loft, or many of the grains go
away as Ihot unfired.
_ In the 71 ft volume of the Phil. Tranf. Count Rumford
gives an account of feveral attempts to augment the
force of gunpowder by the addition of different ingre-
dients. The power of fteam has by many been over¬
rated to fuch a degree, as to be iuppofed capable of
anfwering the purpofes of gunpowder; but no at¬
tempts to accomplilh this have ever fucceeded in any
degree. Count Rumford attempted to combine the forces
of fteam and gunpowder together in the following
manner. Having procured a number of air bladders of
very fmall fifties, he put difterent quantities of water
into them, from the fize of a fmall pea to that of a
piftol bullet, and tying them up with fome very fine
thread, hung them up to dry on the outfide. He then
provided a number of cartridges made of fine paper,
and filled them rvith a quantity of gunpowder equal
to the ufual charge for a common horfeman’s piftol.
He then loaded the piftol with a bullet, fired it againlt
an oaken plank about fix feet from the muzzle, and
obferved the recoil and penetration of the bullet. He
next tried the effea of one of thefe fmall bladders of
water when put among the gunpowder, but always
found the force of the powder very much diminilhed,
and the larger the quantity of water the greater was
the diminution 5 the report of the explofion was alfo
diminiftied in a ftill greater proportion than the force
of the bullet or recoil. It being fuppofed that the
bladder had burft, and thus by wetting the gunpowder
prevented it from taking fire, the experiment was re¬
peated with highly rectified fpirit of wine, but the
diminution of the force was very little inferior to what
it had been with water. Etherial oil of turpentine
and fmall quantities of quickfilver were alfo tried, but
with no better fuccefs than before. Thinking, how’-
ever, that the failure of the quickfilver might be owino-
to its having been too much in a body, the experiment
was repeated with the metal difperfed in fmall particles
through the powder. To acccmplifti this difperfion
the more completely, 20 grains of ethiops mineral were
mixed very intimately with i 45 grains of powder;
but ftill the force of the bullet was much lefs than if
the powder had been ufed without any addition. As
the explofion of pulvis fulminans appears vaftly fupe-
rior to that of gunpowder, fome fait of tartar, in its
pureft ft ate, was mixed in the proportion of 20 grains
to 145 of powder ; but on firing the piece, it was
fti'l found that the force of the explofion was leffened.
Sal ammoniac was next tried, which, under certain
circumllances, is found to produce a great quantity of
air or elaftic vapour j but on mixing 20 grains of it
with 145 of gunpowder, the force of the explofion
was ftill found to be diminilhed. As moft of the me¬
tals, when diffolved in acids, particularly brafs in fpirit
of nitre, are found to produce much elaftic vapour, it
was thought worth while to try whether the for#e of
powder could be augmented by this means. Twenty
grains
Gunpow¬
der.
GUN [ iQi ] GUN
frrains of brafs duft were therefore mixed with 145
grains of powder j but ftill the force of the explofion
was not augmented. In our author’s opinion, how¬
ever, neither brafs duft nor ethiops mineral diminifh
the force of the explofion otherwife than by filling up
the interfaces between the grains, obftrucling the paf-
fage of the flame, and thus impeding the progrefs of
the inflammation. Thus it appears, that little hope
remains of augmenting the force of gunpowder by
any addition either of liquid or inflammable folids: the
reafon is obvious; viz. becaufe all of them, the liquids
■efpecially, abforb great quantities of heat before they
can be converted into vapour; and this vapour, after
it is formed, requires more heat to make it expand
more forcibly than air : hence, as the effe&s of gun¬
powder depend entirely upon the emiflion of a quan¬
tity of air, and its rarefadlion. by vehement heat, the
power muft be greatly diminiftied by the abforption
of this heat, which ought to be fpent in rarefying the
air. Even folid bodies cannot be fet on fire without
a previous abforption of heat to convert them into
vapour •, but liquids have this property ftill more than
folids, and muft therefore diminifh the explofive force
ftill more. . Lime added to gunpowder, however, is
faid to augment the power of the explofion by one-
third.
In his experiments on gunpowder, Count Rumford
had the curiofity to compare the ftrength of aurum fulmi-
nans, when inclofed in a gun-barrel, with that of com¬
mon gunpowder; but his experiment only verified
what has been found by others, viz. that this powder
which in the open air makes fuch a very violent re¬
port, has in clofe veflels fcarce any powrer, compara¬
tively fpeaking, either of explofion or projefting a
bullet. Count Rumford, however, taking it for granted
that the power of aurum fulminans would be found
much greater than that of gunpowder, took care to
have a barrel of uncommon ftrength prepared for the
experiment. 7 he tveight of it was 7 lb. 5 oz. j the
length 13*25 inches, and the width of the bore
0.55 inches. This barrel, being charged with 27.44
grains of aurum fulminans and two leaden bullets,
which, together with the leather put about them to
make them fit the bore without windage, weighed
427 grains: it was laid upon a chafingdifh of live
coals at the diftance of about ten feet from the pen¬
dulum, and the piece was directed againft the centre
of the pendulum. Some minutes elafped before the
powder exploded *, but when it did fo, the explofion
did not much exceed the report of a well-charged air-
gun ; and it was not until he faw the pendulum in
motion, that Count Rumford could be perfuaded that
the bullets had been difeharged. On examination,
how'ever, it was found that nothing had been left in
the barrel, and that the powder had probably been all
exploded, as a great many particles of the revived me¬
tal were thrown about. From a calculation of the
motion communicated to the pendulum, it was found
that the velocity of the bullets had been about 428 feet
in a fecond •, whence it appears that the power of au-
rum fulminans, compared with that of gunpowder, is
only as 4 to 13 very nearly.
Method of Trying and Examining Gunpowder. There
are t twTo general methods of examining gunpowder;
one with regard to its purity, the other with regard to
its ftrength. Its purity is known by laying two or Gunpow-
three little heaps near each other upon white paper, , (*er'
and firing one of them. For if this takes fire readily,
and the fmoke rifes upright, without leaving any drofs
or feculent matter behind, and without burning the
paper, or firing the other heaps, it is efteemed a fign
that the fulphur and nitre w'ere w^ell purified, that the
coal was good, and that the three ingredients were
thoroughly incorporated together: but if the other
heaps alfo take fire at the fame time, it is prefumed,
that either common fait was mixed with the nitre, or
that the coal was not well ground, or the whole mats
not well beat and mixed together 5 and if either the
nitre or fulphur be not well purified, the paper will be
black or fpotted.
Several inftruments have been invented to try the
ftrength of gunpowder; but they have generally been
complained of as inaccurate. Mr Thomfon, (now Count
Rumford), in the 71ft volume of the Philofophical
Tranfactions, gives an account of an exa6t method oF
proving the ftrength of it. “ As the force of powder
(fays he) arifes from the aftion of an elaftic fluid that
is generated from it in its inflammation, the quicker the
charge takes fire, the more of this fluid will be genera¬
ted in any given (hort fpace of time, and the greater of
courfe will its effe£t be upon the bullet. But in the
common method of proving gunpowrder,‘the weight by
which the powder is confined is fo great in proportion to
the quantity of the charge, that there is time quite fuf-
ficient for the charge to be all inflamed, even when
the powder is of the floweft compofition, before the
body to be put in motion can be fenfibly removed
from its place. The experiment therefore may fhow
which of the two kinds of powder is the ftrongeft,
when equal quantities of both are confined in equal
fpaces, and both completely inflamed j but the de¬
gree of the inflammability, which is a property ef-
fential to the gpodnefs of the powder, cannot by
thefe means be afeertained. Hence it appears how
powder may anfwer to the proof, fuch as is commonly
required, and may neverthelefs turn out very indiffe¬
rent when it comes to be ufed in fervice. But though
the common powrder-triers may fliow powder to be
better than it really is, they can never make it appear
to be worfe than it is j it will therefore always be the
intereft of thofe who manufa£lure the commodity to
adhere to the old method of proof, but the purchafer
will find his account in having it examined in a method-
by which its goodnefs may be afeertained with greater
precifion.
From feveral experiments it appears, that the effe<5L
of the charge is confiderably augmented or diminiihed,
according to the greater or lefs force employed in ram¬
ming it down. To prevent this inconvenience, Count
Rumford advifes the ufe of a cylindric ramrod of wood,
fitted with a metal ring about an inch or an inch and
a half in diameter 5 which being placed at a proper
diftance from the end which goes up into the bore, will
prevent the powder from being too much comprefled.
In making experiments of this kind, however, it is
neceflary to pay attention to the heat of the barrel
as wTell as to the temperature of the atmofphere; for
heat and cold, drynefs and moifture, have a very fen-
fible effeft upon gunpowder to augment or diminilh
its force. When a very great degree of accuracy'
therefore
GUN . [ 192 ] GUN
Gunpow- therefore happens to be requifite, it will be proper to But this proves only that brafs is eafily corroded by 6anpo^
; begin by firing the piece two or three times, merely the flame of gunpowder ; which indeed is the cafe , ^
1 v ' to warm it*, after which three or four experiments may with iron alfo. We cannot fuppofe that in either cafe
be made with ftandard powder, to determine the proof any real folution takes place ; on the contrary, it is
mark a fecond time, for the ftrength of powder is dif- very evident that it does not : for when the vents of
ferent at different times, in confequence of the Bate of fire-arms are lined with gold, they will remain with-
the atmofphere. After this the experiments may be out enlargement for any length of time, though it is
made with the powder that is to be proved, taking well known that gold is much mo^e eafily melted than
care to prefervfc the fame interval of time between the iron. As the heat communicated to bullets, therefore,
difeharges, that the heat of the piece may be the fame is not to be a fen bed to the flame but to percuffion, fo
in each trial. t^ie heat acquired by guns is to be attributed, in our
Having determined the comparative degrees of author’s opinion, to the motion and friftion of the
Brength of two different kinds of powder, their com- internal parts of the metal among themfelves by the
parative value may be afeertained by augmenting the violent aftion of the flame upon the infide of the bore.-
quantity of the weaker powder till the velocity of the To generate heat, the aftion of the powder muff be
bullets in both cafes becomes the fame, The flrong not only fufficient to Brain the metal, and produce a
powder is therefore precifely as much more valuable motion in its parts, but this efieft mull be extremely
than the weak, as it produces the fame effeft with a rapid 5 and the effea will be much augmented if the
fmaller quantity. Thus if a quarter of an ounce of exertion of the force and the duration of its Ta&ion
one kind of powder difeharges a bullet with the fame are momentaneous : for in that cafe the fibres of the
velocity that half an ounce of another kind does, it is metal that are violently flretched will return writh
plain that the former is tw'ice as valuable as the latter, their full force and velocity, and the fwht vibratory
and ought to be fold at double the price.—By compa- motion and attrition above-mentioned will be produced,
rifons of this kind, Count Rumford found that the beff Now the effort of any given charge of powder upon
battle powder (fo called from its being made at the the gun is very nearly the fame whether it be fired
village of Battle in Kent) is flronger than government with a bullet or without; but the velocity with
powder, in the proportion of 4 to 3 5 but from a com- which the generated elaflic fluid makes its efcape, is
parifon of the prices, it appears that the former is no much greater when _ the powder is fired alone than
lefs than 41-f percent, dearer than it ought to be*, and when it is made to impel one or more bullets ; the
confequently, that whoever ufes it in preference to go- heat ought therefore to be much greater m the for-
vernment powder, does it at a certain lofs of 41-f- per mer than in the latter cafe, as has been found by ex-
cent. of the money it cofls him. periment. “ But to make this matter Bill plainer,
It is fuppofed by Count Rumford, that very little (fays our author), we will fuppofe any given quantity
of the heat acquired in firing a piece of ordnance of powder to be confined m a fpace that is juff capable
comes from the powder ; for the time that it con- of containing it, and that in this fituation it is fet on
tinues in the piece, perhaps not exceeding the 200th fire. Let us fuppofe this fpace to be the chamber of a
part of a fecond, is fo fmall, that were the flame four piece of ordnance, and that a bullet or any other iolid
hundred times, inflead of four times, as Mr Robins body is fo firmly fixed m the bore, immediately upon
fuppofes, hotter than red hot iron, it is by far too fliort the charge, that the whole effort of the powder fhall
to communicate a fenfible degree of heat to one of our not be able to remove it : as the powder goes on to
large pieces of cannon. Befides, if the heat of the flame be inflamed, and the elaflic fluid to be generated, the
was fufficient to communicate fuch a degree of heat preffure upon the infide of the chamber will be in¬
to the gun, it mufl undoubtedly be capable of burn- creafed, till at length all the powder being burnt, the
ing up all combuflible bodies that come in its Way, Brain upon the metal will be at its greateff height, and
and of melting lead-fhot when fuch were ufed *, but in- in this fituation things will remain; the cohefion or
Bead of this we frequently fee the fineff paper difehar- elaflicity of the particles of metal counterbalancing the
ged from the mouth of a gun without being inflamed, preffure of the fluid.-Under thefe circumffances very
•ifter it has fuflained the a&ion of the fire through the little heat would be generated *, for the continued ct-
whole lenoth of the bore *, and the fmalleff lead-ffiot fort of the elaffic fluid vyould approach to the nature
is difeharged without being melted. The objeftion of the preffure _ of a weight *, and that concuffion, vi-
drawn from the heat of bullets taken up immediately bration, and frnffion among the particles of the rnetal,
after being difeharged from fire arms does not hold j which in the collifion of elaflic bodies is the caufe of
for bullets"difeharged from air-guns and even crofs-bows the heat produced, would fcarcely take effed. -out in*
are likewife found hot, efpecially when they happen to Bead of being firmly fixed.m its place, let the bu et
Brike any hard body, and are much flattened. If a now be moveable, but let it give way with great diffi-
mulket ball be difeharged into water, or againff any culty, and by flow degrees. In this ca>e the ela™c
very foft body, it will not be fenfibly heated ; but if it fluid will be generated as before, and will exert its
hits a plate of iron or any other body which it can- whole force upon the chamber of the piece 5 but as t e
not penetrate, it will be broken in pieces by the blow, bullet gives way to the preffure, and moves on in the
and the difperfed parts will be found in a Bate little bore, the fluid will expand itielf and grow weaker, and
fliort of adual fufion. Hence our author concludes, the particles of the metal will gradually return to their
that bullets are not heated by the flame, but by per- former fituations *, but thfe velocity with which the me-
tuffion. Another obje&ion is, that the vents of brafs tal reftores itfelf being but fmall, the vibration that re¬
guns are frequently enlarged to fuch a degree by re- mains in the metal after the elaflic fluid has made its
peatedly firing them, that the piece becomes ufelefs. efcape will be very languid, as wul the heat be which
GUN [ i Q3 ] GUN
Gunpow- is generated by it. But if, inftead of giving way with
<icr' fo much difficulty, the bullet is made lighter, fo as to
afford but little refiftance to the elallic fluid in making
its efeape, or if it is fired without any bullet at all ;
then, there being little or nothing to oppofe the paf-
fage of the flame through the bore, it will expand
itielf ivith amazing velocity, and its adtion upon the
gun will ceafe almoil in an inftant •, the ftrained metal
will reftore itfelf with a very rapid motion, and a (harp
vibration will enfue, by which the piece will be much
heated.”
The Count, however, after more mature refleflion,
a greater number and diverfity of experiments, and the
increafed knowledge which muft always accompany
fuch intellectual exertions as have dilfinguilhed him
through life, has been enabled to evince, that the
amazing force of the elaflic fluid generated in the corn-
bullion of gunpowder, may be fully accounted for on
the hypothefis, that it entirely depends on the elafticity
of watery vapour, or fleam, which is doubled by every
xncreafe of temperature equal to 30° of Fahrenheit’s
thermometer. If then the mean prelfure of the atmo-
fphere at the temperature of 21 2°, equals the elaflic
force of fleam, this force at the temperature of 2420
mufl be equal to the preffure of two atmofpheres, fince
212 -j-flO— 242) and io on in the fame ratio. The
Count alio found that the elaftic force of gunpowder
is equal to the preflure of 131,072 atmofpheres at the
temperature of 722°. By the flame of gunpowder,
brafs has been known to be melted, which requires a
temperature equal to 3807° of Fahrenheit, or zx0 of
Wedgwood, to bring it to a ftate of fuiion. He alfo
proved in a fatisfa&ory manner, that gunpowder contains
a 1'ufficient quantity of w^ater for fupplying the requifite
proportion of fleam *, but for a full account of his very
ingenious and detailed experiments on this curious fub-
jeft, we mutt refer our readers to Nicholfon’s Journal,
vol. i. 4to. p, 459.
It has been propofed to fubftxtute hyperoxymuriate of
potaflx in place of nitre ; but the ufe of this fubftance is
attended with many inconveniences, fome of which pre¬
clude its being employed in the compofition of gunpow¬
der. See Chemistry, N0 959 to N° 967.
To recover damaged GvNeo/rDER. The method of
the powder-merchants is, to put part of the powder
on a fail-cloth, to which they add an equal weight of
what is really good; and with a Ihovel mingle it well
together, dry it in the fun, and barrel it up, keeping
it in a dry and proper place. Others again, if it be
very bad, rellore it by moiftening it with vinegar, wa¬
ter, urine, or brandy j then they beat it fine, fearce
it, and to every pound of powder add an ounce, an
ounce and an hillf, or two ounces, according as it is
decayed, of melted faltpetre. Afterwards, " thefe in¬
gredients are to be moiftened and mixed well, fo that
nothing can be difeerned in the compofitxon, which
/ may be known by cutting the mafs 5 and then they
granulate it as before. In cafe the powder be in a
manner quite fpoiled, the only way is to extract the
faltpetre with water according to the ufual manner,
by boiling, filtrating, evaporating, and cryftallizing j
and then with frelh fulphur and charcoal to make it up
anew again.
In regard to the medical virtues of gunpowder,
Boerhaave informs us, that the flame of it affords a
Vol, X. Part I.
very healthy fume in the height of the plague, be- Gun-fliot
caufe the explofive acid vapour of nitre and fulphur W0lincis
corrects the air ; and that the fame vapour, if received Giyn_
in a fmall clofe pent-up place, kills infedls. Smithery.
It is ertadled by 5 and 11 of Geo. I. and 5 Geo. II.
c. 20. that gunpowder be carried to any place in a
covered carriage j the barrels being clofe-jointed *, or
in cales and bags of leather, &c. And perfons keep¬
ing more than 200 pounds weight of gunpowder at
one time, within the cities of London and Weflmin-
rter, or the fuburbs, See. are liable to forfeitures if it
be not removed ; and juftices of the peace may iffiie
warrants to fearch for, feize, and remove the fame.
GuN-Shot Wounds. See Surgery.
Gvn-Smith, a maker of fmali fire-arms, as mufkets,
fowling-pieces, piftolsj &c.
GvN-Smithery, the bufinefs of a gun-fmith, or the art
of making fire-arms of the imalier fort, as mufkets,
fowling-pieces, piltols, &c.
The principal part of thefe inftrumentft is the bar¬
rel, which ought to have the following properties.
1. Lightnefs, that it may incommode the perfon who
carries it as little as poflible. 2. Sufficient ftrength
and other properties requifite to prevent its burfting by
a difebarge. 3. It ought to be conitrufted in fuch a
manner as not to recoil with violence. And, 4. It ought
to be of fufficient length to carry the (hot to as great a
diilance as the force of the powder employed is capable
of doing.
The manufacture of fire-arms is now carried to fuch
a degree of perfedion by different European nations,
that it may perhaps be juftly doubted whether any far¬
ther improvement in the requifites juft mentioned can
be made. For the materials, the foftett iron that can
be procured is to be made ufe of. The beft in this
country are formed oiJlubs, as they are called, or old
horfe-fhoe nails; which are procured by the gun-
fmiths from farriers, and from poor people who fubfill
by picking them up on the great roads leading to
London. Thefe are fold at about 10s. per cwt. and
28 pounds are requifite to form a fingle mufket barrel.
I'he method of manufaduring them from this material
is as follows : A hoop of about an inch broad, and fix
or feven inches diameter, is placed in a perpendicular
fituation, and the flubs, previouffy well cleaned, piled
up in it with their heads outermoft on each ftde, till
the hoop is quite filled and wyedged tight with them.
The wffiole then refembles a rough circular cake of
iron, which being heated to a wffiite heat, and then
flrongly hammered, coalefces into one folid lump.
The hoop is now removed, and the heatings and ham¬
merings repeated till the iron is rendered very tough
and clofe in the grain ; when it is drawn out into
pieces of about 24 inches in length, half an inch or
more in breadth, and half an inch in thicknefs.
l our of thefe pieces are employed for one barrel;
but in the ordinary way a fingle bar of the beft foft
iron is employed. The workmen begin with ham¬
mering out this into the form of a flat ruler, having its
length and breadth. proportioned to the dimenfions of
the intended barrel. By repeated heating and ham¬
mering this plate is turned round a tempered iron rod
called a mandril, the diameter of which is confiderably
Imalier than the intended bore of the barrel. One of
the edges of the plate being laid over the other about
B b half
\
GUN
[ i
Gun- half an inch, the whole is heated and welded by two
Smithery. or t^ree inches at a time, hammering it briikly, but
y ~ with moderate ftrokes, upon an anvil which has a num¬
ber of femicircular furrows in it, adapted to barrels of
different lizes. Every time the barrel is withdrawn
from the fire, the workman ilrikes it gerttly a^ainft the
anvil once or twice in an horizontal direftion. By
this operation the particles of the metal are more p&r-
fedtly confolidated, and every appearance of a feam in
the barrel is obliterated. The mandril being then
again introduced into the cavity of the barrel, the lat¬
ter is very ftrongly hammered upon it in one of the fe¬
micircular hollows of the anvil, by fmall portions at a
time *, the heatings and hammerings being repeated
until the whole barrel has undergone the operation,
and its parts rendered as perfeflly continuous as if they
had been formed cut of a {olid piece. To effect this
completely, three welding heats are neceffary when the
very heft iron is made ufe of, and a greater number for
the coarfer kinds. The French workmen imagine,
that by giving the barrel, while in the fire, flight ho¬
rizontal ftrokes with the hammer, fo as to communi-
tate a vibratory motion to the iron, thofe particles are
thrown off which are in a ftate of fufion and cannot
eaiily be converted into malleable iron : but confidering
the great number of operations already defcribed which
the metal has undergone, we can fcarce fuppofe this to
be of much confequence. _ “**
The next operation in forming the barrels is the
boring of them, which is done in the following man¬
ner : Two beams of oak, each about fix inches in dia¬
meter, and fix or feven feet long, are placed horizon¬
tally and parallel to one another ■, having each of their
extremities mortifed upon a >ftrong upright piece about
three feet high, and firmly fixed. A fpace of three or
four inches is left between the horizontal pieces, in
which a piece of wood is made to Hide by having at
either end a tenon let into a groove which runs on the
infide of each beam throughout its whole length.
Through this Hiding piece a ftrong pin or bolt of iron
is driven or fcrewed in a perpendicular direftion, ha¬
ving at its upper end a round hole large enough to ad¬
mit the breech of the barrel, winch is fecured in it by
means of a piece of iron that ferves as a wedge, and a
vertical fcrew paffing through the upper part ol^ the
hole. A chain is fattened to a ftaple in one fide^ of the
Hiding piece which runs between the two horizontal
beams} and pafling over a pully at one end of the ma¬
chine, has a weight hooked on to it. An upright piece
of timber is fixed above this pully and between the
ends of the beams, having its upper end perforated by
the axis of an iron crank furnifhed with a fquare focket •,
the other axis being fupported by the wall, or by a
ftrong poft, and loaded with a heavy wheel of caft iron
to give it force. The axes of this crank are in a line
with the hole in the bolt already mentioned.—The
borer being then fixed into the focket of the crank,
has its other end, previoufly well oiled, introduced into
the barrel, whole breech part is made faft in the hole
of the bolt: the chain is then carried over the pully,
and the weight hooked on 5 the crank being then turn¬
ed with the hand, the barrel advances as the borer cuts
its way, till it has paffed through the whole length.—
The boring bit confifts of an iron rod fomewhat longer
than the barrel, one end of winch fits the focket. of the
94. ] GUN
crank ; the other is adapted to a cylindrical piece of Gtm-
tempered Heel about an inch and a half in length, ha- Smithery.
ving its furface cut after the manner of a perpetual
fcrew, with five or fix threads, the obliquity of which
is very {’mall. The breadth of the furrows is the fame
with that of the threads, and their depth fufficient to
let the metal cut by the threads pafs through them
eafily. Thus the bit gets a very ftrong hold of the
metal; and the threads, being fiiarp at the edges, fcoop
out and remove all the inequalities and roughnefs from
the irifide of the barrel, and render the cavity fmooth
and equal throughout. A number of bits, each a little
larger than the former, are afterwards fucceflively paf-
fed through the barrel in the fame way, until the bore
has acquired the magnitude intended. By this ope¬
ration the barrel is very much heated efpecially the
firft time the borer is pafl'ed through it, by which
means it is apt to warp. To prevent this in feme
rneafure, the barrel is covered with a cloth kept con-
ftantly wetted, which not only preferves the barrel from
an excefs of heat, but likewife preferves the temper of
the bit from being deftroyed. The borer itfelf muft
alfo be withdrawn from time to tlmej both to clean it
from the (havings of the metal and to oil it, or repair
any damages it may have fuftained. Every time a irefii
bit has been paiTed through the barrel, the latter muft
be carefully examined, to fee if it has warped $ and
likewife if there are any fpots, by the workmen called
blacks, on its infide. When warped, it muft be ftraight-
ened on the anvil •, for which a few flight firokes on
the convex parts will be fuflicient; and this is termed
Jetting up the barrel. When black fpots are perceived,
the cotrefponding part on the outfide muft be marked,
and driven in by gentle ftrokes with the hammer, when
they will be completely removed by pafling the borer
another time through the piece.
The equality of the bore is of the utmofl confe¬
quence to the perfeflion of a barrel \ infomuch that
the greatefl poflible accuracy in every other. refpe£l
will not make amends for any deficiency in . this.
The method ufed by gunfmiths to afcertain this is by
a cylindrical plug of tempered Heel highly poliihed,
about an inch in length, and fitting the bore exaftly.
This is fcrewed upon the end of an iron rod, and in¬
troduced into the cavity of the barrel, where it is mo¬
ved backwards and forwards; and the places, where it
paffes with difficulty being marked, the boring bit is
repeatedly paffed until it moves with equal eafe through
every part. Any perfon who wiflres to know the merit
of his piece in this refpeft, may do it with tolerable ac¬
curacy by means of a plug of lead caff on a rod of iron j
or even by a mufket ball filed exaftly to tne bore, and
puflied through the barrel by a ramrod j taking care,
however, not to ufe much force left the ball be flattened,
and its paffage thus rendered difficult.
The laft ftep towards the perfection of the infide of
the barrel is termed Jne boring ; by which is meant the
fmoothing it in fuch a manner as to remove all marks
and inequalities left by the borer. The fine borer re-
fembles the other in its general conftruftion; but in-
ftead of the piece of fteel cut in form of a (crew which
belongs to that, it is furniflied with a fquare broach
10 0/12 inches long, highly poliftied, and very (harp,
by which means it cuts the metal very fmoothly. It
is found to anfwer the purpofe heft when only two or
its
GUN [ i
Gan- Jts edges are allowed to work ; the other two are cover-
jnit iery. e(j wjj}j {]jpS 0f 0ile(j paperj one or more additional
flips being put on each time that the inftrument is paf-
fed through the barrel. The fine-borer is frequently
palled through, from the muzzle to the breech, and
from the breech to the muzzle, until the whole infide
prefents a perfeftly equal and polifhed furface j the
barrel being likewife examined and fet up, if requifite,
after each time. It is abfolutely necelfary that this in¬
ftrument Ihould be perfectly true, and not in the leaft
call or warped in the tempering.
Befides the operations above defcribed, another, call¬
ed is ufually performed on gun-barrels, though
it is doubtful whether this laft be attended with any
good effeft or not. It is performed by a cylinder of
lead, five ©r fix inches long, call: tipon a rod of iron,
and filed exaftly to the bore. The lead being then co¬
vered with very fine emery and oil, is wrought back¬
wards and forwards through the whole length of the
barrel until the infide has acquired the requifite degree
of polilh. The difadvantages of this operation are, that
it is fcarce poflible to perform it without prefling more
upon one part than another, and thus producing fome
degree of inequality on the infide, which is of the very
worft confequence to fire-arms. The polilh thus given
is likewife very perilhable ; fo that the fine-boring may
juftly be confidered as the laft operation neceffary for
the infide of a barrel j and it is then proper to ^ive
the external form and proportions by means of a file,
lor this pur pole, four faces are firft formed upon it,
then eight, then 16; and fo on till it be quite round,
excepting the part next the breech, called the reinfor¬
ced part^ which is always left of an odiagonal form. It
being abfolutely neceffary that the barrel Ihould be
equally thick on every fide, gunfmiths employ, for ac-
complithing this purpofe, a particular tool named a
compafs. This confifts of an iron rod bent in fuch a
manner as to form two parallel branches about an inch
diftant from each other. One of thefe branches is
introduced into the barrel, and kept clofely applied to
the fide, by means of one or more fprings with which
it is furmfhed : the other defcends parallel to this on
the outfide, and has leveral fcrews palling through it
with their points dire&ed to the barrel. By fcrewing
thefe until their points touch the furface of the barrel,
and then turning the inftrument round within the bore,
we perceive where the metal is too thick, and how
much it muft be reduced, in order to render every part
perfectly equal throughout its circumference. It may
be made long enough to reach the whole length of the
barrel, though it will be more convenient to have it
only half as much, and to introduce it firft at one end
and then at the other. Inftead of rounding the barrel
by means of a file and compafs, however, fome people
do fo by turning it in a lathe ; which is no doubt more
expeditious, though neither fo certain nor exafl. A
fpindle as long as a gun-barrel cannot, without great
difficulty, be prevented from fpringing confiderably un¬
der the tool employed to reduce or fmooth it in turn-
ing ; whence it is found, that by this operation barrels
are more frequently warped than by all the borings
they undergo ; and there is now this farther inconveni¬
ence, that they cannot be fet up as formerly, without
danger of deftroying them entirely.
I he barrels being thus bored and formed externally,
95 1 GUN
it is cuftomary with the gunfmiths in France to folder Guni
on the loops and aim before they breech the barrel. Smithery.
The Englilh, however, do not reftridl themfelves in this " y ’
manner: for as foft folder is Efficient for faftening on
thefe, they never ufe any other \ while the French,
who ufe hard folder, mutt of confequence employ a
great heat. Thus the infide is roughened fometimes
fo confiderably, that it is neceffary to repeat the fine
boring; which could not be done without injuring the
threads of the fcrew formed for the breech, if the bar¬
rel were prepared for the latter without foldering on the
former.
L’he firft tool employed in forming the breech-fcrew
is a plug of tempered fteel, fomewhat conical, with the
threads of a male fcrew upon its furface, and by the
workman termed a fcrew tap. This being introduced
into the barrel, and worked from left to right and back
again, until it has marked out the four firft threads of
the fcrew, another lefs conical tap is introduced ; and
wffien this has carried the impreflion of the fcrew as far
as it is intended to go, a third one, nearly cylindrical,
is made ufe of, fcarcely differing from the plug of the
breech intended to fill the fcrew thus formed in the
barrel. The plug itfelf has its fcrew formed by means
of a fcrew-plate of tempered fteel, with feveral female
fcrews, correfponding with the taps employed for
forming that in the barrel. Seven or eight threads are
a fufficient length for a plug : they ought to be neat
and ftiarp, fo as completely to fill the turns made in the
barrel by the tap. The breech plug is then to be cafe-
hardened, or to have its furface converted into fteel, by
covering it with ftiavings of horn, or the parings of the
hoofs of horfes, and keeping it for fome time red hot j
after which it is plunged in cold wTater.
I he only thing now requifite for completing the bar¬
rels is to give them a proper colour; as a preparation
for wffiich their outfide is firft to be neatly polifhed with
oil and emery, dhis being done, it was formerly the
cuftom to give fuch a degree of heat as would make
them blue throughout; but as this cannot be effefted
without a partial calcination of the furface, vrhich of
confequence affefts the infide alfo, the blue colour has
been for fome time difufed, and a brown one fubftituted
in its place. To give this colour, the pieces are firft
rubbed over with aquafortis or fpirit of fait diluted with
water j after which they are laid by till a complete
coat of ruft is formed upon them : a little oil is then
applied j and the furface being rubbed dry, is polifhed
by means of a har’d brufh and bees-wax.
Thus the common mufket barrels for the purpofe*
efpecially of fportmanffiip are made*, but there are fome
other methods of manufacture, by which the barrels are
made to differ in fome refpefls from thofe juft defcrib¬
ed, and are thought to be confiderably improved.
One kind of thefe are called twt/ied barrels; and by the
Englifh workmen are formed out of the plates made
oifubs formerly defcribed. Four of thefe, of the fize
already mentioned, are requifite to make one barrel.
One of them heated red hot for five or fix inches is
turned like a cork-fcrew by means of the hammer and
anvil 5 the remaining parts being treated fucceffively in
the fame manner until the whole is turned into a fpiral,
forming a tube, the diameter cjf which correfponds wdth
the bore of the intended barrel. Four are generally
fufficient to form a barrel of the ordinary length, i. e.
Bb2 kom
GUN [196
Gun- from 32 to 38 inches; and the two which form the rel.
Smithery. breech or ftrongeil part, called the reinforced part, are
confiderably thicker than thofe which form the muzzle
or fore part of the barrel. One of thefe tubes is then
welded to a part of an old barrel to ferve as a handle ;
after which the turns of the fpiral are united by heat¬
ing the tube two or three inches at a time to a bright
white heat, and flriking the end of it federal times
againft the anvil in a horizontal direclion with con ,de-
rable ftrength, which is called jumping the barrel; and
the heats given for this purpofe are called >/«/>/«§• heats.
The next ftep is to introduce a mandril into, the cavity,
-and to hammer the heated portion lightly in order to
flatten the ridges or burs railed by the jumping at the
place where the fpirals are joined. As fooc as one piece
is jumped throughout its whole lengtn, another is weld¬
ed to it, and treated in the fame manner, until the four
pieces are united, w:hen the part of the old barrel is
cut off, as being no longer of any ufe. Ihe welding
is repeated three times at leaft, and is performed exact¬
ly in the fame' manner as dire&ed for plain barrels;
and the piece may afterwards be finiihed according to
the diredtions already given.
The operation for the French twifted barrels is very
different from that juft mentioned, and much more ex¬
ceptionable. It conftfts in heating the barrel by a .ew
inches at a time to a ftrong red heat; one end is then
fcrew^ed into a vice, and a Icjuare piece of iron with an
handle like an augre is introduced into the other. By
, means of thele the fibres of the heated portion aie
twifted into a fpiral direction, wThich is fuppolcd to re¬
fill the effort of the inflamed powder better than tne
other. To render this operation complete, however,
it muft be obferved, that when once the feveral por¬
tions of the barrel have been twifted, thp fubfequent
heats ought not to be very great, or the gram of the
metal will regain its former (late, and the barrel be no
better for the twifting than before. To twift a barrel
in this manner, alfo, it will be neceffary to forge it at
leaft half a foot longer than it is intended to be, that a
fufficient length may be kept cold at each end to give
a fufficient purchafe to the vice and twitling inftrument;
and thefe portions muft afterwards be cut off bemre the
barrel is bored, or two pieces of an old Darrel may be
welded to the muzzle and breech of that which is to
be twifted, and cut off wdien the operation is over.
Thefe pieces may alfo be made ftronger than ufual to
refill the force of the vice and twifting inftrument; and
in order to give the latter a firmer hold, the cavity of
the muzzle may be made of a fquare form. The. Eng-
lifh veorkmcn are unanimoufly of opinion that this me¬
thod of twifting is really injurious to the barrel, by
flraining the fibres of the metal. At any rate, from
the injudicious methods follow’ed by the French artifts,
the greateft part of their barrels, faid to be twifted, are
not fo in reality ; there being at leaft fix or feven inches
at the muzzle, and ieven or eight at the breech, wThich
are not affe&ed by the operation.
The French ribbon barrels have a great refemblance
to the Englifh twifted ones : but the.procefs for making
them is much more operofe, though it leems not to poi-
fefs any real advantage over that ufed by the Englilh
artifts. A plate of iron, about the twelfth part ot an
inch in thicknefs, is turned round a mandril, and. weld¬
ed its whole length in the fame manner as a plain bar-
] GUN
Upon this flight barrel, which is called the lining,
a plate of iron about an inch in breadth, and bevelled  
off at the edges, is by means of fucceflive heats roiled
in a fpirsl diseclion ; after which it is termed the ribbon,
and muff have a thicknefs correfponding with that part
of the barrel which it is to form. As it would, howr-
ever, be difficult to form a ribbon of fuflicient length
for the whole barrel, it is made in feveral pieces ; and
when one piece is rolled on, another is welded to its
end, and the operation continued until the lining be en¬
tirely covered, i he edges are fo much bevelled, that
the one folds over the other about a quarter of an inch.
After the ribbon is all rolled on, the barrel muft be
heated by two or three inches at a time, and the turns
of the fpiral united toxeach other and to the lining by
being welded in the fame manner as the twifted barrel;
though, from what has been faid of the conftru&ion of
thefe barrels, it is plain that the operation oi jumping
cannot be admitted in them, ihe barrel is afterwards
bored in fuch a manner that almoft the whole of the
lining is cut out, and fcarce any thing left but the rib¬
bon with which the lining tvas covered.
Tire funeriority of twifted and ribbon barrels over
the plain kind gave occafion to a third fort named
’Wired barrels. ’Ihefe were invented by an ingenious
workman at Paris named Barrots ; whofe method w as
as follows : Upon a thin barrel, filed and dreffed as
ufu^, he rolled, as clofe as poflible, and in a fpiral di¬
rection, a tempered iron wire about the thicknefs of a
crow-quill, the firil layer covering only the reinforced
part. The turns of the wire were foldered to each
other and to the barrel with a compofition which he
kept a lecret. The wired part wras then filed fmooth
and bright, but not fo much as to weaken it; a fecond
layer of wire was applied over the firit, extending two-
thirds of the length of the barrel; and. this being
fmoothed and brightened like the firft, a third layer was
applied, which covered the two former and reached
quite to the muzzle.
The barrels made after this manner are fuppofed. to
be much fuperior to others, though the fuppofition
feems not to be well founded. It is certain that wire
is not preferable to other iron as a material for gun-
barrels : and the folder ufed by M. Barrois in a quan¬
tity nearly equal to the ware itfelf, muft be accounted
a defeCl as far as it was ufed ; for no metal has yet
been found equal to iron for the purpofes of gun-
fmiths : fo that by the ufe of fo much of this folder in
the compofition of the barrel, it muft be undoubtedly
weaker than if it had been all made of iron. We are
not to fuppofe the wire abfolutely free from flaws ;
and even though it were, there will always be fmall
cavities between its turns, which the folder cannot fill
completely. Befides, as the operation of wiring was
performed by M. Barrois upon a barrel that had been
previoufly bored and drefled within, the. repeated heats
to which it was afterwards fubjefted in folderin.g, it
they did not caufe it warp, at leaft rendered it fo
rouoh that it was neceffary to fine-bore it afterwards.
The only advantage therefore which thefe barrels were
found to poffefs was their beautiful appearance ; which
was greatly overbalanced by the circumftances juft
mentioned, as well as by the extravagant prices at
which they were fold ; a Angle barrel being fold at 5I.
and a double one at twice that fum ; whence the fale of
them
GUN ' [ IQ? ] GUN
Gun- them never anfwered the expectation of the invent-
Smithery. or, ari(j after death nobody thought of making
'r them.
The Spanifh barrels have long been held in great
eftimation, both on account of their being formed of
better iron than thofe of other countries, and likewile
from an opinion of their being more perfedly forged
and bored. Thofe made at Madrid are the beft, and
even of thefe fuch as have been made by former gun-
fmiths are in the greatell eftimation. Ihe moil cele¬
brated Spanilh gunimiths were Nicolas Biz, who lived
in the beginning of the prefent century, and died in
1724; and the barrels fabricated by him in the former
part of his life are held in greateft eftimation. Thofe
of his cotemporaries, Juan Belan and Juan Fernandez,
are no lefs valued ; all of their barrels Jelling in f ranee
at 1000 livres, or 45I, 15s. fterling. Ihe fucceiTors of
thefe great artifts were Diego Efquibal, Alonzo Mar¬
tinez, Agoftin Ortiz, Matthias Vaera, Luis Santos,
Juan Santos, Francifco Garcia, Francilco Targarone,
Jofeph Cano, and N. Zelaya. The moft celebrated
after thefe were Francifco Loper, Salvador Cenarro,
Miguel Zeguarra, Ifidoro Soler, and Juan de Soto.
The three firft are gunfmiths to the king ■, and the bar¬
rels made by all of them fold for x 3I. fterling. Almoft
all the Madrid barrels are compoied of the old ihoes of
horfes and mules, which are all collefted for the pur-
pofe. They are manufactured firft by welding longitu¬
dinally, and then being joined together in four or five
pieces like the Englilh barrels made from ftubs, as al-
I'eady mentioned. In this, and indeed all other opera¬
tions for making gun-barrpls, an immenfe wafte of the
iron takes place ; but that of the SpaniJh iron is by far
the greateft, a mafs of 40 or 45 pounds being required
to make one barrel, which when rough from the forge
weighs only fix or feven pounds ] fo that from 30 to 38
pounds are loft in the hammerings. It may perhaps,
however, be doubted, whether the iron be really puri¬
fied by this wafte; for it is certain, that by long conti¬
nued working in the fire it may be rendered totally ufe-
lefs and deftroyed ; neither can we be allured that the
other advantages pretended to refult from their method
of manufaClure are of any confequence. The SpaniJh
artifts likewife value themfelves on giving the infide of
their barrels a very high poliJh ; but the advantage of
this, as has already been obferved, is extremely dubi¬
ous. The only thing requifite in a gun-barrel is that it
do not /ead; that is, that the mark of the bullet be
not perceived on the infide after it has been difeharged,
by fome of the lead rubbed off as it paffes through. In
the opinion of very good judges, therefore, it is better
to take a barrel immediately after it has undergone the
operation of fine-boring than to give it any higher po¬
liJh ; and in fupport of this opinio*, M. de Marolles,
an author of great reputation, informs us, that he has
feen a barrel rough from the borer throw a charge of
Jhot deeper into a quire of paper than one which was
highly poliftied within, though the length, bare, and
charge, were the fame in both.
As the SpaniJh iron is univerfally allowed to be ex¬
cellent, it has not been unreafonably fuppofed that the
fuperiority of the barrels manufactured in that king¬
dom is owing more to the goodnefs of the materials
than to the Jkill of the workmen. It muft be obferved,
however, that inftead of making the plates overlap a
little in the place where they join, they give one of them Gmi-
a complete turn ; fo that every SpaniJh barrel may be Smit'tiery'
faid to be double throughout its whole length. The
different portions of the iron are alfo forged in fuch a
manner, that the grain of the iron is dilpoJcd in a fpi-
ral manner 5 whence it has the fame effeCl with a rib¬
bon or twilled barrel. The outfide is finlJhed by turn¬
ing them in a lathe; whence probably they are always
lei’s elegantly wrought than the French and Englilh
pieces. The great value put upon them is alfo thought
to be more owing to fancy than to any real good quali¬
ties they poffefs. Formerly they were made from three
to three feet and a half long 5 their bore being luch as
to admit a bullet from 2 2 to 24 in the pound ; and
their weight from three to three pounds and a half.
The reinforced part extends two-fifths of the length ;
and at 10 or 12 inches from the breech is placed a
fight, fuch as is ufually put upon rille-barrels or thofe
intended only for ball. According to Efpinas,\arque-.
bufs-bearer to Philip IV. the weight of a Spanilh bar¬
rel ought to be four pounds and a half when their length
is 42 inches but both weight and length are now
much reduced, they feldom exceeding the dimenhon
already mentioned. Next to the barrels made at Ma¬
drid, the moft efteemed are thofe of Buftindui and St
Olabe at Placentia in Bifcay \ and of Jeun and Clement
Padwefteva, Eudal Pous, and Martin Marechal, at
Barcelona 5 the uJ’ual price of them being about 3I. 10s.
fterling.
Having now deferibed the method of forging barrels,
we ftiall next proceed to give an account of thofe im-
perfedftions to which they are fometimes liable, and
which render them apt to burft or recoil with violence.
The principal of thefe are the clunk, crack, and flaw.
The firft is a fmall rent in the direction of the length of
the barrel ; the fecond acrofs it; and the third is a kind
of fcale or J’mall plate adhering to the barrel by a nar¬
row bafe, from which it fpreads out like the head of a
nail from its lhank, and when feparated leaves a pit or
hollow dn the metal. The chink or flaw is of much
worfe confequence than the crack in fire-arms, the force
of the powder being exerted more upon the circumfe¬
rence than the length of the barrel. The flaw is much
more frequent than the chink, the latter fcarce ever
occurring but in plain barrels formed out of a Angle
plate of iron, and then only when the metal is deficient
in quality. When flaws happen on the outfide, they
are of no great confequence *, but in the infide they are
apt to lodge moifture and foulnefs which corrode the
iron, and thus the cavity enlarges continually till the
piece burfts. This accident, however, may arife from
many other caufes befides the defedl of the barrel itfelf.
The beft pieces will burft wdien the ball is not Jufticient-
ly rammed home, fo that a fpace is left between it and
the powder. A very Jmall windage or paffage for the
inflamed powder between the fides of the barrel and ball
will be fuificient to prevent the accident •, but if the
ball has been forcibly driven down with an iron ram¬
rod, fo as to fill up the cavity of the barrel very exaeft-
ly, the piece will almoft certainly burft, if only a very
fmall fpace be left between it and the powder ; and the
greater the fpace is, the more certainly does the event
take place. Of this Mr Robins gives a remarkable in-
ftance, accounting at the fame time for the phenome¬
non. “ A moderate charge of powder (fays he), when
GUN' [ 198 ] G U N
it has expanded itfelf through the vacant fpace and
reaches the hall, will, by the velocity each part has
acquired, accumulate itfelf behind the ball, and will
thereby be condcnfed prodigioufly ; whence, if the bar¬
rel be not of an extraordinary ftrength in that part, it
muft infallibly burft. The truth of this I have experi¬
enced in a very good Tower mulket forged of very
tough iron : for charging it with 1 2 pennyweights of
powder, and placing the ball loofely 16 inches from
the breech ; on the firing of it, the part of the barrel
juft behind the bullet was fwelled out to double its dia¬
meter like a blown bladder, and two large pieces of two
inches in length were burft out of it.” A piece will
frequently burft from having its mouth flopped up
with earth or fnow j which accident fometimes happens
to fportfmen in leaping a ditch, in which they have af-
ftfted themfelves wdth their fowding-piece, putting the
mouth of it to the ground ; and when this does not
happen, it is only to be accounted for from the ftop-
page being extremely flight. For the fame reafon a
muiket will certainly burft if it be fired with the muz¬
zle immerfed only a very little way in water. It will
alio burft from an overcharge •, but when fuch an acci¬
dent happens in other circumftances, it is moft proba¬
bly to be attributed to a defect in the workmanfhip, or
in the iron itfelf. Thefe defefts are principally an im-
perfedtion in the welding, a deep flaw having taken
place, or an inequality in the bore ; which laft is the
moft common of any, efpecially in the low-priced bar¬
rels. The reafon of a barrel’s burfting from an inequa¬
lity in the bore is, that the elaftic fluid, fet loofe by
the inflammation of the powder, and endeavouring to
expand itfelf in every direftion, being repelled by the
Wronger parts, acts with additional force againft the
weaker ones, and frequently burfts through them, which
it would not have done had the fides been equally thick
and ftrong throughout. With regard to defects arifmg
from the bad quality of the iron, it is impoflible to fay
any thing certain. As the choice of the materials de¬
pends entirely on the gunfmith, the only way to be af-
fured of having a barrel made of proper metal is to pur-
chafe it from an artift of known reputation, and to give
a confiderable price for the piece.
The recoil of a piece becomes an object of import¬
ance only when it is very great $ for every piece recoils
in fome degree when it is difeharged. The moft fre¬
quent caufe of an exccflivc recoil is an equality in the
bore of the barrel ; and by this it will be occafioned
even when the inequality is too fmall to be perceived
by the eye. The explanation of this upon mechanical
principles indeed is not very eafy: for as it is there an
invariable law, that aftion and re-a&ion are equal to
one another, we ihould be apt to fuppofc that every
time a piece is difeharged it ihould recoil with the
whole difference between the velocity of the bullet and
that of the inflamed powder. But were this the cafe,
no man could fire a muiket without being deftroyed ;
for the bullet flies out only with a velocity of 1700
feet in a fecond, or not much more, while that of the
pow'dcr, as calculated by Mr Robins, is not lefs than
7000 feet in the fame fpace. But was the recoil to be
made with the difference of thefe velocities, or with
pnt half of it, it is plain that no man could bear it.
The fame thing therefore muft take place in the recoil
of n muiket which Dr Prieftley obferved in his experi-
l
ments on the explofion of inflammable and dephlogifti- Gun-
cated air, viz. that the force is exerted much more up- ^m^t^ery,i
on the part fartheft from that where the inflammation
begins than upon that next to it. At any rate, how¬
ever, the ftrength of the recoil will always be found
proportionable to the weight of the piece ; that is, the
lighter the piece is, the greater the recoil, and vice
verfa. The recoil may be increafed by any thing
which retards the paffage of the Ihot 5 whence it is alfo
augmented by the foulnefs of the barrel by repeated fir¬
ing. M. de Marolles informs us alfo, that a piece will
recoil, if, from the breech-plug being made too fhort,
fome turns of the ferew remain empty j as in thefe a
part of the powder is lodged which forms an obftacle
to the explofion ; though in what manner this takes
place is not very apparent, as, though the powder
lodged there might contribute little or nothing to the
force of the explofion, it can fcarce be fnown to ftand
in the way of it. The fame author likewife informs us,
that a barrel mounted upon a very ftraight flock will
recoil more than upon one that is conliderably bent.
Sometimes alfo a fowling-piece will recoil from the
fportfman applying it improperly to his flioulder j though
this laft circumftance feems likewife inexplicable. It is
moft probable therefore that the fuppofed greater recoil
taken notice of in this cafe, arifes only from the ufual
recoil being more fenfibly felt in one pofition than ano¬
ther. v
The caufe to which too great a recoil in mufkets
has been ufually attributed, is the placing of the touch-
hole at fome difiance from the breech-plug ; fo that
the powder is fired about the middle, or towards its
fore part, rather than at its bafe. To avoid this, fome
artifts form a groove or channel in the breech-plug as
deep as the fecond or third turn of the ferew j the
touch-hole opening into this channel, and thus firing
the powder at its very loweft part. It appears, howv-
ever, from a number of experiments made upon this
fubjeol by M. le Clerc gunfmith to the king of France,
that it made very little difference with regard to the re¬
coil, whether the touch-hole was elofe to the breech
or an inch diftarst from it. The only circumftance to
be attended to w-Sth refpetl to its fituation therefore
is, that it be not quite elofe to the breech-plug •, as in
fuch a cafe it is found to be more apt to be choaked
up than when placed about a quarter of an inch from
it.
The only other circumftance now to be determined
with regard to mulkct-barrels is their proper length.
Formerly it was fuppofed that the longer they were
made, the greater would be the diftance to which
they carried the fliot, and that without any limitation.
This opinion continued to prevail till about half a cen¬
tury ago, when it was firft propofed as a doubt whe¬
ther long barrels carried farther than thort ones. With
regard to cannon, indeed, it had long before this time
been known that they might be made too long j and
Balthazar Killar, a celebrated cannon-founder in the
reign of Louis XIV. was able to account for it. When
aiked by Monf. Suriry de St Remy, why the culverin
of Nancy, which is 22 feet long, did not carry a ball
equally far with a {hotter piece ? he replied, that “ the
powder, when inflamed, ought to quit the cavity of
the piece in a certain time, in order to exert its whole
force upon the bullet: by a longer flay, part of the
force
GUN [ 199 ]
Gun- force is loft ; and the fame caufe may produce an ine- waflied
Stnithery. qUality in the fliots, by giving a variation to the bullet,
1" v ." fo as to deftroy its re£UHneal courle, and throw it to
one fide or other of the mark.” Mr Robins, who on
this as well as every other queftion in gunnery has al-
moft exhaufted the fubieft, informs us, that “ if a
mulket-barrel, of the common length and bore, be fired
with a leaden bullet and half its weight of powder,
and if the fame barrel be afterwards Shortened one-half
and fired with the fame charge, the velocity of the
bullet in this (hortened barrel will be about one-uxth
lefs than what it was when the barrel was entire •, and
if, inftead of (hortening the barrel, it be increafed to
twice its ufual length, when it will be near eight feet
long, the velocity of the bullet will not hereby be aug¬
mented more than one-eighth part. And the greater
the length of the barrel is in proportion to the diame¬
ter of the bullet, and the fmaller the quantity of pow¬
der, the more inconfiderable will thefe alterations of
velocity be.” From thefe confiderations it appears,
that the advantages gained by long barrels are by no
means equivalent to the difadvantages arifing from the
weight and incumbrance of ufing them j and from a
multitude of experiments it is now apparent, that every
one may choofe what length he pleafes, without any
fenfible detriment to the range of his piece. 1 he
moft approved lengths are from 32 to 38 inches.
An opinion has generally pr^yailed among fportf-
men, that by fome unknown manosuvre the gunfmith
is able to make a piece, loaded with fmall ftiot, throw
the contents fo clofe together, that even at the dillance
of 40 or 50 paces the whole will be confined within
the breadth of a hat. From fuch experiments as have
been made on this fubjeft, however, it appears, that
the clofenefs or widenefs with which a piece throws its
Ihot is liable to innumerable variations from caufes
which no Ikill in the gunfmith can poftibly reach. So
variable are thefe cauies, that there is no poftibility of
making the fame piece throw its (hot equally clofe
twice fucceflively. In general, however, the clofer
the wadding is, the better difpofed the ftiot feems to
be to fall within a fmall compafs. The clofenefs of
the fhot therefore would feem to depend in a great
meafure on preventing the flame of the ponder from
infinuating itfelf among its particles : whence the fol¬
lowing method is faid to be praRiied with luccefs by
thofe who {hoot for a wager at a mark with fmall {hot *,
viz. to put in the {hot by {mail quantities at a time,
ramming down a little tow or thin paper over each j
fo as to fill the interftices of the grains, and thus pre¬
vent the flame from getting in amcngft the grains and
fcattering them. In firing with fmall {hot, a curious
circumftance fometimes occurs, viz. that the grains,
inftead of being equally diftributcd over the fpace they
ftrike, are thrown in clufters of 10, 1 2, 15, or more j
whilft feveral confiderable fpaces are left without a
grain in them. Sometimes one third or one-half of
the charge will be collefted into a clufter of this kind ;
nay, fometimes, though much more rarely, the whole
charge will be collefted into one mafs, fo as to pierce
a board near an inch thick at the diftance of 40 or
45 paces. Small barrels are faid to be more liable to
this cluftering than large ones : and M. de. Marolles
informs us, that this is efpecnilly the cafe when the
barrels are new, and likewife when they are frefti-
G U N
though he acknowledges that it did not al- Gun-
ways happen with the barrels he employed even after Smnhery,
they were walhed. It is probable ’therefore, that the
clofenefs of the {hot depends on fome circumftances re¬
lative to the wadding rather than to the mechanifm of
the barrel.
Some pieces a,re compofed of two or more barrels
joined together; in which cafe the thicknefs of each
of the barrels is fomewhat lefs than in fingle-barrelled-
pieces. After being properly drefled, each of them i/
filed flat on the fide where they are to join each other,
fo that they may fit more clofely together. Two cor-
refponding notches are then made at the muzzle and
breech of each barrel j and into thefe are fitted two
fmall pieces of iron to hold them more ftrongly to¬
gether. Being then united by tinning the contiguous
parts, a triangular piece of iron called the rib is faften-
ed on in like manner, running the whole length on thfer
upper fide j which ferves to hold them more ftrongly
together. After this they are to be poliftied and co¬
loured in the manner deferibed for Angle barrels. Great
care Ihould be taken that the barrels joined in this
manner fhould be quite equal in ftrength to one an¬
other, and that both ftxould be quite upright, or of an
equal thicknefs throughout. If any inequality takes
place in the ftrength of the barrels, the weaker will be
warped by the aftion of the ftronger; and the warping
from this caufe has fometimes been fo confiderable as
to render one of the barrels ufelefs. To bring every
part of the circumference of each barrel to an equal
ftrength as nearly as poflible, fo that no part may be
ftx-ained by the explofion, that fide where they touch
each other mull be fo reduced, that the partition
between the two calibers may be no thickef than ei¬
ther barrel was at the fame place before it wTas filed to
loin in this manner. Formerly the double-barrelled-
pieces were made with one barrel lying over the other,
each barrel having a feparate pan, hammer, and ham-
mer-fpring, but only one cock for both. The barrels
were therefore made to turn round at the place where
the breeches joined with the flock 5 fo that as foon as
one was fired off, the other could be brought into its
place by prefting a fpring moved by the guard with
the right hand, w‘hile with the left the barrels w’ere
turned upon their common axis 5 and as foon as the
charged barrel was thus brought into its proper fitua-
tion, the fpring defeended into a notch and kept- it
firm. But this method was found to be too compli¬
cated and embarrafled, though upon the fame plan
three and four barrels were fometimes mounted upon
one flock'-, but thefe pieces were intolerably heavy.
and have no real fuperiority over the double-barrelled
pieces which do not turn round, and which of confe-
quence are now only made ufe of.
In forging barrels of all kinds, it is of confiderable
importance to have them made at firft as near as pof-
fible to the weight intended when they are finifhed, fo
that very little be taken away by the boring and filing :
for as the outer furface, by having undergone the ac¬
tion of the hammer more immediately than any other
part, is rendered the moft compafl and pure, wTe ftiould
be careful to remove as little of it as poflible; and the
fame holds, though in a lefs degree, with the infide
which is to be cut with the borer. Piftol-barrels are
forged in one piece, two at a time, joined by their
muzzles,,
GUN f 200 ] GUT
Gunter, muzzles, and are bored before they are cut afunder ;
Gunter’s means there is not only a faving of time and
1‘‘ie‘ , labour, but a greater certainty of the bore being the
fame in both.
GUNTER, Edmund, an excellent Engliih mathe¬
matician and aftronomer, was born in Herttordlhire in
1581, and ftudied at Weltminfter-fchool $ from whence^
he removed to Oxford, where he took the degree of
mailer of arts in 1606, and afterwards entered into holy
orders. In 1615 he took the degree of bachelor of
divinity : but being peculiarly eminent for his know¬
ledge in the mathematics, he had two years before been
choien profeffor of aftronomy in Grelham-college, Lon¬
don j where he ditlinguilhed himfelf by his lectures
and writings. He invented a fmall portable quadrant j
and alfo the famous line of proportions, which, after
the inventor, is called Gunter's fcale. He likewiie
publithed Canon Triangulorum; and a work entitled
Of the Settlor, Crcfs-llaff, and other Inilruments. This
daft wms publilhed, with an Engliih tranflation of his
Canon Triangulorum, in 4to, by Samuel Foller profef¬
for of Grelham-college. Mr Gunter died at that col¬
lege in 1626.
Gutter's Line, a logarithmic line, ufually graduated
upon fcales, feflors, &c.
It is alfo called the line of lines and line of numbers;
being only the logarithms graduated upon a ruler,
which therefore ferves to folve problems inftrumentally
in the fame manner as logarithms do arithmetically.
It is ufually divided into 100 parts, every tenth where¬
of is numbered, beginning with 1 and ending with 10 :
fo that if the firft great divifion, marked 1, Hand for
one-tenth of any integer, the next divifion, marked 2,
will ft and for two tenths, 3, three-tenths, and fo on j
and the intermediate divilions will in like manner re~
prefent loodth-parts of the fame integer. If each of
the great divifions reprefent 10 integers, then will the
leffer divifions ftand for integers •, and if the greater
divifions be fuppofed each 100, the fubdivifions will be
each 10.
Ufe of Gunter's Line. 1. To find the producl of two
numbers. From 1 extend the compaffes to the multi¬
plier •, and the fame extent, applied the lame way fro™
the multiplicand, vvill reach to the product. Ihus if
|the product of 4 ^ ke required, extend the com¬
pares from 1 to 4, and that extent laid from ^8 the
fame way will reach to 32, their prodmSL 2. To di¬
vide one number by another. 1 he extent from the divi-
for to unity will reach from the dividend to the quo¬
tient : thus, to divide 36 by 4, exteld the compaffes
from 4 to x, and the lame extent will reach from 3^
to 9, the quotient fought. 3. To three given numbers
tofnda fourth proportional. Suppofe the numbers 6,
8, 9 : extend the coropaffes from 6 to 8 j and this ex¬
tent, laid from 9 the fame way, will reach to 12, the
fourth proportional required. 4. To find a mean pro¬
portional between any two given numbers. Suppote 8
and 32 : extend the compaffes from 8, in the left-hand
part of the line, to 32 in the right; then bife&ing this
diftance, its half will reach from 8 forward, or from
32 backward, to 16, the mean proportional fought.
V. To extradl the fquare-root of any number. Suppofe
25: bileft the diftance between 1 on the fcale and
the point reprefenting 25 } then the halt of this d.ftance,
fet off from I, will give the point reprefenting the
2
root 5. Irl the fame manner the cube root, or that or Gunters
any higher power, may be found by dividing the dit- clua,‘r-ii:'
tance on the line between 1 and the given number into
as many equal parts as the index of the pow’er exprei- fcrena.
fes •, then one of thofe parts, fet from x, will find the l'——-
point reprefenting the root required.
Gunter's Quadrant, one made of wood, brafs, &c.
containing a kind of llereograpbic projection of the
fphere, on the plane of the equinoctial; the eye being
fuppoled placed in one of the poles.
Gunter's Scale, called by navigators fimply the
gunter, is a large plain fcale, generally two feet bug,
and about an inch and a half broad, with artificial
lines delineated on it, of great ufe in folving queftions
in trigonometry, navigation, &c.
GUNWALE, or Gunnei., is the uppermoft wale
of a ihip, or that piece of tinber which reaches on ei¬
ther fide from the quarter-deck to the forecaftle, being
the uppermoft bend which finilhes the upper works ot
the hull, in that part in which are put the ftanchions
which i'upport the wafte-trees.
GURK, an epifcopal town of Carinthia in Germany
feated on the river Gurk, in E. Long. 14. 18. N. Lat.
47. 12.
GURNARD. See Trigla, Ichthyology In¬
dex.
GUST, a fudden and violent fquall of wind, burft-
ing from the hills upon the fea fo as to endanger the
flapping near the Ihore. Thefe are peculiar to feme
coalts, as thofe of South Barbary and Guinea.
GUST AVIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
monadelphia clafs. See Botany Index.
GUSTAVUS I. king of Sweden, fon of Eric de
Vafa duke of Griptholm. Chriftian II. king of Den¬
mark having made himfelf mafter of the kingdom of
Sweden, confined Guftavus at Copenhagen \ but he
making his efcape, wandered a long time in the forefts,
till the cruelties of the tyrant having occalioned a re¬
volution, he was firft declared governor of Sweden,
and in x^xj elected king. This prince introduced
Lutheranifm into his dominions, which in a little time
fpread itfelf all over the kingdom. He died in 1560 5
having made his kingdom hereditary, which was before
ele&ive. See SWEDEN.
Gustatus Adolphus, furnamed the Great, king of
Sweden, was born at Stockholm in 1594, and lucceed-
ed his father Charles in 1611. He efpoufed the caufe
of the Proteftants in Germany, who were oppreffed
and almoft entirely ruined by the emperor Ferdinand.
He was a great warrior, and gained many vi&ories, of
which an account is given under the article Sweden.
He was at laft killed in the battle of Lutzen, where
his troops got the victory, and defeated two of the
emperor’s armies.
GUTHALUS, or Guttalus, in Ancient Geogra¬
phy, is thought to be the Viadrus of Ptolemy. Now
the Oder, which riling in Moravia, runs through
Silefxa, Brandenburg, and Pomerania, into the Baltic.
GUTTA, a Latin term for what in Englifh we call
drop.
Gutta Rofacea, in Medicine, denotes a red or pim¬
pled face; a diftemper which, though not always owing
its original to hard drinking, Is ncverthelefs moft inci¬
dent to tipplers of ftrong beer, wines, fpirits, &c.
Gutta Serena, a difeafe in which the patient, with¬
out
v
(jutta
Guy.
GUY [
out any apparent fault in the eye, is deprived of fight-.
See Medicine Index.
j GuTTAj in slrchiteflure, are ornaments in the form
of little cones ufed in the Doric corniche, or on the ar¬
chitrave underneath the triglyphs, reprefenting a fort
of drops or bells.
. GUT-tie, a difeafe incident to oxen and male
calves at the time of caftration. In the county of
Hereford, thofe who breed cattle open the fcrotum of
their calves, and forcibly extraft the tefticles with
their teeth, in confequence of which every veffel is rup¬
tured belonging to thefe parts. The vafa deferentia
are feparated from the tefticles, and form a kind of
bow from the urethra, where they are united to the
tranfverfe mufcles. The jejunum is the part of the gut
that is tied, where it turns from the right to the left,
and from the left to the right. As the bow of the
gut hangs over the vafa deferentia, a hitch is formed
over the bow of the gut, analogous to what is made by'
a carter over his cart line. In this manner an obftruc-
tion is occafioned in the bowels, which terminates in a
mortification, commonly proving fatal in the courfe of
four days.
The fymptoms which attend a gut-tie refemble thofe
of an incurable colic, or mortification of the inteftines.
To afcertain the diftinftion between the gut-tie and the
colic, the hand and arm of the operator ought to be
oiled, in which ftate it fhould be introduced into the
anus. Here the ftring will be found united to the
mufcles, and without occafioning any pain to the ani¬
mal, may be traced with eafe to the ftritfture by the
hand.
Mr Harris, farmer at Wickton, informs us, that the
gut-tie may be prevented by the following limple and
eafy method of caftration. “ Open the fcrotum, loofen
out the tefticles, and tie the feveral veffels with a waxed
thread or filk, or fear them with a hot iron, to pre¬
vent their bleeding, as in the common way of cutting
tolts. This method can never difplace the veffels of
the bladder, tefticles, kidneys, or inteftines 5 all of
which remain covered or attached to the peritonaeum,
or lining of the abdomen of the beaft, which renders it
impoflible that there fhould ever be a ftridlure or tie otr
the gut.
GUTTURAL, a term applied to letters or founds
pronounced or formed as it were in the throat.
GUTTY, in Herd/dry, a term ufed when any thing
is charged or fprinkled with drops. In blazoning, the
-colour of the drops is to be named : as gutty of fable,
of gules, &c.
GUY, Thomas, an eminent bookfeller, founder of
the hofpital for lick and lame in Southwark bearing
his name, was the fon of Thomas Guy lighterman and
coal-dealer in Horfley-down, Southwark. He was put
apprentice, in 1660, to a bookfeller in the porch of
Mercer’s chapel; and fet up trade with a flock of about
200I. in the houfe that forms the angle between Corn-
hill and Lombard-ftreet. The Englifh Bibles being at
that time very badly printed, Mr Guy engaged with
others in a fcheme for printing them in Holland and
importing them •, but this being put a flop to, he con-
tradled with the univerfity of Oxford for their privilege
of printing them, and carried on a great bible-trade
for many years to a confiderable advantage. Thus he
began to accumulate money, and his gains refted in his
Voe. X. Part I.
201 ] GUY
hands; for being a fingle man, and very penurious, Guy,
his expences could not be great, when it was his cuftom puyh
to dine on his fhop-counter with no other table-cover- ^“-v—
ing than an old newfpaper ; and befides he was not more
fcrupulous about the flyle of his apparel. The bulk of
his fortune, however, was acquired by purchafing fea-
men’s tickets during Queen Anne’s wars, and by South-
Sea flock in the memorable year 1720. To ihow
what great events fpring from trivial caufes, it is
afferted, that the public owe the dedication of the
greateft part of his immenfe fortune to charitable pur-
pofes, to the indifcreet officioufnefs of his maid-fervant
in interfering with the mending of the pavement be¬
fore the door. Guy had agreed to marry her, and,
preparatory to his nuptials, had ordered the pavement
before his door, which was in a neglefled ftate, to be
mended, as far as to a particular ftone w'hich he point¬
ed out. The maid, while her mafter was out, inno¬
cently looking on the paviers at work, faw a broken
place that they had not repaired, and mentioned it to
them : but they told her that Mr Guy had direfted
them not to go fo far. Well, fays fhe, do you mend
it j tell him I bade you, and I know he will not be an¬
gry. It happened, however, that the poor girl pre-
fumed too much on her influence over her careful lover,
with whom a few extraordinary fhillings expence turn¬
ed the fcale totally againft her : the men obeyed; Guy
was enraged to find his orders exceeded, his matrimo¬
nial fcheme was renounced, and fo he built hofpitals in
his old age. In the year 1707 he built and furnifhed
three w'ards on the north fide of the outer court of
St Thomas’s Hofpital in Southwark, and gave look
to it annually for eleven years preceding the ereftion of
his owm hofpital : and, fome time before his death,
eredled the ilately iron gate, with the large houfes on
each fide, at the expence of about 3000I. He wras
76 years of age when he formed the defign of building
the hofpital contiguous to that of St Thomas’s, wfoich
bears his name, and lived to fee it roofed in, dying in
the year 1724. The charge of ere&ing this vaft pile
amounted to 18,793!. and he left 219,499!. to en¬
dow it; a much larger fum than had ever been dedica¬
ted to charitable ufes in this kingdom by any one man.
He eredled an alms-houfe with a library at Tanworth in
Staffordlhire (the place of his mother’s nativity, and
for which he wTas reprefentative in parliament) for 14
poor men and women ; and for their penfions, as well
as for the putting out poor children apprentices, be¬
queathed 1 25I. a-year. Laftly, he bequeathed 1000I.
to every one who could prove themfelves in any degree
related to him.
Guy, a rope ufed to keep fteady any weighty body
whilft it is hoifting or lowering, particularly w'hen the
Ihip is fhaken by a tempeftuous fea.
Guy is like wife a large Hack rope, extending from
the head of the main-mail to the head of the fore-maft,
and having two or three large blocks, faftened to the
middle of it. This is chiefly employed to fuftain the
tackle ufed to hoift in and out the cargo of a merchant
Ihip, and is accordingly removed from the mall-head as
foon as the veffel is laden or delivered.
Gvr's Cliff, in Warwicklhire, a great cliff on the
weft fide of the Avon and the north fide of Warwick,
where in the Britons time was an oratory, and in that
of the Saxons an hermitage, where Guy earl of War-
Cc wick,
G Y G [202
Guyon wick, who is faid to have retired to it after his fatigues
II by the toils and pleafures of the world, built a chapel,
1G-Vfiteus- , and cohabited with the hermit j and that Irom thence
y it had the name. This hermitage was kept up to the
reign of Henry VI. when Rich. Beauchamp earl ol
Warwick eilablilhed a chantry here, and in. memory
of the famous Guy ereded a large ftatue -of him m the
chapel eight feet in height, and raifed a roof over the
adjacent fprings. The chapel is. in the panlh ol bt
Nicholas, in the fuburbs of \V arwick.
GUYON, Johanna Mary Bouriers de la
Mothe, a French lady, memorable for her writings,
and for her fufferings in the caufe of Quietiim, was de-^
fcended from a noble family, and born at Montargis in
i6a8. She gave fome extraordinary fymptoms ol illu¬
mination from her earlieft infancy, and tried to take
the veil before <he was of age to difpofe of herfelfbut
her parents obliged her to marry a gentleman to whom
they had promifed her. She was a widow at the age
of *28 } when diftinguilhing herfelf in, and making
many converts to, the way of contemplation and prayer
known by the name of complaints were made
of her fpiritualifm, and Ihe was confined by order ot the
king, and feverely examined for eight months. She ivas
diicharged •, but was afterwards involved in the perie-
cution of the archbifhop of Cambray, and thrown into
the Baftile, where (he underwent many examinations :
but nothing being made out again!! her, !he once more
obtained her liberty, and lived private to her death in
17 ! 7. She fpent her latter years in myftical reveries *,
covering her tables, ceilings, and every thing that would
receive them, with the failles of a vifionary imagination,
tier pious verfes were collebted after her death in 5 vols,
entitled Cantiques fpintuels, ou d'Emblemes fur / Amour
Divin. Her publications were, Le jnoyen court et ires
facile de faire Oraifons ; and Le Canlique des Cantiques
" ^ r 1 1 r a:   ixtfzrf*
de Salomon interprete felon le fens myjhque; which were
condemned by the archbifhop ot Paris. . _
GUZ, an Indian meafure which varies in different
places, but is in general equal to. a yard of Englifh
meafure. The guz of Akbar did not exceed 41
fingers. ,
GWINIAD. See Salmo, Ichthyology Index.
GYARUS, in Ancient Geography, one of the Cy¬
clades, 12 miles in compafs, lying to the call of Delos.
It was a defert ifland, and allotted for a place of bamlh-
ment by the Romans.
GYBING, the aft of fhiftmg any boom-iail from
one fide of the mail to the other. . .
In order to underftand this operation more clearly, it
is neceffary to remark, that by a boom-fail is meant
any fail whofe bottom is extended by a boom, the fore¬
end of which is hooked to its refpeftive mail *, fo as to
fwing occafionally on either fide of the veffel, defen-
bing an arch, of which the mail will be the centre.
As the wind or the courfe changes, it alfo becomes
frequently neceffary to change the pofition of the boom,
together with its fail, which is accordingly Urifted to
the other fide of the veffel as a door turns upon its
hinges. The boom is puffed out by the effort of the
wind upon the fail, and is reilrained in a proper fitua-
tion bv a ilrong tackle communicating with the veffel’s
ftern, and called the fheet. It is alfo confined on the
fore part by another tackle called the guy.
GYG7EUS, in Ancient Geography; called alfo Co-
] GYM
lous ; a lake of Lydia, diilant 40 itadia, or five miles,
from Sardis.
GYGES, in fabulous hiftory, a Lydian, to whom
Candaules king of the country ffowed his wife naked, c.
The queen was fo incenfed at this inilance of imprudence
and infirmity in her huffand, that ihe ordered Gyges
either to prepare for death himfelf, or to put Candaules
to death. He chofe the latter •, and, marrying the
queen, afeended the vacant throne about 718 years be¬
fore the Chriilian era. He was the firit of the Merm-
nadae who reigned in Lydia. .He reigned 38 years,
and diilinguiffed himfelf by the immenfe prefents which
he made to the oracle of Delphi {Herod, i. c. 8.) —
According to Plato, Gyges defeended into a chafm
of the earth, where he found a brazen horfe, whofe
fides he opened, and faw within the body the carcafe
of a man of uncommon fize, from whofe finger he took
a brazen ring. ,This ring, when he put it on his finger,
rendered him invifible j and by means of its virtue he
introduced himfelf to the queen, murdered her huf-
band, and married her and ufurped the crown of Lydia.
{Cic. Off. iii. c. 9.)
GYMNAS1ARCH, in antiquity, the direftor of
the gymnafium. He had two deputies under him •, the
one called xyjlarch, who prefided over the athletae, and
had the overlight of wreftling; the other, was gymnajles,
who had the direftion of all other exercifes.
GYMNASIUM, in Grecian antiquity, a place, fit¬
ted for performing exercifes of the body, &c. 1 he
word is Greek, formed of yvjttvaj, naked by rea-
fon they anciently put off their clothes, to praftife with
the more freedom.
Gymnafia, according to Potter, were firft ufed at
Lacedemon, but were afterwards very common in all
parts of Greece 5 and imitated, very much augmented,
and improved, at Rome. I. here were three principal
Gjgep
II
Gymna¬
fium.
gymnafia at Athens ; the academy where Plato taught*,
the Lyceum, noted for Anilotle's leftures 5 and the
Cynofarges, alloted for the populace.
Vitruvius deferibes the itrudture and form of the
ancient gymnafia, lib. v. cap. 11. ihey v\ere called
gymnafia, becaufe feveral of the exercifes were perform¬
ed naked \ and palcejlrcc, from wreftling, which was one
of the moil ufual exercifes there : the Romans fome-
times alfo called them thermce, becaufe the baths and
bagnios made a principal part of the building.. It ap¬
pears that they did not perform their exercifes quite
naked fo early as the time of Homer, but always in
drawers j which they did not lay afide beioie the 3^d
Olympiad. One Orfippus is faid to have been the firft
who introduced the practice : for having been worfted
by means of his drawers undoing and entangling him,
he threw them quite afide, and the reft afterwards imi¬
tated him. They w^ere not fingle edifices,, but a knot
of buildings united, being fufficiently capacious to hold
many thoufands of people at once j and having room
enough for philofophers, rhetoricians, and the proiei-
fors of all other fciences to read their leftures,- and
wreftlers, dancers, and all others who had a mind to
exercife at the fame time without the leaft difturb-
ance or’interruption. They confifted of a great many
parts. Vitruvius recites no lefs than 12, viz. 1. J.he
exterior porticoes, where the philofophers, rhetoricians,
mathematicians, phyficians, and other virtuofi, read
public leftures, and where they alfo difputed and re-
GYM [ 203 ] GYM
Viearfed tlieir performances. 2. The ephebeum, where
the youth afl’embled very early, to learn their exercifes
in private, without any fpedlators. 3. The coryceum,
apodyterion, or gymnaflerion, a kind of wrardrobe,
where they {tripped, either to bathe or exercife.
4. The eloeothefium, alipterion, or un&uarium, ap¬
pointed for the unftions, which either preceded or fol¬
lowed the ufe of the bath, wreftling, pancratia, &c.
5. The conifterium or coniftra, in which they covered
themfelves with fand or duft, to dry up the oil or
fiveat. 6. The paheltra, properly fo called, where
they praftifed wreftling, the pugillate, pancratia, and
divers other exercifes. 7. The fphaerifterium or ten¬
nis-court, referved for exercifes wherein they ufed balls.
8. Large unpaved alleys, which comprehended the
fpace between the porticoes and the w7alls wherewith the
edifice was furrounded. 9. The xyfti, wdrich were
porticoes for the wreitlers in winter or bad weather.
10. Other xyftis or open alleys, allotted for fummer
and fine weather, fome of wdiich wTere quite open, md
others planted with trees. 11. The baths, confifting
of feveral different apartments. 12. The ftadium, a
large fpace of a femicivcular form, covered with fand,
and furrounded with feats for the fpe&ators.
For the adminiftration of the gymnafia, there were
different officers : the principal were, 1. The gymna-
fiarcha, who was the director and fuperintendant of the
ivhole. 2. The xyftarcha, who preftded in the xyftus
or ftadium. 3. The gymnafta, or mafter of the exer¬
cifes, who underftood their different effefts, and could
accommodate them to the different complexions of the
athletse. 4. The psedotriba, whofe bufinefs was me¬
chanically to teach the exercifes, without underftanding
their theory or ufe. Under thefe four officers w7ere a
number of fubalterns, whofe names diftinguifhed their
different funflions.
The gymnaftic exercifes may be reduced to two gene¬
ral claffes 5 as they depend either on the a&ion of the
body alone, or as they require external agents or in-
ftruments. The latter confifted chiefly in mounting
the horfe, driving the chariot, and fwimming. The
former were chiefly of two kinds $ orcheftice, and pa-
laeftrice.
The orcheftice comprehended, 1. Dancing. 2. Cu-
biftice, or the art of tumbling. 3. Sphseriftice or tennis,
including all the exercifes writh pilae or balls.
The palseftrice comprifed all exercifes under the de¬
nomination pahejirce; as wrreftling, boxing, pancratia,
hoplomachia, running, leaping, throwing the difcu^
the exercife of the javelin, and that of the hoop, deno¬
minated by the Greeks which confifted in roll¬
ing an iron hoop five or fix feet in diameter, befet with
iron rings, the noife of which apprifing the people fo
give way, afforded them alfo an amufement. Both
ftrength and fkill were requifite in dire&ing this hoop,
which w7as to be driven with an iron rod. To thefe
muft alfo be added the exercifes belonging to the me¬
dicinal gymnaftics j as, 1. Walking. 2. Vociferation,
or {houting. 3. Holding one’s breath. Hoffman enu¬
merates no few7er than 55 forts of exercifes that were
praflifed in the gymnafia.
GYMNASTICS, Gymnast^ce, or the Gymna¬
stic art, denotes the art of performing exercifes of the
body, whether for defence, health, or diverfion. See
Gymnasium.
Several modern writers have treated of this art. hi. Gymnra-
Burette has given the hiftory of gymnaftics in the
Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Infcriptions. "
On the firft eftabliihment of fociety, men, being ap-
prifed of the neceflity of military exercifes for repel¬
ling the infults of their neighbours, inftituted games
and propofed prizes to animate their youth to combats
of divers kinds. And as running, leaping, ftrength
and dexterity of arm in throwing the javelin, driving
a ball, or tolling a quoit, together W'ith wneftling, &c.
were exercifes fuited to the manner of fighting in thofe
days 5 fo the youth vied to excel in them, in the pre-
fence of the aged, who fat as their judges, and difpen-
fed prizes to the conquerors7, till what was originally
only amufement, became at length a matter of fuch
importance, as to intereft great cities and entire nations
in its pradtice. Hence arofe an emulation and eager-
nefs to excel, in hopes, one day, of being proclaimed
and crowned conquerors in the public games, which
was the higheft honour a mortal could arrive at: nay,
they went fo far as to imagine, that even gods and
demigods were not infenfible of what men were fo
captivated with 5 and, in confequence hereof, to intro¬
duce the greateft part of thefe exercifes into their re¬
ligious ceremonies, the worfhip of their gods, and the
funeral honours done to the manes of the dead.
Though it be hard to determine the precife epocha
of the gymnaftic art, yet it appears from feveral paflages
in Homer, and particularly the 23d book of the Iliad,
where he defcribes the games celebrated at the funeral
of Patroclus, that it was not unknown at the time of
the Trojan war. From that defcription, which is the
earlieft monument now extant of the Grecian gymna¬
ftics, it appears, that they had chariot-races, boxing,
wreftling, foot-races, gladiators, throwing the difcus,
drawing the bow, and hurling the javelin ; and it ftiould
feem from the particular account Homer gives of thefe
exercifes, that even then the gymnaftic art wanted little
of perfection : fo that when Galen fays there was no
gymnaftic art in Homer’s days, and that it began ^td
appear no earlier than Plato, he is to be underftood'of
the medicinal gymnaftics only. This laft, indeed, had
its rife later; becaufe, while men continued fober and
laborious, they had no occafion for it j but when luxu¬
ry and idlenefs had reduced them to the fad neceffity
of applying to phyficians, thefe, who had found that
nothing contributed fo much -to the prefervation and
re-eftabliftmient of health as exercifes, proportioned to
the different complexions, ages, and fexes, did not fail
to refer them to the praftice of gymnaftics.
According to Plato, one Herodicus, prior a little
time to Hippocrates, was the firft who introduced this
art into phyfic; and his fucceffors, convinced by ex¬
perience of its ufefulnefs, applied themfelves in earneft
to improve it. Hippocrates, in his book of Regimen,
has given inftances of it, where he treats of exercife in
general, and of the particular effeCls of walking, with
regard to health ; alfo of the different forts of races,
either on foot or hurleback ; leaping, wreftling, the
exercife of the fufpended ball, called corycus, chirono-
my, unions, frictions, rolling in the fand, &c. But
as phyTufisns did not adopt all the exercifes of the gym¬
naftic art in their praCtice, it came to be divided be¬
tween them and the mafters of martial and athletic
exercifes, who kept fchools, the number of which was
C c 2 greatly
G Y M
Gymno- greatly increafed in Greece. At „ _ .
Pvris* alfo caught the fame tafte •, and, adopting the military
Gymnofo- orirj exercifes of the Greeks, they improved and
phi It
* Florid.
lib. i.
<11 1W    / 1 < . .
and athletic exercifes of the Greeks, they improved and
advanced them to the utmoft pitch of magnificence, not
to fay extravagance: But the declenfion of the empire
involved the arts in its ruin, and, among others, gymna-
llics and medicine •, which lall unhappily then relin-
quilhed the title it had to the former, and has neglect¬
ed to refume it ever fince.
GYMNOPYRIS, in Natural Hi/lory, an old name
given to fome fpecies of pyrites. See Pyrites, Mine¬
ralogy Index. , r ,
GYMNOSOPHISXS, a fet of Indian philolophers,
famous in antiquity, fo denominated from their go¬
ing barefoot. The word is formed of the Greek
yu^orotpnrK, q. d. a fophift or philofopher who goes
naked. _ .
This name was given to the Indian philoiophers,
whom the exceflive heat of the country obliged to go
naked ; as that of Peripatetics was given to thofe who
philofophifed walking. The Gymnofophifts, however,
did not go abfolutely naked \ but only clothed them-
felves no farther than modefty required. There w^ere
fome of thefe fages in Africa ; but the moft celebrated
clan of them was in India. _ The African gymnofo¬
phifts dwelt upon a mountain in Ethiopia, near the
Nile, without the accommodation either of houfe or
cell/ They did not form themfelves into focieties like
thofe of India •, but each had his private recefs, where
he ftudied and performed his devotions by hirmelf. If
any perfon had killed another by chance, he applied to
thefe fages for abfolution, and fubmitted to whatever
penances they enjoined. They obferved an extraoi di¬
nary frugality, and lived only upon the fruits of the
earth. Lucan aferibes to thefe Gymnofophifts feveral
new difeoveries in aftronomy- .
As to the Indian Gymnofophifts,^ they dwelt in the
woods, where they lived upon the wild produ&s of the
earth and never drank wine nor married. Some of
them’ praftifed phyfic, and travelled from one place
to another ; thefe were particularly famous for tneir
remedies againft barrennefs. Some of them, likewife,
pretended to praflife magic, and to foretel future e-
CIn'general, the Gymnofophifts were wife and learned
men-. their maxims and difeourfes, recorded by hifto-
rians, do not in the leaft favour of a barbarous educa¬
tion but are plainly the refult of great fenfe and deep
thought. They kept up the dignity of their charac¬
ter to fo high a degree, that it was never their cu-
ftom to w-ait upon any body, not even upon princes
themfelves. They believed the immortality and tranf-
migration of the foul : they placed the chief happmefs
of man in a contempt of the goods of fortune, and the
pleafures of fenfe, and gloried in having given faithful
and difinterefted counfels to princes and magiftrates. It
is faid, that when they became old and infirm, they
threw themfelves into a pile of burning wood, in order
to prevent the miferies of an advanced age. One of
them, named Ca/anus, thus burnt himfelf in the pre¬
fence of Alexander the Great.
Apuleius* deferibesthe Gymnofophifts thus: “ They
are all devoted to the ftudy of wifdom, both the elder
mafters and the younger pupils; and what to rne ap¬
pears the moft amiable thing in their character is, that
[ 204 ] G Y N
length the Romans they have an averfion to idlenefs and indolence : ac- Gymno-
cordingly, as foon as the table is fpread, before a bit a
of victuals be brought, the youths are all called toge-Gynaii;jria>
ther from their feveral places and offices, and the ma- j
fters examine them what good they have done fince
the funrife: here one relates fomething he has difeo-
vered by meditation -, another has learned fomething by
demonitration -, and as for thofe who have nothing to
allege why they ftiould dine, they are turned out to
work fafting.’'’
The great leader of the Gymnofophifts, according
to Jerome, wras one Buddas, called by Clemens Butta,
who is ranked by Suidas among the Brachmans. 1 hat
laft author makes Buddas the preceptor of Manes the
Perfian, the founder of the Gymnofophifts.
GYMNOSPERMIA, in Botany, (from 7vptoS Ll —
ked,” and
feed ;”) the firft order in Linnae¬
us's clafs of didynamina. It comprehends the plants
of that clafs which have naked Reds. The feeds are
conftantly four in number, except in one genus, viz.
phryma, which is monofpermous. See Botany, p. 65.
and 211. .
GYMNOTUS, a genus of fifties belonging to the
order of apodes. See Ichthyology Index.
GYNAiCEUM, among the ancients, the apartment
of the women, a feparate room in the inner part of the
houfe, where they employed themfelves in fpinning,
weaving, and needle-work.
GYNAiGOCRACY, denotes the government of
women, or a ftate where women are capable .of the fu-
preme command. Such are Britain and Spain.
GYNiECOCRATUMENI, an ancient people of
Sarmatia Europsea, inhabiting the eaftern banks of the
river Tanais, near its opening into the Palus Maeotis
thus called, as authors relate, becaufe they had no wo¬
men among them -, or rather becaufe they were under
the dominion of women. The word is formed of yw*
woman, and x^xrovfttto?, vanquifhed, of I over -
come, q. d. overcome by women.
Fa. Hardouin, in his notes on Pliny, fays, they were
thus called, becaufe, after a battle which they loft
againft the Amazons, on the banks of the Phermo-
doon, they were obliged to have venereal commerce
with them, in order to get them children j et quod vie-
tricibus obfequantur adprocurandam eis fobolem. Har¬
douin calls them the hulhands of the Amazons, Ama-
,zonum connubia ; for, as the author obferves, the word
unde muft be retrenched from Pliny, having been foift-
ed into the text by people who were not mafters of
the author’s meaning, unde Amazonum connubia. See
Amazons. .They who take the Amazons for a fabul¬
ous people, will conclude the fame of the Gynaecocra-
tumenians. •
GYNANDRIA, (from y!A>} a “ woman j’ and ctr^
a “ man),” the name of the 20th clafs in Linnaeus’s
fexoal fyftem, confifting of plants with hermaphrodite
flowers, in which the ftamina are placed upon the ftyle,
or pillar-lhaped receptacle refemblmg a ftyle, which
rifes in the middle of the flower, and bears both the
ftamma and ftigma 5 that is, both the fuppofed organs
of generation. See Botany, p. 65-
The flowers of this clafs, fays Linnaeus, have a mon-
ftrous appearance, arifing, as he imagines, from, the
Angular and unufual fituation or the parts of frufHfica-
tlon‘ GYPSIES,
✓
*
GYP [2
GYPSIES, or Egyptians, an outlandlih tribe of
vagabonds, who difguifxng themfelves in uncouth ha¬
bits, fmearing their faces and bodies, and framing to
themfelves a canting language, wander up and down^
and, under pretence of telling fortunes, curing difeafes,
&c. abufe the common people, trick them of their mo¬
ney, and fteal all that they can come at.
They are a ftrange kind of commonvdealth among
themfelves of wandering importers and jugglers, who
made their firft appearance in Germany about the be¬
ginning of the 16th centnry. Munfter, it is true, who
is followed and relied upon by Spelman, fixes the time
of their firft appearance to the year 1417 : hut as he
owns that the firft whom he ever faw were in 1529,
it is probably an error of the prefs for 1517; efpecially
as other hiftorians inform us, that when Sultan Selim
conquered Egypt in the year 1517) feveral of the na¬
tives refufed to fubmit to the Turkiih yoke, and re¬
volted under one Zinganeus j whence the Turks call
them Zinganees ; but being at length furrounded and
banifhed, they agreed to difperfe in fmall parties all
over the world, where their fuppofed fkill in the black
art gave them an univerfal reception in that age of fu-
perftition and credulity. In the compafs of a very few
years they gained fuch a number of idle profelytes
(v\ ho imitated their language and complexion, and be¬
took themfelves to the fame arts of chiromancy, beg¬
ging, and pilfering), that they became troublefome, and
even formidable, to moft of the ftates of Europe.—
Hence they were expelled from France in the year
1560, and from Spain in 1591. And the government
of England took the alarm much earlier ; for in 1530
they are deferibed by Stat. 22 Hen. VIII. c. 10. as
“ an outlandifh people calling themfelves Egyptians,
uling no craft nor feat of merchandile, who have come
into this realm, and gone from rtf. ^ to fhire, and place
to place, in great companies, and uted great, fubtle, and
crafty means to deceive the people } bearing them in
band that they by palmiftry could tell men’s and wo¬
men’s fortunes ; and fo many times by craft and fub-
tility have deceived the people of their money, and alfo
have committed many heinous felonies and robberies.”
Wherefore they are direfted to avoid the realm, and
not to return under pain of imprifonment, and forfei¬
ture of their goods and chattels 5 and upon their trials
for any felony which they may have committed, they
fhall not be entitled to a jury de medietate hngu<r. And
afterwards it is enafted, by ftatutes ift and 2d Ph. and
Mary, c. 4. and 5th Eliz. c. 20. that if any fuch per-
fons lhall be imported into the kingdom, the importer
fhall forfeit 40I. And if the Egyptians themfelves re¬
main one month in the kingdom, or if any perfon be¬
ing 14 years old, whether natural-born fubjedl; or ftran-
ger, which hath been feen or found in the fellowfhip
of fuch Egyptians, or which hath difguifed him or her-
felf like them, fnall remain in the fame one month at
one or feveral times, it is felony without benefit of
clergy. And Sir M. Hale informs us, that at one Suf¬
folk aflizes no lefs that 13 perfons were executed upon
thefe ftatutes a few years before the reftoration. But,
to the honour of our national humanity, there are no
inftances more modern than this of carrying thefe laws
into pra&ice ; and the laft fangulnary adt is itfelf now
repealed by 23 Geo. III. c. 54.
In Scotland they feem to have enjoyed fome {hare
>5 ] GYP
of indulgence ; for a writ of privy feal, dated 1394, Gypfies.
fupports John Faw, lord and earl of Little Egypt, in ' '"r ~ v
the execution of juftice on his company and folk, con¬
form to the laws of Egypt, and in punilhing certain
perfons there named who rebelled againft him, left
him, robbed him, and refufed to return home with
him. James’s fubjedts are commanded to aflift in ap¬
prehending them, and in aftifting Faw and his adhe¬
rents to return home. There is a like writ in his fa¬
vour from Mary queen of Scots 1553’ an<^ *n I554 he
obtained a pardon for the murder of Nunan Small. So
that it appears he had ftaid long in Scotland, and per¬
haps fome of the time in England j and from him this
kind of (trolling people might receive the name of
Faw Gang, which they (till retain.
A very circumftantial account of this Angular race
of vagrants has been lately given in an exprefs Inquiry
concerning them, written in German by H. M. G.
Grellman, and tranftated by Mr Raper. It is incre¬
dible to think how this regular fwarm of banditti has
fpread itfelf over the face of the earth. They wander
about in Afia, in the interior parts of Africa, and like
locufts have overrun moft of the European nations.
In the reigns of Henry VIII. and Queen Elizabeth,
as wre have feen, they were fet up as a mark of ge¬
neral perfecution in England ; yet their numbers do
not appear to have much diminilhed. Spain is fup¬
pofed by Mr Twifs to contain 40,000 of thefe va¬
grants j but by others 60,000", and by fome even dou¬
ble that number. They are lefs numerous in France
in confequence of the ftridlnefs of the police. In Italy
they abound, efpecially in the dominions of the church,
on account of the bad police and the prevalence of fu-
perftition, which permit and entice them to deceive the
ignorant. They are fcattered, though not in great
numbers, through Germany, Denmark, Sweden, and
Ruftia ; but their chief population is in the fouth-eaft
parts of Europe, which feem to be the general ren¬
dezvous of the gypfy nation. At a moderate compu¬
tation Europe contains more than feven hundred
thoufand of thefe vagabonds.—For near four centuries
they have wandered through the world ; and in every
region, and among every people, whether barbarous or
civilized, they have continued equally unchanged by
the lapfe of time, the variation of climate, and the
force of example. Their lingular phyfiognomy and
particular rhanners are the fame in every country.—-
Their fwarthy complexion receives no darker fhade
from the burning fun of Africa, nor any fairer tinfture
from the temperate climates of Europe : they contract
no additional lazinefs in Spain, nor acquire any new
induftry in England •, in Turkey they behold the
mofque and the crefcent with equal indifference as they
do the reformed and the catholic church in Europe. -
In the neighbourhood of civilized life they continue
barbarous; and, beholding around them cities and fet¬
tled inhabitants, they live in tents or holes in the earth,
and wander from place to place as fugitives and vaga¬
bonds.
They are paffionately fond of ornaments j in wdiich
honrever they confult neither propriety nor confiftency j
they will wear an old laced coat, while the reft of their
garments fcarcely hang together. In Hungary and
Tranfylvania their fummer habitations are tents; their
winter ones holes 10 or 12 feet deep in the earth, ex-
cepfct
GYP [20
r.ypfies. cept fuch as keep inns, or exercife trades. They
are fond of plate, particularly lilver cups, which they
bury under the hearth for fecurity. Their principal
occupations are, fmith’s work, or tinkers, or wooden
ware, and horfe-dealing •, and in Hungary and Tran-
fylvania they are executioners of criminals, flayers of
dead beads, and wafliers of gold. The wTomen deal
in old cloaths, proftitution, wanton dances, and fortune¬
telling. Notwithdanding thefe occupations the majo¬
rity of this people are lazy, beggars, and thieves. They
bring up their children to their own profedions, and are
very fond of them. They have few diforders, except
the meades and fmallpox, and weaknefs in their eyes,
occafloned by the fmoke ; and live to an advanced age,
with a ftrong attachment to life. Their phyfic is faf-
fron in their foups, or bleeding.
Thefe people, however, appear to be didinguifhed
by different fingularities in different countries. At
lead in the following circumdances the German gyp-
des differ widely from thofe we commonly meet with
in England. It is a great fealt to them, our author
fays, whenever they can procure a road of cattle that
died of any didemper. It is all one to them, whether
it be carrion of a fheep, hog, cow, or other bead,
horfe-dedi only excepted 5 they are fo far from being
difguded with it, that to eat their fill of fuch a meal,
is to them the height of epicurifm. When any one
cenfures their tade, or diows furprife at it, they an-
fwer, “ The fledr of a bead which God kills, mud be
better than of one killed by the hand of man.” They
therefore take every opportunity of getting fuch dain¬
ties. That they take carrion from a laydall, as is af¬
firmed of the gypfies in Hungary, is by no means cer¬
tain, any more than that they eat horfe-dedi. But if
a bead out of a herd dies, and they find it before it
becomes rotten and putrified, or if a farmer gives them
notice of a cow dead, they proceed, without hefita-
tion, to get polfedion of this booty. Their favourite
objeft is animals that have been dedroyed by fire;
therefore, whenever a condagration has happened, ei¬
ther in town or country, the next day the gypfies,
from every neighbouring quarter, affemble and draw
the fuffocated half-confumed beads out of the adies.
Men, women, and children, in troops, are extremely
bufy, joyfully carrying the flefh home to their dwelling-
places *, they return feveral times, provide themfelves
plentifully with this road meat, and gluttonize in their
huts as long as their noble fare lads.
The gypfies have, at lead in Tranfylvania, a fort of
regular government, rather nominal than real or effec¬
tive. They have their leaders or chiefs, whom they
didinguidi by the Sclavonian title, Waywode. To
this dignity every perfon is eligible who is of a family
defcended from a former waywode ; but the preference
is generally given to thofe who have the bed clothes
and the mod wealth 5 who are of a large dature, and
not pad the meridian of life.—Of religion, however,
they have no fenfe •, though, with their ufual cunning
and hypocrify, they profefs the edablidied faith of
every country in which they live. They alfo fpeak the
languages of the refpeftive countries, yet have a lan¬
guage of their own •, from whence derived, authors
differ. The only fcience which they have attained is
mufic. Their poetry is ungrammatical indecent rhyme.
Their general charafter and capacities are thus de-
J
6 ] GYP
fcribed : Imagine people of a childidi way of thinking *, Gypfir?.
their minds filled with raw, undigeded conceptions •,
guided more by fenfe than reafon ; ufing underdanding
and reflection fo far only as they promote the gratifi¬
cation of any particular appetite •, and you have a per¬
fect Iketch of the gypfies charafter. They are lively,
uncommonly loquacious and chattering • fickle in the
extreme, confequently incondant in their purfuits; faith-
lefs to every body, even their own cad ; void of the
lead emotion of gratitude, frequently rewarding bene¬
fits with the mod infidious malice. Fear makes them
flaviflily compliant ■when under fubjeclion ; but having ,
nothing to apprehend, like other timorous people, they
are cruel. Defire of revenge often caufes them to take
the mod defperate refolutions. To fuch a degree of
violence is their fury fometimes excited, that a mother
has been known, in the excefs of paflion, to take her
little infant by the feet, and with it drike the ob-
je£l of her anger, when no other indrument has readily
prefented itfelf. They are fo addifted to drinking, as
to facrifice what is mod neceffary to them, that they
may fead their palate with fpirits. They have, too,
what one would little expeft, an enormous fhare of
vanity, which (hows itfelf in their fondnefs for fine
clothes, and their gait and deportment when dreffed in
them. One might imagine, that this pride would have
the good effeCt to render a gypfy cautious not to be
guilty of fuch crimes as fubjeCt him to public fliame ;
but here comes in the levity of character, for he never
looks to the right nor to the left in his tranfaCtions. In
an hour’s time he forgets that he is jud untied from the
whipping pod. But their pride is grounded on mere
idle conceit, as appears plainly from their making it a
point of honour to abufe their companions, and put on
a terrible appearance in the public market, where they
are fure to have many fpeftators 5 they cry out, make
a violent noife, challenge their adverfary to fight, but
very feldom any thing comes of it. Thus the gypfy
feeks honour, of which his ideas coincide very little
with thofe of other people, and fometimes deviate en¬
tirely from propriety.
“ Nothing (continues our author) can exceed the un~
redrained depravity of manners exifling among thefe
people, I allude particularly to the other fex. Un¬
checked by any idea of fliame, they give way to every
defire. The mother endeavours, by the mod fcanda-
lous arts, to train up her daughter for an offering to
fenfuality j and this is fcarce grown up before flie be¬
comes the feducer of others. Lazinefs is fo prevalent
among them, that were they to fubfid by their own la¬
bour only, they would hardly have bread for two of the
feven days in the week. This indolence increafes their
propenfity to dealing and cheating, the common attend¬
ants on idlenefs. They feek to avail themfelves of
every opportunity to fatisfy their lawlefs defires. 1 heir
univerfal bad charafter therefore for ficklenefs, infide¬
lity, ingratitude, revenge, malice, rage, depravity, la¬
zinefs, knavery, thieviflmefs, and cunning, though not
deficient in capacity and clevernefs, render thefe people
of no ufe in fociety, except as (oldiers to form maraud¬
ing parties. Perfons in their company, and under their
difguife, have formed dangerous defigns againd cities
and countries. They have been banifhed from almolt
all civilized dates, in their turn, except Hungary and
Tranfylvania, and to little purpofe.” Our author is of
opinion.
GYP [ 207 ] GYP
Gypfies. opinion, that as Turkey would allow them toleration,
““v it would be better for the European Hates to take fome
Heps for cultivating and civilizing them, and making
them ufeful. But while they are infenfible of religion
• and ilrongly attached to their own manners, it is to be
feared the attempt will be impraflicable. This ap¬
pears from a very intelligent Hungarian lady’s experi¬
ence on the fubjeft, communicated in a letter as fol¬
lows : ‘ There are a great number of them on my
eilates, but I have permitted two families in particular
to eHablilh themfelves at the place of my own refidence,
under the exprefs condition that no others (hall come
here ai\d join them. I took all poffible pains to make
them reafonable creatures. I fet the elder ones to work 5
the younger ones tend the cattle. I obferved that they
were more fond of horfes than any thing elfe ; for
which reafon I placed a gypfy under each groom. I
had their children clothed, that none of them might be
running about naked, according to their ufual practice.
It appeared, however, that cuftom was become nature
with them. The old ones worked diligently fo long as
any body Hood over them ; the moment their backs
W'ere turned, they all got together in a circle, their legs
acrofs, facing the fun, and chattered. Thus they can¬
not poffibly earn more, indeed hardly fo much, as would
find them bread, although very cheap vrith us ; for the
bread I give them does not (land me in half a kreutzer
the pound. Even in w'inter they cannot bear a hat on
their head or {hoes on their feet. The boys run like
wild things wherever they are fent, either on foot or on
horfeback ; but they fpoil horfes unmercifully, beat
them on the head, jerk the bits in their mouths, fo as
to make them run dowm wuth blood. They cannot be
brought by any means whatever to drefs horfes. Clothe
them as you will, they always fell or lofe their clothes.
In a word, one cannot but confider them as void of
reafon ; it is really fhocking to fee even well grown
children put whatever they find into their mouths, like
infants before they can fpeak *, wkerefore they eat eve¬
ry thing, even carrion, let it {link never fo much.
Where a mortality happens among the cattle, there
thefe wretched beings are to be found in the greateil
numbers.’
The origin of this people, as w7e have feen, has been
generally believed to be Egyptian ; and that belief is
as old as their exiitence in Europe. Thomafius, Sal¬
mon the Englifii geographer, and lately Signior Grife-
lini, have endeavoured to prove it by fatisfaclory evi¬
dence. This theory, however, according to our au¬
thor, is without foundation. The Egyptian defcent of
thefe people, he thinks, is not only deftitute of proofs,
but the moft pofitive evidence is found to contradict it.
Their language differs entirely from the Coptic ; and
their cuftoms are very different from thofe of the Egyp¬
tians. They are indeed to be found in Egypt; but
they w’ander about there as ftrangers, and form a di-
itindt people, as in other countries. The expreffions
of Bellonius are ftrong and decifive : “ No part of the
world, I believe, is free from thofe banditti, wander¬
ing about in troops, whom we by miflake call Egyp¬
tians and Bohemians. When we w’ere at Cairo, and in
the villages bordering on the Nile, w7e found troops of
thefe ftrolling thieves fitting under palm trees •, and
they are efteemed foreigners in Egypt as well as among
us.”
The Egyptian defcent of the gypfies being rejected,
our author next endeavours to fbow that they come
from Hindoftan. The chief bafis of his theory, how¬
ever, is no other than that very dubious one, a fimila-
rity of language. He adds a long vocabulary of the
gypfy and the Hindoflanic languages j in which, it
muft be confeffed, many words are the fame j but ma¬
ny are different. A principal proof which he adduces
on this head is from the relation of Captain Szekely
von Doha, to whom a printer in 1763 related, that a
preacher of the Reformed church, when a lludent at
Leyden, being intimately acquainted w’ith three young
Malabar ftudents, took down 1000 of their words,
which he fancied correfponded with the gypfy language 5
and they added, that a tract of land in their ifland wras
named Oxigania. He repeated thefe wmrds to the Ra-
ber gypfies, who explain them without trouble or hefi-
tation. This account wTas publilhed in the Vienna Ga¬
zette. Suppofing thefe three young men to be fons of
Bramins, who ufe the Sanfcrit, the common language
of Hindoftan comes as near to that as modern Italian
to pure Latin. The comparifon of the two languages
takes up above 30 pages ; and Mr Grellman thinks it
eftablilhes his fyftem. The fame opinion is maintained
by Mr Marfden, in a paper upon this fubjedt in the 7th
volume of the Archeologia. The numerals, however,
both in Hindoftanic and gypfy, differ greatly as ftated
by the two authors. And here, as in other fuch com-
parifons, one is aftonifhed at the credulity of the com¬
parers of orthoepy and orthography (as a periodical cri¬
tic obferves), which can have no connection in langua¬
ges wuth which we are not perfectly familiar, even were
both languages reduced to writing by their refpedtive
people : how much lefs, then, where one of the two
languages is never reduced to waiting, as is the cafe of
the gypfy, but it is blended with the language of the
country where the clan refides ? This appears from the
correfpondence of feveral wmrds in all languages with
the gypfy. Mr Grellman acknowledges the two gypfy
verfions of the Lord’s Brayer, at different periods, differ
fo wudely, that one wmuld almoft be inclined to doubt
whether they were really the fame language. We think
wre can difcern a fewr words differently indeed written,
but probably pronounced alike. Nor can w7e, in all the
languages in wdiich Chamberlayne gives the Lord’s
Prayer, perceive the leaft refemblance to the gypfy
name of father, Dade and Dad, except in the Welfh,
Taad. In profecuting his argument, Mr Grellman
does not infift on the fimilarity of colour between the
twro people, nor on the cowardice common to both, nor
on the attachment of the Indians to tents, or letting
their children go naked ; all thefe being traits to be
met with in other nations : but he dwells on the word
Po/gar, the name of one of the firft gypfy leaders, and
of the Hindoftanic god of marriage j alfo on the corref¬
pondence between the travelling fmiths in the twm peo¬
ple, who carry two pair of belkws; the- Indian’s boy
blows them in India, the wife or child of the gypfy in
Europe : as if every travelling tinker, in every nation
where tinkers travel, had not the fame journeymen.
In lafcivious dances and chiromancy the two people
agree ; nor are thefe uncommon in other parts of the
globe. The exceflive loquacity of the two people is
produced as fimilar •, as if no other nations in the world
were loquacious. Fainter refemblances are, a fondnefs
for*
Gypfies.
GYP [ 208 ]
Gypfief. for faft'ron, and the intermarrying only with their own made Haves
“"■""V " " ' people. The laft pofition in the author’si theory is, that
* the gyplies are of the loweft clafs of Indians, namely,
Farias, or, as they are called in Hindoftan, Suders.
He compares the manners of this clals with thofe of the
gypfies, and enumerates many circumftances in which
they agree : fome of the comparifons are frivolous, and
prove nothing. As an inilance of which we may take
the following : ‘ Gypfies are fond of being about horfes *,
the Suders in India likewife, for which reafon they are
commonly employed as horfe-keepers by the Europeans
refident in that country.’ This reafoning does not prove
that the gypfies are Suders, any more than that they are
Arabians or Yorkfhire farmers.
The objections, however, to which this learned and
induftrious author’s theory is liable, are fuch as only
fliow it to be by no means fatisfaftory j but do not
prove that it is wrong. It may poffibly be right $ and
upon this fuppofition the caufe of their emigration
from their country, he conjeftures, not without pro¬
bability, to be the war of Timur Beg in India. In the
years 1408 and 14C9 this conqueror ravaged India j
and the progrefs of his arms was attended with devafta-
tion and cruelty. All who made refinance were de-
itroyed j thofe who fell into the enemy’s hands were
G Y S
of thefe very Haves 100,000 were put to Gypfoplnla
As on this occafion an univerfal panic took Gy(^orn>
 ...11 i-Vian tViQl- n or eat 1   j
death.
place, what could be more natural than that a great
number of terrified inhabitants fhould endeavour to iave
themfelves by flight ?—In the lafl place, the author en¬
deavours to trace the route by which the gypfies came
from Hindoftan to Europe : but here he juftly acknow'-
ledges that all that can be faid on the fubjeft is mere
furmife •, and, upon the whole, after pending all the
pfeceding details, the reader will probably be of opi¬
nion that there Hill hangs a cloud over the origin of this
extraordinary race.
GYPSOPHILA, a genus of plants belonging to the
decandria clafs j and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 2 2d order, Canjopfnjliei. See Botany Index.
GYPSUM, PLASTER-STONE, or udlabajler. See
Gypsum, Mineralogy Index.
GYR-FALCO, the name of a large and fierce fpecies
of falcon, called in Englifh xhejer-falcon. See Orni¬
thology Index*
GYRINUS, a genus of infeCts of the Coleoptera or¬
der. See Entomology Index.
GYSHORN, a town of Germahy, in the duchy of
Lunenburgh, fituated on the river Aller, in E. Long.
10. 49. N. Lat. 52. 49. •
/
H.
H
II
Habakkuk
Hthe eighth letter and fixth confonant in our
5 alphabet $ though fome grammarians will have
, it to be only an afpiration, or breathing. But nothing
can be more ridiculous than to difpute its being a di-
Binct found, and formed in a particular manner by
the organs of fpeech, at leafl in our language : witnefs
the words eat and heat, arm and harm, ear and /lerfr, at
and hat, &c. as pronounced with or without the h.
It is pronounced by a flrong exfpiration of the breath
between the lips, doling, as it were, by a gentle mo¬
tion of the lower jaw to the upper, and the tongue
nearly approaching the palate.
There feems to be no doubt, that oyr h, which
is the fame with that of the Romans, derived its figure
from that of the Hebrew U. And, indeed, the Pha;-
nicians, mofl ancient Greeks and Romans, ufed t e
fame figure with our H, which in the fenes of all thete
alphabets keeps its primitive place, being the eighth
H, ufed as a numeral, denotes 200 j and with a dafh
over it, H 200,000.
As an abbreviation, H was ufed by the ancients to
denote homo, hares, hard, &c. Thus H. B. Hood for
hares bonorum ; and H. S. corruptly for L L S. ie-
Herce j and H. A. for Hadrianus. .
HAAG, or Hag, a town of the duchy of Bavaria
in Germany, feated on a hill on the wefl fide of the
river Inn, in E. Long. 12. 15. N. Lat. 48. 18.
HABAKKUK, one of the twelve lefler P^P^5,
•whofe prophecies are taken into the canon of the Old
TeHament. The name is written in the Hebrew with Habakkuk
h heth; and fignifies “ a wrefller.” There is no pre- Hab^
cife time mentioned in Scripture when this Habakkuk 1 —v 1 <
lived j but from his predifling the ruin of the Jews by
the Chaldeans, it may be concluded that he prophefied
before Zedekiah, or about the time of Manaffeh. He
is reported to have been the author of feveraj prophecies
which are not extant: but thofe that are indifputably
his, are contained in three chapters. In thefe the pro¬
phet complains very pathetically of the diforders which
he obferved in the kingdom of Judsea. God reveals to
him, that he would fhortly punilh them in a very terri¬
ble manner by the arms of the Chaldaeans. He fore-
tels the conqueHs of Nebuchadnezzar, his metamorpho-
fis, and death. He foretels, that the vafl defigns or
Jehoiakim would be fruHrated. He fpeaks againfl a
prince (probably the king of Tyre) who built with
blood and iniquity 5 and he accufes another king (per¬
haps the king of Egypt) of having intoxicated his
friend, in order to difeover his nakednefs. I he third
chapter is a fong or prayer to God, whofe majeHy he
deferibes with the utmofl grandeur and fubhmity ol ex-
preflion. . , .
HABAT, a province of Afia, m Baroary, and in
the kingdom of Fez. It is furrounded by the Medi¬
terranean, the Hraits of Gibraltar, and the Atlantic
ocean. The principal towns are Arzilla, Tetuan, and
Ceuta 5 which lafl is in poffeflion of the Spaniards.
HABDALA, a ceremony of the Jews obferved on
the evening of the fabbath, when every one of the fa-
H A B [ 209 ] H A B
Habeas mily is come home. At that time they light a taper
Corpus. or iamp} with two wicks at leaft. The mafter of the
v family then takes a cup, with fome wine, mixed with
fragrant fpices, and having repeated a pafiage or two
of Scripture, as for example, “ I will take the cup of
falvation,” &c. Pfal. cxvi. and “ The Jews had light
and gladnefs,” &c. Elth. viii. he blefles the wine and
fpices. Afterwards he bleffes the light of the fire j and
then cafts his eyes on his hands and nails, as remem¬
bering that he is going to work. The whole is in¬
tended to fignify, that the fabbath is over, and is from
that moment divided from the day of labour which
follows. For this reafon the ceremony is called Hab-
dala, which fignifies “ dhlinclion.” After the .cere¬
mony is over, and the company breaks up, they widi
one another, not “ a good night,” but “ a good
week.”
HABEAS corpus, in lawr, is the great remedy in
cafes of Falfe Imprisonment. The incapacity of the
three other remedies referred to under that article, to
give complete relief in every cafe, hath almoif entirely
antiquated them, and hath caufed a general refource
to be had, in behalf of perfons aggrieved by illegal
imprifonment, to the prefent writ, the moft celebra¬
ted in the Englifh law. Of this there are various
kinds made ufe of by the courts at Weftminfter, for
removing prifoners from one court into another for the
more eafy adminiftration of juflice. Such is the ha¬
beas corpus ad refpondendum, when a man hath a caufe
of a£tion againft one wrho is confined by the procefs of
fome inferior court ; in order to remove the prifoner,
and charge him writh this new adlion in the court
above. Such is that adfatisfaciendum, wrhen a prifon¬
er hath had judgment againft him in an adtion, and
the plaintiff is defirous to bring him up to fome fupe-
rior court to charge him with procefs of execution.
Such alfo are thofe ad profequendum, tejlificandum, de¬
liberandum, &c. 5 which ilTue ■when it is neceffary to
remove a prifoner, in order to profecute or bear tefti-
mony in any court, or to be tried in the proper jurif-
didtion wherein the fa6t was committed. Such is,
laftly, the common writ ad faciendum et recipiendum,
wThich iffues out of any of the courts of Weftminfter-
hall, when a perfon is fued in fome inferior jurifdiftion,
and is defirous to remove the action into the fuperior
court ; commanding the inferior judges to produce the
Body of the defendant, together with the day and caufe
of his caption and detainer (whence the writ is fre-
-quently denominated an habeas corpus cum caufd), to
do and receive whatfoever the king’s court fliall confi-
der in that behalf. This is a writ grantable of com¬
mon right, without any motion in court; and it in-
ffantly fuperfedes all proceedings in the court below.
But, in order to prevent the furreptitious difcharge of
prifoners, it is ordered by ffatute 1 & 2 P. & M. c. 13.
that no habeas corpus fhall iffue to remove any prifoner
out of any goal, unlefs figned by fome judge of the
court out of which it is awarded. And, to avoid vexa¬
tious delays by removal of frivolous caufes, it is enacted
by ffatute 21 Jac. I. c. 23. that, wdiere the judge of
an inferior court of record is a barriffer of three ears
Banding, no caufe fliall be removed from thence by
habeas corpus or other writ, after iffue or demurrer de¬
liberately joined j that no caufe, if once remanded to
the inferior court by writ of procedendo or otherwife
Vol. X. Part I.
fhall ever afterwards be again removed ; and that no Habeas
caufe fliall be removed at all, if the debt or damages Corpus.
laid in the declaration do not amount to the fum of
five pounds. But an expedient having been found out
to dude the latter branch of the ffatute, by procuring
a nominal plaintiff to bring another adion for five
pounds or upwards ("and then by the courfe of the
court the habeas corpus removed both adions together),
it is therefore enaded by flatute 12 Geo. I. c. 29.
that the inferior court may proceed in fuch adions as
are under the value of five pounds, notwithflanding
other adions may be brought againft the fame defend¬
ant to a greater amount.
But the great and efficacious writ, in all manner of
illegal confinement, is that of habeas corpus adfubjici-
endum; direded to the perfon detaining another, and
commanding him to produce the body of the prifoner,
with the day and caufe of his caption and detention,
ad faciendum, fubjiciendum, et recipiendum., to do, fub- Blactf.
mit to, and receive whatfoever the judge or comt^0mmeni‘
awarding fuch writ fhall confider in that behalf. This
is a high prerogative writ, and therefore by the com¬
mon law iffuing out of the court of king’s bench, not
only in term-time, but alfo during the vacation, by a
fat from the chief juilice, or any other of the judges,
and running into all parts of the king’s dominions;
for the king is at all times intitled to have an account
why the liberty of any of his fubjeds is reftrained,
wherever that reftraint may be inffided. If it iflues
in vacation, it is ufually returnable before the judge
himfelf who awarded it, and he proceeds by himfelf
thereon ; unlefs the term ffiould intervene, and then it
may be returned in court. Indeed, if the party were
privileged in the courts of common pleas and exche¬
quer, as being an officer or fuitor of the court, an ha¬
beas corpus adfubjiciendum might alfo have been award¬
ed from thence ; and, if the caufe of imprifonment were
palpably illegal, they might have difcharged him : but
if he were committed for any criminal matter, they
could only have remanded him, or taken bail for his
appearance in the court of king’s bench ; which occa-
fioned the common pleas to difcountenance fuch ap¬
plications. It hath alfo been laid, and by very re-
fpedable authorities, that the like habeas corpus may
Hue out of the court of chancery in vacation; but
upon the famous application to Lord Nottingham by
jenks, notwithffanding the moft diligent fearches, no
precedent could be found where the chancellor had if-
fued fuch a writ in vacation 5 and therefore his lordffup
refufed it.
In the court of king’s-bench it was, and is ftill,
neceffary to apply for it by motion to the court, as in
the cafe of all other prerogative writs {certiorari, pro¬
hibition, mandamus, &c.) which do not iffue as of
mere courfe, without knowing fome probable caufe why
the extraordinary power of the crown is called in to
the party’s afliftance. For, as was argued by Lord
chiefjultice Vaughan, “it is granted on motion, be-
caufe it cannot be had of courfe ; and there is there¬
fore no neceffty to grant it *, for the court ought to
be fatisfied that the party hath a probable caufe to
be delivered.” And this feems the more reafonable,
becaufe, when once granted, the perfon to whom it
is direbled can return no fatisfaftory excufe for not
bringing up the body of the prifcner. So that, if it
D d iffued
IO
H A B [2
Fp.beas liTued of mere courfe, .without fhowing to the court
Corpus. or iudge feme reafonable ground for awarding it, a
 ' traitor or felon under fentence of death, a foldier or
mariner in the king’s fervice, a wife, a child, a relation,
or a domestic, confined for infanity or otner pruden¬
tial reafons, might obtain a temporary enlargement
by filing out an /uibeas corpus, though fare to be re¬
manded as foon as brought up to the court. And
therefore Sir Edward Coke, when chief juftice, did not
fcruple, in ^c* L t0 deny 3 haheaS C09US
confined by the court of admiralty for piracy there
anpear'ng, upon his owfi fhowing, fufficient grounds
to * confine Mm. On the other hand, if a probable
'wound be ftiown, that the party is impnloned without
mft caufe, and therefore hath a right to be delivereo,
‘the writ of habeas corpus is then a writ of right,
which “may not be denied, but ought to^ be granted
to every man that is committed, or detained m pri-
fon, or otherwife reftrained, though it be by the
command of the king, the privy-council, or any
In the articles LIBERTY and Rights, \vill be found a
full difcuffion of the perfonal liberty of the fubject. 1 his
is (hown to be a natural inherent right, which could
not be furrendered or forfeited unlefs by the commii-
fion of feme great and atrocious crime and which
ought not to be abridged in any cafe without the Ipe-
cial permiffion of law, a dbarine coeval with the
firft rudiments of our conftitution 5 and handed down
to us from the Anglo-Saxons, notwithftanding all their
Jfiruggles with the Danes, and the violence of the
Norman conqueft : afferted afterwards and confirmed
by the conqueror himfelf and his defeendants *, and
though fometimes a little impaired by the ferocity oi
the times, and the occafional defpotifm of jealous or
ufurping princes, yet eftablilhed on the firmed bafis by
the provifions of magna charta, and a long fucceffion
of Uatutes enaaed under Edward III.^ lo affert an
abfolute exemption from imprifonment m all caies,_is
inconfiftent with every idea of law and political focie-
tv ; and in the end would deftroy all civil liberty, by
rendering its proteaion impoffible : but the gloiy ot
the Engiifh law confifts in clearly defining the time,
the caufes, and the extent, when wherefore, and to
what degree, the ii%ilonment of the fubjea may be
lawful. This it is whmh induces the abfolute necei-
ilty of expreffing upon every commitment the reaion
for which it is made: that the court, upon an habeas
corpus, may examine into its validity ; and according
to the circumftances of the cafe may difeharge, admit
to bail, or remand the prifoner.
And vet, early in the reign of Charles I. the court
Xof king’s-bench, relying on fome arbitrary precedents
* State (and tbofe perhaps miiunderftood), determined that
‘Trials,™, they could not upon an habeas corpus either bail or
>36- deliver a prifoner, though committed without any
caufe alligned, in cafe he was committed by the _lpe-
cial command of the king, or by the lords of the privy-
council. This drew on a parliamentary inquiry, and
produced the petition of right, 3 Car. I. which recites
this illegal judgment, and enafts that no freeman here¬
after (hall be fo imprifoned or detained. Liu when,
in the following year, Mr Selden and others were
committed by the lords of the council, m purfuance of
his mniefty’s fpecial command, under a genera, charge
Habeas
Corpus.
] II A B
of “ notable contempts and ftirring up fedition againfi
the king and government,” the judges delayed for
two terms (incltrthug alfo the long vacation) to deliver
an opinion how far inch a charge was bailable 5 and
when at length they agreed that it was, they how¬
ever annexed a condition of finding fureties for the
o-ood behaviour, which dill protracted their imprifon-
ment j the chief juilice Sir Nicholas Hyde, at the fame
time declaring %, that “ if they were again remanded + lb,d- 240-
for that caufe, perhaps the court would not after¬
wards grant a habeas corpus, being already made ac¬
quainted with the caufe of the imprifonment.” But
this was heard with indignation and ailonifiiment
by e.*ery lawyer prefent; according to Mr Selden’s
own account of the matter, whofe refentment was not
cooled at the difiance of four and twenty years.
Thefe pitiful evafions gave rife to the ftatute 16
Car. I. c. 10. §. 8. whereby it is ena£led, that if any
perfon be committed by the king himfelf in perfon,
or by bis privy council, or by any of the members
thereof, he (hall have granted unto him, without any
delay, upori any pretence whatfoever, a writ of habeas
corpus, upon demand or motion made to the court ot
king’s bench or common pleas} who (hall thereupon,
within three court days after the return is made, exa¬
mine and determine the legality of fuch commitment,
and do what to juftice (hall apperfhin, in delivering,
hailing, or remanding fuch prifoner. Yet dill m the
cafe of Jenks, before alluded to,_ who m 1676 was
committed by the king in council for a turbulent
fpeecb at Guildhall, new (hifts and devices were made
ufe of to prevent his enlargement by law *, the chief
iuftice (as well as the chancellor), declining to award
a writ of habeas corpus ad fubjiciendum in vacation,
though at laft he thought proper to award the uiual
writs ad deliberandum, &c. whereby the prifoner was
difeharged at the Old Bailey. Other abuies had alio
crept‘into daily praftice, which had in fome meafure
defeated the benefit of this great conftitutional re¬
medy. The party imprifoning was at libeity to de¬
lay his obedience to the firft writ, aad might wait till
a fecond and a third, called an alias and a plunes,
were iffued, before he produced the party *, and many
other vexatious (hifts were praflifed to_ detain fiate-
prifoners in cuftody. But whoever will attentively
confider the Englfth hiftory, may obferve, that the
flagrant abufe of any power, by the crown or its mi-
nifters, has always been produftive of a ftruggle J
which either difeovers the exercife of. that power to
be contrary to law, or (if legal; reftrams n for the
future. This was the cafe m the prefent mftance.
The oppreflion of an obfeure individual gave birti to
the famous habeas corpus aft, 3* Car. II. c. 2. which
is frequently confidered as another magna charta o, the
kingckun j and by confidence has alio m fubfequent
times reduced the method of proceedmg on thefe wms
(though not within the reach of that tiatu.e, hut dlu-
Lg merely at the common law) to the true fianoard of
^Vhe'Snfefitfe.f enafls, .. That the writ Ml be
returned and the prifoner brought up, within a hnme
rime according to the diftance, not exceeding m any
cafe twenty days. 2. That fuch writs (hall be endor-
as granted in purfuance of this act, and ngntd y
Q T   ~ rT,Ur,4- r\*r\
fed
.he perfon awarding them. 3
That on complaint and
requeft.
1
H A B t '2I
H.iberis requell in writing by or on behalf of any I’i'-r'on com-
Corpus, mitted and charged with any crime (unleis committed
v'—“ for treafon or felony exprefied in the warrant, or for
fufpicion of the fame, or as acceffary thereto before
the faff, or conviffed or charged in execution by le¬
gal procefs), the lord chancellor, or any of the twelve
fudges in vacation, upch viewing a copy of the war¬
rant, or affidavit that a copy is denied, ffiall (un.efs
the party has neglefled for two terms to appiy to any
court for his enlargement) award a habeas corpus foi
fuch prifoner, returnable immediately before himlelf
or any other of the judges j and upon the return made
lhall difcharge the party, if bailable, upon giving e-
curity to appear and anfwer to the acculauon in the
proper court of judicature. 4. That officers and
keepers neglefting to make due returns, or not deli¬
vering to the prifoner or his agent within fix hours
after demand a copy of the warrant of commitment,
or fhifting the cuftody of a prifoner from one to ano¬
ther without fufficient reafon or autnority (fpecified
in the aft), ffiall for the firft offence forfeit look and
for the fecond offence 2001. to the party grieved,
and be difabled to hold his office. 5- inaL no Pei~
fon, once delivered by habeas corpus, ffiall be recom¬
mitted for the fame offence, on -penalty of 500|;- 6-
That every perfon committed for treafon or felony
ffiall, if he requires it the firft weex of the next teim,
or the firft day of the next feflion of oyer and ter¬
miner, be indifted in that term or feffion, or elfe ad¬
mitted to bail-, unlefs the king’s wjtneffes cannot
be produced at that time : and if acquitted, or if net
indi&ed and tried in the fecond term or feffion, he
ihall be difeharged from his impnfonment for fuch
imputed offence : but that no perfon, after the affizes
ihall be opened for the county in which he is detained,
shall be removed by habeas corpus, till aiter the afiizes
are ended 5 but fliall be left to the juft’ce of the judges
of affize. / 7. That any fuch prifoner may move for
and obtain his habeas corpus, as well out of the chan¬
cery or exchequer as out of the king’s bench or com¬
mon-pleas-, and the lord chancellor or judges denying
the fame, on fight of the warrant, or oath that the lame
is refufed, forfeit feverally to the party grieved the fum
of.5001. 8. That the writ of habeas corpus ihall run
into the counties palatine, cinque ports, and other pri¬
vileged places, and the iflands of Jerfey and Guermey.
9. That no inhabitant of England (except perfons con-
trading, or convicts praying to be tranfpor ted; or having
committed fome capital offence in the place to which
they are fent) ffiall be fent prifoners to Scotland, Ire¬
land, Jerfey, Guernfey, or any places beyond the leas,
within or without the king’s dominions, on pain that
the party commitring, his advifers, aiders, and affiftants,
ihall forfeit to the party grieved a fum not lefs than
500I. to be recovered with treble cofts; (hall be dil-
abled to bear any office of truft or profitffiall incur
the penalties of preemumre; and fhall be incapable of
the king’s pardon.
This is the fubftance of that great and important
ftatute, which extends (w-e may obferve) only to the
cafe of commitments for iuch criminal charge as can
produce no inconvenience to public juftice by a tem¬
porary enlargement of the prifoner ; all other cafes of
unjuft imprifonment being left to the habeas corpus at
common law. But even upon writs at the common
j J H A B
law it is now expeded by the court, agreeable to an¬
cient precedents and the fpirit of the ad of parlia¬
ment, that this writ ffiould be immediately obeyed,
without waiting for any alias or plumes; othervvife an
attachment will iffue. By which admirable regula-'
tions, judicial as well as parliamentary, the remedy is •
now complete for removing the injury of unjuft and
illegal confinement. A remedy the more neceffary,
becaufe the oppreflion does not always anie from tne
ill nature, but fometimes from the mere inattention, o*.
government. For it frequently happens in foreign
6ountries (and has happened in England during the
temporary fufpenfion of the ftatute), that perfons^ ap¬
prehended upon fufpicion have (offered a long impiifon-
ment, merely becaufe they w-ere forgotten.
HABERDASHER, in commerce, a feller of hats
and other fmall wares.-—The mafter and warden of the
the company of haberdaftiers in London, calling to
their affiftance one of the company of cappers, and an¬
other of the hat-makers, and mayors, &cc. of towns,
may fearch the wares of all hatters who work hats with
foreipn wool, and ivho have not been apprentices to
the trade, or who dye them with any thing but cop¬
peras and galls, or woad and madder ; in which cafes,
they are liable to penalties by fiat. 8 Lhz. cap. J. and
5 Geo. II. cap. 22. See Berdash.
HABERGION, or Haubergeon, Habergetum,
a coat of mail; an ancient piece of defenfive armour,
in form of a coat, defeendmg from the neck to the
middle, and formed of little iron rings or roefhes, link¬
ed into each other.—It is alfo written haberg^hauberge,
haubere, haubert, hautber, hautbert, and hauberk. Spel-
man takes it from the ‘ancient French hault, “ high,”
and berg, “ armour, covering as ferving to defend the
upper part of the body. Lu Cange and okinner den\e
it from the Belgic ha/s, or J eutonic hallx, “ neck,’
and bergen, “ to cover i. e. a defence for the neck.
Others will have it formed of a/,a//a,q.d. all, and bergen,
“ to cover-,” as importing it a cover for the whole body.
In Scripture it feems to fignify an offenfive weapon.
“ The fvvord of him that layeth at him cannot hold ; the
fpear, the dart, nor the habergeon,” Job. xli. 26.
HABIT, in Philofophy, an aptitude or difpofition ei¬
ther of mind or body, acquired by a frequent repetition
of the fame ail. See Custom and Habit.
Habit is alfo ufed for a drefs or garb, or the com-
polition of garments, wherewith a perfon is covered.
The principal part of the tlrefs worn by the Jews and
Greeks was the tpdhcy and the a he ipmitv was
an upper garment, confiding of a loofe Iquare piece ol
cloth wrapped round the body ; the was an un¬
der garment, or tunic, which was faftened round the
body and embraced it clofely, falling down to the mid¬
thigh. It is proper in this place to obferve that a per-
fon divefted of this upper garment or tux'uot, in the eaft-
ern language, is ftyled naked, and in tnis fenle Davio.
danced naked before the ark.
The feveral forts of garments in ufe with both fexes,
amongft the Romans, were the toga, tunica, peluna,
lacerna, chlamys, paludamentum, laena, lioia, pallium or
pall a. See Toga, &c.
For the habits of the priefts amongft the Jews, Greeks,
and Romans, fee the article Priests.
Habit is particularly ufed for the unitorm garments
of the religious, conformable to the rule and order
H a'»er-*
daiuer
i!
Habit.
H A C
[ 212 ] HAG
whereof they make profeflionj as the habit of St Bene¬
dict, of St Auguftine, &c.
In this fenfe we fay abfolutely, fuch a perfon has
taken the habit j meaning he has entered upon a novi¬
ciate in a certain order. So he is faid to quit the habit,
when he renounces the order. See Vow.
The habits of the feveral religious are not fuppofed
to have been calculated for Angularity or novelty : the
founders of the orders, who wrere at firfl chiefly inha¬
bitants of deferts and folitudes, gave their monks the ha¬
bit ufual among the country people. Accordingly, the
primitive habits of St Anthony, St Hilarion, St Bene¬
dict, &c. are defcribed by the ancient vTriters as con¬
fiding chiefly of dieep fkins, the common drefs of the
peafants, ihepherds, and mountaineers of that time ; and
the fame they gave to their difciples.
The orders edablifhed in and about cities and inha¬
bited places took the habit wTorn by other ecclefiadics
at the time of their inditution. Thus, St Dominic
gave his difciplcs the habit of regular canons, which he
himfelf had ahvays worn to that time. And the like
may be faid of the Jefuits, Barnabites, Theatins, Ora-
torians, &c. w-ho took the common habit of the eccle-
iiadics at the time of their foundation. And w’hat
makes them differ fo much from each other, as well as
from the ecclefiadical habit of the prefent times, is, that
they have always kept invariably to the fame form j
whereas the eccleliadics and laics have been changing
their mode on every occadon.
HABITE and Repute, in Scots Law, the com¬
mon opinion of the people, among wrhom a perfon
lives, with refpecff to any circumdance relating to
him.
HABITUDE, among fchoolmen, the refpefl; or re¬
lation one thing bears to another. See Relation.
HABSBURG, or Hapsburg, an ancient cadle
of Swifferland, in the canton of Bern. It is the place
where the ancient counts of Hapfburg redded, and is
feated near the lake of Lucern, and to the ead of
the towm of that name. E. Long. 8. 10. N. Lat.
47- 22>
HACHA, a fea-port town of South America, in
Terra Firma, feated at the mouth of a river of the fame
Marne. Here the Spanilh galleons touch at their arrival
in South America, from wdience expreffes are fent to
all the fettlements to give them notice of it. W. Long.
72. 8. N. Lat. 11. 30.
HACKET, John, bidiop of Litchdeld and Co¬
ventry, was born in 1592. In 1623 he was made
chaplain to James I. and prebendary of Lincoln : and
loon after obtained the redlory of St Andrew’s Hol-
born, with that of Cheam in Surry j his patron tell¬
ing him, he intended Holborn for wealth, and Cheam
lor health. In 1642 he was prefented to a prebendary
and reddentiary j but was deprived of the enjoyment of
them, as well as of St Andrew’s, by the enfuing troubles.
He then lived retired at Cheam with little dilturbance,
until he recovered his preferments by the redoration of
Charles II. by whom he was preferred to the fee of
Litchdeld and Coventry in 1661. Finding the beau¬
tiful cathedral of Litchdeld almod battered to the
ground, he in eight years dnidied a complete church
fuperior to the former, at his owm expence of 20,000b
excepting 1000I. he had from the dean and chap¬
ter, w’ith what he could procure from private benefac¬
tors. He laid out 1000b on a prebendal houfe, his Hackney,
palaces at Litchdeld and Ecclelhall having been de- ' v ‘
molidied during the civil w ars; and bedde there acts of
munidcence, left feveral other benefactions at his
death in 1670. He publidied, before he entered into
orders, a comedy intitlcd Loyola, which was twice a£t-
ed before King James I. After his death there appear¬
ed a “ Century of his fermons on feveral remarkable
fubjedts,” in folio j and “ The life of Archbifhop Wil¬
liams,” in folio, which was abridged in 1700 by Am-
brofe Philips.
HACKNEY, a parifh of Middlefex, on the north-
eaft fide of London, containing no lefs than 1 2 ham¬
lets. At the bottom of Hackney-MarOij through which
the river Lea runs, between Old Ford and the Wyck,
there have been difeovered the remains of a great ffone
caufeway, which, by the Roman coins, &c. found
there, was no doubt one of the famous highways made
by the Romans. The church here is of a very ancient
foundation, fo old as Edw’ard II. That part next Lon¬
don is called Marc-Jlrcet; the middle Church-Jlreet; and
the north part Clapton ; Dorlefton and Shaklewell are on
the weft, and Hummerton, which leads to the Marfli,
on the eaft. Here are three meeting-houfes and feverai
boarding fchools, beddes the free-fehool in the church¬
yard, a charity-fchcol, and 17 almlhoufes. It was
from this place that the coaches let to the people in
London drft received their name 5 for in the lalt cen¬
tury, many people having gone on vidts to fee their
friends at Hackney, it occadoned them often to hire
horfes or carriages, fo that in time it became a com¬
mon name for fuch horfes, coaches and chairs, as were
let to the people of London 5 and the name has noiv
diffufed itfelf not only throughout Britain, but likewife
Ireland.
IlACKNEr-Coaches, thofe expofed to hire in the
ftreets of London, and fome other great cities, at rates
dxed by authority. See Coach.—Thefe drft began to
ply in the ftreets of London, or rather waited at inns, •
in the year 1625, and were only 20 in number j but in
1635 they w7ere fo much increafed, that King Charles
iffued out an order of council for reftraining them. In
1637, he allowed 50 hackney-coachmen, each of whom
might keep 12 horfes. In 1652, their number was li¬
mited to 2CO; and in 1654, it was extended to 300.
In 1661, 400 were licenled, at 5I. annually for each.
In 1694, 700 were allowed, and taxed by the 5 and
6 of W. and M. at 4I. per annum each. By 9 Anne
cap. 23. 800 coaches were allowed in London and
Weftminfter; but by 8 Geo. ILL cap. 24. the num¬
ber is increafed to loco, which are to be licenfed by
commiflioners, and to pay a duty of 5s per week to
the king. On Sundays there were formerly only
175 hackney-coaches to ply, which were to be ap¬
pointed by commiflioners j but their number is now
unlimited.
The fare of hackney-coachmen in London, or with¬
in ten miles of the city,' is 1 2 ftiillings and dxpence per Such were
day, allowing 12 hours per day. By the hour it is the fares,
is. 6d. for the drft, and is. for every hour after j and&c-/0*'*
none are obliged to pay above is. for any diftance-5''-" ag°*
not exceeding a mile and a half-, or above is. 6d. for
any diftance not exceeding twTo miles. W here hack¬
ney coachmen refufe to go at, or exa<ft more than,
their limited hire, they are fubjed to a forfeit not un¬
der:
HAD [21
Hadding- der I os. or exceeding 3I. and which the commhnon-
ton- ers have powrer to determine. Every hackney-coach
muft be provided wdth check firings, and every coach¬
man plying wdthout them incurs a penalty of 5s.—
Drivers of hackney-coaches are to give way to perfons
of quality and gentlemen’s coaches, under the penalty
of 5I.
The duty arifing from licences to hackney-coaches
and chairs in London, forms a branch of the king’s
} See Reve- extraordinary and perpetual revenue %. This revenue
nue. is governed by commiflioners of its own, and is in
truth a benefit to the fubjedt 5 as the expence of it
is felt by no individual, and its neceffary regulations
have eftablifhed a competent jurifdiftion, whereby a
very refradlory race of men may be kept in tolerable
order.
HADDINGTON, County of, otherwife caked
Eajl Lothian, is bounded by Mid Lothian on the well;
on the north by the frith of Forth; on the eafl by the
German ocean ; and it is feparated from the county of
Lerwick by the Lammermuir hills. It is about 25 miles
long, and from 1 2 to 16 broad, being computed one of
the moil fertile counties in the kingdom, producing
abundance of wheat and every fpecies of grain. Even
the mountainous part of it towards the fouth is admi¬
rably adapted to the rearing of fheep. The inhabi¬
tants on the fea coails employ themfelves in fiihing,
making of fait, foreign trade, and the exportation of
corn. Several branches of the linen and woollen manu-
fadlure have been eftablifhed in the interior of the
county, and are in a tlourifhing condition. There is a
manufacture of fulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) eftablilhed
at Preftonpans, and one for fal ammoniac near the
fame place.
It contains three royal boroughs, viz. Haddington,
North Berwick, and Dunbar ; befides a number of well
peopled villages and towns, fuch as Tranent, Prefton¬
pans, Aberlady, Dirleton, &c. In this county alfo
there are many feats of noblemen and gentlemen, fuch
as thofe ot the duke of Roxburgh, marquis of Tweedale,
earl of Haddington, Lord Blantyre, earl of Wemyfs,
Lord Elibank, earl of Hopetoun, Sir James Hall,
Hay of Drummelzier, &c. &c. In this county there
is abundance of coal of an excellent quality, of freeftone
and limeftone} ironftone is found in the parifh of Hum¬
ble, and in the vicinity of Stenton there are fome traces
of an ore of lead. It is divided into 24 parifhes. The
population in 1801 amounted to 29,986 fouls, and
the aftual rent of the whole has been eftimated at
168,8781.5s. 1 od. fterling. The following table ex¬
hibits a view of the population of this county, accor¬
ding to the Statiftical Hiftory of Scotland.
Parijhes.
1 Aberlady
Athelilaneford
Bolton
Dirleton
5 Dunbar
G arvald
Gladimuir
Haddington
Humbie
10 Innenvick
Population Population
in 1755. in 1790-98.
739 800
6^1 927
359 235
1700 1200
3281 3700
774 73°
J 4]5
3975 3915
1570 676
941 '960
3 1
Parijhes.
Morham
North Berwick
Oldhamftocks
Ormifton
15 Pencaitland
Preftonhaugh
Preftonpans,
Salton
Spot
20 Stenton
Tranent
Whitekirk
Whittingham
24 Yefter
HAD
Population
in I7SS*
245
1412
622
810
- 910
1318
1596
761
727
631
2459
968
7J4
1091
29,709
28,966
Population Hadding.
in 1790—9S. tc”
190
I 200
498
864
IO33
1176
2028
' 830
619
624
2732
994
655
900
28,966
Haderfle-
ben.
Decreafe, 743
Haddington, a borough-town of Scotland and
the capital of Eaft Lothian, or Haddingtonlhire, is
lituated about 16 miles eaft from Edinburgh, being the
firft ftage on the London road, and in W. Long. 2.
25. N. Lat. 55. 50. It Hands on the river Tyne, has
four ftreets which are neatly built, cutting each other
at right angles, with a tovvnhoufe erefted in 1748,
from a defign by the celebrated Mr Adams. The
fchool is commodious, with lodgings for the mafters,
and accommodation for boarders. The parilh church is
large, which formerly belonged to the Francifcan mo-
nallery, and was probably built about the beginning of
the 13th century. The wTeft end is now the place of
wmrftiip, for the reft of it is completely in ruins. The
aifie is the burying place of the family of Maitland,
and contains feveral marble ftatues of the dukes of
Lauderdale. On the monument of Maitland of Thirl-
ftane is an epitaph compofed by James VI. Haddington
is a place of great antiquity, for it is ftiled by the mo¬
ther of Malcolm IV. in a charter granted in 1178,
meutn Burgum de Haddington. Its political conftitution
is compofed of a provoft, three bailies, a dean of guild, -
treafurer, and 12 couniellors. Its incorporated trades
are feven in number. It was once ftrongly fortified, of
which different traces are itill to be feen.
A confiderable manufacture of coarfe woollen cloth
is carried on in the town and fuburbs. It has two an¬
nual fairs, and a weekly market on Friday, computed
to be the' greateft in Scotland for all forts of grain.
Haddington has fuffered much from the ravages of
fire and the inundations of the Tyne, which rofe 17
feet above its ufual level in the year 1775, by which
one half of the town w7as laid under water. Here the
celebrated John Knox, father of the reformation, is
faid to have been born, and ftrangers are Hill Ihewn the
houfe where he firft drew his breath. It has a vote in
electing a member of parliament along with North
Berwick, Dunbar, Jedburgh, and Lauder. Its revenue
is eftitnated at about 4001. fterling per annum.
PI ADDOCK, the Engliih name of a fpecies of Ga-
Dys. See Gadus, Ichthyology Index.
HADERSLEBEN, a fea-port town of Denmark,
in. .
H A E
li nks in the duchy of Slefwic, with a ftrong citadel, built
I) uoun a imall illand. It is feated on a bay of the Baltic
fea, and has a well frequented harbour. E. Long. 9.
50. N. Lat. 55. 18.
HADES, in the fcriptures, is ufed in various fenfes.
Sometimes it fignifies the invilible regions of the dead,
fometimes the place of the damned, and fometimes the
grave. In Greek authors it is ufed to frgnify in gene¬
ral the regions of the dead. See Hell.
HADLEY, a town of Suffolk, feated in a bottom
on the river Prefton. It confilts of about 600 houfes ;
with a handfome church, a chapel of eafe, and a 1 refby-
terian mecting-houfe. I ne ifreets are pretty broad, but
not paved. Large quantities of yarn are fpun here for
the Norwich manufacture •, and this town had once a
confiderable woollen manufacture, which is now decayed.
E. Long. 1. o. N. Lat. 52, ?•
HADRIAN. See Adrian.
H/EMAGOGOS, among phyficians, a compound
medicine, confifting of fetid and aromatic fimples mix¬
ed with black hellebore, and prefcribed in order to pro¬
mote the menftrual and htfcmorrhoidal fluxes 5 as alfo to
bring away the lochia.
H/EMANTEIUS, the blood-flower, a genus of
plants belonging to the hexandria clafs 5 and in the
natural method ranking under the ninth order, Spatha-
cece. See Botany Index.
HAEMATITES, ox blood-stone, a fpecies of iron
ore. See Mineralogy Index.
HAEMATOPUS, the sea-lye, a genus of birds be¬
longing to the order of grallse. See Ornithology Index.
H/EM AT OX Y L U M, logwood, or Cam pc achy
Wood-, a genus of plants belonging to the decandria
clafsj and in the natural methgd ranking under the 33d
order, Lomentacese. See Botany Index ; and for its
properties and ufe as a dye fluff, fee Dyeing Index.
HAEMOPTYSIS, H^emaptysis, ox Ilccmoptoe ; a
fpitting of blood. See Medicine Index.
HiEMORREIAGY, (compoundedof ouyu.“blood,”
and edwpi “ I burfl: forth),” in medicine, a flux of
Blood at any part of the body ; ariflng either from a
rupture of the veffels, as when they are too full or
too much prefled •, or from an eroflon of the fame, as
when the blood is too flrarp and corrofiye.—The hce-
morrhagy, properly fpeaking, as underftood by the
Greeks, was only a flux of blood at the nofe ; but the
moderns extend the name to any kind of flux of blood,
whether by the nofe, mouth, lungs, ilomach, inteftines,
fundament, matrix, or whatever part. See Medicine
and Surgery Index.
HAEMORRHOIDAL, an _ appellation given by
anatomifts to the arteries and veins going to the intefti-
num reftum.
HAEMORRHOIDS, or Piles, an haemorrhage
or iffue of blood from the hemorrhoidal veffels. See
Medicine Index.
HaEMUS, in Ancient Geography, a vaft ridge, run¬
ning from Illyricum toward the Euxine, (Pliny) ; fo
high as to afford a profpect both of the Euxine and A-
driatic. Here, in after ages, was conftituted a province
called Hmtnimons, or Hcernmiontus.
HAERETICO COMBURENDO, a writ which ancient¬
ly lay againfl. an heretic, who, having once been con-
victed of herefy by his bithop, and having abjured it,
afterwards falling into it again, or into fome other, is
3
H A G
thereupon committed to the fecular power. This writ Haerlem
is thought by fome to be as ancient as the common il
law itfelf; however, the conviclion of herefy by the ,
common law was not in any petty eccleflaftical court,
but before the archbifhop himfelf in a provincial fynod,
and the delinquent was delivered up to the king to do
with him as he pleafed ; fo that the crown had a con-
troul over the fpiritual power. But by 2 Hen. XV.
cap. 15. the diqcefan alone, without the intervention
of a fynod, might convict of heretical tenets j and un-
lefs the convict abjured his opinions, or if after abju-
ratfon he relapfed, the flieriff was bound ex officio, if
required by the bifhop, to commit the unhappy victim
to the flames, without waiting for the conlent of the
crown. This writ remained in force, and was adtually
executed on two Anahaptifts in the feventh of Eiiza-
bch, and on two Arlans in the ninth of James I.—Sir
Edward Coke was of opinion, that this writ did not lie
in his time : but it is now formally taken away by fta-
tute 29 Car. II. cap. 9. But this flhtute does not ex¬
tend to take away or abridge the jurffdi&ion of Prote-
ftant archbilhops or bithops, or any other judges of any
eccleflaflical courts, in caies of atheilm, blafphemy, he¬
refy, or fchifm, and other damnable dodrines and opi¬
nions ; but they may prove and punifli the fame accord¬
ing to his majefty’s eccleliaftical laws, by excommuni¬
cation, deprivation, degradation, and other ecclefialiical
cenfures, mot extending to death, in fuch fort and no
other, as they might have done before the making of
this ad, fee. 2. See Heresy.
HAERLEM. See Harlem.
HAG. See Myxine, Helminthology Index.
HAGARENS, the defeendants of Khmael. They
are called alio IJhmaehtes and Saracens : and laffly, by
the general name of Arabians.
As to the Plagarens, they dwelt in Arabia the Hap-
pv, according to Pliny. Strabo joins them with the
Nabathseans, and Chavlotoeans, vhofe habitation was
rather in Arabia Deferta. Others think their capital
was Petra, otherwiie Agra, and confequently they
fhould be placed in Arabia Petnea. The author of the
Ixxxiii. Pfalm, ver. 6. joins them with the Moabites;
and in the Chronicles it is faid (1 Cnr. v. io.), that
the fons of Reuben, in the time of Saul, made war
againfl; the Hagarens, and became mafters of their
country eaftwurd of the mountains of Gilead. Phis
therefore was the true and ancient country of the
Hagarens. When Trajan came into Arabia, he be-
fleged the capital of the Elagarens, but could not take
it. The fons of Hagar valued themfelves of old upon
their wifdom, as appears by Baruch Hi. 23.
HAGENAU, a town of Germany, and capital of
a bailiwick of the fame name, wdffch was formerly
imperial, but now belongs to the. French. It. was
taken by them in 1673 *, the Impe.rialifls ictook it in
17025 after which it was feveral times taken and re¬
taken by both parties 5 but at laft the French got
poffeflion of it in 1706. it is divided by the river
Hotter into two parts 5 and is feated near a ioreft of its
own name, in E. Long. 7. 53* 48- 49*
liAGGAI, the tenth of the fmall prophets, rvas
born, in all probability, at Babylon, in the year of the
world 3457, from whence he returned with Zerubba-
bel. It was this prophet who by command from God
(Ezra v. 1, 2, &c.) exhorted the Jews, after their re-
. turn
f 21+ 1
t
H A G
[ 1
H A I
Hague.
Hagiogra- turn from the captivity, to finiih the rebuilding of the
Pha temple which they had intermitted for 14 years, ills
r^monftrances had their effett ; and to encourage them
to proceed in the work, he affured them from God,
that the glory of this latter houfe fliould^ be greater
than the glorv of the former houfe ; which was ac¬
cordingly fulfilled, when Chrift honoured it with his
prefence : for with refpefl to the building, this laUer
temple was nothing in comparifon of the former.
We know nothing certain of Haggai’s deatn. 1 ne
Jews pretend, that he died in the laft year ot the
reiem of Darius, at the fame time with the prophets
Zechariah and Malachi, and that thereupon the ipirit
of prophecy ceafed among the children of ilrael. Dpi-
phanius will have it, that he was buried at •leru-
falem among the priefts. The Greeks keep IS's fel-
tival on the 16th of December, and the Latins on the
4th of July. r .
HAGIOGRAPHA, a name given to part ot the
books of Scripture, called by the Jews Cetuvim. Ihe
word is compounded of «y(o? “ holy j” and yoa'pa ^ i
write.” '1 he name is very ancient: St Jerome makes
frequent mention of it : before him, St Epiphanius
called thefe books Amply rg«e<pH«6. _
The Jews divide the facred writings into three clat-
fes : The Law, which comprehends the five books of
Mofes : the Prophets, which they call Neviim : And
the Cetuvim tmairm, called by the Greeks, &c. Hagio-
grapha ; comprehending the books of Pfalms, Piovei .)>,
Job, Daniel, Ezn*, including alio the books of Nehe-
miah, Chronicles, Canticles, Ruth, the Lamentations,
Ecclefiaftes, and Either. , >
The Jews fometimes call the books the notings,
by way of eminence, as being written by immediate
infpiration of the Holy Spirit. Thus fays Kimchi, in
his preface to the Pfalms, Maimonides in More Ne-
voch, and Elias Levita in his Thifbi, under the word
-ana*
They diftingulili the hagiographers, however, from
the prophets j in that the authors^ of the formei did
not receive the matters contained in them by the way
called Prophecy, which coniifts in dreams, vifions, whif-
pers, ecftafies. &c. but by mere infpiration and direaion
of the Spirit.
HAGUE, a town of the United Provinces, in
Holland, fituated in E. Long. 4. 10. N. Lat. 48. 49.
 In Latin it is called Haga Comitis; in French,. La
Have; in Dutch, der Haag, or 'S-Graavenhage, i.. e.
the Earl’s Grove or Wood, from the wood near which
it is built, and in which the earls of Holland had a
country-houfe. Though it fends no deputies. fo the
dates, it is one of the mod conliderable towns.in Hol¬
land,’pleafantly fituated., and exceeding beautiful. It
may indeed compare with almod any city in Europe,
though geographers account it but a village. The in¬
habitants alfo breathe a better air than thofe of the
other cities, as it dands on a dry foil, fomewhat
higher than the red of the country. It has no gates
or walls, but is furrounded by a moat over which
there are many draw-bridges. I wo hours are required
to walk found it, and it contains about 40,000 or
50,000 fouls. It is a place o? much fplendor and
bufinefs, being the feat of the bigli colleges of the
republic and province of Holland, and the refidence
©f the dadtholder and .foreign ambaliadors} apd there
are a great many fine dreets and fquares m it. In the
inner court, all the high colleges and courts of juftice —_
hold their affemljlies •, there alio the foot-guards do du¬
ty, as the horfe-guards in the outer, when the dates
are fitting. De Plaats is an open airy place, in form
of a triangle, adorned with neat and beautiful, build¬
ings : the Vyverbeg is an eminence, laid out into fe-
veral fine fliady walks, with the Vyver, a large bafon of
water, at the bottom : the Voorhout is the mod cele¬
brated part of the Hague, and confifls of the mall,
and three ways for coaches on each fide, planted with
trees, being much tne fame as St James s paiK. at Lon¬
don : the palace of Opdam, or Waffenaar, is buik in
a very elegant taile : the Prince and Princefs Grafts are
fine dreets : the Plan, in Dutch Het Vleijn, is a beau¬
tiful grove, laid out in feveral crofs walks, a.»d lur-
rounded with dately houfes. The Jewifh fynagogue
is well worth being feen by a curious traveller •, and al¬
fo the palaces of the prince of Orange, the hotel of
Spain, the new Woorhout, the maufoleum of the ba¬
ron of Opdam in the great church, and the feveral
hofpitals. The environs of the Hague are exceedingly
pleafant. Among other agreeable objefts are. the
wood, with the rpalace of Orange at the extremity of
it, called the houfe in the wood; the village of Sche-
veling •, and the fand-hills along the north fea ; with
the village of Voorburg, and the charming feats and
fine gardens round it. Xwo miles fiom the Hague is
Ryfwick, a village : and, a quarter of a mile from
that, a noble palace formerly belonging to the prince of
Orange, famous for the treaty of peace concluded there
in 1697. Loofduynen, where Margaret, counteis of
Henneburg, and daughter of Florence IV. count of
Holland and Zealand, is faid to have been delivered, of
365 children at a birth in 1276, is about five miles
from the Hague. Five miles beyond Loofduynen,
and not far from the beautiful village of Gravefande,
is Honflardyck, another palace belonging to the prince
of Orange, and one of the fined itrudures in the Low
Countries.
HAL nan. See Hainan.
HAi-Tang, a beautiful Ghinefe Ihrub, originally
brought from the bottom of tne rocks whicn bolder
the ka-coaft. It has been cultivated in China for more
than 14 centuries •, and is celebrated as otten in the
works of the Chinefe poets, as rofes and lines aie in
thofe of ours. Painters and embroiderers ornament
almoft all their works with its foliage and flowers. .
The llalk of the hai-tang is of a cylindric form, and
Ihoots forth a number of branches of a. purple tint
towards their bafes, and full of knots, which are alio
of a purple colour round the edges. It produces a
number of ihoots, the tailed of which are about two
feet and a half in height. Its leaves (which are much
indented, of an oval form towards tne daiie, pointed
at their upper extremities, and lull of fmad prickles)
grow almod oppofite one another on the branches, ann
at the fame didance as the knots. Their colour above
is a deep-green } that below is much lighter, and ai¬
med effaced by their fibres, which are large, and of
a delicate purple : allthefe leaves together have a beau¬
tiful efFed to the eye. The flowers grow in bunches
at the extremities of the branches. Each flower is
compofed of four petals, tvTo great and two final., ie-
fembline in colour, the bloom ol a peach-tree, and
* which..
• Hail.
II A I
[ 21
vvliich have almoft the fame figure as the blofiom of
our cherry-trees. The two large are cemented one
upon the other, in the form of a purfe ; and when they
blow, the two fmall blow alfo in their turn ■, and then
the whole four reprefent a crofs. The piitil is com-
pofed of very bright yellow grains, which feparate
gradually one from another by the lengthening of the
filaments to which they adhere *, they then open into
little bells, and compofe a fmall yellow tult, fupported
by a {lender llalk, which riles above the petals.. The
calyx, which fuftains each of the flowers, is compofed
of two purple-coloured leaves, united in form of a
purfe. In proportion as tire flowers grow and increafe
in fize, the two leaves of the calyx open, become pale
and dry, and drop off. The flowers, fupported by
fmall ftalks, feparate one from the other, and produce
of themfelves other flowers, which rife up from a new
calyx.
This plant is propagated from feed, but with dif¬
ficulty. It thrives bell in a fandy foil; dung or mould
deftroy it 5 and great care mull be taken to refrelh it
only with the purefl water. As it cannot endure the
fun in any feafon, it is always planted below walls
that are expofed to the north. It generally begins to
flower about the end of Auguft. After it has pro¬
duced feed, all its branches are cut ; and it common¬
ly fhoots forth new ones before the fpring follow¬
ing ; but it is neceflary to heap up gravel and pieces
of bricks round its roots, to prevent them from rot¬
ting. Notwithftanding all the care that is taken to
cultivate this tree at Peking, it does not thrive fo
well there as in the fouthern provinces. The fmell of
its leaves has an affinity both to that of the rofe and
the violet ; but it is weaker, and never extends to any
great diftance.
HAIL, in Natural Hijlori/, a meteor generally de¬
fined frozen rain, but differing from it in that the
liailftones are not formed of Angle pieces of ice, but of
many little fpherules agglutinated together. Neither
.are thefe fpherules all of the fame confiftence ; fome of
them being hard and folid like perfedl ice j others foft,
and moftly like fnow hardened by a fevere froft. Some¬
times the hailftone hath a kind of core of this foft mat¬
ter \ but more frequently the core is folid and hard,
while the.outfide is formed of a fofter matter. Hail-
ftones affume various figures, being fometimes round,
at other times pyramidal, crenated, angular, thin, and
flat, and fometimes ftellated, with fix radii like the
fmall cryflals of fnow.
Natural hiftorians furnilh us with various accounts
of furprifing ffiowers of hail, in which the hailftones
were of extraordinary magnitude. Mezeray, fpeaking
of the war of Louis XII. in Italy, in the year 1510,
relates, that there was for fome time an horrible dark-
nefs, thicker than that of night 5 after wffiich the clouds
broke into thunder and lightning, and there fell a
fhower of hailffones, or rather (as he calls them) peb-
ble-ftones, which deftroyed all the fiih, birds, and beafts
of the country.—It was attended with a ftrong fmell of
fulphur 5 and the ftones were of a bluiffi colour, fome
of them weighing a hundred pounds. Hi/l. de France,
tom. iil p. 339*
At Lifle in Flanders, in 1686, fell hailftones of a
very large fize ; fome of which contained in the middle
Hainan.
6 ] H A I
a dark brown matter, which, thrown on the fire, gave Hailing
a very great report. Phil. Tranf. N° 203.
Dr Halley and others alfo relate, that in Cheffiire, _
Lancaffiire, &c. April 29. 1697, a thick black cloud,
coming from Caernarvonfnire, difpofed the vapours to
congeal in fuch a manner, that for about the breadth
of two miles which wras the limit of the cloud, in its
progrefs for the Ipace of 60 miles, it did inconceivable
damage ; not only killing ail forts of fowls and other
fmall animals, but fplitting trees* knocking dowm horfes
and men, and even ploughing up the earth ; fo that
the hailftones buried themfelves under ground an inch
or an inch and a half deep. The hailftones, many of
wffiich weighed five ounces, and fome half a pound,
and being five or fix inches about, w’ere of various fi¬
gure?) fome round, others half round 5 fome fmooth,
others emboffed and crenated: the icy fubftance of
them was very tranfparent and hard, but there w'as a
fnowy kernel in the middle of them.
In Hertfordfhire, May 4. the fame year, after a fe¬
vere ftorm of thunder and lightning, a ffiower of hail
fucceeded, which far exceeded?the former : fome pef-
fons were killed by it, their bodies beat all black and
blue ; vaft oaks w7ere fplit, and fields of rye cut down
as with a fey the. The ftones meafured from 10 to
13 or 14 inches about. Their figures were various,
fome oval, others picked, fome flat. Philofoph. Tranf,
N° 229. See Meteorology Index.
HAILING, the falutation or accofting of a ftiip at
a diftance, either at fea, or in a harbour. The ufual
expreffion is, “ Hoa, the ftiip ahoay !” To which ffie
anfwers, “ Holloa ? Whence came ye ? Where are
ye bound ? Good voyage ! What cheer ? All well
How fare ye ?” &c.
HAIMSUCKEN. See Hamesecken.
HAINAN, a eonfiderable ifland of Alia, fitua-
ted in between 180 and 20° N. Lat. It is fubjefl
to China, and belongs to the province of Quang-ton.
It has on the north the province of Quang-fi j on the
fouth the channel formed between the bank Paracel
and the eallern coaft of Cochinchina; on the weft,
the fame kingdom and part of Tong-king ; and on
the eaft, the Chinefe fea. . Its extent from eaft to weft
is between 60 and 70 leagues, and from north to
fouth 45 5 this ifland therefore is about 160 leagues in
circumference. Kiun-tcheou-fou, it capital, ftands on
a promontory, and fliips often anchor at the. bot¬
tom of its walls. Two different kinds of mandarins
command here, as in all the other provinces of China :
the firft are called literati; the fecond, mandarins of
arms, or military officers. Its jurifdiction extends
over three cities of the fecond clafs and ten of the
third. The greater part of the ifland is under the do¬
minion of the emperor of China j the reft is indepen¬
dent, and inhabited by a free people, who have never
yet been lubdued. Compelled to abandoned their plains
and fields to the Chinefe, they have retreated to the
mountains in the centre of the ifland, where they are
ftieltered from the mfifits of their neighoours.
Thefe people formerly had a free and open corre-
fpondence with the Chinefe. Twice a year they ex¬
pofed, in an appointed place, the gold which they dug
from their mines, with their eagle-umod and calamba,
fo much efteemed by the Orientals. A deputy was
fent
3
Hainan,
Hainault.
H A I [ 2i
fent to the frontiers, to examine the cloths and other
commodities of the Chinefe, whofe principal traders
repaired to the place of exchange fixed on ; and after
the Chinefe wares were delivered, they put into their
hands with the greatelt fidelity what they had agreed
for. The Chinefe governors made immenfe profits by
this barter.
The emperor Kang*hi, informed of the prodigious
quantity of gold which paifed through the hands ot
the mandarins by this traffic, forbade his fubjedls, un¬
der pain of death, to have any communication with
thefe iflanders : however, fome private emiffaries of
the neighbouring governors fiill find the means of
having intercourfe with them ; but what they get at
prefent by this clandefiine trade is little, in comparifon
of that which they gained formerly. The natives of
this ifland are very deformed, fmall of flature, and of a
copper colour : both men and wTomen wxar their hair
thruft through a ring on their forehead ; and above
they have a fmall ftraw-hat, from which hang two
firings that are tied under the chin. Their drefs con-
fifts of a piece of black or dark-blue cotton cloth,
which reaches from the girdle to their knees : the wo¬
men have a kind of robe of the fame fluff, and mark
their faces from the eyes to the chin with blue ftripes
made with indigo.
Among the animals of this ifland are a curious fpe-
cies of large black apes, which have the flvape and fea¬
tures of a man 5 they are faid to be very fond of wo¬
men : there are alfo found here crow’s with a white
ring round their necks ; ftarlings wffiich have a fmall
crefcent on their bills j blackbirds of a deep blue co¬
lour, with yellow ears rifing half an inch j and a mul¬
titude of other birds, remarkable for their colour or
fong. Befides mines of gold and lapis lazuli, which
enrich the ifland of Hainan, it produces in abundance
various kinds of curious and valuable wood. The pre-
deceffor of the prefent emperor caufed fome of it to be
tranfported to Peking, at an immenfe expence, to
adorn an edifice which he intended for a maufoleum.
The moft valuable is called by the natives hoali, and
by the Europeans rofe or violet wood from its fmell 5 it
is very durable, and of a beauty which nothing can
equal •, it is therefore referved for the ufe of the em¬
peror.
Hainan, on account of its fituation, riches, and ex¬
tent, deferves to be ranked among the moft confider-
able iflands of Afia. Not far from thence is another
fmall ifland. commonly called San-cian. It is celebra¬
ted by the death of St Francis Xavier : his tomb is Hill
to be feen on a fmall hill, at the bottom of wffiich is a
plain covered on one fide with wood, and on the other
ornamented wdth feveral gardens. This ifland is not
a defert, as fome travellers have pretended : it con¬
tains five villages ; the inhabitants of wffiich are poor
people, who have nothing to fubfift on but rice and the
fiffi which they catch.
HAINAULT, a province of the Netherlands, be¬
longing partly to France and partly to the houfe of
Auftria. It is bounded to the fouth by Champagne
and Picardy ; to the north by Flanders; to the eaft by
the duchy of Brabant, the county of Namur, and the
biftiopric of Liege-; and to the weft by Artois and
I* landers. Its extent from north to fouth is about 49
miles, and about 48 from eaft to weft. The air is
Ve>L. X. Part I,
7 ] H A I
pleafant and temperate, and the foil fruitful: it abounds Hainault,
in rich paftures, corn-fields, wmods and forefffi, coal, , Hi*'r'
iron, lead, beautiful marble, date, and other ufeful
ftones: it is well watered by rivers and lakes, and
breeds abundance of black cattle, and flieep whofe
wool is very fine. Its principal rivers are the Schelde,
the Selle, and the Dender. This province is reckon¬
ed to contain 24 walled towns, 950 villages, one du¬
chy, and feveral principalities, earldoms, peerdoms,
and baronies. The abbeys in it are 27. For fpiritu-
al matters, the greater part of it is fubjedl to the arch-
bilhop of Cambray, and the reft to the biihops ot
Liege and Arras. The ftates of the province con-
fift of the clergy, nobility, and commoners. The cler¬
gy are the abbots, deputies of the chapters, and rural
deans ; but the chapters of St Waudru and St Ger¬
main, in Mons, fend no deputies, as they contribute
nothing to the public taxes. The nobility confift of
the earls and barons, and all thofe who by their birth
have a right to a feat in the affembly of the ftates.
The commoners are compofed of the deputies of the
towns. The clergy in this county are uncommonly
rich. The ftates meet only when they are fummoned
by the fovereign ; but there is a Handing committee
at Mons wffiich meets weekly. This county had counts
of its own, till the year 1436 ; when Philip the Good,
duke of Burgundy, arrived to the pofleflion of it, up¬
on ;the death of Jaqueline, the heirefs, without iffue.
The French acquired that part of it which they pof-
fefs, partly by the peace of the Pyrenees, and partly'
by thofe of Nimeguen and Ryfwick'. The arms of
this county are quartered, and contain four lions, in
a field or. It was formerly governed by a fovereign
council, at the bead of which was the high bailiff, wffio
had very great authority ; he reprefented the fovereign,
was governor of Mons, and captain-general of the
province.
HAIR, fmall filaments iffuing out of the pores of
the Cdns of animals ; and ferving moft of them as a
tegument or covering*. In lieu of hair, the naked-* See/f-
nefs of fome animals is covered with feathers, wool. nat°my>
fcales, &c. ^
Hair is found on all parts of the human body, except
the foies of the feet and the palms of the hands.—But
it grows longeft on the head, chin, breaft, in the arm-
pits, and about the privities.
The ancients held the hair a fort of excrement, fed
only with excrementitioiis matters, and no proper part
of a living body.—They fuppofed it generated of the
fuliginous parts of the blood, exhaled by the heat of
the body to the furface, and there condenfed in paffing
through the pores.—Their chief reafons wTere, that the
hair being cut, will grow again apace, even in extreme
old age, and wffien life is very low : that in hedlic and
confumptive people, where the reft of the body is con¬
tinually emaciating and attenuating, the hair fhall
thrive : nay, and that it wdll grow again in dead car-
cafes.—They added, that hair does not feed and grow
like the other parts, by introfufception, i. e. by a juice
circulating within it ; but, like the nails, by juxtapofi-
tion, each part next the root thrufting forward that
immediately before it.
But the moderns are agreed, that every hair does
properly and truly live, and receive nutriment to fill
and4iflend it like the other parts ; which they argue
E e hence
H A 1 [ 218 ]
Hair. hence, that the roots do not turn gray in aged perfons
fooner than the extremities, but the whole changes
colour at once, &nd the like is obferved in boys, &c. •,
which (hows that there is a diredt communication, and
that all the parts are affedced alike.
It may be obferved, however, that, in propriety, the
life and growth of hairs is of a different kind Irom that
of the reft of the body 5 and is not immediately de¬
rived therefrom, or reciprocated therewith. It is ra¬
ther of the nature of vegetation. They grow as plants
do out of the earth 5 or, as fome plants (hoot from
the parts of others j from which though they draw
their nounfhment, yet each has, as it were, its feveral
life and a diftina economy. They derive their food
from fome juices in the body, but not from the nutri¬
tious juices ; whence they may live though the body
be ftarved.—Wulferus, in the Philofophical ColleRions,
gives an account of a woman buried at Nunmberg,
whofe grave being opened forty-three years after her
death, there svas hair found iiluing forth plentifully
through the clefts of the coffin j mfomuch, that theie
was reafon to imagine the coffin had fome time been
covered all over with hair. The cover being removed,
the whole corps appeared in its perfea ftiape ; but,
from the crown of the head to the foie of the foot,
covered over with a thick-fet hair, long and curled.
The fexton going to handle the upper part of the head
with his fingers, the whole ftrudlure fell at once, lea¬
ving nothing in his hand but an handful of hair . there
was neither Ikull nor any other bone left 5 yet the hair
was fohd and ftrong enough.—IMr Arnold, in the fame
colledlion, gives a relation of a man hanged for theft,
who in a little time, while he yet hung upon the gal¬
lows, had his body ftrangely covered over with hair.
Some moderns, however, deny the authenticity of thefe
and other fimilar inftances.
The hairs ordinarily appear round or cylindrical •,
but the microfcope alfo difcovers triangular and fquare
ones j which diverfity of figure arnes from that of the
pores, to which the hairs always accommodate them-
felves'. Their length depends on the quantity of the
proper humour to feed them, and their colour on the
quality of that humour : whence, at different ftages of
life, the colour ufually differs. Their extremities fplit
into twTo or three branches, efpecially when kept dry,
or fuffered to grow too long; fo that what appears
only a fingle hair to the naked eye, feems a brufti to
the microfcope.
The hair of a moufe, viewed by Mr Derham with a
microfcope, feemed to be one fingle tranfparent. tube,
with a pith made up of fibrous fubftances, running in
dark lines, in fome hairs tranfverfely, in others fpirally.
The darker medullary parts or lines, he obferves, were
no other than fmall fibres convolved round, and lying
clofer together than in the other parts of the hair.
They run from the bottom to the top of the hair , and
he imagines, may ferve to make a gentle evacuation of
fome humour out of the body. Hence the hair of
hairy animals, this author fuggefts, may not only ferve
as a fence againft cold, &c. but as an organ of infen-
fible perforation. . ,
Though the external furface of the body is the na¬
tural place of hairs, we have many well-attefted in¬
ftances of their being found alfo on the internal >ur-
face. Amatus Lufitanus mentions a perfon who had
H A I
hair upon his tongue. Pliny and Valerius Maximus i
concur in their teftimonies, that the heart of Arifto-
menes the Meffenian was hairy. Cselius Rhodiginus
relates the fame of Hermogenes the rhetorician; and
Plutarch, of Leonidas the Spartan.—Hairs are faid
to have been frequently found in the breafts of women,
and to have occafioned the diftemper called trichiafis ;
but fome authors are of opinion, that thefe are imall
worms and not hairs. There have been, however, va¬
rious and indifputable obfe.vations of hairs found in
the kidneys, and voided by urine.
Hippocrates is of opinion, that the glandular parts
are the moft fubjedl to hair : but bundles of hair have
been found in the mufcular parts of beef, and in fuch
parts of the human body as are equally firm with that.
 Hair has been often found in abfceffes and impofthu-
mations. Schultetus, opening the abdomen of a wo¬
man, found 12 pints ef water, and a large lock or
bundle of hair fwimming loofe in it. But of all the
internal parts, there is none fo much fubjeft to an un¬
natural growth of hair as the ovaries of females, and
that as well of the human fpecies as of other animals.
Of this Dr Tyfon relates three remarkable inftances ;
two of thefe were young women, and the other was a
bitch. The animal had been much emaciated in its
hinder parts ; the hair was about an inch and an hait
long : but the moft remarkable particular was, that
hair was alfo found lying locfe m tne cavities of the
veins. We have feveral inftances of mankind being
affected in the fame manner. Cardan relates, that he
found hair in the blood of a Spaniard ; and Slonatius
in that of a gentlewwnan of Cracovia ; and Schultetus
declares from his own obfervation, that thofe people
who are afflifted with the plica polonica, have very
often hair in their blood.
Difeafcs of the Bair. Almoft the only difeafe of
the hair, befides the remarkable one called plica polo-
nica, is its falling off, or baldnefs. For this many re¬
medies have been recommended, but fcarce any of them
can be depended upon. Ihe juice of burdock,, and
the lixivial falts of vine allies, are faid to be efficacious ;
alfo the powder of hermodadtyls, and the decodlion of
boxwood. A remarkable inftance of the efficacy of
this laft is given under the article Buxus.— Some
authors give inftances of the hair changing its colour
in a ihort time, through grief, or by reafon of a
fright, &c. .
Hair as an Ornament, or as an Enfgn of Dignity or
of Religion. By the Jews hair was worn naturally long,
juft as it grew; but the priefts had theirs cut every
fortnipht, while they were in waiting at the temple .
they made ufe of no razors, however, but feiffars only.
The Nazarites, while their vow continued, w’ere for¬
bidden to touch their heads with a razor. See Na-
ZARITE.
The fallinc of the hair, or a change of its colour,
was regarded amongft the Hebrews as a fign of the le-
profv. Black hair was efteemed by them as the moft
beautiful. Abfalom’s hair was cut once a-year, and
is faid to have weighed 200 Ihekels, by the king’s
weight, which is about 31 ounces. The law of God
hath left no particular ordinances with refpedt to the
hair. _
The hair of both Jewilh and Grecian women enga-
red a principal (hare of their attention, and the Roman
® r ladies-
Hair.
H A I [2
ladies feem to have been no lefs curious with refpeft to
theirs. They generally wore it long, and dreffed it in
a variety of ways, ornamenting it with gold, lilver,
pearls, See. On the contrary, the men amongft the
Greeks and Romans, and amongft the later Jews, wore
their hair ftiort, as may be collefted from books, me¬
dals, ftatues, &c. This formed a principal diftin6tion
in drefs betwixt the fexes. This obfervation illuftrates
a paffage in St Paul’s epiftle to the Corinthians (x Cor.
xi. 15.)
St Paul forbids the Corinthian women, when pray¬
ing by divine infpiration, to have their hair difhevelled;
probably becaufe this made them refemble the heathen
prieftefles, when actuated by the pretended induence
of their gods.
Amongft the Greeks, both fexes, a few days before
marriage, cut off and confecrated their hair as an offer¬
ing to their favourite deities. It was alfo cuftomary
among them to hang the hair of the dead on the doors
of their houfes previous to interment. They likewife
tore, cut off, and fometimes fhaved their hair, when
mourning for their deceafed relations or friends, which
they laid upon the corpfe or threw into the pile, to be
confumed together with the body. The ancients ima¬
gined that no perfon could die till a lock of hair was
cut off; and this aft they fuppofed was performed by
the inviflble hand of death, or Iris, or fome other mef.
fenger of the gods. This hair, thus cut off, they
fancied confecrated the perfon to the infernal deities,
under whofe jurifcliftion the dead were fuppofed to be.
It was a fort of firft fruits which far.ftified the whole.
(See Virg. JEn. iv. 694.)
Whatever was the fafhion with refpeft to the hair,
in the Grecian ftates, Haves were forbidden to imitate
the freemen. The hair of the Haves was always cut
in a particular manner, called xvcigctTrociudr,?, which
they no longer retained after they procured their free¬
dom.
It was efteemed a notable honour among the ancient
Gauls to have long hair, and hence came the appella¬
tion Gallia Comata. For this reafon Julius Caefar,
upon fubduing the Gauls, made them cut off their hair
as a token of fubmiflion.—It was with a view to this,
that fuch as afterwards quitted the world to go and
live in cloifters, procured their hair to be (haven off j
to fhow that they bade adieu to all earthly ornaments,
and made a vow of perpetual fubjeftion to their fupe-
riors.
Greg, of Tours affures us, that in the royal family
of France, it was a long time the peculiar mark and
privilege of kings and princes of the blood to wear
long hair, artfully dreffed and curled : every body elfe
was obliged to be polled, or cut round, in fign of in¬
feriority and obedience. Some writers affure us, that
there were different cuts for all the different quali¬
ties and conditions \ from the prince who wore it at
full length, to the Have or villain w’ho was quite cropt.
—To cut off the hair of a fon of France, under the
firft race of kings, was to declare him excluded from
the right of fucceeding to the crown, and reduced to
the condition of a fubjeft.
In the eighth century, it wras the cuftom of people
of quality to have their children’s hair cut the firft time
by perfons they had a particular honour and efleem
9 ] H A I
for j who, in virtue of this ceremony, were reputed a
fort of fpiritual parents or godfathers thereof: Though
this praftice appears to have been more ancient 3 inaf-
much as w7e read, that Conftantine fent the pope the
hair of his fon Heraclius, as a token that he defired
him to be his adoptive father.
The parade of long hair became ftill more and more
obnoxious in the progrefs of Chriftianity, as fomething
utterly inconfiftent with the profeflion of perfons who
bore the crofs. Hence numerous injunftions and ca¬
nons to the contrary. Pope Anicetus is commonly
fuppofed to have been the firft who forbade the clergy
to wTear long hair j but the prohibition is of an older
Handing in the churches of the eaft ; and the letter
wherein that decree is written, is of a much later date
than that pope.—The clerical tonfure is related by Ifi-
dore Hifpalenfis, as of apoftolical inftitution.
Long hair was anciently held fo odious, that there
is a canon ftill extant of the year 1096, importing, that
fuch as wore long hair (hould be excluded coming into
church while living, and not be prayed for when dead.
We have a furious declamation of Luitprand againft the
emperor Phocas, for wearing long hair, after the man¬
ner of the other emperors of the eaft, all except Theo-
philas, w7ho being bald, enjoined all his fubjefts to
(have their heads.
The French hiftorians and antiquaries have been
very exaft in recording the head of hair of their feveral
kings. Charlemagne wore it very (hort, his fon ftiort-
er 5 Charles the bald had none at all. Under Hugh
Capet it began to appear again : this the ecclefiaftics
took in dudgeon, and excommunicated all w'ho let their
hair grow’. Peter Lombard expoftulated the matter fo
warmly wnth Charles the Young, that he cut off his
hair} and his fucc?ffors for fome generations wore it
very (hort.—A profeffor of Utrecht, in 1650, wrote
exprefsly on the quertion, Whether it be lawful for men
to wear long hair ? and concluded for the negative.—
Another divine, named Reves, who had written for the
affirmative, replied to him.
The ancient Britons were extremely proud of the
length and beauty of their hair, and wrere at much
pains in drefling and adorning their heads. Some of
them carried their fondnefs for and admiration of their
hair to an extravagant height. It is faid to have been
the laft and moft earneft requeft of a young warrior,
who was taken prifoner and condemned to be beheaded,
that no Have might be permitted to touch his hair,
which was remarkably long and beautiful, and that it
might not be ftained with his blood. We hardly ever
meet with a defeription of a fine w’oman or beautiful
man, in the poems of Oflian, but their hair is men¬
tioned as one of their greateft beauties. Not content¬
ed w’ith the natural colour of their hair, which w7as
commonly fair or yellow, they made ufe of certain
wafhes to render it ftill brighter. One of thefe w7a(hes
w7as a compofition of lime, the afties of certain vegeta¬
bles, and tallow. They made ufe of various arts alfo
to make the hair of their heads grow thick and long j
which laft was not only efteemed a great beauty, but
■was confidered as a mark of dignity and noble birth.
Boadicea, queen of the Iceni, is deferibed by Dio wfith
very long hair, fiowung over her ffioulders, and reach¬
ing dowm below the middle of her back. The Britons
E e 2 ftiaved
H A I [ 220 ]
Hair. fliaved all their beards, except their upper lips *, the
hair of which they, as well as the Gauls, allowed to
grow to a very inconvenient length.
In after-times, the Anglo-Saxons and Danes alfo
confidered fine hair as one of the greateit beauties and
ornaments of their perfons, and wrere at no little pains
in drefling it to advantage. Young ladies before mar¬
riage wore their hair uncovered and untied, flowing in
ringlets over their (boulders j but as foon as they were
married, they cut it thorter, tied it up, and put on a
head-drefs of fome kind or other according to the pre¬
vailing faflrion. Xo have the hair entirely cut off was
fo great a difgrace, that it was one of the greateft pu-
nifhments infli&ed on thofe women who were guilty of
adultery. The Daniflr foldiers who were quartered up¬
on the Englifli, in the reigns of Edgar the Peaceable
and of Ethelred the Unready, were the beaux of thofe
times, and were particularly attentive to the drefling
of their hair; which they combed at lead once every
day, and thereby captivated the affeftions of the Eng-
liih ladies. The clergy, both fecularand regular, were
obliged to (have the crowns of their heads, and keep
their hair (hort, which diftinguifhed them from the
laity 5 and feveral canons were made againft their con¬
cealing their tonfure, or allowing their hair to grow
long. X'he (hape of this clerical tonfure was the fub-
je£! of long and violent debates between the Englifh
clergy on the one hand, and thofe ol the Scots and
Pi61s on the other •, that of the former being circular,
and that of the latter only femicircular. It appears
very plainly, that long flowing hair was univerlally
cfteemed a great ornament j and the tonfure of the
clergy was confidered as an aft of mortification and
felf-denial, to which many of them fubmitted with re-
luftance, and endeavoured to conceal as much as pof-
lible. Some of them who affefted the reputation of fu-
perior fanftity inveighed with great bitternefs againft
the long hair of the laity ; and laboured earneftly to
perfuade them to cut it (hort, in imitation of the cler¬
gy. Thus the famous St Wulftan bifliop of Worcefter,
is faid to havd declaimed with great vehemence againft
luxury of all kinds, but chiefly againft long hair as mod
criminal and moft univerfal. “ The Englifti (fays \\ il-
liam of Malmftniry in his life of St Wulftan). were very
vicious in their manners, and plunged in luxury,
through the long peace which they had enjoyed in the
reign of Edward the Confeffor. The holy prelate Wul¬
ftan reproved the wicked of all ranks with great bold-
nefs ; but he rebuked thofe with the greateft feverity
who were proud of their long hair. W hen any of thofe
vain people bowed their heads before him to receive his
bleffing, before he gave it, he cut a lock of theii hair
with a little (harp knife, which he carried about him
for that purpofe *, and commanded them, by way of
penance for their fins, to cut all the reft of their hair
in the fame manner. If any of them refufed to comply
with this command, he denounced the moft dreadful
judgments upon them, reproached them for their effe¬
minacy, and foretold, that as they imitated women in
the length of their hair, they would imitate them in
their cowardice when their country was invaded j
which was accomplilhed at' the landing of the Nor¬
mans.” . f .
This continued to be long a topic of declamation
among the clergy, who even reprefented it as one of
II A I
the greateft crimes, and moft certain marks of repro¬
bation. Anfelm, archbithop of Canterbury, went fo
far as to pronounce the then terrible fentence of ex-
communication againft all who wrore long hair, for
which pious zeal he is very much commended. Serio,
a Norman biftiop, acquired great honour by a fermon
which he preached before Henry I. A. D. 1104, againft
long and curled hair, with which the king and all his
courtiers were fo much affefted, that they confented
to refign their flowing ringlets, of which they had been
fo vain. The prudent prelate gave them no time to
change their minds, but immediately pulled a pair of
(hears out of bis (leeve, and performed the operation
with his own hand. Another incident happened about
25 years after, which gave a temporary check to the
prevailing fondnefs for long hair. It is thus related
by a contemporary hiftorian : “ An event happened,
A. D. xi 29, w-hich feemed very wonderful to our
young gallants •, who, forgetting that they were men,
had transformed themlelves into women by the length
of their hair. A certain knight, who was very proud
of his long luxuriant hair, dreamed that a perfon fuffo-
cated him with its curls. As foon as he awoke from
his deep, he cut his hair to a decent length. X'he re¬
port of this fpread over all England, and almoft all
the knights reduced their hair to the proper ftandard.
But this reformation was not of long continuance j
for in lefs than a year all who wiftied to appear fafliion-
able returned to their former wickednefs, and contend¬
ed with the ladies in length of hair. Thole to whom
nature had denied that ornament fupplied the defeft
by art.
X'he Greeks, and, after their example, the Romans,
wore falfe hair.
Commerce of Hair. Hair makes a very conliderable
article in commerce, efpecially fince the mode of pe¬
rukes has obtained. The hair of the. growth of the
northern countries, as England, &c. is valued much
beyond that of the more fouthern ones, as Italy, Spain,
the fouth parts of France, &c. X'he merit of good hair
confifts in its being well fed, and neither too coarfe nor
too (lender j the bignefs rendering it lefs fufceptible of
the artificial curl, and difpofing it rather to frizzie, and
the fmallnefs making its curl of too (hort duration. Its
length fhould be about 25 inches j the more it falls (hort
of this, the lefs value it bears.
There is no certain price ior hair 5 but it is fold from
five (hillings to five pounds an ounce, according to its
quality.
The fcarcenefs of gray and white hair has put the
dealers in that commodity upon the methods of redu¬
cing other colours to this. This is done by fpreading
the hair to bleach on the grafs like linen, af^r^ (lift
waftiing it out in a lixivious water. I his ley, Wi^n the
force of the fun and air, brings the hair to fo pei ft ft
a w'hitenefs, that the moft experienced peifon may ue
deceived therein ; there being fcarce any way of dt>e.ft-
ing the artifice, but by boiling and drying it, which
leaves the hair of the colour of a dead walnut-tree
leaf.
T'here is alfo a method of dyeing hair with bifmuth,
which renders fuch white hair as borders too. much
upon the yellow of a bright filver colour .: boiling is
the proof of this too, the bifmuth not being able to
ftand it. _T .
Hair
Hair.
H A I [ 2
Hair may be alfo changed from a red, gray, or other
difagreeabie colour, to a brown or deep black, by a fo-
lution of filver. The liquors fold under the name of
hair-waters, are at bottom no more than folutions of
lilver in aquafortis, largely diluted with water, with
the addition perhaps of other ingredients, which contri¬
bute nothing to their efficacy. The folution fliould be
fully faturated with the filver, that there may be no
more acid in it than is neceflary for holding the metal
diffolved j and beiides dilution with water, a little fpi-
rit of wine may be added for the further dulcification
of the acid. It muff be obferved, that for diluting the
folution, diftilled water, or pure rain-wrater, muff be
ufed ; the common fpring-waters turning it milky, and
precipitating a part of the diffolved fiver.—It is to be
obferved alfo, that if the liquor touches the ikin, it has
the fame effedt on it as on the matter to be ftained,
changing the part moiftened with it to an indelible
black.—-Hair may alfo be dyed of any colour, in the
fame manner as wool.
Hair which does not curl or buckle naturally is
brought to it by art, by firft boiling and then baking
it in the following manner: After having picked and
forted the hair, and dilpofed it in parcels according
to lengths, they roll them up and tie them tight down
upon little cylindrical inftruments, either of wood or
earthen ware, a quarter of an inch thick, and hollowed
a little in the middle, called pipes ; in which ftate they
are put in a pot over the fire, there to boil for about
t wo hours. When taken out, they let them dry ; and
when dried, they fpread them on a Iheet of brown pa¬
per, cover them with another, and thus fend them to
the paftry-cook } who making a cruft or coffin around
them of common pafte, fets them in an oven till the
cruft; is about three-fourths baked.
The end by which a hair grows to the head is called
the head of the hair ; and the other, with which they
begin to give the buckle, the point. Formerly the pe¬
ruke-makers made no difference betu’een the ends, but
curled and wove them by either indifferently : but this
made them unable to give a fine buckle 5 hair woven
by the point never taking a right curl. Foreigners
own themfelves obliged to the Englifti for this dilcove-
ry, which was firft carried abroad by a peruke-maker of
our country.
Hair is alfo ufed in various other arts and manufac¬
tures.—In particular, the hair of beavers, hares, conies,
&c. is the principal matter whereof hats are made.
Spread on the ground, and left to putrefy on corn-lands,
hair, as all other animal fubftances, viz. horns, hoofs,
blood, garbage, &c. proves good manure.
Hair, in Farriery, is generally called the coat; and,
with regard to horfes, deferves particular confideration.
The hair growing on the fetlock ferves as a defence
to the prominent part of it in travelling in ftony ways
or in frofty weather. If the hair of a horfe’s neck, and
the parts moft uncovered, be clofe, fmooth, and {leek,
it is an indication of his being in health and good cafe.
In order to make the hair of a horfe foft and fleek, he
muff be kept warm at heart, for the leaft inward cold
will caufe the hair to ftare; alfo fweat him often, for
that will loofen and raife the duff and filth that renders
his coat foul •, and when he is in the heat of a fweat,
fcrape oft all the white foam, fweat, and filth, that is
railed up with an old fword blade 3 and alfo when he is
i ] H A I
blooded, if you rub him all over with his own blood,
repeating it two or three days, and curry and drefs him
well, it will make his coat fhine as if covered with a
fine varnifti.
Hair falling from the mane or tail is caufed either
by his having taken fome heat, which has engendered
a dry mange 3 or from fome furfeit, which canfes the
evil humours to refort to thofe parts. lo cure this,
anoint the horfe’s mane and creff with black foap 3
make a ftrong ley of alhes, and wafh it all over with
it. But if a canker fhould grow on a horfe’s tail, which
will eat away both flelh and bone, then put fome oil
of vitriol to it, and it will confume it : and if you
find that the vitriol corrodes too much, you need
only wet it with cold water, and it will put a ftop
to it.
If you would take away hair from any part of a
horfe’s body, boil half a pound of lime in a quart of
water, till a fourth part is confumed, to which add an
ounce of orpiment 3 make this into a plafter, and lay it
on.
Hair, or Down, of plants 3 a general term expref-
five of all the hairy and glandular appearances on the
furface of plants, to which they are luppofed by natu-
ralifts to ferve the double purpofe of defenfive weapons
and veflels of fecretion.
Thefe hairs are, minute threads of greater or lefs
length and folidity 3 fome of them vifible to the naked
eye , whilft others are rendered vifible only by the help
of glaffes. Examined by a microfcope, almoft all the
parts of plants, particularly the young ftalks or ffems,
appear covered with hairs.
* Hairs on the furface of plants prefent themfelves
under various forms 5 in the leguminous plants, they
are generally cylindric 3 in the mallow tribe, terminat¬
ed in a point 3 in agrimony, ihaped like a filh hook 3 in
nettle, awl-fhaped and jointed 3 and in fome compound
flowers with hollow or funnel-fhaped florets, they are
terminated in two crooked points.
Probable as fome experiments have rendered it, that
the hairs on the furface of plants contribute to fome
organical fecretion, their principal ufe feems to be to
preferve the parts in which they are lodged from the
bad effefts of violent fri&ions, from winds, from ex¬
tremes of heat and cold, and fuch like external inju¬
ries.
M. Guettard, who eftablifhed a botanical method
from the form, fftuation, and other circumftances of the
hairy and glandular appearances on the furface ot plants,
demonftrated, that thefe appearances are generally
conftant and uniform in all the plants of the lame ge¬
nus. The fame uniformity leems to charafterife all the
different genera of the fame natural order.
The different forts of hairs which form the down
upon the furface of plants were imperfetftly diftinguifti-
ed by Grew in 1682, and by Malpighi in 1686. M.
Guettard juft mentioned was the firft who examined the
fubjeft both as a botauift and a philofopher. His ob-
fervations were publithed in 1747*
HaiR-Cloths, in military affairs, are large pieces of
cloth made with half hair. They are urcd for covering
the powder in waggons, or upon batteries 3 as alfo for
covering charged bombs or hand-grenades, and many
other ufes in magazines.
HAiR-Powder. See Starch.
Hah..
Hair-
Worm
HAL [222
ftjiR-Worm. See GORDIUS, HELMINTHOLOGY
Index.
HAKE, the Englilh name of a fifli common in the
Englifh and iome other feas, called by authors the
mcr/ucius and lucius marinus. This fifh was ufed of
old dried and faked. Hence the proverb obtains in
Kent, As dry as a hake. See Ichthyology Index.
HAKLUYT, Richard, a naval hiftorian, is fup-
pofed to have been born in London about the year
1553, and defcended of a genteel family in Hereford-
Ihire, as the name frequently occurs in the lift of high
iheriffs for that county in former reigns. He was edu¬
cated at Weftminfter-fchool ; and thence, in 1570, re¬
moved to Chrift-church, Oxford ; wdiere he applied
himfelf particularly to the ftudy of cofmography, and
read public le&ures in that fcience. Sir Edward Staf¬
ford being fent ambaflador to France in 1583, Mr
Hakluyt w^as one of his attendants, probably in the ca¬
pacity of chaplain. He was at this time mafter of arts
and profeffor of divinity. In 1585. he obtained the
royal mandate for the next vacant prebend of Briftol, to
which preferment he fucceeded during his refidence at
Paris. Conftantly attentive to his favourite cofmogra-
phical inquiries, in fearching the French libraries, he
found a valuable hiftory of Florida, w'hich had been
difcovered about 20 years before by Captain Loudon-
niere and others: this he caufed to He publiftied, at his
own expence, in the French language, and foon after
revifed and republilhed Peter Martyr’s book De orbe
novo. After five years refidence in France, Mr Hak¬
luyt returned to England in company with Lady Shef¬
field, filler to the lord admiral Howard. In the year
1589 he publilhed his Colle&ion of Voyages in one fo¬
lio volume, which in 1598 was republiihed in three.
In 1605 our author was made prebendary of Weftmm-
fter 5 which, with the reftory of Wetheringfet in the
county of Suffolk, feems to have been the fummit of
his preferment. He died in 1616, and was buried in
Weftminfter-abbey ; bequeathing to his fon Edmund
his manor of Bridge Place, and feveral houfes in To-
thil-ftreet, Weftminfter. He w’as an indefatigable and
faithful hiftorian. His works are, 1. A Colledlion of
Voyages and Difcoveries, a fmall volume. 2. Hiftory
of Florida, above mentioned. 3. The principal Navi¬
gations, Voyages, and Difcoveries of the Englilh Na¬
tion, made by Sea or over Land to the fartheft dirt ant
(Quarters of the Earth, at any time within the compafs
of thefe 1500 years, in three vols folio. 4. The Dif¬
coveries of the World, from the firft Original to the
Year 1555, written in the Portugal tongue by Ant.
Galvano j corre&ed, much amended and tranflated in¬
to Englilh, by Richard Hakluyt. 5. Virginia richly
valued, by the Defcription of the Main Land of Flo¬
rida, her next Neighbour, &c. w’ritten by a Poitugal
gentleman of Elvas, and tranllated by Richard Hak¬
luyt. Befides thefe, he left feveral manufcripts, which
were printed in Purchas’s colleflion.
HALBERSTADT, a fmall principality of Germa¬
ny, bounded on the north-eaft by the duchy of Magde¬
burg, on the fouth by the principality of Anhault, on
the weft by the diocefe of Hildlheim, on the eaft by
part of the deflorate of Saxony, and on the north by
Brunfvvick Wolfenbuttle. It is near 40 miles in length
and 30 in breadth. The foil in general is fertile in
porn and fiax j and there are fome woods, though in
1
: ] HAL
general fuel is fcarce. There are three large towns in H.Jbtr-
it which lend reprefentatives to the diet, together with
10 fmall ones, and 91 county-towns and villages. 7 he Hap|e>
number of the inhabitants is computed at about
200,000 : the greateft part of them are Lutherans j
but there are alio Calvinifts, Jews, and Roman Catho¬
lics. The manufaflures are chiefly woollen (for the
country produces a great number of Iheep) *, the exports
are grain, and a kind of beer called broihan. The an¬
nual revenue arifing from this principality, and the in¬
corporated counties and lordlhips, is laid to amount to
500,000 rix-dollars. Till the treaty of Weftphalia in
1648 this country was a diocefe, but was then transfer¬
red to the elefloral houfe of Brandenburg as a tempo¬
ral principality. It is intitled to a vote both in a diet
of the empire and that ol the circle. 7 he principal
places are Halberftadt, Groningen, Ofcherlleben, Of-
terwdek, &c. _ 4^
Halberstadt, a city of Germany, in the circle of
Lower Saxony, feated near the river Hothein. It is a
neat uniform place ; and has forne good churches and
other handfome buildings, of which the -cathedral is
the chief. There is an inn in this place, which is look¬
ed upon to be the largeft and to have the belt accom¬
modations of any in Europe. Before the Reformation,
it was a bilhop’s fee. E. Long. 11. 24. N. Lat.
52. 6.
HALBERT, or Halbard, in the art of war, a
well-known weapon carried by the ferjeants of foot
and dragoons. It is a fort of fpear, the lhaft of which
is about five feet long, and made of ath or other wood.
Its head is armed with a fteel point, not unlike the
point of a two-edged fword. But, befides this lharp
point which is in a line with the lhaft, there is a crofs
piece of fteel, flat and pointed at both ends •, but ge¬
nerally with a cutting edge at one extremity, and a
bent lharp point at the other ; fo that it ferves equally
to cut down or to pulh withal. It is alfo ufeful in
determining the ground between the ranks, and ad-
jufting the files of a battalion. 7 he word is formed
of the German hal, “ hall,” and bard, “ an hatchet.”
Voflius derives it from the German hailebaert, of he!,
“ clarus, fplendens,” and baert, “ axe.”
7'he halbert was anciently a common weapon in the
army, where there were companies of halbardiers. It
is faid to have been ufed by the Amazons, and after¬
wards by the Rhaetians and Vindelicians about the
year 570.
It was called the Danifh axe, becaufe the Danes bore
an halbert on the left Ihoulder. From the Danes it
was derived to the Scots, from the Scots to the Englilh
Saxons, and from them to the French.
HALCYON, a name given by the ancients to the
alcedo or king’s filher. See Alcedo, Ornithology
Index. ‘ _ .
Halcyon Days, in antiquity, a name given to fe\en
days before and as many after the winter folftice $ by
reafon the halcyon, invited by the calmnefs of the
weather, laid its eggs in nefts built in the rocks, clofe
by the brink of the fea, at this feafon.
HALDE, John Baptist DU, was born at Paris in
the year 1674, and having entered into the fociety of
the Jefuits, he was by them entrufted with the care of
colle&ing and arranging the letters which they receiv¬
ed from different quarters of the globe. He alfo filled
the
HAL [22
the office of fecretary to Father le Telhtr, who was
ccnfeiTor to the king of France. He died in the year
1743, leaving a chara&er behind him truly amiable for
mildnefs, piety, and unwearied induftry. He was the
author of fome Latin poems, but that which rnoft
diftinguiihed him was his being the editor of the Lettres
Eclijianles et Curicufes, from the ninth to the 26th col-
leifion inclufive, with a valuable preface written by
himfelf. He was alfo the author (fome fay editor) of
Description Hijiorique, Geographique, et Phyjique, de
/’ Empire de la Chine, et de la Tartaric Chinoife, 4 vols.
folio, confidered as the completeft account or that pro¬
digious empire which has appeared in Europe. It has,
with fome neceffary abridgements, been tranflated into
Englilh. It has all the appearance of veracity, and
the ftyle is fimple and unaffected.
HALE, in the fea language, fignifies pull; as, to
hale up, is to pull upj to hale in or out, is to pull in
or out. To over-bale a rope, is to hale it too fliff, or
to hale it the contrary way.
Keel-llALE. See Ducking.
Hale, Sir Matthew, lord chief juflice of the king’s-
bench in the reign of Charles II. was the fon of Ro¬
bert Hale, Eiq. a barrifler of Lincoln’s Inn, and was
born in 1609. He was educated at Oxford, where he
made a confiderable progrefs in learning ; but was
afterwards diverted from his fludies by the levities of
youth. From thefe he was reformed by Mr John
Glanvill ferjeant at law ; and applying to the ftudy of
the lawr, entered into Lincoln’s Inn. Noy the attor¬
ney-general took early notice of him, and directed
him in his fludies. Mr Selden alfo took much notice
of him ; and it was this acquaintance that firll fet Mr
Hale on a more enlarged purfuit of learning, which he
had before confined to his own profefTion. During
the civil wars, he behaved fo well as to gain the efteem
of both parties. He was employed in his praffice by
all the king’s party ; and was appointed by the par¬
liament one of the commiffioners to treat with the
king. The murder of King Charles gave him very fen-
fible regret. However, he took the engagement j and
was appointed, with feveral others, to confider of the
reformation of the law. In 1653 he was by writ
made ferjeant at law, and foon after appointed one of
the juftices of the Common Pleas. Upon the death of
Oliver Cromwell he refufed to accept of the new com-
miffion offered him by Richard his fucceffor. He was
returned one of the knights of Gloucefterfhire in the
parliament which called home Charles II. Soon
after he was made lord chief baron of the exchequer j
but declined the honour of knighthood, till lord chan¬
cellor Hyde, fending for him upon bufinefs when the
king wras at his houfe, told his majefty, that “ there
was his modeft chief baron j” upon which he was un¬
expectedly knighted. He was one of the principal
judges that fat in Clifford’s Inn about fettling the dif¬
ference between landlord and tenant, after the fire of
London, in which he behaved to the fatisfaftion of all
parties concerned, and alfo in his port of chief baron
afted with inflexible integrity. One of the firfl: peers
went once to his chamber, and told him, “ That ha¬
ving a fuit in law to be tried before him, he was then
to acquaint him with it, that he might the better un-
derftand it when it fhould come to be tried in court.”
Upon which the lord chief baton interrupted him, and
3 ] HAL
faid, “ He did not deal fairly to come to his cham- Hale,
bers about fuch affairs ; for he never received informa-, Hales'
tion of fuch caufes but in open court, where both par¬
ties wrere to be heard alike.” Upon which his grace
(for he was a duke) went awTay not a little dilfatisfied,
and complained of it to the king as a rudenefs that was
not to be endured ; but his majefty bid him content
himfelf that he was ufed no wrorfe 5 and faid, “ I hat
he verily believed he would have ufed him no better
if he had gone to folicit him in any of his own caufes.”
Another remarkable incident happened in one of his
circuits. A gentleman who had a trial at the affizes
had fent him a buck for his table. When Judge Hale
therefore heard bis name, he afked “ if he was not the
fame perfon who had fent him the venilon ?” and find¬
ing that he was the fame, told him, that “ he could
not fuffer the trial to go on till he had paid him for his
buck.” The gentleman anfwered, that “ he never
fold his venifon ; and that he had done nothing to him
which he did not do to every judge who had gone that
circuitwhich was confirmed by feveral gentlemen
prefent. The lord chief baron, however, would not
fuffer the trial to proceed till he had paid for the pre¬
fent : upon which the gentleman withdrew the record.
In fliort, he was in 1671 advanced to be lord chief
juftice of the king’s bench •, but about four years after
this promotion, his health declining, he refigned his
poll in February 1675-6, and died in December fol¬
lowing. This excellent man, who w^as an ornament
to the bench, to his country, and to human nature,
wrote, 1. An Effay on the Gravitation and Non-gra¬
vitation of Fluid Bodies. 2. Obfervations touching the
Torricellian Experiment. 3. Contemplations, moral and
divine. 4. The Life of Pomponius Atticus, with po¬
litical and moral Refleftions. 5. Obfervations on the
Principles of natural Motion. 6. The primitive Ori¬
gination of Mankind. He alfo left a great number of
manuferipts, in Latin and Englifh, upon various fub-
jects ; among which are, his Pleas of the Crown, fince
publifhed by Mr Emyln in two volumes folio; and his
Original Inftitution, Power, and Jurifdi&ion of Par¬
liaments.
HALES, Stephen, D. D. a celebrated divine and
philofopher, was born in 1677. He was the fixth foil
of Thomas Hales, Efq. the eldeft fon of Sir Robert
Hales, created a baronet by King Charles II. and
Mary the heirefs of Richard Langley of Abbots-Wood
in Hertfordfhire. In 1696 he was entered a penfioner
at Bennet-college, Cambridge *, and was admitted a
fellow in 1703, and became bachelor of divinity in
1 711. He foon difeovered a genius for natural philo-
fophy. Botany was his firft ftudy 5 and he ufed fre¬
quently to make excuriions among Gogmagog hills,
in company with Dr Stukely, with a view of profecu-
ting that ftudy. In thefe expeditions he likewife col-
lefled foflils and infers, having contrived a curious m-
ftrument for catching fuch of the latter as have wings.
In company with this friend he alio applied himfelf
to the ftudy of anatomy, and invented a curious me¬
thod of obtaining a reprefentation of the lungs in lead.
They next applied themfelves to the ftudy of chemiftry j
in which, however, they did not make any remarkable
difeoveries. In the ftudy of aftronomy Mr Hales was
equally afiiduous. Having made himfelf acquainted
with the Newtonian fyftem, he contrived a machine
for-
HAL [ 22+
for fhowing the phenomena on much the fame principles
with that afterwards made by Mr Rowley, and, from
the name of his patron, called an Orrery.
About the year 1710 he was prefented to the per¬
petual cure of Teddington near Twickenham, in
Middlefex 5 and afterwards accepted of the living of
Porlock in Somerfetlhire, which vacated his fellowfhip
in the college, and which he exchanged for the living
of Faringdon in Hamplhire. Soon after, he married
Mary, the daughter and heirefs of Dr Newce, who
was reftor of Halilham in Suffex, but refided at
Much-Haddam in Hertfordlhire. On the 13th of
March 1718, he was elected member of the Royal
Society 5 and on the 5th of March, in the year follow¬
ing, he exhibited an account of fome experiments he
had lately made on the effe61 of the fun’s warmth in
railing the fap in trees. This procured him the thanks
of the fociety, who alfo requefted him to profecute the
fubjecl. With this requeft he complied with great
pleafure ; and on the 14th of June 17^5 exhibited a
treatife in which he gave an account of his progrefs.
This treatife being highly applauded by the fociety, he
farther enlarged and improved it; and in April 1727
he publilhed it under the title of Vegetable Statics.
This work he dedicated to his late majelfy King George
II. who was then prince of Wales : and he was the
fame year chofen one of the council of the Royal So¬
ciety, Sir Hans Sloane being at the fame annual elec¬
tion chofen their prelident. Ihe book being jwell re¬
ceived, a fecond edition of it was publilhed in 1731,
In a preface to this edition Mr Hales promifed a fequel
to the work, which he publilhed in 1733 tinder the
title of Statical Effays, &c. In 1732 he was appointed
one of the truflees for eftablilhing a new colony in
Georgia. On the 5th of July 1733 the univerfity of
Oxford honoured him with a diploma for the degree of
doctor in divinity ; a mark of diltinftion the more ho¬
nourable, as it is not ufual for one univerfity to confer
academical honours on thofe who are educated at ano¬
ther. In 1734) when the health and morals of the
lower and middling clafs of people were fubverted by
the excellive drinking of gin, he publilhed, though with¬
out his name, A friendly Admonition to the Dnnkeis
of Brandy and other fpirituous Liquors ; which was
twice reprinted. The latter end of the fame year he
nubjilhed a fermon which he preached at St Bride’s
before the reft of the truftees for eftablifhing a new
colony in Georgia. His text was, “ Bear ye one ano¬
ther’s burthens, and fo fulfil the law of Chrift ;’ Gala¬
tians vi. 2. In 1739 he printed a volume in 8vo, en¬
titled, Philofophical Experiments on Sea-w7ater, Corn,
Flefti, and other Subftances. This work, which con¬
tained many ufeful inftruflions for voyagers, was uedi-
cated to the lords of the admiralty, i he fame year
he exhibited to the Royal Society an account of fome
farther experiments towards the difeovery of medicines
for difiolving the ftone in the kidneys and bladder, and
preferving meat in long voyages ; for which he recei¬
ved the gold medal of Sir Godfrey Copley’s donation.
yejir following he pubhfhed fome account of Ex
periments and Obfervations on Mrs Stephens’s Medi¬
cines for diffolving the Stone, in which their diffolvent
power is inquired into and demonftrated.
In 1741 he read before the Royal Society an ac¬
count of an inftrument which he invented,-and called
] HAL
a ventilator, for conveying frelh air into mines, hoi*
pitals, prifons, and the clofe parts of (hips : he had
communicated it to his particular friends fome months
before ; and it is very remarkable, that a maenme of
the fame kind, for the fame purpofe, was in the fpring
of the fame year invented by one Martin Tricwald, an
officer in the fervice of the king of Sweden, called
captain of mechanics, for which the king and fenate
granted him a privilege in October following, and or¬
dered every (hip of war in the fervice of that ftate to
be furniftied with one of them ; a model alfo of this
machine was fent into France, and all the Ihips in the
French riavy were alio ordered to have a ventilator of
the fame fort. It happened alfo, that about the fame
time one Sutton, wd o kept a cofteehoufe in Alueiigate-
ftreet. invented a ventilator of another conftruftion to
Hales.
draw oft the foul air out of Ihips by means of tne coo..-
room fire : but poor Sutton had not intereft enough to
make mankind accept the benefit he offered them ;
though its fuperiority to Dr Hales’s contrivance was
evident, and among others Dr Mead and the inge¬
nious Mr Benjamin Robins gave their teftimony in
its favour (See yliR-Pifies.) Ihe public, however, is^
not lefs indebted to the ingenuity and benevolence of
Dr Hales, whofe ventilators came more eafily into ufe
for many purpofes of the greateft importance to life,
particularly for keeping corn fweet, by blowing through
it frefh ihowers of air ; a practice very foon adopted
by France, a large granary having been made, under
the dire&ion of Duhamel, for the prefervation of corn
in this manner, with a view to make it a general
practice.
In 1743, Dr Hales read before the Royal Society
a defeription of a method of conveying liquors into
the abdomen during the operation of tapping, and it
was afterwards printed in their 1 ranfabtions. In 1745>
he publiftied fome experiments and obfervations on tar-
water, which he had been induced to make by the pub¬
lication of a work called Sins, in which the learn¬
ed and moft excellent Dr Berkeley, bifliop of Cloyne,
had recommended tar-water as an umverfal medicine .
on this occalion feveral letters palled betw een them on
the fubjeft, particularly with refpect to the ufe ^ of tar-
water in the difeale of the horned cattle. In tne fame
year he communicated to the public, by a letter to the
editor of the Gentleman’s IMagazine, a deicription of a
back-heaver, which will winnow and clean corn much
fooner and better than can be done by the common me¬
thod. He alfo, at the fame time, and by the fame
channel, communicated to the public a cheap and eafy
way to preferve corn fweet in facks ; an invention of
great benefit to farmers, efpecially to poor leafers, who
want to keep fmall quantities of corn for fome time,
but have no proper granary or repofitory for that pur¬
pofe. He alfo the fame year took the fame met loci to
publifh direflions how to keep corn fweet m heaps
without turning it, and to fweeten it when mufty. He
publiflied a long paper, containing an account ol leve-
ral methods to preferve corn by ventilators ; with a
particular defeription of feveral forts of ventilators il-
luftrated by a cut, fo that the whole mechamfm Of them
may be eafily known, and the machine conftrufied by
a common carpenter. He publiftied alfo in the fame
volume, but without his name, a detection of the fal¬
lacious boafts concerning the efficacy of the liquid Ihtft
in
HAL
in diffolving the itone in the bladder. ' In .1746 he
communicated to the Royal Society a propofal for
bringing fmall paflable ftones foon, and with eafe, out
of the bladder; and this wasalfo printed in their Tranf-
adlions. In the Gentleman’s Magazine for July 1747,
he publifhed an account of a very conliderable improve¬
ment of S; back-heaver, by which it became capable
of clearing corn of the very fmall grain, feeds, blacks,
fmutt-balls, &c. to fuch perfection as to make it fit for
feed-corn. In 1748 he communicated to the Royal
Society a propos’d for checking, in fome degree, the
progrefs of fires, occafioned by the great fire which
happened that year in Cornhill : And the fubftance of
this propofal was printed in their TranfaCfions. In the
fame year he alfo communicated to the Society two me¬
moirs, which are printed in their TranfaCtions ; one on
the great benefit* of ventilators, and the other on fome
experiments in eleftricity. In 1749, ventilators
were fixed in the Savoy prifon, by order of the right
hon. Henry Fox, Efq ; then fecretary at war, after¬
wards Lord Holland ; and the benefit was fo great,
that though 50 or 100 in a year often died of the gaol
■diftemper before, yet from the year 174910 the year
1752 inclufive, no more than four perfons died, though
in the year 1750 the number of prifoners was 240; and
of thofe four, one died of the fmall-pox, and another of
intemperance. In the year 1750j}ie publilhed fome
confiderations on the caufes of earthquakes; occafioned
by the flight Ihocks felt that year in London. The
fubflance of this work was alfo printed in the Philofo-
phical TranfaCtions. The fame year he exhibited an
examination of the ftrength of feveral purging waters,
efpecially of the water of JeJJbp's we//, which is printed
in the Philofophical Tranfadtions.
Ur Hales had now been feveral years honoured with
the efteem and friendlhip of his royal highnefs Frede¬
rick prince of Wales ; w’ho frequently vifited him at
leddington, from bis neighbouring palace at Kew,
and took a pleafure in furprifing him in the midfl: of
thofe curious refearches into the various parts of nature
which almoll; inceflantly employed him. Upon the
prince’s death, which happened this year, and the fet-
tlement of the houfehold of the princefs dowager, he
was, without his felicitation, or even knowledge, ap¬
pointed clerk of the clofet or almoner to her roval
highnefs. In 1751 he was chofen by the college of
phyficians to preach the annual fermon called Crowne's
lefture: Dr William Crowne having left a legacy for a
lermon to be annually preached on “ the wifdom and
goodnefs of God difplayed in the formation of man.”
Dr Hales’s text was, With the ancient is wifdom, and in
length of days underfiauding. Job. xii. 1 2. This fermon,
as ufual, was publiflied at the requeft of the college.
In the latter end of the year 1752, his ventilators,
worked by a windmill, were fixed in Newgate, with
branching trunks to 24 wards; and it appeared that
the difproportion of thofe that died in the gaol before
and after this eftablifhment was as 16 to 7. He pub¬
liflied alfo a farther account of their fuccefs, and fome
obfervations on the great danger arifing from foul air,
exemplified by a narrative of feveral perfons feized
with the gaol-fever by working in Newgate.
On the death of Sir Hans Sloane, which happened
in the year 1753, Hales was elected a member of the
VOL. X. Part I.
HAL
Academy of Sciences at Paris in hi# r*om. The fame Hale
year he publiihed in the Gentleman’s Magazine fome r
farther confiderations about means to draw the foul air
out of the fick rooms of occafional army hofpitals,
and private houfes in town. He alfo publiflied many
other curious particulars relative to the ufe and fuc-
eefs of ventilators. The fame year a defeription of a
fea-gage, which the Dodtor invented to meafure un¬
fathomable depths, was communicated to the public in
the fame mifcellany : this paper was drawn up about
the year 1732 or 1733, by the Dodtor, for Colin Camp¬
bell, Efq. This gentleman employed the ingenious
Mr Hawkfbee to make the machine it deferibes, which
was tried in various depths, and anfwered with great
exadlnefs. It w’as however loft near Bermuda. In
1754, he communicated to the Royal Society fome
experiments for keeping water and fifli fweet with
lime-w7ater, an account of which was publiflied in the
Philofophical Tranfadlions. He alfo continued to en¬
rich their memoirs with many ufeful articles from this
time till his death, particularly a method of forward¬
ing the diftillaticn of frefli from fait water by blowing
fliowers of frefli air up through the latter during the
operation. In 1757 he communicated to the editor of
the Gentleman’s Magazine an eafy method of purifying
the air, and regulating its heat in melon-frames and
green-houfes ; alfo further improvements in his method
of diftilling fea-water.
His reputation and the intereft of his family and.
friends might eaffly have procured him farther pre¬
ferment : but of farther preferment he was not de-
firous ; for being nominated by his late maiefty to u
canonry of Windfor, he engaged the princefs to re¬
queft his majefiy to recal his nomination. That a
man fo devoted to philofophical fludies and employ¬
ments, and fo conlcientious in the difeharge of his
duty, fliould not defire any preferment which would
reduce him to the dilemma either of neglecting his
duty, or foregoing his amufement, is not ftrange ;
but that he would refufe an honourable and profitable
appointment, for which no duty was to be done that
would interrupt his habits of life, can fcarce be im¬
puted to his temperance and humility without im¬
peaching his benevolence ; for if he had no wifti of any
thing more for himfelf, a liberal mind would furely
have been highly gratified by the diftribution of fo
confiderable a fum as a canonry of Windfor would
have put into his power, in the reward of induftrv,
the alleviation of diftrefs, and the fupport of helplefs
indigence. He was, however, remarkable for focial
virtue and fweetnefs 6f temper ; his life was not onlv
blamelefs, but exemplary in a high degree; he was
happy, in himfelf and beneficial to others, as appears
by this account of his attainments and purfuits ; the
conftant ferenity and cheerfulnefs of his mind, and
the temperance and regularity of his life, concurred,
with a good conftitution, to preferve him in health
and vigour to the uncommon age of fourfeore and four
years. He died at Teddington in 1761 ; and was bu¬
ried, purfuant to his own directions, under the tower
of the parifti church, which he built at his own expence
not long before his death.—Her royii highnefs the
.princefs of Wales ereCled a monument to his memory
in Weftminfter abbey.
F f
[ 225 ]
HALESIA,
HAL
[ 22
Ha'etia HALESIA, a genus of plants belonging to the do¬
ll decandna clals, and in the natural method ranking un-
Halifax. ^ the j 8th order? Bicornes. See Botany Index.
v HALESWORTH, a town of Suffolk in England,
feated on a neck of land between two branches ot the
river Blith, ioi miles from London. It has a trade
in linen-yarn and fail-cloth, one large church, and about
yoo good houfcs. About the town is railed a great
deal of hemp. E. Long. I. 40. N. Lat. 52. 30. .
HALF-blood, in Law, is where a man marries a
fecond wife, the firff being dead, and by the firft ven¬
ter he has a Ion, and by his fecond venter has hkewiie
a fon 5 the two brothers, in this cafe, are but of half-
blood. See Consanguinity and Descent*
HALF--Mcr£ ; a noble, or 6s. 8d.
Half-Moo/?, in Fortification ; an outwork compofed
of two faces, forming a falient angle, whofe gorge is in
form of a crefcent or half-moon, whence the name.
HALFPENNY, a copper coin, whofe value is ex-
nreffed by its name, in reference to the penny.
HALI-BEIGH, firft dragoman or interpreter at
the Grand Signior’s court in the 17th century, was
born of Chriftian parents in Poland •, but having been
taken by the Tartars when he was young, they lold
him to the TYrks, who brought him up in their reli¬
gion in the feraglio. His name, in his native country,
was Bobowfki. He learnt many languages, and Sir
Paul Ricaut owns he was indebted to him for feveral
things which he relates in his Frefientfiate of the Otto-
man empire. He held a great correipondence with the
Englilh who perfuaded him to tranfiate feme books
into the Turkiih language-, atH he propofed to re¬
turn into the bofom of the Chriftian church, but died
before he could accomplilh the defign. Dr Hyde pub-
lilhed his book Of the liturgy of the Turks, their pilgri¬
mages to Mecca, their circumcifion and vifiting ojthejick.
He tranflated the catechifm of the church of England
and the bible into the Turkiih language. The Mb.
is lodged in the library of Leyden. He wrote like-
wife a Turkifh grammar and dictionary.
HALICARNASSUS, in Ancient Geography, a
principal town of Caria, faid to be built by the Ar¬
rives, and fituated between two bays, the Ceramious
^It was the royal refidence, (called formerly) ;
efpecially of Maulblus, made more illuftnous by his
monument. This monument was one of the feven
wonders, and erefted by Artemifia. Hahcarnaffeus or
Halicarnaffenfis, was the gentihtious name of Herodo¬
tus and Dionyfius. The former was called the Father
of Hiftory ; and the latter was not only a good hifto-
rian but alfo a diftinguilhed critic.
HALIyETUS. See Falco, Ornithology Index.
H ALIEUTICS, Halieutica, 'AAievn**, formed
of Mw, fijherman, which is derived from fie a;
books treating of fifties, or the art of fiftung.—We
have flill extant the halieutics of Oppian..
HALIFAX, the capital of the province of Nova
Scotia in America, fituated in W. Long. 64. 30. N.
Lat 44 4C ^ was founded in 1749, in order to ie-
cure the Britifti fettlements there from the attempts of
the French and Indians. It was divided into 35
fquares, each containing 16 lots of 40 by 60 feet;
one eftablilhed church m d one meeting-houfe and a
fmall number of houfes out of the regular ftreets.
6 J HA L
The town was Originally guarded by forts on the out-
fide *, but from the commencement of the American
revolution, it was very ftrongly fortified. Along the
river Chebufto, to the fouthward of the town, are
buildings and fifh-flakes for at leaf! two miles, and to
the northward on the river for about one mile. 1 ne
plan, however, was greatly improved by earl of
Halifax, who was the original contriver. The pro¬
clamation iflued for this fettiement, offered $0 acies of
land to every foldier and failor who would fettle m that
part of America, without rent or fervice, foi ten years,
and no more than one (hilling per annum for each 30
acres ever afterwards : to every foldier and failor who
had a wife and children, ten acres more were added for
every individual of his family, and for eveiy increafe
that fiiould afterwards happen in the fame proportion :
To each non-commiflioned officer 80 acres, and 15 for
each of his family ; 200 acres to each enfign; 300 to each
lieutenant ; 400 to each captain ; 600 to every officer
in rank above a captain, and 30 f°r each famil)' *
Government alfo engaged to tranfport and maintain the
new fettlers for one year at its own expence, and fur-
nifti them with fuch arms, provifions,. utenfils, imple¬
ments, &c. as ftiould be neceffary to put them in a r\ay
to cultivate their lands, to build habitations, and to
commence a fiftiery. The fame conditions were likewife
offered to all carpenters and other handicraftfmen ;
and furgeons were offered the fame conditions uith the
enfigns.—This proclamation was publithed in March,
and by the month of May 3700 perfons had offered
themfelves. They accordingly embarked, and efta-
bliftied themfelves in the bay of Chebufto ; calling the
city Halifax, from the title of their patron. Before
the end of Oaober the fame year, 350 comfortable
wooden houfes were built, and as many more during
the winter.—The fame year in which the fettlers em¬
barked, the government granted them 40,000!. for
their expences. In I75°> they granted 57,582!. 17s.
3’d. for the fame purpefe ; in 1751, iS’P2?1-
4d. ; in 1752, 61,492!. 19s. 4^*? in i753j.94)Ui5 •
12s. 4d.; in 1754, 58,447k 2s. ; and in 1755,
49,418k 7s. 8d.—The place at laft attained a degree
of fplendor that feemed to rival the firft cities in the
united dates ; for this it has been equally indebted to
the American war, to the great increafe of population
from the exiled loyalifts, and the foftenng care of Great
Britain. About this time the number of inhabitants
was more than doubled in ten years. .
The harbour, which is well (heltered from all winds,
is fo fpacious, that a thoufand fail of (hips may ride in
fafety. Upon it there are built a great number of com¬
modious wharfs, which have from 12 to 18 feet water
at all times of the tide, for the convenience of loading
and unloading (hips. The ftreets of the town are re¬
gularly laid out, and crofs each other at right angles;
the whole rifing gradually from the water upon the fide
of a hill whofe top is regularly fortified, but not fo as
to be able to withftand a regular attack. Many confi-
derable merchants refide at this place and are poflefled
of (hipping to the amount of feveral thoufand tons, em¬
ployed in a flourifliing trade both with Europe and the
Weft Indies. There is a fmall but excellent careening
yard for (hips of the royal navy that are upon this fta-
tion or that may have occafion to come in to refit, and
take water, fuel, or frelh provifions on board, in tfieir
f f nnllacre
Halifax
HAL
Halifax- paffage to *nd from the Weft Indies. It is always kept
 V ■ ' well provided with naval ftores •, and fhips of the line
are hove down and repaired with great eafe and fafety.
Several batteries of heavy cannon command the har¬
bour, particularly thofe that are placed upon George’s
iftand, which being very fteep and high, and fituated in
mid-channel, a little way below the town, is well cal¬
culated to annoy veflels in any direction, as they muft
of neceflity pafs very near it before they are capable of
doing any mifchief. Aboye the careening yard, which
is at the upper end of the town, there is a large bafon,
or piece of water, communicating with the harbour
below, near 20 miles in circumference, and capable of
containing the whole navy of England, entirely fhel-
tered from all winds, and having only one narrow en¬
trance, which, as we obferved before, leads into the
harbour. There are a number of detached fettlements
lately formed by the loyalifts upon the bafon; the
lands at a fmall diftance from the water being generally
thought better than thofe near to Halifax ; but what
fuccefs may attend their labours, will require fome time
to determine. An elegant and convenient building has
been erefted near the town for the convalefcence of the
navy j but the healthinefs of the climate has as yet
prevented many perfons from becoming patients, fcarce-
ly any Ihips in the world being fo free from complaints
of every kind, in regard to health, as thofe that are em¬
ployed upon this ftation. There is a very fine light-
houfe, Handing upon a fmall iftand juft off the entrance
of the harbour, which is vifible, either by night or day,
fix or feven leagues off at fea.
Halifax, earl of. See Saville.
Halifax, a town in the weft riding of Yorkfture
in England, feated on the river Calder, in W. Long.
2. o. N. Lat. 53. 45. It has the title of an earldom,
and is very eminent for the clothier trade. The parifh
is faid to be the moft populous, if not the moft ex-
tenfive, in England : for it is above 30 miles in cir¬
cumference j and, befides the mother church at Halifax,
and 16 meeting-houfes, has 12 chapels, two of which
are parochial. What is a little Angular, all the meet¬
ing-houfes here, except the quakers, have bells and
burying grounds. The woollens principally manu¬
factured here are kerfeys and (balloons. Of the for¬
mer it is affirmed, that one dealer hath fent by com-
miffion 60.,000 pounds worth in a year to Holland and
Hamburg ; and of the latter, it is faid, ioo,OQO
pieces are made in this pariffi yearly. The inhabi¬
tants here and in the neighbouring towns are fo en¬
tirely employed in thefe manufactures, that agriculture
is but little minded. Moft of their provifions of all
forts are brought from the north and eaft ridings,
and from Lancafture, Cheftiire, Nottinghamlbire, and
Warwickffiire. The markets are very much crowded
for the buying and felling provifions and manufactures.
The cloths, at the firft ereCting of the woollen manu¬
factures in thefe parts, having been frequently ftolen
off the tenters in the night, a law was made, by wbich
the magiftrates of Halifax wrere empowered to pafs
fentence on and execute all offenders, if they were ta¬
ken in the faCl, or owned it, or if the ftolen cloth was
found upon them, provided alfo the crime wTas com¬
mitted, and the criminal apprehended, within the liber¬
ties of the foreft of Hardwick. Thefe foqnd guilty
HAL
were executed in the following manner: an axe was Halhtis
drawn by a pulley to the top of a wooden engine, and
faftened by a pin, which being pulled out, the axe fell. ^
down in an inftant, and did its work. If they had
ftole an ox, horfe, or any other beaft, it was led with
them to the fcaftold, and there faftened by a cord to
the pin that held up the axe j and when the fignal was
given by the jurors, who were the firft burghers with¬
in the feveral towns of the foreft, the beaft was driven
away, and the pin plucked out, upon which the axe
fell and did its office. This fevere and funimary courfe
of juftice gave occafion to a kind of litany, which, it
is laid, is often in the mouths of the beggars and va¬
grants wdio ufually frequent thefe places, viz.
From Hell, Hull, and Halifax, good Lord deliver us:
though neither the engine, nor manner of proceeding
againft them, are now* in ufe. The Maiden of Scot¬
land, and the Guillotine of France, were fimilar inftru-
ments. See Maiden and Guillotine.
HALIOTIS, the ear-shell, a genus of ffiell-fiffi,
belonging to the order of vermes teftacea. See Con-
CHOLOGT Index.
HALITZ, a town of Poland, and capital of a ter¬
ritory of the fame name, in Red Ruflia, with a caftle.
It is feated on the river Neifter. E. Long. 26. o.
N. Lat. 49. 20.
HALL, in Architeclure, a large room at the en¬
trance of a fine houfe and palace. Vitruvius mentions
three kinds of halls; the tetraftyle, with four columns
fupporting the platfond or ceiling; the Corinthian,
with columns all round let into the -wall, and vaulted
over; and the Egyptian, which had a periftyle of in-
fulated Corinthian columns, bearing a fecond order
with a ceiling.
The hall is properly the fineft as well as firft mem¬
ber of an apartment: and in the houfes of minifters of
ftate, magiftrates, &c. is the place where they difpatch
bufinefs, and give audience. In very magnificent
buildings, where the hall is larger and loftier than or¬
dinary, and placed in the middle of the houfe, it is
called a faloon.
The length of a hall fliould be at leaft twice and a
quarter its breadth ; and in great buildings, three
times its breadth. As to the height of halls, it mav
be two-thirds of the breadth ; and, if made with an
arched ceiling, it will be much handfomer, and lefs
liable to accidents by fire. In this cafe, its height is
found by dividing its breadth into fix parts, five of
which will be the height from the floor to the under
fide of the key of the arch.
Hall is alfo particularly ufed for a court of juftice ;
or an edifice wherein there is one or more tribunals.
In Weftminfter-hall are held the great courts of
England, viz. the king’s bench, chancery, common
pleas, and exchequer. In adjoining apartments is like-
wife held the high court of parliament.
Weftminfter-hall was the royal palace or place of
refidence of our ancient kings ; who ordinarily held
their parliaments, and courts of judicature, in their
dwelling-houfes (as is ftill done by the kings of Spain),
and frequently fat in perfon in the courts of judicature
as they ftill do in parliament. A great part of this palace
was burnt under Henry VIII.: what remains is ftill re-
F f 2 fcrved
I 227 ]
H A L [
fetved for tire faid jodicatorics. The great hall, where-
in the courts of king’s bench, &c. are kept, is hud to
have been built by William Rufus ^ other* fay by
Richard I. or II. It is reckoned fuperior, m point ot
dimenfions, to any hall in Europe } being 300 leet
long and 100 broad. ■ , . . c
Hall, Jofeph, an eminent prelate of the- church ol
England, was bom in 1574* and educated at Cam¬
bridge. He became profeffor of rhetoric m that um-
cerfity, and then fucceflfively was made reefor oi Ha -
Red, in SuffcU:, prefented to the living of Waltham
in Effex, made prebendary of Wolverhampton, dean
of Worcefter, bilhop of Exeter, &nd laftly of ISor-
wicb. His works teftify bis zeal againft Popery, and
are much efteemed. He lamented the divifions of the
Proteftants, and wrote fomething concerning the means
of putting an end to them. July 1616, he attended
the embalfy of Lord Doncailer into France, and upon
his return was appointed by bis majefty to be one of
the divines who fliould attend him into Scotland, in
1618 he was fent to the fynod of Dort with other di-
and pitched upon to preach a Latin lermon be-
228 ] HAL
HAELELUJ A, aterm of rejoicing, fotnetimes fung
or rehearfed at the end of verfes on fuch occalions.
The word is Hebrew •, or rather, it is two Hebrew ,_
words joined together : one of them ihhn ha//e/u, and
the other nsyh/f; an abridgment of the name of God,
Jehovah. The firft fignifies /audatc, ‘l praife ye)”
and the other, Dominum, “ the Lord.”
St Jerome firft introduced the word hallelujah into
the church fervice : for a confiderable time it was only
ufed once a-year 111 the Latin church, viz. at Eadcr -
but in the Greek church it was much more, frequent.
St Jerome mentions its being fung at the interments
of the dead, which ftill continues to be done in that
church, - as alfo on fome occafions in the time of
Lent. " . . ,
In the time of Gregory the Great, it was appointed
to be fung all tbe year round in tbe Latin church,
which raifed fome complaints againft that pope } as
H Alleluia
11
Halier.
Xines, ana r  
fore that affembly. But being obliged to return from
thence before tbe fynod broke up, on account ot Ins
health, he was by the ftates prefented with a gold me¬
dal. He wrote, 1. Mifcellaneous epiftles. 2. Mun-
dus alter et idem. 3. A juft cenfure of tra vellers. 4. ie
Chriftian Seneca. 5. Satires, in fix books. 6. A cen¬
tury of meditations *, and many other works which,
befides the above fatires, make in all five volumes in
folio and quarto. He died in 1656. ,
HALLAGE, a fee or toll paid for cloth brought
to be fold in Blackwell-hall, Londoft.
HALLAMAS, in our old writers, the day ot all-
hallows, or all-faints, viz. November 1. It is ope ot
the crofs quarters of the year, which was computed, in
ancient writings, from Hallamas or Candlemas.
HAL LAND, a country of Sweden, in the 1 liana
of Schonen, lying along tbe fea- coaft, at the entrance
of the Baltic fea, and oppofite to Jutland.. It is OO
miles along the coaft, but it is not above I 2 m breadth.
Halmftadt is the capital town. . „
HALLATON, a town of Leicefterfture, in Eng¬
land. It is feated on a rich foil, 12 miles fouth-eaft ot
Leicefter, in E. Long. o. 50. N. Lat. 5?- 35- .
HALLE, a little difmantled town ot the Aultnan
Netherlands, in Hainault. The church of Notre Dame
contains an image of the Virgin Mary, held m great
veneration. L. Long. 3. 15. N. Lat. 5°. 44-
Halle, a handfome and confiderable town ot Ger¬
many, in the circle of Upper Saxony, and in the duchy
of Magdeburg, with a famous umverfity and (alt-works.
It belongs to the king of Pruflia } and is feated in a
pleafant plain on the river Sale, m E. Long. 1 2. 33.
N. Lat. 51. 36. r _
Halle, a free and imperial town of Germany, m
Suabia, famous for its falt-pits. It is feated on the
river Kocher, among rocks and mountains, in L. Dong.
10. 90. N. Lat. 49. 6. . , . , f
HALLEIN, a town of Germany, m the circle 01
Bavaria, and archbiihopric of Saltlhurg j feat.ed on
the river Saltza, among the mountains, wherein are
mines of fait, which are the chief riches o. the town
pnd country, E. Long. 12. 15. N. Lat. 47. 33.
giving too much into the Greek way, and introducing
the ceremonies of the church of Conftantinople into
that of Rome. But he excufed hitnfelf by alleging,
that this had been the ancient ufage of Rome j and
that it had been brought from Conftantinople at the
time when tbe word hallelujah was firft introduced un¬
der Pope Damafcus. x
HALLENBERG, a town of Germany, m Weft-'
phalia, feven miles of Medebach, and 62 eaft of Co-
logne. ^ ^ t j
HALLLNCOURT, a town of France, in the de¬
partment of Somme, feven miles and a half fouth of
Abbeville. . , „ .
HALLER, Albert Van, an eminent phyfician,
was born at Bern, on the 16th of Oftober 1708. He
was the fon of an advocate of confiderable eminence
in bis profefiion. His father had a numerous family,
and Albert was the youngeft of five ions. Irom the
firft period of his education, he.ftiowed a very great,,
genius for literature of every kind : to ftp-ward the
progrefs of his ftudies, his father took into his family
a private tutor, named Abraham Billodz, ; and fuch was
the difeipline exerted by this pedagogue, that the acci¬
dental fight of. him, at any future period ol life, ex-,
cited in Haller very great uneafinefs, and renewed all
his former tetrors. According to the accounts which
are given us, the progrefs of Haller’s ftudies at the
earlieft periods of life, was rapid almoft beyond belief.
When other children were beginning only, to read, he
was ftudying Bayle and Moreri ; and at nine years, ol
aac he was able to tranflate Greek, and was beginning
the ftudy of Hebrew. Not long after this,- however,
the courfe of his education was fomewhat interrupted
by the death of his father j an event which happened
when he was in the 13th year of his age. After , this
he was fent to the public fchool at Bern, where he ex¬
hibited many fpecimens of early and uncommon genius.
He was diftinguilhed for his knowledge in the Greek
and Latin languages i but he was chiefly remarkable
for his poetical genius : and his eflays ot this- kin ,
which were publilhed in the German language were
read and admired throughout the whole empire. In the
16th year of his age he began the ftudy of medicine
at Tubingen, under thofe eminent teachers Duvernoy
and Camerarius; and continued there for the/pace of
tyvo years, when the great reputation of the J^^
HAL [ 229 ] HAL
Haller, lebrated Boerhaave drew him to Leyden. Nor was this
—V ' diftinguiihed teacher the only man from whofe fupe-
rior abilities he had there an opportunity of profit¬
ing. Kuyfch was ftill alive, and Albinus was riling
into fame. Animated by fuch examples, he fpent all
the day, and the greateft part of the night, in the moll
intenfe lludy > and the proficiency which he made,
gained him univerfal efteem both from his teachers and
fellow Undents. From Holland, in the year 1727, he
- came to Lngland. Here, however, his Hay rvas but
ihort; and it. was rather his intention to vifit the illu-
lirious men of that period, than to profecute his llu-
dies at London. He formed connexions with fome of
the mod eminent of them. He w7as honoured with the
friendlhip of Douglafs and Chefelden 5 and he met with
a reception proportioned to his merit from Sir Hans
Sloane, prefident of the Royal Society. After his vi-
lit to Britain, he went to France ; and there, under
thofe eminent mailers, Window and Le Dran, with
the latter of whom he refided during his ilay in Paris,
he had opportunities of profecuting anatomy, which
he had not before enjoyed. But the zeal of our young
anatomift was greater than the prejudices of the people
, at that period, even in the enlightened city of Paris,
could admit of. An information being lodged againit
him to the police for difledting dead bodies, he was
obliged to cut Ihort his anatomical inveftigations by a
precipitate retreat. Still, however, intent on the farther
profecution of his lludies, he went to Bafil, where he
became a pupil to the celebrated Bernouilli.
Thus improved and inllrufted by the ledlures of the
moll diftinguilhed teachers of that period, by uncom¬
mon natural abilities, and by unremitting indullry, he
returned to the place of his nativity in the 26th year of
his age. Not long after this, he offered himfelf a can¬
didate, firlt for the office of phyfician to an hofpital,
and afterwards for a profefforlhip. But neither the cha-
radler which he had before he left his native country,
nor the fame w’hich he had acquired and fupported
while abroad, were fufficient to combat the intereil op-
pofed to him. He was difappointed in both ; and it
was even with difficulty that he obtained, in the fol¬
lowing year, the appointment of keeper of a public li¬
brary at Bern. The exercife of this office was indeed
by no means lulled to his great abilities : but it was
agreeable to him, as it afforded him an opportunity for
that extenfive reading by which he has been lb jullly
diftinguifned. The negleft of his merit which marked
his firll outfet, neither diminilhed his ardour for medi¬
cal purfuits, nor detraiffed from his reputation either
at home or abroad. And foon after he was nominated
a profeffor in the univerfity of Gottingen, by King
George II. The dudes of this important office he dif-
charged, with no lefs honour to himfelf than advantage
to the public, for the fpace of 17 years ; and it afforded
him an ample field for the exertion of thofe great talents
which he poiTeffed. Extenfively acquainted with the
lentiments of others refpefting the economy of the
human body, ftruck with the diverfity of opinions ”
which they held, and lenfible that the only means of
inveftigating ti-uth was by careful and candid experi¬
ment, he undertook the arduous talk of exploring the
phenomena of human nature from the original fource.
In thefe purfuits he was no lefs indullrious than fuccefs-
ia]f and there was hardly any funflion of th,e body on
which his experiments did not refledl either a new or a
llronger light. Nor was it long neceffary for him, in
this arduous undertaking, to labour alone. The ex¬
ample of the preceptor infpired his pupils with the fpi-
rit of indullrious exertion. Zinn, Zimmerman, Cal-
dani, and many others, animated by a generous emu¬
lation, laboured with indefatigable indullry to profe¬
cute and to perfedl the difeoveries of their great ma¬
iler. And the mutual exertion of the teacher and his
Undents, not only tended to forward the progrefs of
medical fcience, but placed the philofophy of ''the
human body on a more fure, and an almoll entirely nev\%
bafis. But the labours of Dr Haller, during his refi-
dence at Gottingen, were by no means, confined to any
one department of fcience. He was not more anxious
to be an improver himfelf, than to inlligate others to
fimilar purfuits. To him, the Anatomical Theatre,
the School of Midwifery, the Chirurgical Society, and
the Royal Academy of Sciences at Gottingen, owe
their origin. Such dillinguilhed merit could not fail
to meet with a fuitable rewTard from the fovereign un¬
der wffiofe protection he then taught. The king of
Great Britain not only honoured him with every mark
of attention which he himfelf could bellow, but pro¬
cured him alfo letters of nobility from the emperor.
On the death of Dillenius, he had an offer of the pro-
fefforlhip of botany at Oxford j the Hates of Holland
invited him to the chair of the younger Albinus; the
king of Pruffia wras anxious that he ihould be the fuc-
ceffor of Maupertuis at Berlin. Marlhal Keith wrote
to him in the name of his fovereign, offering him the
chancellorlhip of the univerfity of Halle, vacant by the
death of the celebrated Wolff. Count Orlow invited
him to Ruffia, in the name of his miltrefs the emprefs,
oftering him a diilinguilhed place at St Peterfburgh.
The king of Swecjen conferred on him an unfolicited
honour, by railing him to the rank of knighthood of
the order of the polar liar ; and the emperor of Ger¬
many did him the honour of a perfonal vifit; during
which he thought it no degradation of his charafter
to pafs fome time with him in the moll familiar con-
verfation.
Thus honoured by fovereigns, revered by men of
literature, and elleemed by all Europe, he had it in
his power to have held the highell rank in the republic
of letters. Yet, declining all the tempting offers
which wrere made to him, he continued at Gottingen,
anxioully endeavouring to extend the riling fame or
that medical fchool. But after 17 years relidence in
that univerfity, an ill Hate of health rendering him lefs
fit for the duties of the important office which he held,
he folicited and obtained permiffion from the regency
of Hanover to return to his native city of Bern. His
fellow-citizens, who might at firlt have fixed him
among themfelves, with no lefs honour than advantage
to their city, were now as fenlible as others of his fu-
perior merit. A penfion was fettled upon him for life,
and he was nominated at different times to fill the molt
important offices in the Hate. Thefe occupations, how¬
ever, did not diminilh his ardour for ufeful improve¬
ments. He was the firll prefident, as well as the
greatell promoter, of the Oeconomical Society at Bern ;
and he may be confidered as the father and founder of
the Orphan Hofpital of that city. Declining health,
however, rellrained his exertions in the more adlivo
feenes
Haller.
HAL
[ 230
Halleris, fcenes of life, p.nd for many yean; he was confined en-
Ilal’ey. ^ tjrejy to own houfe. Even this, however, could
not put a period to his utility : for, with indefatigable
induftry, he continued his favourite employment of wri¬
ting till within a few days of his death •, which hap¬
pened in the 70th year of his age, on the I 2th of De¬
cember 1777’ His Elcmenta Phyjtologitc and Bibliotheca
Medicijur, will afford, to lateft poftcrity, undeniable
proofs of his indefatigable induftry, penetrating genius,
and folid judgement. But he was not more diftmguiftied
as a philofopher than beloved as a man} and he was
not more eminent for his improvement in every depart¬
ment of medical icience, than for his piety to God, and
■ benevolence to all mankind.
HALLERIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
■didynamia clafsand in tl)6 natural method rank¬
ing under the 40th order, Pccjonatec. See BoiANY
Index.
HALLEY, Dr Edmund, an eminent aftronomer,
rvas the only fon of a loap-boiler in London, and was
born in 1656. He firft applied himfelf to the ftudy of
the languages and fciences, but at length gave himfelf
-up wholly to that of aftronomy. In 1676 he went to
the illand of St Helena to complete the catalogue of
fixed ftars, by the addition of thofe which lie near the
fouth pole \ and having delineated a planifphere in
which he laid them all down in their exaa places, he
returned to England in 1678. In the year 1680 he
took what is called the <rrand tour, accompanied by his
friend the celebrated Mr Nelfon. In the midway be¬
tween Calais and Paris, Mr Halley had a fight of a re-
jnarkable comet, as it then appeared a fecond time that
year, in its return from the fun. He had the Novem¬
ber before feen it in its defcent ^ and now liaftened to
complete his obfervations upon it, in viewing it from
the roval obfervatory of France. His defign in this
part of his tour was, to fettle a friendly correfpond-
ence between the two royal aftronomers of Greenwich
and Paris •, and in the mean time _ to improve himfelf
under fo great a matter as Caffini. biom ^thence he
went to Italy, where he fpent great part of the year
1681 ; but.his affairs calling him home, he returned to
■England. In 1683, he publifhed his Theory of the va¬
riation of the magnetical compafs ; in which he fuppofes
the whole globe of the earth to be a great magnet, with
four magnetical poles, or points of attraction: but af¬
terwards thinking that this theory was liable to great
exceptions, he procured an application to be made to
King William, who appointed him commander of the
Paramour pink, with orders to feek by obfervations
the difcovery of the rule of variations, and to lay down
the longitudes and latitudes of his majefty’s fettlements
in America.—He fet out on this attempt on the 24th
of November 1698: but having croffed the line, his
men grew fickly ; and his lieutenant mutinying, he re¬
turned home in June 1699. Having got the lieutenant
tried and cafhiered, he fet fail a fecond time m Sep¬
tember following, with the fame (hip, and another of
lefs bulk, of which he had alfo the command. He now
traverfed the vaft Atlantic ocean from one hemifphere
to the other, as far as the ice would permit him to
go ; and having made his obfervations at St Plelena,
Brazil, Cape Verd, Barbadoes, the Madeiras, the Ca¬
naries, the coaft of Barbary, and many other latitudes,
arrived in September 1700 } apd the next yearpubhih-
] HAL
ed a general chart, fliowing at one view the variation
of the compafs in all thofe places. Captain Halley, as
he was now called, had been at home little more than
half a year, when he was fent by the king to oblerve
the courfe of the tides, with the longitude and latitude
of the principal head-lands in the Rritifti channel:
which having executed with his 'ufual expedition and
accuracy, he publithed a large map of the Britifti chan¬
nel. Soon after, the emperor of Germany refolving to
make a convenient harbour for (hipping in the Adria¬
tic, Captain Halley was fent by Queen Anne to view
the two ports on the coaft of Dalmatia. He embarked
on the 22d of November 1702? palled over to Hol¬
land ; and going through Germany to Vienna, he pro¬
ceeded to Iftria : but the Dutch oppofing the defign,
it w!as laid alide } yet the emperor made him a prelect
of a rich diamond-ring from his finger, and honoured
him with a letter of recommendation, written with his
own hand, to Queen Anne. Prefent'y after Ins return,
he was fent again on the fame bufinefs j when patting
through Hanover, he iupped wuth King George I. then
eledloral prince, and his fitter the queen of Pruflia. On
his arrival at Vienna, he was the fame evening prefent-
ed to the emperor, who fent his chief engineer to at¬
tend him to Iftria, where they repaired and added new
fortifications to thofe of Triefte. Mr Halley returned
to England in 1703 ; and the fame year was made pro-
feffor of geometry in the univerfity of Oxford, in the
room of Dr Wallis, and had the degree of dodlor of
laws conferred on him by that univerfity. He is laid
to have loft the profefforlhip of aftronomy in that
becaufe he would not profefs his belief of the Cbnftian
religion. He was fcarcely fettled at Oxford, when he
began to tranllate into Latin from the Arabic, Slpollo-
mus de feBione rationis ; and to reftore the tw-o books
De feciione fpatii of the fame author, which are loft, from
the account given of them by Pappus } and he publifii-
ed the ivhole work in 1706. Afterwards he had a (hare
in preparing for the prels Apollonius^ Conics ", and
ventured to fupply the whole eighth book, the original
of which is alfo loft. He likewife added Serenus on
the fedfion of the cylinder and cone, printed from the
original Greek, with a Latin tranflation, and publifh-
ed the whole in folio. In 1713, he was made fecre-
tary of the Royal Society 5 in 1720, he w>as appoint¬
ed the king’s aftronomer at the royal obfervatory at
Greenwich, in the room of Mr Flamftead *, and, in
1729, was chofen as a foreign member of the Acade¬
my of Sciences at Paris. He died at Greenwich in
J742. His principal works are, 1. CatalogusJle/larum
aujlrahum. 2. labulce ajironomicce. 3• abridge¬
ment of the aftronomy of comets, &c. We are alio in¬
debted to him for the publication of feveral of the works
of the great Sir Ifaac Newton, who had a particular
friendihip for him, and to whom he frequently commu¬
nicated his difcoveries.
HjiLEr's Quadrant. See Quadrant.
HALLIARDS, the ropes or tackles ufually em¬
ployed to hoift or lower any fail upon its refpeaive maft
or ftay. See Jears. . . .
HALMOTE, or Halimote, is the lame with
what is now called a court-baron, the word implying a
meeting of the tenants of the fame hall or manor. The
name is ftill retained at Lufton, and other places 1*
Herefordihire. See Mote. UALMSTADT.
Halley
i!
Halmoli*
»
HAL [ 231 ] HA M
Ha!m(lacit HALMSTADT. See Helmstadt.
Halton HALO, or Corona, in Natural Hi/lory, a colour-
i ed circle appearing round the body of the fun, moon, or
any of the large liars. See Corona.
HALORAGUS, a genus of plants belonging to the
oclandria clafs. See Botany Index.
HALSTEAD, a town of Elfex in England, feated
on the river Coin, 45 miles from London. The town
conlifts of about 600 houfes, and the inhabitants are
about 4000 in number. Here is a good manufactory
of fays, bays, callimancoes, &.c. and its market is noted
for corn.
HALT, in War, a paufe or flop in the march of a
military body.—Some derive the word from the Latin
ha/itus, “ breath •, it being a frequent occafion of halt¬
ing to take breath : others from a/to, becaufe in halt¬
ing they railed their pikes on end, &c.
HALTER, in the manege, a head-flail for a horfe,
of Hungary leather, mounted with one, and fometimes
two llraps, with a fecond throat-band, if the- horfe is
apt to unhalter himfelf.
Halter-CoJI, is an excoriation of the paftern, occa-
fioned by the halter’s being entangled about the foot,
upon the horfe’s endeavouring to rub his neck with his
hinder feet. For the cure of this, anoint the place,
morning and evening, with equal quantities of linfeed
oil and brandy, well mixed.
EIALTER.ES, or PoiSERS, in Entomology, two
fmall round bodies, fupported on ftalks and attached to
the infedl under the wings of dipterous flies, as in the ti-
pula genus. They are fuppofed by fome naturalifts to
be the rudiments of another pair of wings. See En¬
tomology.
HALTERISTiE,, in antiquity, a kind of players
at difcus *, denominated from a peculiar kind of difcus,
called by the Greeks iArug, and by the Latins /za/ter.
See Discus.
Some take the difcus to have been a leaden weight
or ball which the vaulters bore in their hands, to fe-
cure and keep themfelves the more Heady in their leap¬
ing. Others will have the halter to be a lump or mafs
of lead or Hone, with an hole or handle fixed to it, by
which it might be carried; and that the haiteriftm were
thofe who exercifed themfelves in removing thefe mafles
from place to place.
Hier. Mercurialis, in his treatife De arte gymnaflica,
1. ii. c. 12. diftinguiihes two kinds of halteriilae ; for
though there was but one halter, there were two ways
ot applying it. The one was to throw or pitch it in a
certain manner 5 the other only to hold it out at arm’s-
end, and in this pollure to give themfelves divers mo¬
tions, Twinging the hand backwards and forwards, ac¬
cording^ to the engraven figures thereof given us by
Alercu.iahs.—The halter wTas of a cylindrical figure,
finaller in the middle where it was held, by one diame¬
ter, than at the two ends. It was above a foot long, and
there was one for each hand: it was either of iron. Hone
or lead. . ’
^Galen, £)e tuend. valetud. lib. i. v. and vi. fpeaks of
this exercife, and fhows of what ule it is in purging
tne body of peccant humours j making it equivalent both
to purgation and phlebotomy.
HAL'EON, or Haulton, i. e. High Town, a
town of Chelhire, 186 miles from London. It Hands
on a hill, where a callle was built anno 1071, and is a
member of the duchy of Lancaller j which maintains aHaltwhiftle
large jurifdidiion in the county round it, by the name H
of Halton-Fee, or the honour of Halton, having a court , H^m' .
of record, prifon, &c. within themfelves. About Mi¬
chaelmas every year, the king’s officers of the duchy
keep a law-day at the caflle, which dill remains a flate-
ly building. Once a fortnight a court is kept here, to
determine all matters within their jurifdidlion ; but fe¬
lons and thieves are carried to the felfions at Chefler,
to receive their fentence. By the late inland navigation,
it has communication with the rivers Merfey, Dee,
Ribble, Oufe, Trent, Darwent, Severn, Humber,
Ihames, Avon, &c. which navigation, including its
windings, extends above 500 miles, in the counties of
Lincoln, Nottingham, York, Lancafler, Weitmore-
land, Stafford, Warwick, Leicefler, Oxford, Worcef-
ter, &c.
HAL I WHISTLE, a town of Northumberland in
England, fituated in E. Long. 2. o. N, Lat. 5 9. o.
HALYMOTE, properly fignifies a holy or ecclefi-
afiical court. See Halmote.
There is a court held in London by this name be¬
fore the lord mayor and flieriffs, for regulating the ba¬
kers. It was anciently held on Sunday next before St
Thomas’s day, and for this reafou called the Halymote,
or Holy-court.
HALYS, in Ancient Geography, the nobleH river
of the Hither Afia, through which it had a long courfe,
was the boundary of Croefus’s kingdom to the eaff.
Running down from the foot of Mount Taurus, through
Cataonia, and Cappadocia, it divided almoll the whole
of the Lower Afia, from the fea of Cyprus down to
the Euxine, according to Herodotus j wEo feems to
extends its courfe too far. According to Strabo, him¬
felf a Cappadocian, it had its fprings in the Great Cap¬
padocia. _ It feparated Paphlagonia from Cappadocia ;
and received its name <*7ra ray ^Aa?, from fait, becaufe
its waters were of a fait and bitter taffe, from the na¬
ture of the foil over which they flowed. It is famous
for the defeat of Croefus king of Lydia, who was milled ~
by the ambiguous word of this oracle :
X^airaj «Ayp ^syasAjtv as^jjv 5<asAim/.
If Crcefus paffes over the Halys he fliall deffroy a i
great empire.
That empire was his own. See Croesus and Lydia.
HALYWERCIOLK, in old writers, were perfons
who enjoyed land, by.the pious fervice of repairing
fome church, or defending a fepulchre.
'This word alfo fignified fuch perfons in the diocefe
of Durham as held their lands to defend the corpfe of
St Cuthoert, and who from thence claimed the privi¬
lege of not being forced to go out of the bifliopric.
HAM, or Cham, in Ancient Geography, the coun¬
try of the Zuzims (Gen. xiv. 5.), the fituation whereof
is not known.
Ham, the youngeff fon of Noah. He was the fa¬
ther of Cufli, Mizraim, Phut, and Canaan j each
whereof had the feveral countries peopled by them,
With refpea to Ham, it is believed that he had all
Africa for his inheritance, and that he peopled it with
his children. .As for himfelf, it . is thought by foms
that he dwelt in. Egypt 5 but M. Bafnage is rather of
opinion, that neither Ham nor Mizraim ever were in
v . Egyp a ' -
Hum
HAM [ 232 ]
Egypt, but that their pofterity fettled in this country, clofed under
II and called it by the name of their anceftors. And as
“T-to Ham’s being worfliipped as a god, and called Jupi-
j i ter Hammon, he thinks people may have been led into
this mi Hake by the limilitude of names •, and that Ju¬
piter Hammon was the fun, to wnich div:ne honours
have been paid at all times in Egypt. However that
may be, Africa is called the land of Elam, in feveral
places of the pfalms, (Pial. Ixxvii. 51- civ’ cv" 2 2.)
In Plutarch, Egypt is called Chernia ; and there are
fome footfteps of the name of llatn or Cham obferved
in Pfochemmis, Plitta-chemmis, which are cantons of
Egypt.
Ham, a Saxon word ufed for “ a place oi dwell-
' ing a village or town : hence the termination of
fome of our towns, Nottingham, Buckingham, &c. Al-
fo a home clofe, or little narrow meadow, is called a
ham.
Ham, is alfo a part of the leg of an animal ; being
the inner or hind part of the knee, or the ply or angle
in which the leg and thigh, when bent, incline to each
other. _
Ham, in Commerce, &c. is ufed for a leg or thigh
of pork, dried, feafoned, and prepared, to make it
keep, and to give it a brilk agreeable flavour.
Weftphalia hams, which are fo highly efteemed, are
prepared by falting them with faltpetre, piefling them in
a prels eight or ten days, then lleeping them in juniper-
water, and drying them in the fmoke of juniper-wood.
A ham may be falted m imitation of thofe of W eft-
phalia, by fprinkling a ham of young pork with fait
for one day, in order to fetch out the blood $ then
wiping it dry, and rubbing it with a mixture of a pound
of brown fugar, a quarter of a pound of faltpetie, half
a pint of bay fait, and three pints of common fait,
well ftirred together in an iron pan over the fire till
they are moderately hot: let it lie three weeks in this
falting, and be frequently turned, and then dry it in a
chimney.
Ham, a city of Germany, in the circle of Weitpha-
lia, capital of the county of Mark, and fubjeft to the
king of Pruffia. It is feated on the river Lippe, on
the frontiers of Munfter. I he adjacent country a-
bounds in corn, hemp, and flax •, and the
get a good deal of money by travellers,
merly a Hanfe-town, but it is now reduced.
7. 50. N. Lat. 51. 36.
Ham, a town of Picardy, in France, feated on the
river Somme, among marthes. It has three parilhes,
and there is here a round tower whofe walls are 36
feet thick. It was taken by the Spaniards in 1557,
but reftored by treaty. E. Long. 3. 6. N. Lat. 49.
Ham, a village in Surry, about a mile from Kingf-
ton, near which are the Ham Walks, fo much celebra¬
ted by our admirable poet Thomfon and others.
Ham, Wejl, a village in Effex, where are the re-
mains of an opulent abbey, founded jn the year 1135.
It is feated on the river Lea, four miles eaft of Lon¬
don.
HAM AD AN. See Amadan.
HAMABRYADES (formed oi a,u.ct, together, and
%p^, dryad, of oak), in antiquity, certain fabu¬
lous deities revered among the ancient heathens, and
believed to prefide over woods and forefts, and to bein-
3
inhabitants
It was for-
E. Long.
H A M
the bark of oaks. The hamadryades
were fuppoled to live and die with the trees they Were
attached to •, as is obferved by Servius on Virgil,
Eclog. x. ver. 62. after Mnefimachus, the fcholiaft of
A-poilonius, &c. who mentions other traditions relating
thereto.
The poets, however, frequently confound the Ha¬
madryads with the Naiads, Napreae, and rural nymphs
in general ; witnefs Catullus, Carm. Ixviii. ver. 23.
Ovid, Eaft. iv. 229. Met. i. ver. 695. xiv. ver. 628.
Propertius, Eleg. xx. 32. Virg. Eel. x. ver. 64. Georg,
iv. ver. 382, 383. Feflus calls them Shierquetulamz,
as being iffued or fprung from oaks. An ancient poet,
Pherenicus, in Athenaeus, lib. iii. calls the vine, fig-
tree, and other fruit-trees, hamadryades, from the name
of their mother the oak.
This common idea among the ancients, of nymphs
or intelleftual beings annexed to trees, will account for
their worfhipping of trees *, as we find they did, not
only from their poets but tneir hiitorians. Livy fpeaks
of an ambaffador’s addreiTing himfelf to an old oak, as
to an intelligent perfon and a divinity, lib. iii. § 25.
HAMAH, a town of Turkey in Afia, in Syria, fi-
tuated in E. Long. 34. 55. N. Lat. 36. 15. By lome
travellers it is corruptly called hlmarland Amant.^ Some,
miflake it for the ancient Apamea j but this is now
called Afamiyah, and is fituated a day’s journey from
Hamah. Hamah is fituated among hills, and has a
caftle feated on a hill. It has all along been a confi-.
derable place, and in the century had princes
of its own. It is very large, and being feated on the
afeent of a hill, the houfes rife above one another, and
make a fine appearance. It is, however, like moil
other towns under the I urkiih government, going to
decay. IVIany of the houfes are half ruined but
thofe which are ftill Handing, as well as the mofques
and cafile, have their walls built of black and white
Hones, difpofed in fuch a manner as to form various fi¬
gures. The river Affi, the ancient Orontes, runs by
the fide of the caftle, and fills the ditches round it,
which are cut very deep into the rock. I his river,
leaving the caftle, paffes through the town from iouth
to north, and has a bridge over it, though it is pretty
broad. In its courfe through the town it turns 18
great wheels, called by the natives faki, which raife
great quantities of water to a confiderable heignt, and
throw it into canals fupported by arches, by which
means it is conveyed into the gardens and fountains.
There are fome pretty good bazars or market-places
in Hamah, w'here there is a' trade lor linen, which is
manufaAured there, and fent to Eripoli to be exported
into Europe.
HAMAMELES, witch-hazel ; a genus of plants
belonging to the tetrandria clafs •, and in the natural
method ranking wdth thofe of which the order is douot-
ful. See Botany Index. _ ' .
HAM AM Leef, a town 1 z miles eaft irom I unis,
noted for its hot baths, which are much reforted to by
the Tunifeans, and are efficacious in rheumatifm and
many other complaints. Here the bey has a very fine
bath, which he frequently permits the confuls and other
perfons of diftinaion to ufe. ....
HAMATH, a city of Syria, capital of a province
of the fame name, lying upon the Orontes. “ The
entering into Hamath,” which is frequently fpoken or
0 m
Hamahr
II
Hamath.
HAM [ 233 ] HA M
Hamnxobii, m Scripture, (.Tofh. xiii. 5. Judges iii. 3. 2 Kino's xiv.
Ilampikn. anj 2 Chr. vii. 8.) is the narrow pais leading from
the land of Canaan through the valley which lies be¬
tween Libanus and Antilibanus. This entrance into
Hamath is iet down as the northern boundary of the
land of Canaan, in oppofition to the fouthern limits,
the Nile or river of Egypt. Jofephus, and St Jerome
after him, believed Hamath to be Epiphania. But
J heodoret and many other good geographers maintain
it to be Emefa in Syria. Joihua (xix. 35.) affigns the
city of Hamath to the tribe of Naphtali. Toi king of
-Hamath cultivated a good underftanding with David,
( 2 Sam. viii. 9.) This city xvas taken by the kings of
Judah, and retaken from the Syrians by Jeroboam the
fecond, (2 Kings xiv. 28.) The kings of Affyria
made themfelves mailers of it upon the declenfion of
the kingdom of Ifrael, and tranfplanted the inhabitants
of Hamath into Samaria, (2 Kings xvii. 24. and xviii.
34. &c.)
HAMAXOBII, Ha maxobians, in the ancient
geography, a people who had no houfes, but lived in
carriages. The word is formed from e/^ux^x, a carriage
or chariot, and life.
d he Hamaxobu, called alfo Hamaxobitie, were an
ancient people of Sarmatia Europwa, inhabiting the
fouthern part of Mufcovy, who inllead of houfes had a
fort of tents made of leather, and fixed on carriages to
be ready for drifting and travel.
HAMBDEN, John, a celebrated patriot, defcend-
ed of the ancient family of Hambden in Buckingham-
fhire, was born iir 1594. From the univerflty he went
to the inns of court, where he made coniiderable pro-
greis in the ftudy of the law. He was chofen to ferve
in the parliament which began at Weftminfter Feb. 3.
1626 *, and ferved in all the fucceeding parliaments in
tire reign of Charles I. In 1636 he became universal¬
ly known, by nis refufal to pay Ihip-money, as being
an illegal tax 5 upon which he was profecuted. His
conducfl throughout this tranfa&ion gained him a great
reputation. When the long parliament began, the eyes
of all men were fixed on him as their pater patr'ue. On
January 3. 1642, the king ordered articles of high
treafon and other mifderneanours to be prepared againfl
Lord Kimbolton, Mr Hambden, and four other mem-
bers of the houfe of commons, and went to that houfe
to feize them : but they had retired. Mr Hamb¬
den afterwards made a fpeech in the houfe to clear him-
wil of lire charge laid againft him. In the beginning
of the wars he commanded a regiment of foot, and did
good fervice to the parliament at the battle of Edge-
fiill. He received a mortal wound in an engagement
with Prince Pvupert, in Chalgrave-field in Oxfordfhire,
and died in 1643^ He is fa id to have poffeffed the So-
cratic art in a high degree, of interrogating, and under
the notion of doubts, infinuating obje&ions, fo that he
mfufed his own opinions into thofe from whom he pre¬
tended to learn and receive them. He was, fay his
panegyrifts, a very wife man and of great partsand
iaH^e greateft talents for popularity that were ever
pouefled by any man : He was mailer over all his ap¬
petites and patnons, and had thereby a very great
alcendant over other men’s : He was of an induitry and
vigilance never to be tired out, of parts not to be im-
poled upon by the mod fubtile, and of courage equal
**o his belt parts. 5
Vol. X. Part I,
HAMBURG, an imperial city of Germany, feated Hamburg,
in E. Long. 9. 55, N. Lat. 93. 34. Its name is de- ”v ^
rived from the Old German wrord Hamme, fignifying a
wood, and Burg, a cadle j and dands on the north fide
of the river Elbe. This river is not lefs than four
miles broad oppofite the city. It forms two fpacious
harbours, and likewife runs through mod part of it
in canals. It flows above Hamburg many miles ; but
when the tide is accompanied with north-wed winds,
a great deal of damage is done by the inundations oc-
cafioned thereby. There are a great many bridges
over the canals, which are moftly on a level with the
dreets, and fome of them have houfes on both fides.
In the year 833, Ludovicus Pius erefted Hamburg
firlt into a bidiopric, and afterwards into an archbi-
fhopric 5 and Adolphus III. duke of Saxony, among
many other great privileges, granted it the right of
filhi ng'in the Elbe, eight miles above and below the
city. I he kings of Denmark, fince they have luc-
ceecled to the counts of Holbein, have continually
claimed the fovereignty of this place, and often com¬
pelled the citizens to pay large fums to purchafe the
confirmation of their liberties. Nay, it has more than
once paid homage to the king of Denmark ; who, not-
withdanding, keeps a minider here with credentials,
which is a tort of acknowledgment of its independency
and fovereignty. Though "Hamburg has been con-
dantly lurmnoned to the diet of the empire ever fince
the year 1618, when it was declared a free imperial
city by a decree of the aulic council •, yet it waves
this privilege, in order to keep fair with Denmark.
By their fituation among a number of poor princes, the
Hamburghers are continually expofed to their rapa-
cioufnefs, efpecially that of the Danes, who have ex¬
torted vad iums from them. The city is very popu¬
lous in.proportion to its bulk; for though one may
walk with eafe round the ramparts in two hours, yet
it contains, exclufive of Jews, at lead too,000 inhabi¬
tants. Here are a great many charitable foundations,
the regulations of which are greatly admired by fo¬
reigners. All perfons found begging in the dreets are
committed to the houfe of corre£Kon to hard labour,
luch as the rafping of Brazil and other kinds of wood!
1 here is an hofpital into which unmarried women
may be admitted for a fmall fum, and comfortably
maintained during the refidue of their lives. The
number of hofpitals in this place is greater in propor¬
tion 30 its bignefs than in any other Protedant city
in ~ Europe. The revenue of the orphan-houfe alone
is faid to amount to between 50 and 6o,oool. There
is a large fumptuous hofpital for receiving poor tra¬
vellers that fall fick. In one of their work-houfes or
houfes of correftion, thofe who have not performed
their talk are hoided up in a baiket over the table in
the common hall while the red are at dinner, that
they may be tantalized with the fight and imell of
what they cannot tade. The edablilhed religion of
Hamburg is Lutheranifm ; as for the Calvinilts and
the Roman Catholics, they go to the ambaffadors cha¬
pels to celebrate their divine fervice and worlhip.
They have here what they call a private confejion,
previous to the holy communion, which differs in no¬
thing from that of the church of England, and the
abfolution is the fame, only the poored of the people
here are forced to give a fee to the prieds on thefe oc-
G g cafions.
HAM ' [ 234 ] HAM
Hamburg, canons. Their churches, which arc ancient large fa-
 ' brics, are open thoroughfares, and in fome of them
there are bookfellers (hops. The pulpit of St Cathe¬
rine’s is of marble, curioully carved and adorned with
figures and other ornaments of gold ; and its organ,
reckoned one of the belt in Europe, has 6000 pipes.
The cathedral is very ancient, and its tower leans as if
juft going to fall j yet, on account of the angularity
and beauty of its architecture, the danger attending it
has been hitherto overlooked. There is Itill a dean and
chapter belonging to this church, though fecularized }
from whole court there lies no appeal, but to the im¬
perial chamber at Wetzlar. The chapter conlilts of a
provolt, dean, 13 canons, 8 minor canons, and 30 t’2"
col'll inzmunes, bendes others who are under the juiif-
diCtion of the city. The cathedral, wnth the chapter,
and a number of houfes belonging to them, are under
the immediate protection of his Britannic majelty as
duke of Bremen, who difpofes of the prebends that fall
in fix months of the year, not fucceffiyely, but alter¬
nately with the chapter. Hamburg is almoit of a
ci&ular form, and fix miles in compafs.. It has fix
gates, and three entrances by water, viz. two from
the Elbe and one from the Aliter, being divided into
the old and new, which are ftrongly fortified tvith
moats, ramparts, baltions, and outworks. The ram¬
parts are very lofty and planted with trees } and of
fuch a breadth, that feveral carriages may go abreaft.
In the new town, towards Altena, are feveral ftreets
t of mean houfes inhabited by Jews. Ihrough that en¬
trance from the Elbe, called the lower Baum, pafs all
(hips going to or coming from fea. Every morning,
a,t the opening of it, is feen a multitude of boats and
fmall barks, whofe cargoes confilt of milk, fruits, and
till kinds of provifions, rulhing in at the fame time.
There are fome fine chimes herep efpecially thofe of
St Nicholas, which play every morning early, at one
o’clock in the afternoon, and on all feftivals and fo-
lemnities. The other public ftruClures in this city,
befides the churches, make no great appearance : how¬
ever, the yard, arfenal, and twro armories, are well
worth feeing. There are feveral convents or. cloifters
^ill remaining j which having been fecularized, are
now poffeffed by the Lutherans. One of them holds its
lands by this tenure, “ That they offer a glafs of wine
to every malefaftor who is carried by it for execution.
There is a fine exchange, though inferior to that
of London. But it was found that the merchants
could not be accommodated with every neceffary con¬
venience in tranfafting their bufinefs. To fupply
thefe defers a new Exchange Hall has been, built.
This ftrudlure is fituated near the exchange, in the
ffreet called Bolinenjlrajfe* The facade is in a ftyle of
great elegance, and the entrance has three arcades fup-
ported by pillars of the Doric order. The Heps run
the whole breadth of the arcades, the intervals between
which are ornamented with genii holding garlands of
fruits and flowers. The doors leading to the ground
floor of the building are on the right and left of the
fteps. The porter’s lodge is on the right, and the door
leading to the ball and concert room in the fecond rto-
ry, is on the left. The balcony is vaulted, and mea-
fures 22 feet in diameter. The facade is terminated by
the third or attic ftory, wdiich is provided with a row
«*f Doric pilafters, above which there is a gediment.
The entrance into the hall is behind the central ar-^Hamburg,
cade, which is ornamented with a row of Angle llatues, *
and meafures 84 feet by 42. It is appropriated to the
meeting of merchants and men of bufinefs. There are
feveral other faloons or apartments, fuch as the Egyp¬
tian faloon furrounded with columns of granite, be¬
tween which are landfcapes in the manner of a panora¬
ma ; and the underwriters have two rooms adjoining to
this. The reading-room is furnifhed with all kinds of
newfpapers and periodical works from every quarter of
the globe. The library is to contain all books necef¬
fary for commerce, in every language, to collect wduch
mull be the work of time. 1 here is an anti-room with
embellilhments to the left of the great ftaircafe.
The Hall of Arts is well adapted to. the meetings, of
artifts, which ought never to be wanting in eflablilh-
ments of fuch a nature. Here are five excellent pic¬
tures reprefenting poetry, painting, fculpture, architec¬
ture, and mufic, together with the portraits of many
celebrated men wrho have diftinguilhed themfelves in the
arts. The ball and concert room meafures 64 feet by 42,
and the roof is 30 feet high. I he gallery is fupported
by 18 pillars or columns of the Compofite order, and
the accefs to it is by the great Itaircafe. J he ceiling
reprefents the firmament ftudded with liars, and Aurora
difperfing the (hades of night. I here is alfo an Ara¬
bic, Turkilh, and Grecian faloon, which the lubfcribers
are at liberty to ufe as they pleale. I he .two fpacious
dining rooms may be thrown into one, when neceflity
requires it. They are ornamented with baffo relievos
in plaller of Paris.
The faloon of the mufes and the mufical faloon are
on the third floor. A large room, in form of a ro¬
tunda, receives light from above, and may be confider-
ed as an academy of the imitative arts. A complete
apparatus for expeditious printing alfo belongs to this
magnificent fabric, under the dire£tion of Mr Conrad
Muller, an eminent printer in Hamburg, whofe atten¬
tion will be chiefly diredled to the publilhing of books
on mercantile fubje£ls. I he whole edifice is finilhed
in a flyle of great elegance and talte, and the manage¬
ment given to one who is fully qualified for the office.
It is the cuftom of Hamburg, that a citizen, when
he dies, mult leave the tenth of his eftate to the. city j-
and foreigners, not naturalized, mull pay a certain fum
annually for liberty to trade. The common carts here
are only a long pulley laid upon an axle-tree between
two wheels, and drawm not by horfes, but by men, of
whom a dozen or more are fometimes linked to thefe
machines, with flings acrofs their (boulders. ^ Such of
the fenators, principal elders, divines, regular phyfi-
cians, and graduates in lawT, as aflift at funerals, have'
a fee. The hangman’s houfe is the common prifon for
all malefactors •, on whom fentence is always paffed on
Friday, and on Monday they are executed. As, by
their laws, no criminal is puniftiable unlefs he plead
guilty, thev have five different kinds of torture to ex¬
tort fuch confeflion. The government of this city is
lodged in the fen ate and three colleges of burghers.
The former is vefted with almoft every aa of fovereign-
ty, except that of laying taxes, and managing the fi¬
nances, which are the prerogatives of tne latter. The
magiftracy is compofed of four burgomafters, four lyn-
dics, and 24 aldermen, of whom fome are lawyers and
fome merchants.. Any perfon ele&ed into the magi¬
ftracy,
HAM f 23=; ] HAM
Hamburg, ftracy, and declining the office, muft depart the place.
1 v No burgher is admitted into any of the colleges, unlefs
he dwells in a houfe of his own within the city, and is
pofleffed of 1000 rixdollars in fpecie, over and above
the fum for which the houfe may be mortgaged ; or
2000 in moveable goods, within the jurifdidlion of the
fame. For the adminiftration of juftice, here are feve-
ral inferior courts, from which an appeal lies to the
Obergericht, or high court, and from that to the aulic
council and other imperial colleges. For naval caufes
here is a court of admiralty, which, jointly with the
city-treafuty, is alfo charged with the care of the navi¬
gation of the Elbe, from the city to the river’s mouth.
In confequence of this, 100 large buoys, fome white,
others black, are kept conftantly floating in the river
in fummer: but in winter, inllead of fome of them,
there are machines, like thofe called ice-beacons, to
point out the flioals and flats. Subordinate to the ad¬
miralty is a company of pilots; and at the mouth of
the Elbe is, or at leafl: ought to be, a vefiel always
riding, with pilots ready to put on board the ffiips. At
the mouth of the river alfo is a good harbour, called
Cuxhaven, belonging to Hamburg j a light-houfe $ and
feveral beacons, fome of them very large. For defray¬
ing the expence of thefe, certain tolls and duties were
formerly granted by the emperors to the city. Befides
the Elbe, there is a canal by which a communication is
opened with the Trave, and thereby with Lubeck and
the Baltic, without the hazard, trouble, and expence,
of going about by the Sound. The trade of Hamburg
is exceeding great, in exporting all the commodities
and manufadtures of the feveral cities and ftates of
Germany, and fupplying them -with whatever they
want from abroad. Its exports confifl: of linens of fe¬
veral forts and countries j as lawns, diapers, Ofna-
burgs, dowlas, &c. linen-yarn, tin-plates, iron, brafs,
and fteel-ware, clap-board, pipe-ftaves, wainfcoat-boards,
oak-plank, and timber, kid-lkins, corn, beer in great
quantities, with flax, honey, wax, anifeed, linfeed,
drugs, wine, tobacco, and metals. Its principal im¬
ports are the woollen manufadlures and other goods of
Great Britain, to the amount of feveral hundred thou-
fand pounds a-year ; they have alfo a great trade with
Spain, Portugal, and Italy, which is carried on moflly
in Englilh bottoms, on account of their Mediterranean
palTes. Their whale-fiffiery is alfo very confiderable,
50 or 60 (hips being generally fent out every year in
this trade. Add to thefe a variety of manufadtures,
which are performed here with great fuccefs; the chief
of which are, fugar-baking, calico-printing, the wea¬
ving of damalks, brocades, velvets, and other rich filks.
The inland trade of Hamburg is fuperior to that of
any in Europe, unlefs perhaps tve (hould except that
of Amfterdam and London. There is a paper publifli-
ed here at dated times called the Preifcourant, fpecify-
mg the courfe of exchange, with the price which every
commodity and merchandife bore la ft upon the ex¬
change. There is alfo a board of trade, eredted on
purpofe for the advancing every projedt for the im¬
provement of commerce. Another great advantage to
the merchants is, the bank eftabliffied in 1619, which
has a flourifhing credit. To fupply the poor with
corn at a low price, here are public granaries, in which
great quantities of grain are laid up. By charters from
feycral emperors, the Hamburghers have a right of
coinage, which they adtually exercife. The Englilh fhunel
merchants, or Hamburg Company, as it is called, enjoy ^ II .
great privileges j for they hold a court with particular . a'n'~ .
powers, and a jurifdidlion among themfelves, and hav&
a church and minifter of their own.—This city has a
diftridt belonging to it of conftderable extent, which
abounds with excellent paftures, intermixed with feve¬
ral large villages and noblemen’s feats. A fmall baili-
wic, called Bergedorf, belongs to this city and Lu¬
beck.—Though Hamburg has an undoubted right to a
feat in the diet of th6 empire, yet as (lie pays no con¬
tributions to the military cheft in time of war, and is
alfo unwilling to draw upon herfelf the refentment of
Denmark, (he makes no ufe of that privilege. There
is a fchola illujlris or gymnafium here, well endowed,
with fix able profeflbrs, who read ledtures in it as at
the univerfities. There are alfo feveral free fchools,
and a great number of libraries, public and private.
I he public cellar of this town has always a prodigious
ftock and vent of old hock, which brings in a confider¬
able revenue to the ftate. Befides the militia or train¬
ed bands, there is an eftablilhment of regular forces,
confiding of 12 companies of infantry, and one troop of
dragoons, under the commandant, who is ufually a fo¬
reigner, and one who has diftingififlied himfelf in the
fervice. There is alfo an artillery company, and a
ffight-guard : the laft of which is polled at night all
over the city, and calls the hours.
HAMEL, John Baptiste du, a very learned
French philofopher and writer in the i^th century.
At 18 he wrote a treatife, in which he explained in
a very fimple manner Theodofius’s three books of
Spherics j to w’hich he added a trail upon trigonome¬
try, extremely perfpicuous, and defigned as an intro¬
duction to aftronomy. Natural philofophy, as it was
then taught, was only a collection of vague, knotty,
and barren queftions ; when our author undertook to
eftablifti it upon right principles, and publiihed his
HJironomia Physica. In 1666 Mr Colbert propofed to
Louis XIV. a fcheme, which was approved of by his
majefty, for eftabliftiing a royal academy of fciences $
and appointed our author fecretary of it. He pub-
liflied a great many books ; and died at Paris in 1706,
of mere old age, being almoft 83. He was regius
profeffor of philofophy, in which poll he was fucceeded
by M. Varignon. He wrote Latin with purity and
elegance.
HAMELIN, a ftrong town of Germany, in the
duchy of Calemberg in Lower Saxony. It is fituated
at the extremity of the duchy of Brunfwick, to which
it is the key, near the confluence of the rivers Hamel
and Wefer, in E. Long. 9. 36. N. Lat. 52. 6.
HAMELLIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs j and in the natura^ method ranking
with thofe of which the order is doubtful. See Eota
Ny Index.
HAMESECKEN. Burglary, or noCturnal houfe- . " ,
breaking, was by the ancient Englifli law called Hame-
fecken, as it is in Scotland to this day.
FI AMI, or Ha-MI, a country of Afia, fubjeCt to
the Chinefe. It is fituated to the north-eaft of China,
at the extremity of that defert which the Chinefe call
Chamo, and the Tartars Gobi; and is only 90 leagues
diftant from the mod wefterly point of the province of
Chenfi. This country was inhabited in the early ages
G g 2 by
HAM [ 236 ] HAM
by a wandering people named long. About the year
<)50 before the Cbriitian era, they lent deputies to pay
homage to the emperor of China, and prefented iome
fabres by way of tribute. The civil wars by which
China was torn about the end of the dynafty of Tcheou
having prevented affiftance from being fent to thefe
people, they fell under the dominion of the Hiong-
nou, who appear to have been the fame as the Huns,
and wdio at that time were a formidable nation, ihe
Chinefe feverai times loft and recovered the country of
Hnmi. In 13 1 (the fixth year of the reign of Chun-
ty, of the dynafty of the eaftern Han), the emperor
kept an officer there in quality of governor. Under
the following dynafties, the fame viciffitudes were ex¬
perienced : Harm wras fometimes united to the pro¬
vince of Chenfi, fometimes independent of it, and
fometimes even of the whole empire. ’I he fttuatioa
of thefe people (feparated by vaft deferts from China,
to which, belides, they had no relation, either in lan¬
guage, manners, or culloms) muft have greatly contri¬
buted to facilitate thefe revolutions. All the tributary
ftates of the empire having revolted in 610, that of
Kami follovred their example ; but it again fubmitted
to the yoke under Tai-tfong, fecond emperor of the
dynafty of Tang, who had fent one of his generals
with an army to reduce it. This great prince paid
particular attention to his new conqueft. He divided
it into three diftridfs, and connedted its civil and mi¬
litary government in fuch a manner to that of the pro¬
vince of Chenli and other neighbouring countries, that
tranquillity prevailed there during his reign and feve¬
rai of thofe that followed. Through Hand all the cara¬
vans which went from the w.eft to China, or from
China to the weft, were obliged to pafs. The empe¬
rors, predeceffors of Tai-tfong, wrere fatisf.ed with cau-
fing wine to be tranfported from Hand in {kins car¬
ried by camels \ but “Tai-tfong (fays the Cbinefe
hiftory) having fubdued the kingdom of Hand, or¬
dered fome vine-plants of the fpecies called majou, to be
brought him, which be caufed to be planted in his
gardens : be, bcfides, learned the manner of making
wine, the ufe of which proved botn ferviceable and
hurtful to him.” Luxury and effeminacy having weak¬
ened the dynafty of Tang, the Mahometans (who
had made a rapid progrefs in all the countries that are
fttuated between Perfta, Gobi, and the Cafpian fea)
advanced as far as Kami, which they conquered. It
appears, that this country afterwards had princes of its
own, but dependent on the Tartars, who fucceffively
ruled thefe immenfe regions. The Yuen or Mogul
Tartars again united the country of Hami to the pro¬
vince of Chenfi; and this reunion fubfifted until 1360,
at which time the emperor formed it into a kingdom,
on condition of its princes doing homage and paying
tribute. The king of Hami was honoured with a
new title in 1404, and obtained a golden feal. After
a conteft of feverai years for the fucceffion to the
throne, the kingdom of Hami fell a prey to the king
of Tou-eulh-fan. This yoke foon became uneafy to
the people of Hami: they revolted From their new
mafters, and made conquefts from them m their tuin.
The new king whom they made choice of did not
long poffefs the throne : he was conquered and. killed
in a bloody battle which be fought with the king of
Tou-eulh-fan, who alfo periffied fome time after.
Since this epocha, the country of Hami has been, fuc- Hami.
ceffively expofed to anarchy, or governed by its own '
princes. The prince who filled the throne in 1696
acknowledged himfelf a vaffal of the empire, and fent
as tribute to Peking camels, horfes, and fabres. Kang-
hi received his homage with the ufual ceremonies, and
publilhed a diploma, wffiich eftablifhed the rank that
the king of Hami fliould hold among the tributary
princes, the time when he ffiould come to render ho¬
mage, the nature of the pretents neceffary for his tri¬
bute, the number of auxiliaries he wras bound to fur-
nith in time of war, and the manner of his appointing
a fucceffor. All thefe regulations have fubfifted till
this time.
The country of Hami, though furrounded by de¬
ferts, is accounted one of the moft delightful in the
world. The foil produces abundance of grain, fruits,
leguminous plants, and pafture of every kind. The
rice wffiich grows here is particularly efteemed in Chi¬
na *, and pomegranates, oranges, peaches, raifins, and
prunes, have a moft exquifite tafte •, even the jujubes
are fo juicy, and have fo delicious a flavour, that the
Chinefe call them perfumed jujubes. There is no fruit
more delicate or more in requeft than the melons of
Hami, which are carried to Peking for the emperor’s
table. Thefe melons are much more wffiolefome than
thofe of Europe ; and have this angular property, that
they may be kept frefli during great part of the win¬
ter.—But the moft ufeful and mort efteemed produc¬
tion of this country is its dried raifins. ffihefe are of
two kinds : The firft, wffiich are much u!ed in the
Chinefe medicine, feem to have a perfeft refemblance
to thofe known in Europe by the name of Corinthian.
The fecond, which are in much greater requeft for the
table, are fmaller and more delicate than thofe of Pro¬
vence. The Chinefe authbrs perfectly agree with
Meffrs Lemery and Geoftroy, refpedfing the virtue and
qualities of thefe dried grapes or raifins 5 but they at¬
tribute fo much more efficacy to thofe of Hami than
to thofe of China, that they preferibe them in fmaller
dofes. They obferve, that an infufion of the firft is
of great fervice in facilitating an eruption of the fmall-
pox about the fourth day, when the patient either is
or feems to be too weak } and to promote a gentle
perfpiration in fome kinds of pleurifies or malignant
fevers. The dofe muft be varied according to the
age, habit of body, and ftrength of the patient; great
care muft be taken to adminifter this remedy feafon-
ably and with judgment. The emperor caufed plants
to be tranfported from Hamx to Peking, which were
immediately planted in his gardens. As thefe plants
wrere cultivated with extraordinary care, under his own
eyes, they have perfectly fucceeded. 1 he raifins pro¬
duced by them are exceedingly fweet, and have a moft
exquifite flavour.
Although the country of Hami (the latitude of
wffiich is 42° 53' 20") lies farther towards the north
than feverai of the provinces of France, we are aflured
that its climate is more favourable to the culture of
vines, and that it gives a fuperior degree of quality to
the grapes. It never rams at Hami £ even dew and
fogs are fcarcely ever feen there j the country is w a¬
tered only by the fnowr which falls in winter, and by
the w-ater of this fnow^ when melted, which is collefted
at the Bottoms of the mountains, and preferved with
great
H A M [ 237 ] H A M
Ham!, great care and induftry. The method of drying grapes
Hamilton }n Kami is much Ampler than that pracHfed in the
' provinces of China. The people of ChenA hold them
over the fteam of hot wine, and even fometimes boil
them a few feconds in wine in wdiich a little clarified
honey has been diluted. In the kingdom of Hami
they wait until the grapes are quite ripe j they then
expofe them to the fcorching rays of the fun ; after¬
wards pick them, and leave them in that manner until
they are quite dry. However dry thefe grapes may
be, they become Airivelled, without loAng any of their
fubftance, and without growing flat: good raiAns ought
to be almoit as crifp as lugar candy.
The kingdom of Hami contains a great number of
villages and hamlets ; but it has properly only kone
city, which is its capital, and has the fame name. It
is furrounded by lofty walls, which are half a league in
circumference, and has two gates, one of which fronts
the eaft, and the other the weft. Thefe gates are ex¬
ceedingly beautiful, and make a Ane appearance at a
diftance. The ftreets are ftraight, and well laid out j
but the houfes (which contain only a ground-floor,
and which are almoft all conftrudled of earth) make
very little (how: however, as this city enjoys a ferene
Iky, and is Atuated in a beautiful plain, watered by a
river, and furrounded by mountains which flicker it
from the north winds, it is a mod agreeable and de¬
lightful reftdence. On whatever fide one approaches
it^ gardens may be feen which contain every thing
that a fertile and cultivated foil can produce in the
mildeft climates. All the furrounding fields are en¬
chanting : but they do not extend far ; for on feveral
Ades they terminate in dry plains, where a number of
beautiful horfes are fed, and a fpecies of excellent,
ftieep, which have large flat tails that fometimes weigh
three pounds. The country of Hami appears to be
very abundant in foflils and valuable minerals: the
Chinefe have for a long time procured diamonds and a
great deal of gold from it 5 at prefent it fupplies them
with a kind of agate, on which they fet a great value.
With regard to the inhabitants of this fmall ftate, they
-are brave, capable of enduring fatigue, very dexterous
in all bodily exercifes, and make excellent foldiers ; but
they are Ackle and foon irritated, and when in a paf-
Aon they are extremely ferocious and fanguinary.
HAMILTON, a town of Scotland, in Clydefdale,
feated on the river Clyde, eleven miles fouth-eaft of
Glafgow •, from whence the noble family of Hamilton
take their qame, and title of duke. The town is feated
in the middle of a very agreeable plain ; on one Ade of
which the Hamilton family has a large park, which is
near feven miles in circumference, enclofed with a high
wall, and well flocked with fallow deer. The rivulet
called Jlvon runs through the park, and falls into the
river Clyde, over which laft there is a bridge of free-ftone.
W. Long. 4. 16. N. Lat. 55. 58. The original name of
this place, or the lands about it, was Cad-zow or Cad-
yow^ a barony granted to an anceftor of the noble
owner, on the following occaAon. In the time of Ld-
ward II. lived Sir Gilbert de Hamilton, or Hampton, an
Lnglhhman of rank \ who happening at court to fpeak
in praife of Robert Bruce, received on the occaAon an
infult from John de Spenfer, chamberlain to the king,
whom he fought and flew. Dreading the refentment
of that potent family, he fled to the ScottUh monarch ;
who received him with open arms, and eftablifhed him Hamilton',
at the place poffelTed by the duke of Hamilton. In '—”y—w
aftertimes the name was changed from Cadxow to IIa-
mdion : and in 1445 L^ds were erefted into a lord-
fhip, and the then owner Sir James fat in parliament
as Lord Hamilton. The fame nobleman founded the
collegiate church at Hamilton in 1451, for a provoft
and feveral prebendaries. The endowment was rati¬
fied at Rome by the pope’s bull, which he went in per-
fon to procure.—Hamilton houfe or palace is at the
end of the town ; a large heavy pile, with two deep
wings at right angles with the centre : the gallery is
of great extent j and furniflied, as well as fome other
rooms, with moft excellent paintings.
Hamilton, Anthony, Count of, was defeended from
a younger branch of the dukes of Hamilton, and born
in Ireland about the year 1646. His mother was After
to the duke of Ormond, then viceroy of that country.
Ihe troubles of that period compelled his family to re¬
tire to Trance while he was only an infant, and he was
brought up in the language and religion of that coun¬
try. He made different vifits to England in the reign
of Charles II. but he was prevented from obtaining
any public employment in confequence of his religious
opinions, to which he conllantly adhered. He received
from James II. a regiment of infantry in Ireland; but
when that monarch’s aftairs came to be in a ruined con¬
dition, Count Hamilton accompanied him back to
France, which he never afterwards quitted. On ac¬
count of his wit and politenefs he was. very much ad¬
mired, as well as for the many eftimable qualities of his
heart. His writings are lively, yet his converfation
was ferious, and he perhaps indulged too much his pro-
penfity to fatire. He died in the year 17 20 in the 74th
year of his age.
1 he works of the count in the French language
were printed in 6 vols. i2mo. in 1749, which con-
fift of poems, fairy tales, and his Memoirs of Count
Grammont, the beft of all his compofttions, of which
Voltaire faid, “ it is of all books that in which the
moft {lender ground-work is fet off with the gayeft,
moft lively and agreeable flyle.” A fplendid edition
of it, adorned with fine engravings from original por¬
traits, was publifhed by the late Lord Orford, at his
own private prefs.
Hamilton, George, earl of Orkney, and a brave
warrior, was the fifth fon of William earl of Selkirk,
and early betook himfelf to the profeflion of arms.
Being made colonel in 1689-90, he diftinguifhed him¬
felf by his bravery at the battle of the Boyne; and
foon after, at thofe of Aghrim, Steinkirk, and Landen,
and at the fieges of Athlone, Limerick, and Namur.
His eminent fervices in Ireland and Flanders, through
the whole courfe of that war, recommended him fo
highly to King William III. that, in 1696, he ad¬
vanced him to the dignity of a peer of Scotland, by
the title ol earl of Orkney; and his lady, the After of
Edward Vifcount Villiers, afterwards earl of Jerfey,
had a grant made to her, under the great feal of Ire¬
land, of almoft all the private eftates of the late King
James, of very confiderable value.
Upon the accetiion of Queen Anne to the throne,
he was promoted to the rank of major-general in 1702,
and the next year to that of lieutenant-general, and.
was likewife made knrftit of the thiftle. His lord-
ihipV
liamiltoR,
Hamlet.
HAM r 23$ ] HAM
{Lip afterwards ferved under the j-reat duke of Marl¬
borough and contributed by his bravery and con¬
duct to the glorious victories of Blenheim and Mal-
plaquet, and to the taking feveral of the towns in
Flanders,
In the beginning of 17x0, his lordfliip, as one of the
16 peers of Scotland, voted for the impeachment of
Dr Sacheverel; and the fame year was fworn of the
privy-council, and made general of the foot in Flan¬
ders. In 1712, he was made colonel of the royal re¬
giment of fufileers, and ferved in Flanders under the
duke of Ormond. In 1714, he was appointed gentle¬
man-extraordinary of the bed-chamber to King Geo. I.
and afterwards governor of Virginia. At length he
was appointed conilable, governor, and captain of Edin¬
burgh caftle, lord-lieutenant of the county of Clydef.
dale, and field-marfhal. He died at his houfe in Albe-
marle-ftreet, in 1737.
Hamilton, John, the 24th bilhop of St Andrew’s,
to which he was tranflated from Dunkeld. He was
natural fon of James the firft earl of Arran, and was
in great favour at court whilft his friends remained in
power. He was one of Queen Mary’s privy council,
and a fteady friend to that unfortunate princefs. He
performed the ceremony of chriftening her fon, and
was at different times lord privy feal and lord treafurer.
The queen had reafon to lament her not following
the advice of this prelate, after the fatal battle of Lang-
lide, viz. not to truft her perfon in England. By the
regent earl of Murray, he was declared a traitor, and
obliged to feek {belter among his friends. He was un¬
fortunately in the caftle of Dumbarton when that for-
trefs was taken by furprife, from wdience he was carried
to Stirling, where on April 1. 1570, he was hanged on
a live tree. The two following farcaflic verfes were
written upon this occafion :
Vive*(?tu, felix arbor, femperquc vlreto
Frondibus, ut nobis talia potna feras.
HAMLET, Hamel, or Hampfel, (from the Saxon
ham, i. e. domus, and the German let, k e. trtembrum),
dignifies a little village, or part of a village or parifti ;
of which three words the firft is now' only ufed, though
Kitchen mentions the two laft. By Spelman there is
a difference between villatn integrant, villam dimidiam,
and hamletam ; and Stow expounds it to be the feat of
a freeholder. Several county-towns have hamlets, as
there may be feveral hamlets in a parifti j and fome
particular places may be out of a town of hamlet, Hamf
though not out of the county. ^
Hamlet, a prince celebrated in the annals of Den¬
mark *, and whofe name has been rendered familiar in
this country, and his ftory interefting, by being the
fubjefl of one of the nobleft tragedies of our immortal
Shakefpeare.—Adjoining to a royal palace, which ftands
about half a mile from that of Cronborg in Elfineur,
is a garden, w'hich, Mr Coxe informs us, is called
Hamlet’s Garden, and is faid by tradition to be the
very fpot where the murder of his father was perpe¬
trated. The houfe is of modern date, and is fituated
at the foot of a fandy ridge near the fea. The gar*
den occupies the fide of the hill, and is laid out in ter-
raffes rifing one above another. Elfineur is the fcene
of Shakefpeare’s Hamlet; and the original, hiftory
from w'hich our poet derived the principal incidents of
his play is founded upon fa£ts, but fo deeply buried in
remote antiquity that it is difficult to difcriminate
truth from fable. Saxo-Grammaticus, who flouriftied
in the 12th century, is the earlieft hiftorian of Den¬
mark that relates the adventures of Hamlet. His ac¬
count is extracted, and much altered, by Belleforeft a
French author-, an Englifti tranfiation of whofe ro¬
mance w'as publifhed under the title of the Hiftorye of
Hamblet : and from this tranffation Shakefpeare form¬
ed the ground-work of this play, though writh many
alterations and additions. The follow'ing ftiort {ketch
of Hamlet’s hiftory, as recorded in the Daniflr annals,
will enable the reader to compare the original charac¬
ter with that delineated by Shakefpeare.
Long before the introduftion of Chriftianity into
Denmark* Horwendillus, prefedl or king of Jutland,
w'as married to Geruthra, or Gertrude, daughter of
Ruric king of Denmark, by whom he had a fon called
Jlmlettus, or Hamlet. Fengo murders his brother Hor¬
wendillus, marries Gertrude, and afcends the throne.
Hamlet, to avoid his uncle’s jealoufy, counterfeits
folly $ and is reprefented as fuch an abhorrer of falfe-
hood, that though he conftantly frames the moft eva-
five and even abfurd anfwers, yet artfully contrives ne¬
ver to deviate from truth. Fengo, fufpefling the reality
of his madnefs, endeavours by various methods (a) to
difcover the real ftate of his mind : amongft others, he
departs from Elfineur, concerts a meeting betw-een
Hamlet and Gertrude, concluding that the former
would not conceal his fentiments from his own mother j
and orders a courtier to conceal himfelf, unknown to
both,
(a) Among other attempts, Fengo orders his companions to leave him in a retired fpot,. and a young woman
is placed in his way, with a view to extort from him a confeflion that his folly W'as counterfeited. Hamlet would
have fallen into the fnare, if a friend had not fec^etly conveyed to him intelligence of this treachery. He carries
the woman to a more fecret place, and obtains her promife not to betray him which flie readily contents to*
as the had been brought up with him from her infancy. Being afked, upon his return home, 11 he had indulged
his paflion, he anfwers in the affirmative j but renders himfelf not believed by the moft artful fubterfuges, which,
though true, feemed evidently to mark a difordered underftanding, and by the pofitive denial o the woman.
Upon this woman,” as Capell obferves, “ is grounded Shakefpeare’s Ophelia $ and his deliverance From tm'’
fnare by a friend fuggefted his Horatio “ the rude outlines,” as Mr Malone remarks “ of thole characters.
But in this piece there are no traits of the character of Polonius: there is indeed a counfellor, and he place-, him-
felf in the queen’s chamber behind the arras ; but this is the whole. The ghoft of the old.Hamlet is linewue
the offspring of our author’s creative imagination.” See CapclPs School of Shakefpeare, vol. 111, p. 20.; an-
fane's Supplement, p. 353.
H A M t 239 ] HA M
Hamlet, both, for the purpofe of overhearing their converfation.
” The courtier repairs to the queen’s apartment, and
hides himfelf under a heap of draw (b). Hamlet, up¬
on entering the cabinet, fufpe&ing the prefence of
fome fpy, imitates, after his ufual affectation of folly,
the crow of a cock, and, {baking his arms like wings,
jumps (c) upon the heap of draw j till, feeling the
courtier, he draws his fword, and indantly difpatches
him. He then cuts the body to pieces, boils it, and
gives it to the hogs. He then avows to his mother
that he only perfonated a fool, reproaches her for her
inceduous marriage with the murderer of her hufhand j
and concludes his remondrances by faying, “ Indead,
therefore, of condoling my infanity, deplore your own
infamy, and learn to lament the deformity of your own
mind(D).” The queen is filent ; but is recalled to
virtue by thefe admonitions. Fengo returns to Elfi-
neur, fends Hamlet to England under the care of two
courtiers, and requeds the king by a letter to put him
to death. Hamlet difcovers and alters the letter ; fo
that, upon their arrival in England, the king orders
the twro courtiers to immediate execution, and betroths
his daughter to Hamlet, who gives many adonifhing
proofs of a mod tranfcendant underdanding. At the
end of the year he returns to Denmark, and alarms
the court by his unexpedfed appearance j as a report
of his death had been fpread, and preparations were
making for his funeral. Having re-alfumed his affefted
infanity, he purpofely wmunds his fingers in drawing
his fword, which the bydanders immediately faden to
the fcabbard. He afterwards invites the principal
nobles to an entertainment, makes them intoxicated,
ajid in that date covers them with a large curtain,
which he fadens to the ground with wooden pegs j he
then fets fire to the palace; and the nobles, being tn- Hamlet
veloped in the curtain, peridi in the flames. During' 'r~~'
this tranfa&ion he repairs to Fengo’s apartment ; and,
taking the fword which lay by the fide of his bed, puts
his own in its place : he indantly awakens and informs
him, that Flamlet is come to revenge the murder of
his father. Fengo darts from his bed, feizes the fword j
but, being unable to draw it, falls by the hand of
Hamlet. The next morning, when the populace were
affembled to view the ruins of the palace, Hamlet fum-
mons the remaining nobles •, and in a maderly fpeech,
which is too long to infert in this place, lays open the
motives of his own condudi, proves his uncle to have
been the afladin of his father ; and concludes in the fol¬
lowing words : “ Tread upon the aflies of the monder,
who, polluting the wfife of his murdered brother, join¬
ed incelt to parricide ; and ruled over you with the
mod oppreflive tyranny. Receive me as the minider
of a jud revenge, as one wdio felt for the fufferings of
his father and his people. Confider me as the perfon
who has purged the difgrace of his country j extin-
guidied the infamy of his mother j freed you from the
defpotifm of a monder, whofe crimes, if he had lived, -
w’ould have daily increafed, and terminated in your
dedrudlion. Acknowledge my fervices ; and if I have
deferved it, prefent me with the crown. Behold in me
the author of thefe advantages : no degenerate perfon,
no parricide j but the rightful fucceflbr to the throne,
and the pious avenger of a father’s murder. I have
refcued you from flavery, redored you to liberty, and
re-edablifhed your glory : I have dedroyed a tyrant,
and triumphed over an aflaflin. The recompenfe is in-
your hands : you can edimate the value of my fervices,
and in your virtue I red my hopes of reward.” This
fpeech-
luxury ThC reader Wiil reColle,a’ that ftraW ufecl formerIy t0 be fpread over the floors as an article of great
(c) This part dands thus in the Englifli account: “The counfellor entered fecretly into the queene’s cham¬
ber and there hid himfelfe behind the arras, and long before the queene and Hamlet came thither : who being
craitie and politique, as foone as he was within the chamber, doubting fome treafon, and fearing if he fliould
{peak leverely and wifely to his mother touching his fecret pra&ifes hee fliould be underdood, and by that
means intercepted, ufed his ordinary manner of diflimulation, and began to come (r. crow) like a cocke, beating
with disarms (in fuch manner as cockes ufed to drike with their wings) upon the hangings of the chambers :
whereby. feeling Wthing during under them, he cried, A rat! a rat! and prefently drawing his fworde .
fnnr lni!-° thC ’ Alnch dolne’ he Pu.lled the counfellor (half deade) out by the heels, made an end
o kil mg him; and being flam, cut his body m pieces, which he caufed to be boiled, and then cad it into an
open vault or pnvie. Ala/one^s Supplement^ vol. i. p. 357.
, cl?^'^tT^Cen.n, ,Wl!lch 18 lo beautiful in Shakefpeare’s Hamlet, is thus concifely, but not lefs finely,
e cnbed by the Damfli hidonan : “ Cumque mater magno ejulatu queda praefentis filii focordiam deflere cJ-
P iet> t^uid (mquit) muherum turpiflima graviflimi criminis diflimulationem falfo lamenti genere expetis, qum
cot 1 more lafciviens nefanam ac detedabilem thori conditionem fecuta viri tui interfedorem pleno incedi
inu amplecteris: et ei qm prohs turn parentem extinxerat obfcceniflimis blandimentorum illecebris adularis..
ita nerape equae conjugum fuorum vi&onbus maritantur. Brutorum natura hsec ed ; ut in diverfa paflim con*
jugia rapiantur : hoc tibi exemplo prions mariti memoriam exoleviffe condat. Ego vero non ab re flolidi fne
fitCm nnZ' ftoPH dublte.m,q^" 1S, T1! fratrem opprefferit, in affines quoque pari crudelitate debacchaturus
fit unde dohditatis quae mdudnae habitum ampledi praedat, et incolumitatis pmdidium ab extrema delira-
mentorum fpecie mutuan. In ammo tamen paternae ultionis dudium perfeverat; fed rerum occafiones aucupor
mporum opportumtates oppenor. Non idem omnibus locus competit. Contra obfcurum immitemque ani’'
ln^nn -odtsuti convemt. Tibi vero fupervacuum fit meam lamentari defipientiam qL tuam-
filere nfemiTeris™ Itaque non alIe"a; fed ProPri* m^tis vitium defleas neceffe efl. Caetera-
mere meminens. Tab convitio laceratam matrem ad excolendum virtutis habitum revocavit
ignes praefentibus illecebris pr^ferre docuit.” U ’
prseteritofqu?
HAM
[ 24° ]
H A M
Hammer
Hammock.
fpeech has the defired effeft j the greater part of the
aflembly ihed tears, and all who are prefent unani-
moully proclaim him king amid repeated acclamations.
Hamlet foon after his elevation fails to England,
and orders a fhield to be made on which the principal
adlions of his life are represented. The king receives
him with feigned demonftrations of joy, falfely affures
him that his daughter is dead, and recommends him to
repair to Scotland as his ambaffador, and to pay h:s
addrefl'es to the queen Hermetruda, He gives this in-
iidious advice with the hopes that Hamlet may perilh
in the attempt •, as the queen, who was remarkable for
her chaftity and cruelty, had fuch an averfion to ail
propofals of marriage, that net one of her fuitors had
efcaped falling a facrifice to her vengeance. Hamlet,
in oppolition to all difficulties, performs the embaffy ;
and, by the affidance of his fhield, which infpires the
lady wuth a favourable opinion of his wifdom and cou¬
rage, obtains her in marriage, and returns with her to
England. Informed by the princefs to whom he had
been betrothed, that her father meditates his affaffina-
tion, Hamlet avoids his fate by wearing armour under
his robe ‘y puts to death the king of England ; and
fails to Denmark with his two wives, where he is foon
afterwards killed in a combat wuth Vigletus fon of
Ruric. Hamlet, adds the hiftorian, was a prince,
who, if his good fortune had been equal to his deferts,
would have rivalled the gods in fplendour, and in his
aflions w ould have exceeded even the labours f Her¬
cules.
HAMMER, a well known tool ufed by mechanics,
conlitting of an iron head, fixed croffwife upon a handle
of wood. There are feveral lorts of hammers ufed by
blackfmiths •, as, 1. The hand-hammer, which is of
fuch weight that it may be wuelded or governed with
one hand at the anvil. 2. The up-hand fledge, ufed
with both hands, and feldom lifted above the head.
3. The about-fledge, which is the biggelt hammer of
all, and held by both hands at the farthefi: end of the
handle; and being fwung at arms length over the head,
is made to fall upon the wmrk with as heavy a blow as
poffible. There is alfo another hammer ufed by fmiths,
called a rivet ting hammer; which is the fmalleft of all,
and is feldom uled at the forge unlefs upon fmall wTork.
—Carpenters and joiners havelikewife hammers accom¬
modated to their feveral purpofes.
HAMMERING, the acl of beating or extending
and falhioning a body under the hammer. When this
operation is performed on iron heated for the purpofe,
it is ufually called forging.
Hammering, in coining. A piece of money or a
medal is faid to be hammered when {truck, and the
impreffion given, with a hammer and not with a mill.
HAMMERSMITH, four miles weft from London,
is a hamlet belonging to Fulham, has twTo charity-
fchools, a w7orkhoufe, a Prefbyterian meeting-houfe,
and a fair May 1. There are a number of handfome
feats about it, efpecially towards the Thames ; among
which the moft remarkable is the late Lord Melcombe’s,
which is a very elegant lioule, and contains a marble
gallery finiftied at a very great expence.
HAMMOCK, or Hamac, a kind of hanging bed,
fufpended between two trees, polls, hooks, or the like,
much ufed throughout the Weft Indies, as alfo on
board of {hips. The Indians hang their hammocks to
trees, and thus fecure themfelves from wild beafts and H.mmond.
infects, which render lying on the ground there verv 1—"v**rW
dangerous. According to F. Plumier, who has often
made ufe of the hammock in the Indies, it confifts of
a large ftrong coverlet or fheet of coarie cotton, about
fix feet fquare : on tw-o oppofite fides are loops of the
fame fluff, through which a ft ring is run, and thereof
other loops arc formed, all which are tied together
w'ith a cord ; and thus is the whole fattened to two
neighbouring trees in the field, or twro hooks in houfes.
This kind of couch ferves at the fame time for bed
'quilts, flieets, pillow, &c.
The hammock ufed on board of (hips is made of a
piece of canvas fix feet long and three feet wide, ga¬
thered or drawn together at the two ends. There are
ufually from fourteen to twenty inches in breadth al
lowed between decks for every hammock in a Ihip of
W’ar ; but this {pace muft in feme meafure depend on
the number of the crew, &c. In tinse of battle the
hammocks and bedding are firmly corded and fixed in
the nettings on the quarter-deck, or wherever the
men are too much expofed to the view or fire of the
enemy.
HAMMOND, Henry, D. D. one of the moft
learned Engliih divines in the 17th century, was bom
in 1605. He ftudied at Oxford, and in 1629, entered
into holy orders. In 1633 he was inducted into the
reiftory of Penfliurft in Kent. In 1043 he was made
archdeacon of Chichefter. In the beginning of 1645;
he was made one of the canons of Chrift-church, Oxford,
and chaplain in ordinary to King Charles I. who was
then in that city ; and he w7as alfo chofen public orator
of the univerfity. In 1647 he attended the king in
his confinement at Wooburn, Caveffiam, Hampton-
Court, and the ifle of Wight, where he continued till
his majefty’s attendants were again put from him. He
then returned to Oxford, wffiere he w7as chofen fub-dean;
and continued there till the parliament-vifitors firft
eje&ed him, and then imprifoned him for feveral weeks
in a private houfe in Oxford. During this confinement
he began his Annotations on the New Teftament. At
the opening of the year 1660, w7hen every thing vifibly
tended to the reftoration of the royal family, the dodftor
was defired by the bifliops to repair to London to aflift
there in the compofure of the breaches of the church,
his ftation in which w7as defigned to be the biffiopric of
Worcefter; but on the 4th of April he was feized by
a fit of the ftone, of which he died on the 25th of that
month, aged 55. Befides the above work, he w7rote
many others ; all of which have been publifhed together
in four volumes folio.
Hammond, Anthony, Efq. an ingenious Engliffi
poet, defeended from a good family of Somerfham Place
in Huntingdonfliire, was born in 1668. After a liber¬
al education at St John’s college, Cambridge, he was
chofen member of parliament, and foon diftinguiffied
himfelf as a fine fpeaker. He became a commiflioner
of the royal navy, which place he quitted in 17.12. He
publiffied A Mifcellany of original Poems by the moft
eminent hands ; in w7hich himfelf, as appears by the
poems marked with his own name, had no inconfider-
able ffiare. He w7rote the life of Walter Moyle, Efq;
prefixed to his works. He was the intimate friend of
that gentleman, and died about the year 17 26.
Hammond, James, known to the world by the Love-
Elegies,
ham [ 241 ] . H A M
KampfLire. Elegies, winch feme years after his death, were pub-
■'v—lifted by the earl of Chefterfield, was the fon of Antho¬
ny Hammond above-mentioned, and was preferred to a
place about the perfon of the late prince of Wales, which
he held till an unfortunate accident deprived him of
his fenfes. The caufe of this calamity was a paffion
he entertained for a lady, who would not return it :
upon which he wrote thofe love-elegies which have been
fo much celebrated for their tendernefs. The editor
obferves, that he compofed them before he was 21 years
of age : a period, fays he, when fancy and imagination
commonly riot at the expence of judgment and correfl-
nefs. He wTas lincere in his love as in his friendftip j
and wrote to his miilrefs, as he fpoke to his friends,
nothing but the genuine fentiments of his heart. Ti¬
bullus feems to have been the model our author judi-
ciouily preferred to Ovid 5 the former writing direftly
from the heart to the heart, the latter too often yield¬
ing and addreffing himfelf to the imagination. Mr
Hammond died in the year 1743, at Stow, the feat of
Lord Cobham, who, as wTell as the earl of Chefterfield,
honoured him with a particular intimacy.
HAMPSHIRE, or Hants, a county of Eng¬
land, bounded on the weft by Dorfetftire and Wiltftire,
on the north by Berkfhire, on the eaft by Surry and
Suflex, and on the fouth by the Englith channel. It ex¬
tends 55 miles in length from north to fouth, and 40
in breadth from ead to weft, and is about 220 miles
in circumference. It is divided into 39 hundreds 5 and
contains 9 forefts, 29 parks, one city, 20 market-
towns, 253 pariftes, above 36,00c houfes, and by the
moft modell computation 180,000 inhabitants, who
eleft 26 members of parliament, two for the county,
two for the city of Winchefter, and two for each of
the following towns, Southampton, Portfmouth, Pe-
tersfield, Yarmouth, Newport, Stockbridge, Andover,
Whitechurch, Lymington, Chrift church, and Newton.
—The air is very pure and pleafant, efpecially upon
the downs, on wftich vaft fiocks of ftreep are kept and
bred. In the champaign part of the county, where
it is free of wood, the foil is very fertile, producing all
kinds of grain. The country is extremely well wooded
and watered ; for befides many wxsods on private
eftates, in which there are vaft quantities of w’ell grown
timber, there is the New foreft of great extent, belong¬
ing to the crown, well ftored with venerable oak. In
thefe woods and forefts, great numbers of hogs run at
large and feed on the acorns ; and hence it is that the
Hampihire bacon fo far excels that of moft other
countries. The rivers are the Avon, Anton, Arle,
Teft, Stowre, and Itchin 5 befides feveral fmaller
ftreams, all abounding in fifti, efpecially trout. As its
iea-coaft is of a confiderable extent, it polfeffes many
good ports and harbours, and is well fupplied with
falt-water fift. Much honey is produced in the coun-
try, and a great deal of mead and metheglin made.
Here is alfo plenty of game, and on the downs is moft
delightful hunting. The manufa£!ure of cloth and
keifies in this county, though not fo extenfive as that
o* fome others, is yet far from being inconfiderable,
and employs great numbers of the poor, as well as
contributes to the enriching of the manufa£lurers by
wnat is fent abroad. The canal in this county,
rom Bafingftoke to the \\ey in Surry, and from
t rence to the 1 hames, cannot but be a great advan-
Vol. X. Part I.
tage to the county in general, ami the pavifteS It HampOiiiS*.
pafles through in particular j to carry this canal into1, v~—*
execution above 86,oool. were raifed amongft 150
proprietors_ in 1789. It extends 53 miles, and was
completed in 1796.
New Hampshire, a province of North America, in
New England. It is bounded on the north by Que¬
bec ; north-eaft by the province of Main •, fouth-eaft
by the Atlantic ocean 5 fouth by Maffachufets •, weft
and north-weft by ConnefHcut river, which divides it
from Vermont. The ftape of New Hampftire refembles
an open fan ; Connefticut river being the curve, the
fouthern line the ftiorteft, and the eaftern line the
longeft fide. It is divided into five counties, viz.
Rockingham, Staftord, Hillhorough, Chelhire, Graf¬
ton. In 1776, there were 165 fettled townihips in
this ftate. Since that time the number has been greatly
increafed. The chief town is Portsmouth. Exeter,
15 miles fouthwefterly from Portfmouth, is a pretty
town on the fouth fide of Exeter river. And Con¬
cord, fituated on the wreft fide of Merrimak river, is
a pleafant flourifting town, which wall probably,’on
account of its central fituation, foon be the permanent
feat of government. There are twro great rivers, the
Pifcataqua and the Merrimak. The former has four
branches, Berwick, Cochechy, Exeter, and Durham,
which are all navigable for fmall veffels and boats, fome
15 others 20 miles from the fea. Thefe rivers unite
about eight miles from the mouth of the harbour, and
form one broad, deep, rapid ftream, navigable for
ftdps of the largeft burden. This river forms the only
port of New Hampftire. The Merrimak bears that
name from its mouth to the confluence of Pemigewaf-
fet and Winnifipiokee rivers; the latter has its fource
m the lake of the fame name. In its courfe, it re¬
ceives numberlefs fmall ftreams iffuing from ponds and
fvvamps in the valleys. It tumbles over twm confider¬
able falls, Amafkaeg and Pantucket great falls. From
Havenl the river runs winding along, through a plea-
lant rich vale of meadow, and pafling between New¬
bury Port and Saliftury, empties itfelf into the ocean.
I lie land next to the fea is generally low ; but as you
advance into the country, it rifes into hills. Some
parts of the ftate are mountainous. The White moun¬
tains are the higheft part of a ridge which extends
north-eaft and fouth-weft to a length not yet afeertained.
The whole circuit of them is not lefs than 50 miles.
I he height of tnefe mountains above an adjacent mea¬
dow, is reckoned to be about 5500 feet, and the mea¬
dow is 3500 feet above the level of the fea. The
fnow and ice cover them nine or ten months in the
year 5 during which time they exhibit that bright ap¬
pearance from which they are denominated the w/Jte
mountains. Froin this fummit in clear weather is ex¬
hibited a noble view, extending 60 or 70 miles in
every diredlion. Although they are more than 70
miles within land, they are feen many leagues off at
fea,. and appear like an exceeding bright cloud in the
horizon Thefe immenfe heights, being copioufly r'e-
plemfhed with water, afford a variety of beautiful caf-
cades. Three of the largeft rivers in New England
receive a great part of their waters from thefe moun¬
tains. Amanoofuck and Ifrael rivers, tw-o principal
branches of Connecficut, fall from their weftern fide.
Peabody river, a branch of the Amarifcogen, falls
^ h from
H A M
fj.de ; aiid almofl the whole of the
Saco defcends from the fouthern fide, 'ftie higheft
fummit of thefe mountains is about latitude 440.
The air in New Hampfiure is ferene and healthful.
The weather is not f© fubjetl to change as in more
fouthern climates. This hate, embofoming a number
of very high mountains, and lying in the neighbour¬
hood of others whcfe towering fumtmts are covered
with fnow and ice three quarters of the year, is in-
tenfely cold in the winter feafon. The heat of ium-
mer is great, but of fliort duration, h he cold bra.ces
the conflitution, and renders the labouring people
healthful and robufl.
On the fea coaft, and many places inland, the foil is
fandy, but affords good paflurage. The intervals at
the foot of the mountains are greatly enriched by the
frefhets, which bring down the foil upon them, form¬
ing a fine mould, and producing corn, grain, and her¬
bage, in the molt luxuriant plenty. The back lands
which have been cultivated are generally very fertile,
and produce the various kinds of gram, fruits, and ve¬
getables, which are common to the other parts of New
England. The uncultivated lands are covered with
extenfive forefts of pine, fir, cedar, oak, walnut, &c.
This fiate affords all the materials neceffary for fhip-
building.
No aftual cenfus of the inhabitants has been lately
made. In the convention at Philadelphia, in 1787,
they were reckoned at 10 2,000. There is no charac-
teriftical difference between the inhabitants of this and
the other Newr England ffates. Ihe ancient inhabi¬
tants of New Hampfhire were emigrants from Eng¬
land. Their pofterity, mixed with emigrants from
Maffachufets, fill the lower and middle towns. Emi¬
grants from ConnefUcut compofe the largeft part of
the inhabitants of the weftern towns adjoining Con-
ne£licut river. There are no Haves. Negroes, who
were never numerous in New Hampfhire, are all free by
the firft article of the bill of rights.
In the townfhip of Hanover, in the weftern part of
this flate, is Dartmouth College, fituated on a beau¬
tiful plain, about half a mile eaft of Connefticut river,
in latitude 430 33'. It was named after the right ho¬
nourable William earl of Dartmouth, who was one of
its principal benefactors. It was founded in 1769,
for the education and inflrution of youth, of the In¬
dian tribes, in reading, writing, and all parts of learn¬
ing which fhould appear neceffary and expedient for
civilizing' and chriftianizing the children of Pagans, as
well as in all liberal arts and fciences, and alfo of Englifh
youths and any others. Its fituation, in a frontier
country, expofed it during the late war to many in¬
conveniences, which prevented its rapid progrefs. It
ffouriflied, however, amidft all its embarraffrnents, and
is now one of the molt growing feminaries in the U-
nited States. It has in the four claffes about 130
ftudents, under the direction of a prefident, two pro-
feffors, and two tutors. It has 12 truftees, who are
a body corporate, invefted with the powers neceffary
for fuch a body. The library is elegant, containing
a large collection of the naoft valuable books. Its appa¬
ratus confifts of a competent number of ufeful. inftru-
ments, for making mathematical and philofophical ex¬
periments. There are three buildings for the ufe of
the ftudents. Such is the falubrity of the air, that
HAM
no inltance of mortality has happened among the flw-Hampfteacb
dents fince the firft eftablithment of the college. Hampton^
At Exeter there is an academy j at Portfmcuth a
grammar fchool •, and all the towns are bound by law
to fupport fchools. The inhabitants of New Hampfhire
are chiefly congregationalifts. The other denominations
are Prefbyterians, Baptifts, and Epifcopalians.
The firft difcovery made by the Englifh of any part
of New Plampfhire was in 1614, by Captain John
Smith, who ranged the fhore from Penobfcot to Cape
Cod ; and in this route difcovered the river Pifcata-
qua. On his return to England, he publifhed a de-
fcription of the country, with a map of the coaft,
which he prefented-to Prince Charles, who gave it the
name of New England. The firft fettlement was made
in 1623.
New Hampfhire was for many years under the ju-
rifdidtion of the governor of IMaflachufets, yet they
had a feparate legiflature. They ever bore a propor¬
tionable fhare of the expences and levies in all enter-
pvifes, expeditions, and military exertions, whether
planned by the colony or the crown. In every ftage
of the oppofition that was made to the encroachments
of the Britilh parliament, the people, who ever had a
high fenfe of liberty, cheerfully bore their part.
HAMPSTEAD, a pleafant village of Middlefex,
four miles northweft of London, Hands in a healthy
air, on a fine rife, at the top of which is a heath of
about a mile every way, that is adorned with feveral
pretty feats, in a moft irregular romantic fituation,
and has a moft extenfive profpecft over London, into
the counties all round it, viz, Bucks and Hertford-
fhire, and even Northamptonfhire, Effex, Kent, Surry,
Berks, &c. with an uninterrupted view of Shooter’s
Hill, Banfted Downs, and Windfor Caftle. Its church
was anciently a chapel of eafe to Hendon, till about
1478. This village ufed to be reforted to formerly
for its mineral waters, which have lately been neglect¬
ed : but the wells are ftill frequented. It is now
crowded with good buildings, even on the very fteep
of the hill, where there is no walking, fix yards toge¬
ther without meeting a hillock 5 but in the reign of
Henry VIII. it was chiefly inhabited by the laundref-
fes who waflied for the Londoners. Its old ruinous
church, the lord of the manor’s chapel, was lately pull¬
ed down, and a new one ereCted in its room. There
is, befides, a handfome chapel near the wells, built by
the contribution of the inhabitants, who are chiefly ci¬
tizens and merchants of London.
HAMPTON, a town of Gloucefterfliire in England,
feated on the Cotfwold hills, and had formerly a nun¬
nery. W. Long. 2. 15* N. Lat. 51. 38.
Hampton, a town of Middlefex in England, ieated
on the river Thames, 1 2 miles weft of London, and
two from Richmond and Kingfton.. It is chiefly fa¬
mous for the royal palace there, which is the fineil m
Britain. It was built by Cardinal Wolfey, who had
280 filk beds for ftrangers only, and furniftied it rich¬
ly with gold and filver plate. The buildings, gar¬
dens, and the two parks, to which William HI. made
confiderable additions, are about four miles in circum¬
ference, and are watered on three fides by the Thames.
The inward court, built by King William, forms a
piazza, the pillars of which are fo low, that it looks
more like a cloifter than a palace > however, the apart¬
ments
t ]
HAN
[ H3 3
HAN
Hamefotenments make ample amends being extremely magnifi-
Stances
cent and more exaftly difpofed than in any other pa-
lace’in the world, and adorned with moft elegant^ tur-
niture. Since the acceflion of his prefent majefty,
however, this palace hath been much neglefled, as the
king has generally made choice of Windfor lor Ins
fummer retreat. Thofe inimitable paintings of Ra¬
phael Urbin, called the cartoons, which were placed
there by King William, have been removed to the
queen’s palace at Weftminfter. For thefe pieces Louis
XV. is faid to have offered ioo,ooo1.
HAMESOKEN, or Hamesecken. See Hame-
SECKEN. .
HANAPER, or Hamper, an office m chancery,
under the direftion of a mafter, his deputy and clerks,
anfwering, in fome meafure, to xhz ffcus among the
Romans. . „ , , j r
HaNAPER, clerk of the, fometimes ftyled warden oj
the hamper, an officer who receives all money due to the
kino- for feals of charters, patents, commiffions, and
writs, and attends the keeper of the leal daily in teim
time, and at all times of fealing, and takes into his
cuftody all fealed charters, patents, and the like, which
he receives into bags, but anciently, it is fuppofed, into
hampers, which gave denomination to the office.
There is alfo an officer who is comptroller of the ha-
naper. • i r
HANAU, a town of Germany, and capital ot a
county of the fame name, is pleafantly fituated on, the
river Kenzig near its confluence with the Mayne.
river divides it into the old and new towns, both ot
which are fortified. The new town, which was built
at fb ft by French and Flemilh refugees, who had great
privileges granted them, is regular and handfome. The
caftle, in which the counts ufed to refide, and which
Hands in the old town, is fortified and has a fine
flower-garden with commodious apartments, but makes
no great appearance. The Jews are tolerated here,
and dwell in a particular quarter. The^ magiftracy of
the new town, and the difpofal of all offices in it, be¬
long to the French and Dutch congregations.^ Here
is an univerfity, with feveral manufactures, paiticularly
that of roll tobacco, and a very confiderable traffic.
E. Long. 9. o. N. Lat. 49. 56.
H.ANAV-Mun'zenberg, a county of Germany. 1 he
created: part of it is furrounded by the electorate of
Mentz, the bifhopric of Fulda, the lordfhips of Rei-
neck, Ifenburg, and Solms j as alfo by the terntories
of Heffe-Homburg, Burg-Friedburg, and Frankfort.
Its length is near 40 miles, but its greateft breadth
not above 12. It is exceeding fertile in corn, wine,
and fruits j yielding alfo fait fprings, with fome cop¬
per, filver, and cobalt. The chief rivers are, _ the
Mayne, the Kenzig, and the Nidda. 1 he prevailing
religion is Calvinifro, but Lutherans and Catholics are
tolerated. The country is populous, and trade and
manufactures flouriffi in it. In the whole male
line of the counts of Hanau failing in John Reinard,
William VIII. landgrave of Heffe Caffel, by virtue
of a treaty of mutual lucceffion between the families
of Hanau and Hefle Caffel, took pofieffion of the coun¬
ty, fatisfaCfion having been firft made to the houfe
of Saxony for their claims-, and in the year 1754>
transferred it to Prince William, eldeft fon to the then
.hereditary prince Frederic, afterwards landgrave. .1 he
revenues of the laft count, arifing from this and other
territories, are faid to have amounted to 500,000 flo- H;-nd<
rins. The principal places are Hanau, Bergen, Stei-»   
nau, and Glenhaufen.
HANCES, Hanches, Haunches, or . Hanses, m
ArchiteBure, certain fmall intermediate parts of arches
between the crown and the fpring at the bottom, being
probably about one-third of the arch, and placed nearer
to the bottom than the top, which are likewife denomi¬
nated the fpatidrels. f
HAND, a part or member of the body or man,
making the extremity of the arm. See Anatomy,
n° 52, See.
The mechanifm of the hand is very curious; ex¬
cellently contrived to fit it for the various ufes and oc-
cafions we have for it, and the great number of arts and
manufadures it is to be employed in. _ It confilts of a
compages of nerves, and little bones joined into each
other, which give it a great degree of ftrength, and at the
fame time an unufual flexibility, to enable it to handle
adjacent bodies, lay hold of them, and grafp them, m
order either to draw them toward us or thruft them oft.
Anaxagoras is reprefented by ancient authors as main¬
taining, that man owes all his wifdom, knowledge, and
fuperiority over other animals, to the ufe of his hands.
Galen reprefents the matter otherwiie 5 man accord¬
ing to him, is not the wifeft creature becaufe he has
hands; but he had hands given him becaufe he was the
wifeft creature j for it was not our hands that taught
us arts, but our reafon. The hands are the organs of
reafon, &c. . . ,
In feripture, the word hand was vanoiiily applied.
To pour water on any one’s hand, fignifies to ferve
him. To wafh the hands was a ceremony made ufe, of
to denote innocency from murder or manflaughter. To
kifs the hand was an aft of adoration. , To fill the
hand fignified taking poffeffion of the priefthood, and
performing its functions. To lean upon any one ,s hand
was a mark of familiarity and fuperiority. To give the
hand fignifies to grant peace, fwear friendftnp, promile
fecurity, or make alliance. The right hand was the
place of honour and refipeft.—Amongft the Greeks and
Romans it was cuftomary for inferiors to walk,on the
left hand of fuperiors, that their right hand might be
ready to afford prote&ion and defence to their left fide,
which was, on account of the awkwardnefs of the left
hand, more expofed to danger.
Impojltion, or laying on of Hands, fignifies the con¬
ferring of holy orders-, a ceremony wherein the hands
are laid on the head of another, as a fign of a miffion, or
of a power given him to exercife the funftions of the
miniftry belonging to the order.
The apoftles began to appoint miffionariesby the im-
pofition of hands. See Imposition.
Hand, in falconry, is ufed for the foot of the hawk.
To have a clean, ftrong, {lender, glutinous hand, well
clawed, are fome of the good qualities of a hawk or
falcon.
Hand, in the manege, fometimes Hands for, the
fore-foot of a horfe. It is alfo ufed for a divifion
of the horfe into two parts with refpeft to the ri¬
der’s hand. The fore-hand includes the head, neck,
and fore-quarters j the hind-hand is all the reft Oi the
horfe.
Hand is likewife ufed for a meafure of four inches,
H h 2
Hand,
Handel
HAN [244.
or of a clenched M, by which the height of a horfe
is computed.
Hand is alio figuratively ufed in painting, fculp-
ture, &c. for the manner or ftyle of this or that
mailer.
Hands aie borne in coat-armour, dexter andJlni/ler;
that is, right and left, expanded or open j and after
other manners. A bloody hand in the centre of the
cfcutcheon is the badge of a baronet of Great Britain.
HjNn-Breadth, a meafure of three inches.
HANDEL, George Frederic, a moil eminent
mailer and compofer of mufic, was born at Hall, a city
of Upper Saxony in Germany. His father was a phy-
fician and furgeon of that place, and was upwards of
60 years ol age when Handel was born. During his
infancy young Handel is faid to have amufed himfelf
with mufical inilruments, and to have made confider-
able progrefs before he was feven years of age, without
any milruftions. His propenfity for mufic at lail be-
' ame fo ilrong, that his father, who defigned him for
the iludy of the civil law, thought proper to forbid
him, even at this early period of life, to touch a mufi-
< al miliument, and would fuffer none to remain in his
houfe. Notwithilanding this prohibition, however,
Handel found means to get a little clavichord privately
conveyed to a room in the uppermofl ilory of the
houfe, to which room he conllantly dole when the fa¬
mily were alleepj and thus made fuch advances in his
.at, as enabled him to play on the harpfichord. He
was firil taken notice of by the duke of Saxe Weifen-
feE on the following occafion. His father went to pay
a vifit to another fon by a former wife, who was valet
de chambre to the duke, and refided at his court.
Young Handel, being then in his feventh year, ear-
neflly defired permiflion to go along with him 5 but
being refufed, he followed the chaife on foot, and over¬
took it, the carriage being probably retarded by the
roughnefs of the way. His father at firft chid him for
his difobedience, but at laft took him into the chaife
along with him. While he was in the duke’s court,
he ILII continued to fhow the fame inclination for mu¬
fic : it was impodible to keep him from harpfichords j
and he ufed fometimes to get into the organ-loft at
church, and play after fervice was over. On one of
thefe occafions, the duke happening to go out later
than ufual, found fomethilfg fo uncommon in Handel’s
manner of playing, that he inquired of his valet who
it was; and receiving for anfwer that it was his brother,
he defired to fee him. I his nobleman was fo much
taken with the mufical genius drown by young Handel,
that he perfuaded his father to let him follow the bent
of his inclination. He made the boy a prefent j and
told him, that if he minded his dudies, no encourao-e-
ment drould be wanting.
On his return to Hall, Handel was placed under
one Zackaw, the organid of the cathedral church ; and
our young mufician was even then able to fupply his
mader’s place in his abfence. At nine years of age he
began to compofe church-fervices for voices and indru-
ments, and continued to compofe one fuch fervice every
week for three years fuccedively. At the age of 14,
he far excelled his mader, as he himfelf owned; and he
was lent to Berlin, where he had a relation in fome
place about the court, on w'hofe care and fidelity his
parents could rely. The opera was then in a flouridi-
] H A N
ing condition, being encouraged by the grandfather
Of trie late king of Prufiia, and under the direflion
o many eminent perfons from Italy, among whom
weie Buononcini and Attilio. Buononcini, being of
a haughty difpofition, treated Handel with contempt •
but Audio behaved to him with great kindnefs, and he
profited much by his inilruflions. His abilities foon
recommended him to the king, who frequently made
him presents, and at lad propofed to fend him into Italy
under his own patronage, and to take him under his
immediate protection as foon as his dudies Ihould be
completed. But Handel’s parents not thinking proper
to fubmit their child to the caprice of the king, decli¬
ned the offer ; upon which it became neceffary for him
to return to Hall.
Handel having now obtained ideas in mufic far ex¬
celling every thing that could be found in Hall, conti¬
nued there very unwillingly, and it was refolved to
fend him into Italy : but as the expence of this journey
could not then be fpared, he w'ent to Hamburgh, where
the opera was little inferior to that of Berlin. Soon
after his arrival in this city, his father died ; and
his mother being left in narrow circumdances, her
fon thought it neceffary to procure fome fcholars, and
to accept a place in the orchedra ; by which means,
indead of being a burden, he became a great relief
to her.
At this time, the fird harpfichord in Hamburg was
played by one Kefer, a man who alfo excelled in com-
pofition; but he, having involved himfelf in fome debts,,
was obliged, to abfeond. Upon this vacancy, the per-
fon who had been ufed to play the fecond harpfichord
claimed the fird by right of fuccefiion ; but was oppo-
fed by Handel, who founded a claim to the fird harpfi¬
chord upon his fuperior abilities. After much difpute,
in which all who fupported or direfted the opera en¬
gaged with much vehemence, it was decided in favour
of Handel; but this good fuccefs had almod cod him
his life. His antagonid refented the fuppofed affront
fo much, that, as they w^ere coming out of the orchedra
together, he made a pudi at Handel’s bread with a
fword, which mud undoubtedly have killed him, had
there not fortunately been a mufic-book in the bofom of
his coat.
Handel, though yet but in his 15th year, became
compofer to the houfe ; and the fuccefs of Almeria^ his
fird opera, was fo great, that it ran 30 nights without
interruption. Within lefs than a twelvemonth after
this, he fet two others, called Florinda and Norene,
w-hich were received with the fame applaufe. During
his day here, which was about four or five years, he al¬
fo compofed a confiderable number of fonatas, which
are now lod. Here his abilities procured him the ac¬
quaintance of many perfons of note, particularly the
prince of Tufcany, brother to John Gadon de Medi-
cis the grand duke. This prince preffed him to go
with him to Italy, wrhere he affured him that no con¬
venience would be wanting 5 but this offer Handel
thought proper to decline, being refolved not to give
up his independency for any advantage that could be
offered him.
In the 19th year of his age, Handel took a journey
to Italy on his own account 5 where he was received
with the greated kindnefs by the prince of Tufcany,
and had at all times accefs to the palace of the grand
duke.
Handel.
HAN
[ 245 ]
HAN
Handel, duke. His Serene Highnefs was impatient to have
 V—Something compofed by fo great a matter ; and not-
withftanding the difference between the ttyle or the
Italian mulic and the German, to which Handel had
hitherto been accuftomed, he fet an opera called Rorfe-
rigo, which pleafed fo well, that he was rewarded with
joo fequins and a fervice of plate. Alter flaying
about a year in Florence, he went to Venice, where
he is faid to have been firft difcovered at a mafque-
rade. He was playing on a harpflchord. in his viior
when Scarlatti, a famous performer, cried out, that
the perfon who played could be none but the famous
Saxon or the devil. But a flory flmilar _ to. this is
reported of many eminent perfons whole abilities have
been difcovered in difguife. Here he compofed his
opera called Agrippina, which was performed 27 nights
fucceffively, with the moft extravagant applaufe.
From Venice our muttcian proceeded to Rome,
where he became acquainted with Cardinal Ottoboni
and many other dignitaries of the church, by which
means he was frequently attacked on account of his re¬
ligion •, but Handel declared he would live and die in
religion in which he had been educated, whether it
was true or falfe. Here he compofed an oratorio call¬
ed Refurretiione, and 150 cantatas, befides fome fona-
tas, and other muiic. Ottoboni affo contrived to have
a trial of Ikill between him and Dominic! Scarlatti,
' who was confidered as the greatett matter on that
inftrument in Italy. Fhe event is differently report¬
ed. Some fay that Scarlatti was vi&orious, and others
give the victory to Handel; but when they came to
the organ, Scarlatti himielf afcnbed the iupenority to
Handel.
From Rome, Handel went to Naples •, after which,
he paid a fecond vilit to Florence , and at laft, having
fpent fix years in Italy, fet out for his native country.
In his way thither, he was introduced at the court of
Hanover with fo much advantage by the baron Kil-
manfeck, that his Ele&oral Highnefs offered him a
penfion of 1500 crowns a-year as an inducement ior him
to continue there. This generous offer he declined on
account of his having promifed to vifit the court of the
Ele&or Palatine, and likewife to come over to Eng¬
land in compliance with the repeated invitations of the
duke of Manchetter. The eleaor, however, being
made acquainted with this objection, generoufly order¬
ed him to be told, that his acceptance of the penfion
fhould neither reftrain him from his promife nor retolu-
tion: but that he ftiould be at full liberty to be abfent
a year or more if . he chofe it, and to go wherever he
thought fit. Soon after, the place of matter of the
chapel was beftowed upon Handel j and our mulician
having vifited his mother, who was now extremely aged
and blind, and his old matter Zackaw, and (laid fome
time at the court of the Eteflor Palatine, fet out for
England, where he arrived in 1710.
At that time operas were a new entertainment in
England, and were conduced in a very abfurd man¬
ner: but Handel foon put them on a better footing $
and fet a drama called Rinaldo, which was performed
with uncommon fuccefs. Having (laid a year in Eng¬
land, he returned to Hanover ; but in 171 2 he again
came over to England •, and the peace of Utrectit be¬
ing concluded a few months afterwards, he compofed a
grand Te Dcum and "Jubilate on the occafion. He now
found the nobility very defirous that he fliould refume
the direflion of the opera-houfe in the Hay Market ;
and the queen having added her authority to their fo-
licitations, and conferred on him a penfion of 20cl.
a year, he forgot his engagements to the ele&or ol Ha¬
nover, and remained in Britain till the. death Oi the
queen in lyH’ O"1 the arrival of King George I.
Handel, confcious of his ill behaviour', durft not ap¬
pear at court but he was extricated from his dilemma
by the baron Kilmanfeck. Having engaged feveral o
the Enolifh nobility in his behalf, the baron perluaded
the king to a party of pleafure on the water. Handel
was apprifed of the defign and ordered to prepare fome
mufic for the occafion. This he executed with the ut-
moft attention, and on the day appointed it was per¬
formed and condudted by himfelt. I ne king with plea¬
fure and furprife inquired whofe it was, and.how' the
entertainment came to be provided without his know¬
ledge. The baron then produced the delinquent j and
a Iked leave to prefent him to his majefty as one too fen-
fible of his fault to attempt an excufe, but fincerely de¬
firous to atone for it. This interceffion was accepted.
Handel was reftored to favour, his. water mufic was
honoured with the higheft approbation, and the xiilg
added a penfion of 200I. a-year to that formerly be-
ttowed on him by Queen Anne j which he foon after
increafed to 400I. on his being appointed to teach
the young princeffes mufic. _
In the year lyiy, Handel compofed his opera of ^2-
madige; but from that time tq the year 1720 he com¬
pofed only Tefeo and Pajlor Fido, Buononcini and At-
tilio being then compofers for the operas. About this
time a projeitt; was formed by the nobility for ereffing
a kind of academy at the Hay Market, with a view to
fecure to themfelves a conftant fupply of operas to be
compofed by Handel, and performed under his direc¬
tion. No lefs than 50,000!. was fubfcribed for this
fcheme, of wdiich the king himfelf fubfcribed 1000I.
and it was propofed to continue the undertaking for 14
years. Handel went over to Drefden, in order to en¬
gage fingers, and returned with Senefi.no and Duri-
ftanti; Buononcini and Attilio had ftill a ttrong party
in their favour, but not equal to that of Handel \ and
therefore in 1720 he obtained leave to perform his ope¬
ra of Radami/lo. The houfe was fo crowded, tnat many
fainted through exceflive heat j and 40s. were.offered
by fome for a feat in the gallery, after having in vain
attempted to get one elfewhere. The contention, how-
ever, ttill ran very high between Handel s party and
that of the two Italian matters ; and at latt it was de¬
termined that the rivals Ihould be jointly employed in
making an opera, in which each ttiould take a diilinft
actt, and he who by the general fuffrage was allowed to
have given the belt proof of his aoihties fhould be pu»
in poffefiion of the houfe. i his opera was called ±vlu-
%io Sccevola, and Handel fet the laft aft. It is faid that
Handel’s fuperiority wras owmed even in the overture
before it; but when the aft came to be performed,
there remained no pretence of doubt or dhpuie. Ine
academy was now therefore firmly eftablifhed, and Han¬
del conducted it for nine years with great fucqeis •, but
about that time an irreconcileable enmity took place
between Handel himfelf and Ssnefino. Seneiiuo ac~
cufed Handel of tyranny, and Handel accufed Senefi-
no of rebellion. The merits of the quarrel ar^ net
k nnwn
Ha nde!.
HAN, [
• known : 'the nobility, however, became mediators for
01X16 time j and having failed in that good defign, they
became parties in the quarrel. Handel was relolved to
diimifs Senefino, and the nobility feemed alfo refol¬
ded not to permit him to do fo. The haughtinefs of
Handel’s temper would not allow him to yield, and
the affair ended in the total diffolution of the aca¬
demy.
Handel now found that his abilities, great a« they
were, could not fupport him againft the powerful op-
pofition he met with. After the difmiflion of Senefino,
his audience fenfxbly dwindled away, and Handel en¬
tiled into an agreement with Mr Heidegger to carry
on operas in conjun&ion with him. New lino-efs were
engaged_ from Italy ; but the offended nobility raifed a
fubfcription againft him, to carry on operas in the play-
noufe in Lincoln’s-Inn fields. Handel bore up four
yeais againft this oppofition; three in partnerfliip with
Heidegger, and one by himfelf: but though his mu-
lical abilities were fuperior to thofe of his antagonifts,
the aftoniftiing powers of the voice of Farinelli, whom
the oppofite party had engaged, determined the vic-
tory againft him. At laft Handel, having fpent all he
•was worth in a fruitlefs oppofition, thought proper to
delift. His difappointment had fuch an effea upon
him, that for fome time he was difordered in his un-
derftanding, and at the fame time his right arm was
rendered ufelefs by a ftroke of the pally. In this
deplorable fituation, it was thought neceffary that he
Ihould go to the baths of Aix-la-Chapelle ; and from
them he received fuch extraordinary and hidden re-
nef, that his cure was looked upon by the nuns as mi¬
raculous.
In 1736, Handel again returned to England; and
“Oon alter his return his Alexander’s Feaft was per-
formed with applaufe at Covent Garden. The fuccefs
and fplendor of the Hay Market was by this time fo
much reduced by repeated mifmanagements, that Lord
Middlefex undertook the diredion of it himfelf, and
once more applied to Handel for compofition. He
accordingly compofed two operas called Faromondo,
and SlleJJbndro Sevcro^ for which in 1737 kc received
1000I. In 1738, he received 1500I. from a fingle
benefit, and nothing feemed wanting to reprieve his
affairs, excepting fuch conceflions on his part as his op¬
ponents had a right to expedl. Thefe conceflions, how¬
ever, he could not be prevailed upon to make; and
that he might no longer be under obligations to aft as
he was direfted by others, he refufed to enter into any
engagements upon fubfcription. After having tried a
few more operas at Covent Garden without fuccefs, he
introduced another fpecies of mufic called oratorios,
which he thought better fuited to the native gravity of
t»n Englilh audience. But as the fubjefts of thefe pieces
were always taken from facred hiftory, it was by fome
thought to be a profanation to fet them to mufic and
perfoim them at a playhoufe. In confequence of this
piejudice, the oratorios met with very indifferent fuc¬
cefs ; and in 1741 Mr Handel found his affairs in fuch
a bad fituation, that he was obliged to quit England
and go to Dublin.
_ He was received in Ireland in a manner fuitable to
his great merit ; and his performing his oratorio called
the Meffiah,' for the benefit of the city prifon, brought
him into univerfal favour. In nine months time he had
*46 ] H A N
brought his affairs into a better fituation ; and on his
return to England in 1742, he found the public much
more favourably difpofed. His oratorios were now per¬
formed wnh great applaufe: his Mefliah, which before
had been but coldly received, became a favourite per¬
formance ; and Handel, with a generous humanity, de¬
termined to perform it annually for the benefit of the
foundling hofpital, which at that time was onlv fUp-
ported by private benefaftions. In 1743, he bad a re¬
turn of his paralytic diforder; and in 1751 became
quite blind by a guttaferena in his eyes. This laft mis¬
fortune for fome time funk him into the deepeft de.
fpondency ; but at laft he was obliged to acquiefce in
ms fituation, after having without any relief undergone
fome very painful operations. Finding it now impof-
hble to. manage his oratorios alone, he was affifted by
Mr Smith, who at his requeft frequently played for
him, and condufted them in his ftead ; and with this
aftiftance they were continued till within eight days of
his death. During the latter part of his life, his mind
was often .difordered.; yet at times it appears to have
refumed its full vigour, and he compofed feveral
longs, chorufes, &c. which from their dates may be
confidered almoft as the laft founds of his dying voice.
From about October 1758 his healfh declined very
faff; his appetite, which had been remarkably keen,
and which he had gratified to a great degree, left him;
and he became fenfible of the approach of death. On
the 6th of April 1759, his laft oratorio was perform¬
ed, at which he was prefent, and died on the 14th
of the fame month. On the 20th he was buried by
the right, reverend Dr Pearce, biffop of Rochefter,
m Weftminfter abbey ; where, by his own order, and
at his own expence, a monument was erefted to his
memory.
With regard to the charafter of this moft eminent
mufician, he is univerfally allow'ed to have been a great
epicure : In his temper he was very haughty, but
was feldom or never guilty of mean aftions. His pride
was uniform: he was not by turns a tyrant and a Have.
He appears to have had a moft extravagant love for li¬
berty and independence ; infomuch, that he would, for
the. lake of liberty, do things otherwife the moft preju¬
dicial to his own intereft. He was liberal even when
poor, and remembered his former friends when he was
rich. His mufical powers can perhaps be belt exprefs-
ed by Arbuthnot’s reply to Pope, who ferioufly aflced
his opinion of him as a mufician ; “ Conceive (faid
he) the higheft you can of his abilities, and they are
much beyond any thing you can conceive.”
. Commemoration of Handel; a mufical exhibition in-
ftituted fome years ago, and the grandeft of the kind
ever attempted in any nation. Of the rife and pro-
grefs of the defign, together with the manner in which
the firft celebration was executed, an accurate and au¬
thentic detail is given, as might be expefted, by Dr
Burney in the 4th and laft volume of his Hiflory of
Mufic, from which the following account is ex-
trafted. »
“ In a converfation between lord vifcount Fitzwil-
ham, Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, and Joah Bates,
Efq. commiftioner of the viftualling-office, the begin¬
ning of laft year, 1783, at the houfe of the latter ; af¬
ter remarking that the number of eminent mufical
performers of all kinds, both vocal and inftrumental,
with
H A N
Hand el, with which London abounded, was far greater than in
z~y other city of Europe, it was lamented that there
was no public periodical occafion for colle&ing and
confolidating them into one band ; by which means a
performance might be exhibited on fo grand and mag¬
nificent a fcale as no other part of the world could equal.
The birth and death of Handel naturally occurred to
three fuch enthufiallic admirers of that great mailer ;
and it was immediately recolledled, that the next year
(1784) vrould be a proper time for the introduflion
of fuch a cullom, as it formed a complete century lince
his birth, and an exaft quarter of a century fince his
deceafe.
“ The plan was foon after communicated to the
governors of the Mufical Fund, who approved it, and
promifed their affillance. It was next fubmitted to
the direflors of the concert of Ancient Mulic *, who,
with an alacrity v/hich does honour to their zeal for
the memory of the great artift Handel, voluntarily un¬
dertook the trouble of managing and direfting the
celebrity. At length, the delign coming to the know¬
ledge of the king, it was honoured with his majefty’s
fanftion and patronage. Weftminfler Abbey, where
the bones of the great mufician were depolited, was
thought the propereft place for the performance •, and
application having been made to the biihop ol Ro-
chelfer for the ufe of it, his lordihip finding that the
fcheme was honoured wdth the patronage of his ma-
jefty, readily confented ; only requelling, as the per¬
formance would interfere with the annual benefit for
the Wellminller Infirmary, that part of the profits
might be appropriated to that charity, as an indemni¬
fication for the lofs it would fulfain. To this the pro-
jeftors of the plan acceded 5 and it was afterwards'
fettled, that the profits of the firll day’s performance
Ihould be equally divided between the Mufical Fund
and the Wellminller Infirmary •, and thofe of the fub-
fequent days be folely applied to the ufe of that fund
■which Handel himfelf fo long helped to fullain, and to
which he not only bequeathed a thoufand pounds, but
which almoft every mufician in the capital annually
contributes his money, his performance, or both, to fup-
port. Application was next made to Mr James Wyatt,
the architedl, to furnilh plans for the neceffary deco¬
rations of the abbey *, drawings of which having been
Ihown to his majeily, vrere approved. The general
idea was to produce the effect of a royal mulical
chapel, with the orchellra terminating one end, and
the accommodation for the royal family, the other.
The arrangement of the performance of each day was
next fettled 5 and it was at his majelly’s inlligation
that the celebrity was extended to three days in-
Head of two, wdiich he thought would not be fufficient
for the difplay of Handel’s powers, or fulfilling the
charitable purpofes to which it was intended to devote
the profits. It was originally intended to have cele¬
brated this feftival on the 20th, 22d, and 23d of A-
pril • and the 20th being tbe day of the funeral of
Handel, part of the mufic was, in fome meafure,
fo felefted as to apply to that incident. But, in con-
fequence of the fudden diflblution of parliament, it
wTas thought proper to defer the feflival to the 26th,
27th, and 29th of May, which feems to have been for
its advantage j as many perfons of tender conftitutions,
H A N
who ventured to go to Weftminller Abbey in warm i Handel,
weather, would not have had the courage to go thither v
in cold. Imprefied with a reverence for the memory of
Handel, no fooner was the projedt known, but moll
of the pradlical muficians in the kingdom eagerly ma-
nifefted their zeal for the enterprife j and many of the
moll eminent profeffors, waving all claims to prece¬
dence in the band, offered to perform in any fubor-
dinate ftation in which their talents could be moll
ufeful.
“ In order to render the band as powerful and com¬
plete as poflible, it was determined to employ every
fpecies of inflrument that was capable of producing
grand effedls in a great orcbeftra and fpacious build¬
ing. Among thefe the faebut, or double trumpet,
was fought ; but fo many years had elapfed fince it
had been ufed in this kingdom, that neither the inftru-
ment, nor a performer upon it, could eafily be found.
It was, however, difeovered, after much ufelefs in¬
quiry, not only here, but by letter, on the continent,
that in his majefty’s military band there were fix mufi¬
cians who played the three feveral fpecies of faebut, te
nor, bafe, and double bafe.
“ The double baffoon, which was fo confpicuous in
the orcheftra, and powerful in its effeft, is likewife a
tube of 16 feet. It was made, with the approbation
of Mr Handel, by Stainlby the flute-maker, for the
coronation of his late majetly George II. The late
ingenious Mr Lampe, author of the juilly admired
mufic of The Dragon of Wantley, was the perfon in¬
tended to perform on it 5 but, for want of a proper
reed, or for fome other caufe, at prefent unknown,
no ufe was made of it at that time 5 nor indeed, though
it has been often atempted, was it ever introduced in¬
to any band in England, till now, by the ingenuity and
perfeverance of Mr Afhly of the Guards.
“ The double-bafe kettle-drums were made from
models of Mr Aflibridge, of Drury Lane orcheftra, in
copper, it being impoffible to procure plates of brafs
large enough. The Tower drums, which, by permif-
fion of his grace the duke of Richmond, were brought
to the abbey on this occafion, are thofe which belong
to the ordnance (lores, and were taken by the duke of
Marlborough at the battle of Malplaquet in 1709.
Thefe are hemifpherical, or a circle divided ; but thofe
of Mr Afhbridge are more cylindrical, being much
longer, as well as more capacious, than the common
kettle-drum ; by which he accounts for the fuperiority
of their tone to that of all other drums. Thefe three
fpecies of kettle drums, which may be called tenor,
bafe, and double bafe, were an oftave below each other.
“ The excellent organ, erefted at the weft end of
the abbey for the commemoration performances only,
is tbe workmanftiip of the ingenious Mr Samuel Green
in Iflington. It was fabricated for the cathedral of
Canterbury 5 but before its departure for the place of
its deftination, it was permitted to be opened in the
capital on this memorable occafton. The keys of com¬
munication with the harpfichord, at which IVIr Bates
the conduftor was feated, extended 19 feet from the
body of the organ, and 20 feet 7 inches below the
perpendicular of the fet of keys by which it is ufually
played. Similar keys wTere firll contrived in this coun¬
try for Handel himfelf at his oratorios j but to convey
'‘them-
L 247 1
HAN [ 248 ] HAN
Handel, them to fo great a diftance from the inftrument, with-
1 out rendering the touch impra&icably heavy, required
uncommon ingenuity and mechanical refources.
“ In celebrating the difpolition, difcipline, and ef-
fe£ls of this moft numerous and excellent band, the
merit of the admirable architeft, who furnifhed the
elegant defigns for the orcheilra and galleries, mull not
be forgotten ; as, when filled, they conftituted one of
the grandeft and moft magnificent fpe£lacles wftiich
imagination can delineate. All the preparations for re¬
ceiving their majefties, and the firft perfonages in the
kingdom, at the eaft end •, upwards of 500 muficians at
the weft ; and the public in general, to the number of
between 3000 and 4000 perfons, in the area and galle¬
ries ; fo wonderfully correfponded with the ftyle ol ar¬
chitecture of this venerable and beautiful ItruCture,
that there was nothing vifible either for ufe or orna¬
ment, which did not harmonize with the principal tone
of the building, and which may not metaphorically
have been faid to have been in perfeCt tune with it.
But, befides the wonderful manner in which this con-
ftruCtion exhibited the band to the fpeClators, the or-
cheftra was fo judicioufty contrived, that almoft every
performer, both vocal and inftrumental, was in full
view of the conduClor and leader j which accounts, in
fome meafure, for the uncommon eafe with which the
performers confefs they executed their parts.
“ At the eaft end of the aifie, juft before the back
of the choir-organ, fome of the pipes of which were
vifible below, a throne was ereCled in a beautiful Go¬
thic ftyle, correfponding with that of the abbey, and a
centre box, richly decorated and furnifhed with crim-
fon fatin, fringed with gold, for the reception of their
majefties and the royal family : on the right hand of
which was a box for the bifhops, and on the left, one
for the dean and chapter of Weitminfter j immediately
below thefe two boxes were two others, one on the
right for the families and friends of the diredors, and
the other for thofe of the prebendaries of Weftminfter.
Immediately below the king’s box was placed one for
the diredors themfelves, who were all diftinguilhed
by white wands tipped with gold, and gold medals,
ftruck on the occa^on, appending from white ribbands.
Thefe their majefties likewife condefcended to wear
at each performance. Behind, and on each fide of
the throni, there were feats for their majefties fuite,
maids of honour, grooms of the bed-chamber, pages,
&c.—The orcheftra was built at the oppofite extremi¬
ty, afcending regularly from the height of feven feet
from the floor to upwards of forty from the bafe of the
« pillars, and extending from the centre to the top of the
fide aifle.—The intermediate fpace below was filled up
with level benches, and appropriated to the early fubfcri-
bers. The faid aifles were formed into long galleries
ranging with the orcheftra, and afcending fo as to con¬
tain 12 rows on each fide; the fronts of which projected
before the pillars, and were ornamented with feftoons of
crimfon morine.—At the top of the orcheftra was placed
the occafional organ, in a Gothic frame, mounting to,
and mingling with, the faints and martyrs reprefented
in the painted glafs on the weft window. On each
fide of the organ, clofe to the window, were placed
Xhe kettle-drums defcribed above. The choral bands
were principally placed in view of Mr Bates, on fteps
Xeeipingly afcending into the clouds, in each of the
1
fide aifles, as their termination was invifible to the au- Handel,
dience. The principal fingers were ranged in the front '"“-y—
of the orcheftra, as at oratorios, accompanied by the
choirs of St Paul, the abbey, Windfor, and the chapel
royal.
“ Few circumftances will perhaps more aftonifh ve¬
teran muficians, than to be informed, that there was
but one general rehearfal for each day’s performance :
an indifputable proof of the high ftate of cultivation
to which praftical mufic is at prefent arrived in this
country ; for if good performers had not been found
ready made, a dozen rehearfals would not have been
fufficient to make them fo. Indeed, Mr Bates, in ex¬
amining the lift of performers, and inquiring into their
feveral merits, fuggefted the idea of what he called a
drilling rehearfal, at Tottenham-ftreet concert room,
a week before the performance ; in order to hear fuch
volunteers, particularly chorus fingers, as were but
little known to himfelf, or of whofe abilities his aflift-
ant was unable to fpeak with certainty. At this re¬
hearfal, though it confifted of 120 performers, not
more than two of that number were delired not to at¬
tend any more.
“ At the general rehearfal in the abbey, mentioned
above, more than jco perfons found means to obtain
admiflion, in fpite of every endeavour to Ihut out all
but the performers ; for fear of interruption, and per¬
haps of failure in the firft attempts at incorporating and
confolidating fuch a numer us band, confiding not
only of all the regulars, both native and foreign, which
the capital could furnilh, but of all the irregulars, that
is, dilettanti, and provincial muficians of charafler, who
could be muftered, many of whom had never heard
or feen each other before. This intrufion, which was
very much to trie diflathfaftion of the managers and
conductor, fuggefted the idea of turning the eagernefs
of the public to fome profitable account for the chari¬
ty, by fixing the price of admifiion to halt a guinea for
each perfon.
“ But, befides the profits derived from fubfequent
rehearfals, the confequences of the firft were not with¬
out their ufe ; for the pleafure and aftoniftiment of the
audience, at the fmall miftakes, and great effefls of
this firft experiment, which many had condemned by
anticipation, were foon communicated to the lovers of
mufic throughout the town, to the great increafe of
fubfcribers and folicitors for tickets. For though the
friends of the direflors were early in fubfcribing, per¬
haps from perfonal refpeft, as much as expectation of
a higher mufical repait than ufual; yet the public in
general did not manifeft great eagernefs in fecuring
tickets till after this rehearfal, Friday May 21. which
was reported to have aftonifhed even the performers
themfelves by its corredfnefs and eftefts. But fo in-
terefting did the undertaking become by this favour¬
able rumour, that from the great demand of tickets
it was found neceffary to clofe the fubfcription.
“ Many families, as vrell as individuals, were at-
trafted to the capital by this celebrity ; and it was
never remembered to have been fo full, except at the
coronation of his prefent majefty. Many of the per¬
formers came, unfolicited, from the remoteft parts of
the kingdom at their own expence: fome of them,
however, were afterwards reimburfed, and had a fmall
gratuity in confideration of the time they were kept
from
M A N
Handel
If
Hang-
tchoo-foo.
from their families by the ttvo unexpefted additional
performances^
“ Foreigners, particularly the French, mult be
j much ailonilhed at fo numerous a band moving in fuch
cxad meafure, without the affiftance of a coryphaeus
to beat the time, either with a roll of paper, or a noify
baton or truncheon. Rouffeau fays, that ‘ the more
time is beaten, the lefs it is kept j’ and it is certain,
that when the meafure is broken, the fury of the mu-
fical general or diredlor, increafmg with the difobedi-
ence and confufion of his troops, he becomes more vio¬
lent, and his ftrokes and gefticulations more ridiculous,
in proportion to their diforder.
“ As this commemoration is not only the firfl in-
ftance of a band of fuch magnitude being alfembled to¬
gether, but of any band at all numerous, performing
in a fimilar fituation, without the alfillance of a manu-
duffor to regulate the meafure, the performances in
W efiminfter abbey may be fafely pronounced no lefs
remarkable for the multiplicity of voices and inftru-
ments employed, than for accuracy and precifion.
When ail the wheels of that huge machine, the orche-
ftra, were in motion, the effeft refembled clock-work
in every tiling but want of feeling and expreffion.
And as the power of gravity and attradlion i» bodies is
proportioned to their mafs and denfitv, fo it feems as if
the magnitude of this band had commanded and impel¬
led adhefion and obedience beyond that of any other
of inferior force. 1 he pulfations in every limb, and
ramifications of veins and arteries in an animal, could
not be more reciprocal, ifochronous, and under the
regulation of the heart, than the members of this bo¬
dy of muficians under that of the conductor and leader,
i he totality of found feemed to proceed from one
voice and one inftrument; and its powers produced not
only new and exquifite fenfations in judges and lovers
of the art, but were felt by thofe who never received
pleafure from mufic before. Thefe effeCts, which will
be long remembered by the prefent public, perhaps to
the difadvantage of all other choral performances, run
the rilk of being doubted by all but thofe who heard
them, and the prefent defcription of being pronounced
fabulous, if it fliould furvive the prefent generation.”
HANDSPIKE, or Handspec, a wooden bar ufed
as a lever to heave about the windlafs, in order to draw
up the anchor from the bottom, particularly in mer¬
chant (hips. The handle is round and tapering, and
the other end is fquare, to conform to the (liape of
the holes in the windlafs. It is alio employed as a
lever on many other occafions, as flowing the anchors,
provifions, or cargo, in the fhip’s hold. The gunner’s
handfpike is fhorter and flatter than the above, and
armed with two claws for managing the artillery &c.
^HANG-I CHOO-FOO,the capital ofthe province of
Iche-Kiang in China, is fituated between the bafon of
the grand canal, and the river Chen-tang-chaung, which
-alls into the lea about 60 miles to the eaflward, and in
N. Lat. 30° 2x'. E. Long. 1 20° 20'. Hang-tchoo-foo ex-
poifcs and receives vaft quantities of merchandife to and
irom the louthern provinces by means of this river,
i here is no communication by water between the river
and the^ bafon of the grand canal, in cenfequence of
which all goods brought by fea into the river from the
ioutlmaid, mull be landed at this city, in their way to
tne north. Its population is immenfe. being computed
Vol. X. Part I. , ' 6 J
[ 249 ]
HAN
to be nearly as numerous as in Pekin, which contains
about 3,000,000 of inhabitants. The houfes are low,
none exceeding two flories; and the flreets, the middle
of which is,paved with fmooth flags, and the Tides with
fmall flat flones, are very narrow. The principal flreets
contain nothing but fliops and warehoufes, many of
which are equally fplendid with thofe of the kind in
London. Sir George Staunton informs us, that it is
extremely difficult to pafs along the ftreets, on account
of the prodigious numbers of people, all engaged in
their own concerns. Several men, but no women, at¬
tend in thefe fhops behind the counters. The women
are employed in the manufacture of filk, every part of
which is done by them alone. In their drefs they are
not regulated by fancy or fafhion, but by what is con¬
ducive to health, and the feafon of the year. Even
among the ladies, there is little variety in their drefs,
except in the difpofition of the ornaments of the head.
The fair fex efteem corpulency in a man to be a beauty,
but they aim at preTrving a delicacy of fhape as to
themfelves. Ihey allow their nails to grow*, and re¬
duce their eyebrows to an arched line.
The natural and artificial beauties of the lake of
Hang-tchou-foo, in the opinion of Harrow, far ex¬
ceeded any thing which he had the opportunity of
feeing in tne vaft empire of China. The furroundm'-'"
mountains are highly picturefque, and the vallies cover¬
ed with trees of various kinds, among wrhich are the
/aurus camphor a, croton fbfentm, and thuya orientalis.
In the middle of the lake are two ifiands, to which com-
pany generally refort after having amufed themfelves
with rowing, and in which a temple and feveral plea-
fure-houfes have been built for their reception. The
emperor has a fmall palace in the neighbourhood. This
city has a garrifon of 3000 Chinefe, under the command
of the viceroy, and 3000 Tartars, commanded by a ge¬
neral of the fame nation. It has under its jurifdiction
feven cities of the fecond arid third claf$.
HANGING, a common name given to the me¬
thod of intlidling death on criminals by fufpendinp
them by the neck.— Phyficians are not agreed as to
the manner in which death is brought 011 by hanging.
De Haen hanged three dogs, which he afterwards
opened. In one, nothing remarkable appeared in the
lungs. In another, from whom half an ounce of blood
was taken from the jugular Vein, the dura and pia
mater were of the natural appearance ; but the lungs
ivere much inflamed. In the third, the meninges were
found, and there w^as no effufton of blood in \he ven¬
tricles of the brain, but the left lobe of the lunp-s wxas
turgid with blood. Wepfer, Littrams, Alberti,° Bru-
hierius, and Boerhaave, affirm that hanged animals die
apoplectic. Their arguments for this are chiefly drawn
from the livid colour of the face 5 from the turgefeenev
of the vefiels of the brain ; the inflammation of the
eyes j and fiom the fparks of fire which thofe who
have fuivived hanging allege they have feen before their
eyes. ^ On the contrary, Bonetus, Petit, Haller, and
Lanciii, fiom obferving that death is occafioned by
any fmall body falling into the glottis, have aferibed it
to the lloppage of. refpiration. Others, deeming both
thefe caufes ill- founded, ha.ve afenbed it to a luxation
of the vertebrae of the neck.—De Haen adduces the
authority of many eminent authors to prove the poffibi-
hty of recovering hanged perfons j and obferves, in ge-
11 neral,
Hang-
tchoo-f.io,
Hanging.
t
Hangings ncral, that
HAN
with bleeding in
[ 25
the jugular vein, and
anointing the neck with warm oil, the lame remedies
.Hanniba . employed in this cafe as for the recovery of
drowned people. See Dp.owning.
HANGINGS, denote any kind of drapery hung up
againft the walls or wainfcotting of a room.
Paper-HsiNGiNGS. See PjiPER-Hangings.
Wove Hangings. See Tapestry.
HANGCLIFF, a remarkable point of land on the
eaft coaft of the largeft of the Shetland illands. It is
frequently the firft land feen by fliips in northern voy¬
ages. Captain Phipps determined its fituation to be in
W. Long. 56' 30". N. Lat. 6o° 9'.
HANNIBAL, a famous Carthaginian general, of
whofe exploits an account is given under the articles
Carthage and Rome. After having had the mif-
fortune to lofe a fea-fight with the Rhodians, through
the cowardice of Apollonius one of the admirals of
Antiochus the Great, he was forced to fly int© Crete,
to avoid falling into the hands of the Romans. On
his arrival in this idand, he took fan£!uary among the
Gcrtynii; but as he had brought great treafure along
with him, and knew the avarice of the Cretans, he
thought proper to fecure his riches by the following
ftratagem. He filled feveral veflels with melted lead,
juft covering them over with gold and filver. ihefe
he depofited in the temple of Diana, in the prefence
of the Gortynii, with whom, he faid, he trufted all
his treafure : Juftin tells us, that he left this with
them as a fecurity for his good behaviour, and lived
for fome time very quietly in thefe parts. He took
care, however, to conceal his riches in hollow ftatues
of brafs ; which, according to fome, he always carried
along with him •, or, as others will have it, expofed in
a public place as things of little value. At laft he
retired to the court of Prufias king of Bithynia, where
he found means to unite feveral of the neighbouring
Bates with that prince in a confederacy againft Eu-
menes king of Pergamus, a profeffed friend to the Ro¬
mans ; and during the enfuing war gave Eumenes fe¬
veral defeats, more through the force of his own ge¬
nius than the valour of his troops. The Romans
having received intelligence of the important fervices
performed by Hannibal, immediately difpatched T.
Quintius Flaminius as an ambaffador to Prufias, in
order to procure his deftruftion. At his firft audience,
he complained of the proteftion given to that famous
general •, reprefenting him “ as the moft inveterate and
implacable enemy the Romans ever had } as one who
had ruined both his own country and Antiochus, by
drawing them into a deftruflive war with Rome.”—
Prufias, in order to ingratiate himfelf with the Romans,
immediately fent a party of foldiers to furrovmd Han¬
nibal’s houfe, that he might find it impoffible to make
his efcape. The Carthaginian, having before dilco-
vered that no confidence was to be repofed in Prufias,
had contrived feven fecret paflages from his houfe, in
order to evade the machinations of his enemies, even
if they ftiould carry their point at the Bithynian court.
But guards being ported at thefe, he could not fly,
though, according to Livy, he attempted it. Per¬
ceiving, therefore, no polfibility of efcaping, he had
rccourfe to poifon, which he had long referved for fuch
a melancholy occafion. Then taking it in his hand,
“ Let us (faid he) deliver the Romans from the dif-
o ] ti A N
quietude with which they have long been tortured, flanmbaQ
fince they have not patience to wait for an old man’s
death. Flaminius will not acquire any reputation or
glory* by a vitbory gained over a betrayed and defence-
lefs perfon. This fingle day will be a lafting teftimo-
ny of the degeneracy of the Romans. Their ancef-
tors gave Pyrrhus intelligence of a defign to poifon
him, that he might guard againft the impending dan¬
ger, even when he was at the head of a powerful ar¬
my in Italy \ but they have deputed a perfon of con-
fular dignity to excite Prufias impioufly to murder
one who has taken refuge in his dominions, in viola¬
tion of the laws of hofpitality.” Then having de¬
nounced dreadful imprecations againft Prufias, he
drunk the poifon, and expired at the age of 70 years.
Cornelius Nepos acquaints us, that he put an end to
Ins life by a fubtile poifon which he carried about with
him in a ring. Plutarch relates, that, according to
fome w7riters, he ordered a fervant to ftrangle him with
a cloak wrapped about his neck •, and others fay, that,
in imitation of Midas and Themiflocles, he drank bull’s
blood.
With refpeef to the chara&er of this general, it
appears to have been in military affairs what Demof-
thenes was in oratory, or Newton in mathematics $
namely, abfolutely perfetff, in which no human wifdom
could difeover a fault, and to which no man could add
a perfection. Rollin hath contrafted his character
with that of Scipio Africanus. He enumerates the
qualities which make a complete general } and having
then given a fummary of what hiftorians have related
concerning both commanders, is inclined to give the
preference to Hannibal. “ Ihere are, however (he
fays), two difficulties which hinder him from deciding jj.
one drawn from the characters of the generals whom
Hannibal vanquifhed j the other from the errors he
committed. May it not be faid (continues our author),
that thofe victories which made Hannibal fo famous,
were as much owing to the imprudence and temerity
of the Roman generals, as to his bravery and fkill ?
When a Fabius and a Scipio were fent againft him,
the former flopped his progrefs, the latter conquered
him.”
Thefe reafons have been anfwered by Mr Hooke,
who hath taken fome pains to vindicate Hannibal’s
character, by fully and fairly comparing it with that
of Scipio Africanus, and other Roman commanders.
“ I do not fee (fays he) why thefe difficulties fhould
check our author’s inclination to declare in favour of
the Carthaginian. That babius was not beaten by
Hannibal, we cannot much wonder, when we remem¬
ber how fteadily the old man kept to his relolution
never to fight with him. But from babius s taking
this method to put a flop to the victories of the ene¬
my, may we not conclude that he knew no other, and
thought Hannibal an overmatch for him ? And why
does our author forget Publius Scipio (Africanus’s
father), a prudent and able general, whom Hannibal
vanquifhed at the Ticin ? Livy relates fome vidories
of Hannibal over the celebrated Marcellus ; but. nei¬
ther Marcellus nor any other general ever vanquifhed
Hannibal before the battle of Zama, if we may be¬
lieve Polybius (lib. xv. c. 16.) Terentius Varro, in--
deed, is reprefented as a headtlrong rafh man j but the
battle of Cannae was not loft by his imprudence. The
order-
H AN [2
Hannibal order in which he drew up his army is nowhere con-
11 dernned ; and Chevalier Pblard thinks it excellent.
, HaP°ver- ^ncj as to. the conduft of the battle, /Emilias Paulas, a
renowned captain, and a difciple of Fabius, had a greater
fhare in it than his colleague. The imprudence with
which Varro is taxed, was his venturing, contrary to
his colleague’s advice, with above 90,000 men, to en¬
counter in a plain field an enemy who had only 50,000,
but was fuperior in horfe. And does not the very advice
of AEmilius, and the charge of temerity on Varro for not
following it, imply a confeffion of Hannibal’s fuperio-
rity in military Ikill over AEmilius as well as Varro ?
It ought likewife to be obferved, that Hannibal’s in¬
fantry had gained the viftory over the Roman infan¬
try, before this latter fuffered any thing from the Car¬
thaginian cavalry. It was otherwife when Scipio
gained the victory at Znma. His infantry would pro¬
bably have been vanquilhed but for his cavalry. Han¬
nibal, with only his third line of foot (his Italian army),
maintained a long fight againft Scipio’s three lines of
foot; and feems to have had the advantage over them,
when Mafiniffa and Ladius, with the horfe, came to
their affiilance. Polybius indeed fays, that Hannibal’s
Italian forces wTere equal in number to all Scipio’s in¬
fantry ; but this is contradiefed by Livy, and is not
very probable. The authority of Polybius, who was
an intimate friend of Scipio ZEmilianus, is, I imagine,
of little weight in matters where the glory of the
Scipios is particularly concerned. His partiality and
flattery to them are, in many inflances, but too vi-
fible.”
Our author then proceeds to fhow, that Hannibal
was not guilty of any of the faults laid to his charge
as a general •, .and having contrafted the moral cha-
radlers of the two generals with each other, makes it
evident, that as a man, as well as a general, Hannibal
had greatly the advantage of his rival. See Hooke's
Roman Hiflory, vol. iv, p. 15 1. et feq.
HANNO, general of the Carthaginians, wras com¬
manded to fail round Africa. He entered the ocean
through the ftraits of Gibraltar, and difeovered feveral
countries. He would have continued his navigation, had
it not been for want ofprovifions. He wrote an account
of his voyage, which was often quoted, but not much
credited. Sigifmund Gelenius publifhed it in Greek
at Rafil, by Frobenius, in 1533. He lived, according
to Pliny, when the affairs of the Carthaginians were
in the mod tlourifhing condition j but this is a very
indeterminate expreilion.
HANOVER, an electoral date of Germany, of
which the king of Great Britain is elector.—Though
the houfe of Hanover is the lad that has been raifed
to the electoral dignity in the empire, it may vie with
any in Germany for the antiquity and noblenefs of its
family. It is likewife very confiderable for the extent
of its territories, which at prefent are, The duchy of
Calenberg, in which are the cities of Hanover, Calen-
berg, Hamelen, Neudadt, Gottingen, &c.; the duchy
of Grubenhagen, the county of Diepholt, the county
of Uoga, in the bifhoprick of Hildefheim ; the baili-
ages of Coldingen, Luther, Badenburg, and Weder-
ihoven, with the right of proteftion of the city of
Hildeflieim ; and the county of Danneberg, ceded by
the dukes of V. olfenbuttle to the dukes of Lunenburg,
as an equivalent for their pretendons on the city of
t ] HAN
Brunfwic. The ele&or polfefTes likewife the county Hanover,
of Delmenhord, and the duchies of Bremen and Ver- v'—~~
den, fold by the king of Denmark in 1715 : the right
of poffeiTmg alternately the bidiopric of Ofnabruck
belongs folely to the electoral branch ; but if it (hall
happen to fail, the dukes of Wolfenbuttle are to enjoy
the fame right. This eledlorate has no navy, but a
confiderable marine on the great rivers Elbe and We~
ler.
In confideration of the great fervices performed by
Erned Auguftus, duke of Brunfwic-Hanover, in the
wars which the emperor Leopold had with Louis Xi\ .
that emperor conferred the dignity of an ele£tor of the
holy Roman empire upon him and his heirs male, of
which he received the invediture on the 19th of De¬
cember 1692. This new creation met with great
ojrpofition both in the elefforal college and the col¬
lege of princes: at lad, by a conclufion of the three
colleges on the 30th of January 1708, it was unani-
moudy determined, that the ele&oral dignity ihould be
confirmed to the duke of Hanover and his heirs male ;
but it was added, that if, while that electoral dignity
fubfided, the Palatine deflorate drould happen to fall
into the hands of a Protedant prince, the firlt Catholic
eledor Ihould have a fupemumerary vote.
The princes of this houfe have their feat in the col¬
lege ox princes, immediately after thofe of the elec¬
toral houfes ; each branch having a vote. The elec¬
tor, befides his feat in the eledoral college, was inved-
ed with the office of arc la dandard-bearer of the em¬
pire ; but this being difputed with him by the duke of
Wirtemberg, the eleclor Palatine having obtained the
office of arch-deward, yielded that of arch-treafurer
to the eledor of Hanover, who was confirmed in this
dignity by a decree of the diet of the 13th of Janu¬
ary 1710.
The fovereign power is adminidered by the lords of
the regency appointed by the eledor. Throughout all
the provinces they poffefs a confiderable lhare of free¬
dom, the people being reprefented in the affemblies of
the dates. No government can be more mild ; and an
air of content is fpvead over all the inhabitants. The
Confeil Intime, the High Court of Judice, and the
Regency, are the principal courts of juidice; befides
which, every province has its municipal adminidra-
tion with the inferior divifions into bailiwics, &c.
The police is excellent, and judice fairly adminidered.
The eledor enjoys the right de non appellando in all cri¬
minal affairs, but in civil proceffes only as far as 2000
florins.
Lutheranifm is the eflablilhed religion ; but all others
enjoy a perfed toleration, and are publicly exercifed.
Difference in religious fentiments here gives no inter¬
ruption to that harmony which fhould fubfifl among fel¬
low citizens. There are 750 Lutheran parilhes, 14 Re¬
formed communities, a Romifli college, a convent, and
fome Catholic churches.
Literature is in a very advanced date throughout
thefe dominions. The univerlity of Gottingen is de-
fervedly celebrated ; and contains about 800 ftudents
of different nations, and 60 profeffor?. There are be¬
fides feveral colleges, and a number of well edablidxed
fchools, throughout the eledorate. In general, edu¬
cation is much attended to.
Although there are various trads of heath and
I i 2 marfliy
HAN [ 252 ] HAN
Hancv'er marlhy ground, the foil in general produces abundance
corn» fruits, hemp, flax, tobacco, madder, and fome
t,4ns’ wine. There are feveral large falt-works. A good
u—y—deal of cattle are reared, and a great number of excel¬
lent horfes. Moff metals and minerals are found here.
The forefts furnifh fufficient timber, and large quanti¬
ties of pitch and tar. The natural productions of the
eledlorate furnifh ample materials for commerce, fo as
to prevent the balance being againft them, although
their manufactures are not fufficient for confumption.
Cattle, horfes, fait, wrought iron, and fuel, are princi¬
pal articles of export. Bremen is one of the greateft
commercial towns in Germany.
The elcCler of Hanover is defeended from the anci¬
ent family of the Guelphs, dukes and eleCtors of Ba¬
varia 5 one of whom, Henry the Lion, in 1140, mar¬
ried Maude, eldeif daughter of King Henry (Planta-
genet) II. of England. Their fon William fucceeded
to Brunfwic-Lunenburg, and his fon Otho was created
duke thereof. The dominions defeended in a direCt
line to Ernefl who divided them upon his death in
1546 into two branches, that of Brunfwic-Lunenburg
Wolfenbuttle, and Brunfwic-Lunenburg Zell. The
pofleffcr of the latter, Erneil Auguflus, was in 1692
raifed to the dignity of an eleCIor 5 before which he
Was head of the college of German princes. Ernefl
married Sophia, daughter of Frederic eleCIor Palatine
and king of Bohemia, by Elizabeth, daughter of
James I. king of England. Sophia being the next
Proteftant heir to the houfe of Stuart, the parliament
fixed the crown of Great Britain upon her on Queen
Anne’s demife •, and George Louis her elder fon be¬
came king of Great Britain in confequence thereof j
lince which the eleftors of Hanover have filled the
Britilh throne.
Hanover is alfo the name of the capital of the
above electorate j and is agreeably fituated in a fandy
plain on the river Leyne, in E. Long. 10. 5. N.
Lat. 52. 5. It is a large well-built town, and pretty
well fortified. It has fuffered greatly by the French,
who got pofleflion of it in 1757, but were foon after
driven out. It is noted for a particular kind of beer,
reckoned excellent in thefe parts. This city was the
refidence of the elcCtor before he afeended the throne
of Great Britain.
In 1803, when the war between Britain and France
broke nut, this capital, as well as the deflorate, was
feized by the French, and afterwards given up to Pruf-
fia, in whofe poffeflion it now (1806) remains.
HANSE, or Hans, an ancient name for a fociety
or company of merchants *, particularly that of certain
cities in Germany, &.c, hence called Hanfe-toxvns. See
Hanse-JoTcwr.—The word hanfe is obfolete High
Dutch or Teutonic 5 and fignifies “ alliance, confede¬
racy, affcciation,” &c. Some derive it from the two
German words, ani-fee, that is, “ on the fea}” by rea-
fon the firil hanfe-towns were all fituated on the fea-
coafl ; whence the fociety is faid to have been firft
called am %eeJlenen, that is, “ cities on the fea }” and
afterwards, by abbreviation, Jianfee, and hanfe.
HANSE-Town?. The hanfeatic fociety was a league
between feveral maritime cities of Germany, for the
mutual proteflion of their commerce. Bremen and
Amfterdam were the two firft that formed it } whole
trade received fuck advantage by their fitting out two
men of war in each to convoy their Ihips, that more Hanfe-
cities continually entered into the league : even kings towns-
and princes made treaties with them, and were often v
glad of their affiftance and proteflion 5 by which means
they grew fo powerful both by fea and land, that they
raifed armies as wTell as navies, enjoyed countries in
fovereignty, and made peace or war, though always in
defence of their trade, as if they had been an united
Hate or commonwealth.
At this time alfo abundance of cities, though they
had no great intereft in trade, or in-terccurfe with the
ocean, came into their alliance for the prefervation of
their liberties: fo that in 1200 we find no lefs than
72 cities in the lift of the towns of the Hanfe *, parti¬
cularly Bremen, Amfterdam, Antwerp, Rotterdam,
Dort, Bruges, Oftend, Dunkirk, Middleburgh, Calais,
Rouen, Rochelle, Bourdeaux, St Malo, Bayonne, Bil-
boa, Lilhon, Seville, Cadiz, Carthagena, Barcelona,
Marfeilles, Leghorn, Naples, Meffina, London, Lubec,
Roftock, Stralfund, Stetin, Wifmar, Konigfberg, Dant-
zig, Elbing, Marienburg,
The alliance was now fo powerful, that their (hips
of war were often hired by other princes to aftift them
againft their enemies. They not only awed, but often
defeated, all that oppofed their commerce ; and par¬
ticularly in 1358, they took fuch revenge of the Da-
nifh fleet in the Sound, for having interrupted their
commerce, that Waldemar III. then king of Denmark,
for the fake of peace, gave them up all Schonen for
16 years j by which they commanded the paflage of
the Sound in their own right.—In 1428 they made
war on Erick king of Denmark with 250 fail, carrying
on board 12,000 men. Thefe fo ravaged the coal! of
Jutland, that the king was glad to make peace with them.
Many privileges were beftowed upon the hanfe towns
by Louis XI. Charles VIII. Louis XII. and Francis I.
kings of France ; as well as by the emperor Charles V.
who had divers loans of money from them \ and by
King Henry III. who alfo incorporated them into a
trading body, in acknowledgment for money which
they advanced to him, as well as for the good fervices
they did him by their naval forces in 1 206.
Thefe towns exercifed a jurifdiflion among them-
felves y for which purpofe they were divided into four
colleges or provinces, diftinguilhed by the names of
their four principal cities, viz. Lubec, Cologne, Bruni-
wick, and Dantzic, wherein were held their courts of
judicature. They had a common flock or treafury at
Lubec, and power to call an affembly as often as ne-
ceffary.—They kept magazines or warehoufes for the
fale of their merchandifes in London, Bruges, Ant¬
werp, Berg in Norway, Revel in Livonia, Novogorod
in Mufcovy, which were exported to moft parts of
Europe, in Englith, Dutch, and Flemilh bottoms.
One of their principal magazines was at London,
where a fociety of German merchants was formed, call¬
ed the feelyard company. To this company great
privileges were granted by Edward I. but revoked by
aft of parliament in 1552 in the reign of Edward VI.
on a complaint of the Englilh merchants that this
company had fo engroffed the cloth-trade, that in the
preceding year they had exported 50,000 pieces, while
all the Englifh together had dripped off but 1 too.
Queen Mary, who afeended the throne the year follow¬
ing, having refolved to marry Philip the emperor’s fon, _
' fufpended
HAN [ 253 ] H A N
Hanfe- fulpended the execution of the aft for three years: but
town', af er that term, whether by reafon of fome new ftatute,
< ‘in^wa3" or Jn pursuance of that of King Edward, the privi¬
leges of that company were no longer regarded, and all
efforts of the hanfe-towns to recover this lofs were in
vain.
Another accident that happened to their mortifica¬
tion was while Queen Elizabeth was at war with the
Spaniards. Sir Francis Drake happening to meet 60
ihips in the Tagus, loaded with corn belonging to the
hanfe-towns, took out all the corn as contraband -gopds,
which they were forbidden to carry by their origirfal
patent. The hanfe-towns having complained of this to
the diet of the empire, the queen font an ambaffador
thither to declare her reafons. The king of Poland
likewife interefted himfelf in the affair, becaufe the city
of Dantzic was under his protection. At laft, though
the queen ft rove hard to preferve the commerce of the
Englifti in Germany, the emperor excluded the Eng-
liih company of merchant-adventurers, who had con-
fiderable faftories at Stade, Embden, Bremen, Ham¬
burg, and Elbing, from all trade in the empire. In
ihort, the hanfe-towns, in Germany in particular, were
not only in fo flouriftiing, but in fo formidable a ftate,
from the 14th to the 16th century, that they gave
umbrage to all the neighbouring princes, who threaten-
■ ed a ftrong confederacy againft them ; and, as the firft
ftep towards it, commanded all the cities within their
dominion or jurifdiffion to withdraw from the union or
hanfe, and be no farther concerned therein. This im¬
mediately feparated all the cities of England, France,
and Italy, from them. The hanfe, on the other hand,
prudently put themfelves under the proteflion of the
empire : and as the cities juft now mentioned had with¬
drawn from them ; fo they withdrew from feveral more,
and made a decree among themfelves, that none ftioulff
be admitted into their fociety but fuch as flood within
the limits of the German empire, or were dependent
thereon : except Dantzic, which continued a member,
though in nowife dependent on the empire, only it had
been fummoned formerly to the imperial diet. By this
means they maintained their confederacy for the protec¬
tion of their trade, as it was begun, without being any
more envied by their neighbours. Hereby likewife
they were reduced to Lubec, Bremen, Hamburgh, and
Dantzic •, in the firft of which they kept their regifter,
and held affemblies once in three years at leaft. But
this hanfe or union has for fome time been diffolved ;
and now' every one of the cities carries on a trade fepa-
rately for itfelf, according to the ftipulation in fuch
treaties of peace, Stc. as are made for the empire be¬
twixt the emperor and other potentates.
HAN WAY, Jonas, eminent for his benevolent dp-
figns and ufeful writings, was born at Portfmouth in
Hampftfire on the r 2th of Auguft 1712. His father,
Mr Ihomas Kanu'ay, was an officer in the naval fer-
vice, and for fome years ftore-keeper to the dockyard
at that place. PTe was deprived of his life by an acci¬
dent j and left his widow with four children, Jonas,
W idiaro, .Thomas, and Elizabeth, all of a very tender
age. Mrs Hanway commg to London after the death
of her hufband, put Jonas to fchool, where he learned
writing and accounts, and made fome proficiency in
Lathw At the age of 17 he uTas fent to Lilhon, where
be arrived in June 1729, and was bound apprentice to
a merchant in that city. His early life, we are in- Hanway.
formed, was marked with that difcreet attention to bu- -
finefs, and love of neatnefs and regularity, which after-
wxirds diftinguiihed his charafter. At Lifbon his af¬
fections were captivated by a lady, then celebrated for
her beauty and mental accompliftiments j but Ihe, pre¬
ferring another for her hufband, returned to England,
and fpent the latter part of her life in London with her
family, on terms of friendlhip with Mr Hanw'ay.—On
the expiration of Mr Hanway’s apprenticefhip, he en¬
tered into bufinefs at Lilbon as a merchant or "factor j
but did not remain there long before he returned to
London.
He foon after connected himfelf as a partner in Mr
Dingley’s houfe in St Peterfburgh ; where he arrived
on the 10th of June 1743. The trade of the Engliih
nation over the Cafpian fea into Perfia at this period
had been entrufted to the care of Mr Elton, wdio, not
content wdth the purfuit of commercial affairs, had in-
judicioufly engaged in the fervice of Nadir Shah to
build flaps on the Cafpian after the European manner.
This had alarmed the merchants in the Ruffian trade,
and a refolution was formed that one of their body
Ihould make a journey into Perfia. On this occafton
Mr Hanway offered his fervice, and was accepted.
He fet out on the I oth of September 5 and after ex¬
periencing a variety of hazards in that kingdom du¬
ring a courfe of 1 2 months, returned to St Peterlburgh
January 1. 1745, without being able to eftablifti the
intended traae by the Cafpian, partly through the
jealoufy of the Ruffian court on account of Elton’s
connections with the Perfians, and partly by the
troubles and revolutions of the latter kingdom.
Though Mr Hamvay’s condudt during this expe¬
dition feems to have been directed by the ftrifteft;
rules of integrity, yet fome difficulties arofe in fettling
his demands on his employers. Thefe, however, in
the end were referred to the determination of impar¬
tial arbitrators, who at length decided in his favour.
“ I obtained (he fays) my own 5 and as to any other
perfonal advantage, it conlifted in exercillng my minff
in patience under trials, and increaftng my know¬
ledge of the world.” He now fettled at St Peterf¬
burgh ; where he remained five years, with no other -
variations in his life than fuch as may be fuppofed to
occur in the dull round of a mercantile employment.
During this time he interefted himfelf greatly in the '
concerns of the merchants who had engaged in the
Cafpian trade : but the independence he had acquired
having excited a defire to fee his native country, he,
after leveral difappointments wffiich prevented him from
accomplilhing his wifli, deft St Peterffiurgh on the 9th
of July 1750. On his arrival in his native country,
he did not immediately relinquifli his mercantile con¬
nexions, though he feems to have left Ruffia with
that view. He employed himfelf fome time a’s a
merchant 5 but afterwards, more beneficially to the
world, as a private gentleman. In 1753 he publiffied
“ An Hiftorical Account of the Britith trade over
the Cafpian fea; with a Journal of Travels from Lon¬
don through Ruffia into Perfia; and back again through
Ruffia, Germany, and Holland. To which are add¬
ed, the Revolutions of Perfia during the prefent cen¬
tury, with the particular Hiftory of the great Ufur-
per Nadir Kouli,” 4 vols 4to ; a work which was re ¬
ceived
f
H A N [ 25,
~ llarway. ccived, as it defervcd to be, with great attention from
 1 the public. In 1754, we find Mr Hanway commend¬
ing a plan offered for the advantage of Wef! mi niter,
and fug gelling hints for the further improvement of it,
in “ A Letter to Mr John Spranger, on his excellent
Propofal for Paving, Clean ling, and Lighting the
. Streets of Wefhninitcr, &c.” 8vo. A few years after¬
wards, when a fcheme of the like kind was carried into
eifcff, many of Mr Hanway’s ideas, thrown out in
..this pamphlet, were adopted. In pt^'tcd
“ A journal of Eight Days Journey from Portfmouth
to Kingfton upon I hames, with an Eftay upon 1 en j”
.which was afterwards reprinted in two volumes Svo,
1757.
At this junfture, Great Britain being on the eve
of a war with France, the event of which was very
important to the nation at large, and required every
effort of patriotifm and prudence to ward off the ino*
pending danger, Mr Hanway publifhed “ ’1 hcughts
on the Duty of a good Citizen with regard to W ar
and Invafion, in a Letter from a Citizen to his 1‘ riend,”
Svo. About the fame time, feveral gentlemen form¬
ed a plan, which was matured and made perfeft by
the afliduity of Mr Hanway, for providing the navy
with faiiors, by fumififing poor children with necefla-
ries to equip them for the fervice of their country.
The fuccefs and propriety of this fcheme foon became
apparent. Mr Hanway wrote and publifhed three
pamphlets on this occafion ; and the treafurer of the
Society, accompanied by Mr Hanway, having waited
on the king, the Society received rood, from his ma-
jefiy, 400I. from the* prince of Wales, and 200I. from
the princefs dowager. This excellent inftitution
through life was the favourite objedf of Mr Hanway’s
care, and continued to fiourifh under his aufpices great¬
ly to the advantage of the community. In 1758 he
became an advocate for another charitable inftitution,
which derived confiderable emolument from bis patro¬
nage of it. This was the Magdalen Charity ; and to
aflift it he publifiied “ A Letter to Robert Dingley,
Efq ; being a propefal for the Relief and Employment
of friendlefs Girls and repenting Proifitutev’ 4to.
He alfo printed other final] performances on the fame
fubjeft.
In 1759, Mr Hanway wrote “Reafons for an Aug¬
mentation of at leaft Twelve Thoufand Mariners, to be
employed in the Merchants Service and Coafiing Trade,
in 33 Letters to Charles Gray, Eiq •, of Colchefier,
4to.” The next year he publifiied feveral performances,
viz. 1, “ A candid hiftorical Account of the Hofpital
for the reception of expofed and deferted young Chil¬
dren ; reprefenting the prefent Plan of it as produflive
of many Evils, and not adapted to the Genius and
Happinefs of this Nation,” Svo; which being anfvver-
ed by an anonymous Letter from Halifax in “ Candid
Remarks, Bvo, 1760,” Mr Hanway replied to it, and
the Remarker rejoined. 2. “ An account of the So¬
ciety for the Encouragement of the Britiih Troops in
Germany and North America, &c.” Svo. 3. “ Eight
Letters to — Duke of- , on the Cuftom of Vails
giving in England,” Svo. This pra&ice of giving
vails had arrived at a very extravagant pitch, efpecial-
ly among the fervants of the great. It was Mr Han¬
way who anfwered the kind reproach of a friend in
a high ftation for not coming oftener to dine with
3
j. ] HAN
him, by faying, l: Indeed I cannot afford it.”' The Hanway.
nobleman to whom the above letters were addreffed """ v
was the duke of Newcaftle. The letters are written
in that humorous ftyle which is molt attractive of ge¬
neral notice, and was belt adapted to the fubject. It was
Sir Timothy Waldo that firft put Mr Hanway on this
plan. Sir Timothy had dined with the duke ofN ,
and, on his leaving the houfe, was contributing to the
fupport and infolence of a train of fervants who lined
the hall ; and at laft put a crown into the hand of the
cook, who returned it, faying, “ Sir, I do not take
filver.”—u Don’t you indeed !” faid the worthy ba¬
ronet, putting it in his. pocket : “then I do not give
gold.” Among the ludicrous circumftances in Mr
Hanway’s letters is one which happened to himfelf.
He was paying the fervants of a refpeClable friend for
a dinner which their mailer had invited him to, one by
one as they appeared; “Sir, your great coat;” a fhilling
—“Your hat;” a flfilling—“ Stick;” a fifilling—
“ Umbrella ;” a (hilling ” Sir, your gloves;”—
“ Why, friend, you may keep the gloves ; they are
not worth a ihilling.” In 1761, Mr Hanway produ¬
ced’“ Reflections, Effays, and Meditations on Life and
Religion ; with a collection of Proverbs, and 18 Let¬
ters written occafionally on feveral fubjeCts,” in 2 vols
Svo.
The many ufeful and public-fpirited plans which Mr
Hanway had promoted for the welfare of the communi¬
ty, had now rendered his character moft refpedably
popular, while his difintereftednefs, and the fincerity of
his intentions, were confpicuous to all. Five citizens
of London, of whom Mr Hoare the banker was one,
waited on Lord Bute, at that time the minifter : and,
in their own names, and the names of their fellow-
citizens, requefted that fome notice might be taken of a
man, who, at the expence of his own private fortune,
and unremitting application, had rendered fo many and
fuch meritorious fervices to his country. In confequence
of this requelt, he was in July 1762 appointed by a
patent one of the commiflioners for victualling the navy;
a poll which he held above 21 years. The next aCt of
public beneficence in which we find him engaged is the
collection of money for the fufferers by the fire which
happened at Montreal, in the province of Quebec, in
May 1765, when a fourth part of the city was confum<?d.
On this occafion Mr Hanway, in conjunction with two
other gentleman, collected 841 5I.—The very next year
a dreadful fire broke out in Bridge-Town in Barbadoes,
which confumed buildings and property to the amount
of near ioo,oool. A fubfeription was opened, in
which Mr Hanway was a principal aCtor, and 14,886!.
were collected, and tranffnitted to a committee appoint¬
ed at Barbadoes to diftribute it to the unfortunate fuf¬
ferers. At fubfequent periods he continued to intereft
himfelf in various other plans for relieving the aiftref-
fes, and promoting the good, of different claffes ot
the community. His attention was particularly _di-
reCted towards alleviating the miferies of young chim-
ney-fweepers. Befides the diftreffes of thefe hclplefs
beings, which are open to general obfervation,. fuch
as a contortion of the limbs, and the prevention of
their growth, they are liable to a difeafe peculiar to
their occupation, now known by the name of the Mm-
neij-fweepers cancer. Four children have been brought
together into a workhoufe. all afflicled with this dread-
& r„ 1
HAN [ 255 ] HAN
Hanway. f'ul and incurable difeafe. After much inquiry and
confideration, he publifhed, in 1773, “The State of
the Chimney-fweepers Young Apprentices j (bowing
the wretched Condition of thefe diilrelfed Boys ; the
ill Conduft of fuch mailers as do not obferve the Ob¬
ligation of Indentures •, the Neceffity of a drift Inqui¬
ry in order to fupport the civil and religious Rights of
thefe apprentices,” 12mo. This fmall pamphlet has
already been produftive of lome advantage to the ob-
]efts intended to be benefited by it. The fucceeding
year, 1774, he enlarged a former publication, entitled
“ Advice from a Farmer to his Daughter, &c.” and
republifhed it under the title of “ Virtue in humble
Life : containing Refleftions on the reciprocal Duties
of the Wealthy and Indigent, the Matter and the
Servant,” 2 vols 8vo ; a work deferving the particular
confideration of every magiftrate. This edition in a
few months being fold, he reprinted it in twTo quarto
volumes, with a dedication to Mrs Montagu.
In 1783, finding his health decline, he determined
to refign his office at the viftualling board, which he
did on the 2d of Oftober that year ; and immediately
received a grant of his w'hole (alary by w^ay of a pen-
fion, to continue for life. This favour he owTed to
the efteem which his majefty, to whom he wras perfon-
ally knowm, entertained for him ; excited by his various
exertions in behalf of his country and mankind.—He
wras now releafed from his moll material bufinefs, but
did not think it would conduce to his happinefs to
lead an idle life. He engaged again in behalf of the
chimney-fweepers boys 5 and promoted, by every means
in his powrer, the eftabliihment of Sunday-fchools,
which are now in a fair way to be adopted in every
county in England. He likewife promoted a fubferip-
tion for the relief of the many black poor people who
wrandered about the metropolis in extreme diftrefs j
and the lords of the treafury feconded the defign, by
direfting money, as far as 14I. a-head, to be iffued to
the committee, to enable them to fend the blacks to
fuch places abroad as might be fixed on. After en¬
countering many obftacles, about 300 negroes were
fent, properly accommodated wdth provifions and ne-
ceiTaries, to Africa, under the conduft of a perfbn ap¬
proved for that ilation. The objeft of this plan, be-
fides relieving the mifery of thefe poor people, was to
prevent in time the unnatural conneftions between
black perfons and white*, the difagreeable confequences
of which make their appearance but too frequently in
our ilreets.
In the fummer of 1786 Mr Hanway’s health de¬
clined fo vifibly that he thought it neceffary to attend
only to that. He had long felt the approach of a dif-
order in the bladder, which, increafing by degrees,
caufed a ftrangury ; and at lengh, on the 5th of Sep¬
tember 1786, put a period to a life fpent almoft en¬
tirely in the fervice of his fellovc-creatures. On the
13th he was interred in the family-vault at Han well,
being attended to the grave by a numerous retinue of
triends j and after his death the public regard to his
virtues wras difplayed by a fubfeription of feveral hun¬
dred pounds towards erefting a monument to perpetuate
his memory.
Mr Hanway in his perfon wTas of the middle fize, of
a thin fpare habit, but well fnaped : his limbs were
iaffiioned with the niceft fymmetry. In the latter years
of his life he (looped very much j and when he walked,
found it conduce to eale to let his head incline towards
one fide : but when lie went firft to Ruffia at the age of
30, his face was full and comely, and his perfon alto¬
gether fuch as obtained for him the appellation of the
Handfomc Engli/hman. In his drefs, as far as was confid¬
ent with his health and eafe, he accommodated himfelf
to the prevailing fafhion. As it was frequently necef¬
fary for him to appear in polite circles on unexpefted
ocicafions, he ufually wore drefs clothes, with a large
French bag. His hat, ornamented with a gold button,
was of a fize and fafhion to be wdrn as well under the
arm as on the head. When it rained, a fmall parapluie
defended his face and wig. Tht^s he was always pre¬
pared to enter into any company without impropriety
or the appearance of negligence. His drefs for fet
public occafions urns a fuit of rich dark brown ; the
coat and wmiftcoat lined throughout with ermine,
which juft appeared at the edges j and a fmall gold-
hilted fword. As he was extremely fufceptible of cold,
he wore flannel under the linings of all his clothes, and
ufually three pairs of (lockings. He was the firft man
who ventured to walk the ttreets of London with an
umbrella over his head. After carrying one near 30
years, he faw them come into general ufe. The pre¬
carious (late of his health when he arrived in England
from Rufiia, made it neceffary for him to ufe the ut-
moft caution 5 and his perfeverance in following the
advice of the medical praftitioners was remarkable.
After Dr Lieberkyn phyfician to the king of Pruftia
had recommended milk as a proper diet to reftore his
ftrength, he made it the chief part of his food for 30
years ; and though it at firft difagreed with him, he
perfifted in trying it under every preparation that it
wras capable of till it agreed with his ftomach. By
this rigid attention and care, his health was eftabliflied j
his lungs acquired ftrength and elafticity 5 and it is
probable he wrould have lived feveral years longer, if
the diforder which wras the immediate caufe of his
death had left him to the gradual decay of nature.
His mind wTas the moft aftive that it is poflible to con¬
ceive ; always on the wing, and never appearing to be
weary. He rofe in the fummer at four or five, and in
the winter at feveq. Having always bufinefs before him?
he was every day employed till the time of retiring to
reft ; and, when in health. wTas commonly afleep with¬
in two minutes after his lying down in bed.
Writing was his favourite employment, or rather
amufement *, and when the number of his literary
works is confidered, and that they were the produce
only of thofe hours which he was able to fnatch from
public bufinefs, an idea may be formed of his applica¬
tion. But by leaving his work to tranfaft his ordinary
bufinefs, and afterwards recurving to it with new ideas,
all his literary labours are defeftive in the arrangement
of the matter, and appear to have too much of the
mifcellaneous in their compofition. The original idea
is fometimes left for the purfult of one newly darted,
and either taken up again when the mind of the
reader has almoft loft it, or it is totally deferted. Yet
tftofe who are judges ot literary compofition fay, that
his language is well calculated to have the effeft he
defired on the reader, and imprefs him with the idea
that the author was a man of inflexible integrity, and
wrote from the pure diftates of the heart. It is plain
• and.
Hanway.
II A N [ 2 =
and unornamented, without the appearance of art or
the affeftation of fmgularity. Its greateft defect (fay
they) is a want of coneiienefs •, its greateft beauty, an
unafi'edted and genuine fimplicity. He fpoke French
and Portuguefe, and underftood the Rufs and modern
I’erlic imperfectly. Latin he had been taught at Ichool,
but had not much occafion to cultivate it after he enter¬
ed into life.
Mr Hanway, although never married himfelf, was
yet an advocate for marriage, and recommended it
to all young people. He thought it the molt efiectual
r eflraint on licentioufnefs, and that an increafe of un-
happinefs was by no means the natural confequence of
an increafe ol domeific cares. A “ local habitation,”
with the fociety of a fenfible woman, the choice of un-
biaffed aifeftion, he edeemed as the moft engaging
.perfuafive to the love of order and economy •, without
which he thought life, in whatever ilation, mult be
disjointed, perturbed, and unhappy. The lady who
engaged his firlt affection was uncommonly handfome ;
and it is probable he was prevented from marrying on¬
ly by his failing to obtain her, and the unfettled man¬
ner in which the firft years of his life were fpent : for
he loved the fociety of women 5 and in the parties which
frequently breakfailed at his houfe, the ladies ufually
made the greater portion of the company.
In his traniactions with the world, he was always
open, candid, and fmcere. Whatever he faid might
be depended on with implicit confidence. He adhered
to the ft riff truth, even in the manner of his relation ;
and no brilliancy of thought could induce him to vary
from the faff : but although fo frank in his own pro¬
ceedings, he had feen too much of life to be eafily de¬
ceived by others ; and he did not often place a confi¬
dence that was betrayed. He did not however, think
the world fo degenerate as is commonly imagined :
“ And if I did (he ufed to fay), I would not let it
appear •, for nothing can tend fo eftecftually to make a
man wicked, or to keep him fo, as a marked fufpicion.
Confidence is the reward of truth and fidelity, and thefe
ibould never be exerted in vain.” In his department
of commiflioner for vi61 nailing the navy he was uncom¬
monly aftiduous and attentive •, and kept the contra&ors
and perfons who had dealings with the office at a great
diftance. He would not even accept a hare or pheaiant,
or the fmalleft prefent, from any of them ; and when
any were fent him, he always returned them, not in a
raorofe manner, as if he affedted the excefs of diiintereft-
ednefs, but with fome mild anfvver; fuch as, “ Mr Han¬
way returns many thanks to Mr for the prefent
he intended him •, but he has made it a rule not to ac¬
cept any thing from any perfon engaged with the office :
A rule which, whilft he acknowledges Mr ’s good
intentions, he hopes he will not expedf him to break
through.” With all this goodnefs, Mr Hanway had a
certain fingularity of thought and manners, which was
perhaps the confequence of his living the greater part of
Ids life in foreign countries, and never having been mar¬
ried. He was not by any means an inattentive obferver
of the little forms of politenefs : but as he had ftudied
them in various realms, fele&ing thofe which he ap¬
proved, his politenefs differed from that of other people ^
and his converfation had an air of originality in it that
was very pleafing.
Befides the works already mentioned in the courfe
3
6 ] HA r
of this article, Mr Hanway was the author of a great
number of others; his different publications amounting Happ nef*.
all together to between fixty and feventy. A complete ' 1 v
lift of them is given by his biographer Mr-Pugh, from
whefe grateful and well-written performance this article
has been chiefly extracted.
HAP, or PI AFP, in La:v, ftgnifies to catch or fnatch
a thing. Thus we meet with, to hap the poffeffion of
a deed-poll. Littleton, fob 8. alio, to hap the rent.
If partition be made between two parceners, and more
land be allowed the one than the other, fhe that hath
moft of the land charges it to the other, and happeth
the rent whereon affize is brought.
HAPPINESS, or Felicity, abfolutely taken, de¬
notes the durable polTeftion of perfect good without
any mixture of evil ; or the enjoyment of pure pleafure
unalloyed with pain ; or a ftate in which all the willies
are fatisfied : In which fenfes, Happinefs is known only
by name upon the earth. The wend happy, when ap¬
plied to any ftate or condition of human life, will ad¬
mit of no pofttive definition, but is merely a relative
term : that is, when we call a man happy, we mean
that he is happier than fome others with whotn we
compare him ; than the generality of others ; or than
he himfelf was in fome other lituation.
This interefting fubje6t has been treated by many
eminent writers, and in a great variety of ways ; but
by none does it appear to have been let in a clearer
and more definite point of view' than by Archdeacon
Paley in the fixth chapter of his Principles of Philofophy.
“ In ftri£fnefs (fays that elegant writer), any condition
may be denominated happy in which the amount or
aggregate of pleafure exceeds that of pain •, and the
degree of happinefs depends upon the quantity of this
excefs. And the greateft quantity of it, ordinarily
attainable in human life, is what we mean by happinefs,
when wre inquire or pronounce what human happinefs
confifts in.
If any pqjitive fignification, diftinff from what we
mean by plcafure, can be affixed to the term happinefs,
it may be taken to denote a certain ftate of the ner¬
vous fjftem in that part of the human frame in which
we feel joy and grief, paffions and affe6!ions. Whe¬
ther this part be the heart, which the turn of moft
languages wrould lead us to believe ; or the diaphragm,
as Buffon, or the upper orifice of the ftomach, as Van
Helmont thought j or rather be a kind of fine net¬
work, lining the whole region of the praecordia, as
others have imagined \ it is poffible not only that every
painful fenfation may violently ffiake and difturb the
fibres at the time, but that' a feries of fuch may at
length fo derange the very texture of the fyftem, as to
produce a perpetual irritation, -which will ffiow itfelf
by fretfulnefs, reftleiTnefs, and impatience. It is pof¬
fible alfo, on the other hand, that a fucceffion of plea-
furable fenfations may have Inch an effedl upon this
fubtle organization, as to caufe the fibres to relax,
and return into their place and order 5 and thereby to
recover, or if not loft to preferve, that harmonious con¬
formation which gives to the mind its fenfe of com¬
placency and fatisfa&ion. This ftate may be denomi¬
nated happinefs: And is fo far diftinguiffiable from
pleafure, that it does not refer to any particular obje£I
of enjoyment, or conftft like pleafure in the gratifica¬
tion of one or more of the fenfes j but is rather the fe-
condary
HAP [25
Hajipinef?. condary eficcl which fuch objects and gratifications
produce upon the nervous fyfteni, or the liate in which
they leave it. The comparative fenfe, however, in
which we have explained the term happmejs^ is more
popular ; and in proi'ecuting the iubjedt, we may con-
fider, 1. What human happinefs does not coniitt in j
and, 2. What it does confift in.
I. Fir/1, then, happinefs does not confift m the plea-
fures of fenfe, in whatever profufion or variety they be
enjoyed. By the plealures of fenie are meant, as well
the animal gratifications of eating, drinking, and that
by which the fpecies is continued, as the more refined
pleafures of mufic, painting, architecture, gardening,
Iplendid (hows, theatric exhibitions, and the pleafures,
laftly, of active fports, as of hunting, {hooting, fiihing,
&c.* For, x. Thefe pleafures continue but for a little
while at a time. This is true of them all, efpecially of
the grofler fort. Laying afide the preparation and
the expectation, and computing ftridtly the adtual fen-
fation, we {hall be furprifed to find how inconfider-
able a portion of ©ur time they occupy, how few
hours in the four and twenty they are able to fill up.
2. By repetition, they lofe their reliih. It is a pro¬
perty of the machine, for which we know no reme¬
dy, that the organs by which we perceive pleafure are
blunted and benumbed, by being frequently exercifed
in the lame way. There is hardly any one w'ho has
not found the difference between a gratification when
new and when familiar, and any pleafure which does not
, become indifferent as it grows habitual. 3. The ea-
gernefs for high and intenfe delights takes awray the
reliih from all others j and as fuch delights fall rarely
in our way, the greater part of our time becomes from
this caufe empty and uneafy. There is hardly any
delufion by which men are greater fufferers in their
happinefs, than by their expedling too much from
what is called pleafure ; that is, from thofe intenfe de¬
lights which vulgarly engrofs the name of pleafure.
The very expectation fpoils them. When they do
come, we are often engaged in taking pains to per-
fuade ourfelves how much we are pleafed, rather than
enjoying any pleafure which fprings naturally out of
the objeCt. And whenever we depend upon being
vaftly delighted, we always go home fecretly grieved
at miffing our aim. Likewife, as hath been obferved
juft now, when this humour of being prodigiouffy de¬
lighted has once taken hold of the imagination, it
hinders us from providing for acquiefcing in thofe
gently Toothing engagements, the due variety and fuc-
ceffion of which are the only things that fupply a con¬
tinued ftream of happinefs.
The truth feems to be, that there is a limit at which
thefe pleafures foon arrive, and from which they ever
afterwards decline. They are by neceffity of ffiort
duration, as the organs cannot hold on their emotions
beyond a certain length of time ; and if you endeavour
10 compenfate for this imperfeCUon in their nature by
the frequency with which you repeat them, you lofe
more than you gain by the fatigue of the faculties and
the diminution of fenfibility. We have in this ac¬
count fald nothing of the lofs of opportunities or the
decay of faculties, which whenever they happen leave the
voluptuary deftitute and defperate ; teaied by defires
that can never be gratified, and the memory of plea¬
fures which muft return no more. It will alfo be al-
Vol. X. Part I.
7 ] HAP
lowed by thofe who have experienced it, and perhaps Happineis
by thofe alone, that pleafure which is purchafed by —v-—"
the encumbrance of our fortune is purchafed too dear \
the pleafure never compenfating for the perpetual irri-
(amKarr^irpci r!rrumffynrps.
Thefe pleafures, after all, have their value : and as
the young are always too eager in their purfuit of
them, the old are {ometimes too remifs ; that is, too
ftudious of their eafe to be at the pains for them which
they really deferve.
Secondly, Neither does happinefs confift in an exemp¬
tion from pain, labour, care, bufinefs, fufpenfe, molef-
tation, and thofe evils which are without j” fuch a
ftate being ufually attended not with eafe, but with
depreffion of fpirits, a tafteleflhefs in all our ideas,
imaginary anxieties, and the whole train of hypochon¬
driacal alfeclions. For wmich reafon it feldom an-
fwers the expectations of thofe who retire from their
{hops and counting-houfes to enjoy the remainder of
their days in leifure and tranquillity; much lefs of
fuch as in a fit of chagrin {hut themfelves up in cloi-
fters and hermitages, or quit the world and their Illa¬
tions in it, for folitude and repofe.
Where there exifts a known external caufe of unea-
finefs, the caufe may be removed, and the uneafinefs
will ccafe. But thofe imaginary diftreffes which men
feel for want of real ones (and which are equally tor¬
menting, and fo far equally real), as they depend
upon no fingle or affignable fubjecb of uneafinefs, fo
they admit oft-times of no application or relief. Hence a
moderate pain, upon which the attention may fallen
and fpend itfelf, is to many a refreihment j as a fit of
the gout will fometimes cure the fpleen. And the
fame of any moderate agitation of the mind, as a lite¬
rary controverfy, a law-fuit, a contefted eledlion, and
above all gaming j the paffion for which, in men of
fortune and liberal minds, is only to be accounted for
on this principle.
Thirdly, Neither does happinefs confift in greatnefs,
rank, nor elevated ftation.
Were it true that all fuperiority afforded pleafure,
it would follow, that by how much we were the great¬
er, that is, the more perfons we were fuperior to, in
the fame proportion, fo far as depended upon this
caufe, we ffiould be the happier j but fo it is, that no
fuperiority yields any fatisfadlion, fave that which we
poffefs or obtain over thofe with whom we immediately
compare ourfelves. The ftiepherd perceives no plea¬
fure in his fuperiority over his dog } the farmer in his
fuperiority over the ftiepherd j the lord in his luperi-
ority over the farmer ■, nor the king, laftly, in his fu¬
periority over the lord. Superiority, where there is
no competition, is feldom contemplated j what moft
men indeed are quite unconfcious of. But if the fame
fhepherd can run, fight, or wreftle, better than the pea-
fants of his village $ if the farmer can ftiow better
cattle, if he keeps a better horfe, or be fuppofed to
have a longer purfe than any farmer in the hundred j
if the lord have more intereft in an eledlion, greater
favour at court, a better houfe, or larger eftate, than
any nobleman in the county ; if the king poffefs a
more extenfive territory, a more powerful ffeet or ar¬
my, a more’fplendid eftabliftiment, more loyal fubjefts,
or more weight and authority in adjulling the affairs
of nations, than any prince in Europe 5 in all thefe
K k cafes,
H A P t 258 ] HAP
Happinefs.^
cafes, the parties feel an aftual fatisfa^tion in their fu-
periority. No fuperiority appears to be of any ac¬
count but a fuperiority over a rival. This, it is ma-
nifeft, may exift wherever rivalfhips do •, and rivaldiips
fall out amongft men of all ranks and degrees. The
objedl of emulation, the dignity or magnitude of this
objedl, makes no difference ; as it is not what either
poffeflTes that conllitutes the pleafure, but what one
poffefles more than the other. Philofophy fmiles at the
contempt with which the rich and great fpeak of the
petty ftrifes and competitions of the poor ; not reflecting
that thefe flrifcs and competitions are juft as reafonable
as their own, and the pleafure which fucceis affords the
lame.
It appears evident then, that happinefs does not con-
flft in greatnefs 5 fince what are fuppofed to be the pe¬
culiar advantages of greatnefs, the pleafures of ambition
and fuperiority, are in reality common to all conditions.
But whether the purfuits of ambition be ever wflfe, whe¬
ther they contribute more to the happinefs or mifery of
the puriuers, is a different queftion *, and a queftion
concerning -which we may be allowed to entertain great
doubt. The pleafure of fuccefs is exquiflte •, fo alfo is
the anxiety of the purfuit, and the pain of difappoint-
ment ; and what is the worft part of the account, the
plealure is Ihort-lived. We foon ceafe to look back up¬
on thofe whom we have left behind •, new contefts are
engaged in, new profpecls unfold themfelves 3 a fuccef-
lion of ftruggles is kept up, whilft there is a rival left
within the compafs of our views and profeflion 3 and
when there is none, the pleafure with the purfuit is at
an end.
II. We have feen what happinefs does ?iot confift in.
We are next to confider in what it does conflft. In
the conduft of life, the great matter is, to know be¬
fore hand what will pleafe us, and what pleafures will
hold out. So far as we know this, our choice will be
juftified by the event. And-this knowledge is more
rare and difficult than at firft fight it may feem to be :
For fometimes pleafures, which are wonderfully alluring
and flattering in the profpeCl, turn out in the poffefllon
extremely iniipid ; or do not hold out as we expefted :
at other times pleafures ftart up, which never entered
into our calculation, and which we might have miffed
of by not forefeeing 3 from whence we have reafon to
believe, that we aftually do mifs of many pleafures
irom the fame caufe.
By reafon of the original diverfity of tafte, capacity
and conftitution, obfervable in the human fpecies, and
the ftill greater variety which habit and fafhion have
introduced in thefe particulars 3 it is impoffible to pro-
pofe any plan of happinefs which will fucceed to all, or
any method of life which is univerfally eligible or prac¬
ticable. All that can be faid is, that there remains a
prefumption in favour of thofe conditions of life in
which men generally appear moft cheerful and con¬
tented. For though the apparent happinefs of man¬
kind be not always a true meafure of their real happi-
nefs, it is the beft meafure we have.
Upon this principle, then, happinefs appears to con¬
fift,
1. In the exercife of the focial affeftions. 
Thofe perfons commonly poffefs good fpirits who have
about them many objefts of affeflion and endearment 3
as wife, children, kindred, friends; and to the want
of thel'e may be imputed the peeviflmefs of monks and Happinefs.
of fuch as lead a monaftic life. Of the fame nature ‘ v——J
with the indulgence of our domeftic affedtions, and
equally refrefliing to the fpirits, is the pleafure which
refults from adts of bounty and beneficence, exercifed
either in giving money, or in imparting to thofe who
want it the afliilance of our {kill and profeffion.
2. Another main article of human happinefs is, the
exercife of our faculties, either of body or mind, in
the purfuit of fome engaging end.
It feems to be true, that no plenitude of prefent gra¬
tifications can make the poffeffor happy'for a continu¬
ance, unlefs he have fomething in referve, fomething to
hope for and look forward to. This may be inferred
from comparing the alacrity and fpirits of men who are
engaged in any purfuit which interefts them, with the
dejedlion and ennui of almoft all who are either born
to fo much that they want nothing more, or who have
ufed up their fatisfadfions too foon and drained the
fources of them. It is this intolerable vacuity of mind
which carries the rich and great to the horfe-courfe
and the gaming table 3 and often engages them in
contefts and purfuits, of which the fuccefs bears no pro¬
portion to the folicitude and expence with which it is
fought.
The queftion now occurs, How we are to provide
ourfelves with a fucceflion of pleafurable engagements ?
This requires two things : Judgment in the choice of
ends adapted to our opportunities 3 and a command of
imagination, fo as to be able, when the judgment has
made choice of an end, to transfer a pleafure to the
means i after which the end may be forgotten as foon
as we will. Hence thofe pleafures are moft valuable,
not which are moft exquifite in the fruition, but moft
produdlive of engagement and adlivity in the purfuit.
A man who is in earneft in his endeavours after the
happinefs of a future (late, has in this refpedt an ad¬
vantage over all the wmrld. For he has conftantly be¬
fore his eyes an objedt of fupreme importance, produc¬
tive of perpetual engagement and adlivity, and of which
the purfuit (which can be faid of no purfuit befides)
lafts him to his life’s end. Yet even he muft have ma¬
ny ends befide the far end 3 but then they will condudl
to that, be fubordinate, and in fome way or other ca¬
pable of being referred to that, and derive their fatis-
fadlion, or an addition of fatisfadlion, from that.
Engagement is every thing. The more fignificant,
howTever, our engagements are, the better 3 fuch as
the planning of law;s, inftitutions, manufadlures, cha¬
rities, improvements, public works, and the endeavour¬
ing by our intereft, addrefs, felicitations, and adlivity,
to carry them into effedl : Or upon a fmaller fcale,
the procuring of a maintenance and fortune for our
families, by a courfe of induftry and application to our
callings, which forms and gives motion to the common
occupations of life 3 training up a child 3 profecuting
a fcheme for his future eftabliihment 3 making ourfelves
mafters of a language or a fcience 3 improving or ma¬
naging an eftate 3 labouring after a piece of prefer¬
ment : And, laftly, any engagement which is innocent
is better than none 3 as the writing of a book, the
building of a houfe, the laying out of a garden, the
digging of a fifli-pond 3 even the railing of a cucumber
or a tulip. Whilft the mind is taken up with the ob-
jedls or bufinefs before it, we are commonly happy,
whatever
HAP l 2
Happinefs. whatever tlie objeft or bufmefs be : when tbe mind is
' abfent, and the thoughts are wandering to fomething
elfe than what is paffing in the place in which we are,
we are often miferable.
3. The art in which the fecret of human happinefs
in a great meafure conlifts, is to fet the habits in fuch
a manner, that every change may be a change for the
better. The habits themfelves are much the fame ;
for whatever is made habitual becomes fmooth, and
eafy, and indifferent. The return to an old habit is
likewife eafy, whatever the habit be. Therefore the
advantage is with thofe habits which allow of indul¬
gence in the deviation from them. The luxurious re¬
ceive no greater pfeafure from their dainties than the
peafant does from his bread and cheefe; but the pea¬
sant whenever he goes abroad finds a feaft, whereas the
epicure muff be well entertained to efcape difguft.
Thofe who fpend every day at cards, and thofe who
go every day to plough, pafs their time much alike ;
intent upon what they are about, wanting nothing,
regretting nothing, they are both in a Hate of eafe:
But then, whatever fufpends the occupation of the card-
player diftreffes him *, whereas to the labourer every
interruption is a refrefhment : and this appears in the
different effeft that the Sabbath produces upon the
two, which proves a day of recreation to the one, but
a lamentable burden to the other. The man who has
learned to live alone, feels his fpirits enlivened when¬
ever he enters into company, and takes his leave with¬
out regret : another, who has long been accuftomed to
a crowd or continual fucceffion of company, experien¬
ces in company no elevation of fpirits, nor any greater
fatisfaftion than what the man of a retired life finds in
his chimney-corner. So far their conditions are equal :
but let a change of place, fortune, or fituation, fepa-
rate the companion from his circle, his vifitors, his
club, common-room, or coffee-houfe, and the differ¬
ence of advantage in the choice and conflitution of
the two habits will fhow itfelf. Solitude comes to the
one clothed with melancholy : to the other it brings
liberty and quiet. You will fee the one fretful and
reftlefs, at a lofs how to difpofe of his time, till the
hour comes round that he can forget himfelf in bed :
the other eafy and fatisfied, taking up his book or his
pipe as foon as he finds himfelf alone j ready to admit
any little amufement that cafts up, or to turn his
hands and attention to the firfl bufinefs that prefents
itfelf j or content without either to fit Hill, and let his
trains of thought glide indolently through his brain,
without much ufe perhaps or pleafure, but without
hankering after any thing better, and without irrita¬
tion. A reader who has inured himfelf to books of
fcience and argumentation, if a novel, a well-written
pamphlet, an article of news, a narrative of a curious
voyage, or the journal of a traveller, fall in his way,
fits down to the repaft with relifh, enjoys his enter¬
tainment while it lafts, and can return when it is over
to his graver reading without diilafte. Another,
with wrhom nothing will go down but works of humour
and pleafantry, or whofe curiofity mull be interefled
by perpetual novelty, wall confume a bookfeller’s win¬
dow in half a forenoon •, during w’hich time he is ra¬
ther in fearch of diverfion than diverted : and as books
to his tafte are few and Ihort, and rapidly read over,
;q ] H A It
the flock is foon exhaufled, when he is left wi.hout Happinefs
refource from this principal fupply of innocent amufe- li
ment. Harangue.
So far as circumflances of fortune conduce to happi-' 'r~~~
nefs, it is not the income which any man poffefles, but
the increafe of income that affords the pleafure. Two
perfons, of whom one begins with tool, and advances
his income to 1000I. a-yearj and the other fets off
with 1000I. and dwindles down to 100I. mav, in the
courfe of their time, have the receipt and fpending of
the fame fum of money : yet their fatisfaftion, fo far
as fortune is concerned in it, will be very different:
the feries and fum total of their incomes being the
fame, it makes a wide difference which end they be¬
gin at.
4. Happinefs confifls in health 5 underflanding by
health, not only freedom from bodily diflempers, but
alfo that tranquillity, firmnefs, and alacrity of mind,
which wfe call goodfpirits. For the fake of health, ac¬
cording to this notion of it, no facrifices can be too
great. Whether it require us to relinquifb lucrative
fituations, to abllain from favourite indulgencies, to
controul intemperate paffions, or undergo tedious regi¬
mens ; whatever difficulties it lays us under, a man,
who purfues his happinefs rationally and refolutely,
will be content to fubmit to. When we are in perfeffc
health and fpirits, we feel in ourfelves a happinefs in¬
dependent of any particular outward gratification what¬
ever, and of which we can give no account. This is
an enjoyment which the Deity has annexed to life ; and
probably conftitutes, in a great meafure, the happinefs
of infants and brutes, efpecially of the lower and feden-
tary orders of animals, as of oyfters, periwinkles, and
the like.
The above account of human happinefs will juflify
thefe two conclufions, which, although found in moil
books of morality, have feldom been fupported by any
fufficient reafons : 1. “ That happinefs is pretty equal¬
ly diftributed amongft tbe different orders of civil fo-
ciety; and, 2. That vice has no advantage over vir¬
tue, even wdth refpeft to this world’s happinefs.”
_ HAQUE, in our old writers, a little hand-gun, pro¬
hibited to be ufed for ddlruftion of game, &c. by lla-
tute 33 Hen. VIII. cap. 6. and 2 and 3 Ed. VI. cap.
•14. There is alfo the half-haque, or demi-haque, with¬
in the faid afts.
HARAM. See Seraglio.
HARAN, Charran, or Gharri in Mefopotamia,
a city celebrated for having been the place where Abra¬
ham firll retreated after he left Ur (Gen. xi. '3 1, 32.) ;
and where Terah, Abraham’s father, died and was bu¬
ried. Thither it was likewife that Jacob retired to La¬
ban when he fled from the indignation of his brother
Efau (id. xxvii. 45. xxviii. 10, &c.) Laftly, at Ha-
ran or Charrs in Mefopotamia, Craffus the Roman ge¬
neral was defeated and killed by the Parthians. Haran
was fituated between the Euphrates and the river Che-
bar, at a confiderable dillance from the place where
thele two rivers join.
HARANGUE, a modern French name fora fpecch
or oration made by an orator in public.—IMcnage de¬
rives the word from the Italian arenga, wdiich fio-nifieS
the fame j formed, according to Ferrari, from amngo,
“ a juft, or place of jufting.” Others derive it from
K k 2 the
H A R [ 260 ] H A R
Harangues the Latin nra, “ altar by reafon the firfl harangues
II were made before altars 5 whence the verfe of Juvenal,
Harder-
wick. slut Lugdunenfis rhetor diBurus ad aram.
Harangues were ufually made by the generals, pre¬
vious to an engagement both amongft the Greeks and
Romans. An harangue on luch occafions was called
al/ocutio. See Al.LOCUTIO.
The word is alfo frequently ufed in an ill fenfe, viz.
for a too pompous, prolix, or unfeafonable fpeech or
declamation.
HARBINGER, an officer of the king’s houfehold,
having tour yeomen under him, who ride a day’s jour¬
ney before the court when it travels, to provide lodg¬
ings, &c.
HARBOROUGU, a town of Leicefterfhire, 84
miles from London. It is' a great thoroughfare in the
road to Derby, near the fource of the river Welland ■,
and was famous, in Camden’s time, for its bead fair,
where the beft horfes and colts are dill fold. Its fairs
are April 29. and Oil. 19. The market is on Tuef-
day, for the ufe of which the earl of Harborough built
a neat market-houfe at his own expence. W. Long,
o. 92. N. Lat. 52. 28.
HARBOUR, a general name given to any fea-port
or have-n ; as alfo to any place convenient for mooring
fhipping, although at a great didance from the fea.
The qualities requifite in a good harbour are, that the
bottom be entirel/ free from rocks or fhallows ; that
the opening be of fufficient extent to admit the entrance
-or departure of large fhips without difficulty j that it
fhould have good anchoring-ground, and be eafy of ac-
cefs •, that it fhouM be well defended from the violence
of the wind and fea ; that it (hould have room and con¬
venience to receive the dripping of different nations,
and thofe which are laden with different merchandifes *,
that it be furnithed with a good light-houfe, and have
variety of proper rings, pods, moorings, &c. in order
to remove or fecure the veffels contained therein j and,
finally, that it have plenty of wood, and other materi¬
als for firing, befides hemp, iron, mariners, &c.
H ARBURG, a fmall town of Germany, in the circle
of Lower Saxony, and duchy of Lunenburg, feated on
the river Elbe oppofite to Hamburg. It was furround-
ed with walls in 1355 ; and 30 years after, a drong
cadle, which dill remains, was built by the bidiop.
E. Long. 9. 41. N. Lat. 53. 51. . , ,
HARCOURT, a town of France, in the depart¬
ment of Calvados, about 1 2 miles fomh of Caen. From
it a once noble family in France, derived their ducal
title j and from it alfo, it is faid, fprang the noble fa¬
mily of the fame name in England.
HARDBERG, a town of Germany, in the duchy
» of Stiria, 52 miles fouth of Vienna. E. Long. 16. I 2.
N. Lat. 47. 22.
HARDENBERG, a'town of Wedphalia, in the
duchy of Berg, 13 miles ead-north-ead of Duffeldorf.
E. Long. 6. 43, N. Lat. 51. 19.
HARDENING, the giving a greater degree of
hardnefs to bodies than they had before. _
There are feveral ways of hardening iron and deel,
ua by hammering them, quenching them in cold water,
&c. See Steel.
Cafe-H^DSNiNG. See Cas E-Hardening.
IJARDERWICK, a town of the United Provinces,
in Dutch Guelderland. It is a well-built town, and Hardnefs.
the chief of the fea-ports of this province. It has fe- v
veral good buildings, particularly the great church,
which is much admired. In 1648 the public fchool
here was turned into an univerfity. The French did
it a great deal of damage in 1672 j fince which time it
has been on the decline. E. Long. 5. 40. N. Lat.
52* LT .
HARDNESS, in bodies, a property dire&ly oppo¬
fite to fiuidity j by which they refit! the impretfion of
any other lubftance, fometimes in an extreme degree.
As fiuidity has been found to confift in the motion of
the particles of a body upon one another in confequence
of a certain aftion of the univerfal fluid or elementary
fire among them } we mult conclude that hardnefs con-
fitts in the abfence of this action, or a deficiency of
what is called latent heat. This is confirmed by obfer-
ving, that there is an intermediate ftate betwixt hard¬
nefs and fiuidity, in which bodies will yield to a certain
force, though they Rill make a confiderable refiflance.
This is principally obferved in the metals, and is the
foundation of their ductility. It appears indeed, that
this latt property, as well as fiuidity, is entirely depen¬
dent on a certain quantity of latent heat ablorbed, of
otherwife aiding within the fubflance itlelf j for all the
metals are rendered hard by hammering, and foft by
being put again into the fire and kept there for fome
time. The former operation renders them hot as wTell
as hard •, probably, as Dr Black obferves, becaufe the
particles of metal are thus forced nearer one another,
and thofe of fire fqueezed out from among them. By
keeping them for fome time in the fire, that element
infmuates ittelf again among the particles, and arranges
them in the fame manner as before, fo that the ductili¬
ty returns. By a fecond hammering this property is
again deflroyed, returning on a repetition of the heat¬
ing or annealing as it is called j and to on, as often as
wre pleafe.
Hardnefs appears to diminith the cohefion of bodies
in fome degree, though their fragility does not by any
means keep pace with their hardneis. d hus, glafs is
very hard and very brittle } but Hint, though Rill hard¬
er than glafs, is much lefs brittle. Among the metals,
however, thele twTo properties feem to be more connect¬
ed, though even here the connexion is by no means
complete. Steel, the hardett of all the metals, is in¬
deed the moR brittle j but lead, the fotteR, is not the
mod duCtile. Neither is hardnefs connected with the
fpecific gravity of bodies •, for a diamond, the hardeR
fubitance in nature, is little more than half the weight
of the lighted metal. As little is it connected wuth
the coldnefs, eleCtrical properties, or any other quality
with which we are acquainted j fo that though the
principle above laid down may be accepted as a general
foundation for our inquiries, a great number of particu¬
lars remain yet to be difeovered before we can offer any
fatisfaCtory explanation.
All bodies become harder by cold j but this is not
the only means of their doing fo, for fome become hard
by heat as well as cold. Thus, water becomes hard
by cold when it is frozen, but it becomes much harder
when its Ream is paffed over red-hot iron, and it enters
the fubdance of the metal, by an union with which it
becomes almod as hard as glafs.
Dr Quid and others have condruCted tables of the
hardnefs
1
H A It [ 261 ] H A R
H;ire.
Hardnefs Kardnefs of different fubftances. The method purfued
" in conftrufting thefe tables was by obferving the order
, in which they were able to cut or make any impreffion
upon one another. The following table, extra&ed from
M. Magellan’s edition of Cronftedt’s Mineralogy, was
taken from Dr Quift, Bergman, and Mr Kirwan. The
firit column (hows the hardnefs, and the fecond the fpe-
cific gravity.
Diamond from Ormus.
Pink diamond
Bluilh diamond
Yellowidi diamond
Cubic diamond
Ruby
Pale ruby from Brazil
Ruby fpinell
Deep blue fapphire
Ditto paler
Topaz
Whitiih ditto
Bohemian ditto
Emerald
Garnet
Agate
Onyx
Sardonyx
Occid. amethyft
Cryftal
Cornelian
Green jafper
Reddifh yellow ditto
Schoerl
Tourmaline
Quartz
Opal
Chryfolite
Zeolite
Fluor
Calcareous fpar
Gypfum
Chalk
20
J9
T9
18
x7
16
J3
16
17
15
14
11
12
12
12
12
I 2
II
11
I r
II
9
10
10
10
10
10
8
7
6
5
3
3-7
3-4
3-3
3-3
3*2
4.2
3*5
3*4
3*8
3*8
4.2
3*5
2.8
2.8
4.4
2.6
2.6
26
2.7
2.6
2.7
2.7
2.6
3*6
3*o
2.7
2.6
3*7
2.1
3*5
2.7
2*3
2.7
HARDOUIN, John, a learned French Jefuit in
the beginning of the l8th century, known by the re¬
markable paradoxes he advanced in his writings; this
in particular, That all the works of the ancient pro¬
fane writers, except Cicero’s wrorks, Virgil’s Georgies,
Horace’s fatires and epiftles, and Pliny’s natural hifto-
ry, are mere forgeries. He died at Paris in 1729,
aged 83. His principal works are, 1. An edition of
Pliny’s natural hiftory, with notes, which is much
efleemed. 2. An edition of the councils, which made
much noife. 3. Chronology reftored by medals, 410.
4. A commentary on the New Teftament, folio *, in
which he pretends that our Saviour and his apoftles
preached in Latin, &c.
HARDWICKE. See York.
HARE. See Lepus, Mammalia Index.
The hare is a bead: of venery^or of the foreft, but
peculiarly fo termed in the fecond year of her age.
There are reckoned four forts of them, from the place
of their abode : fome live in the mountains, forne in the
fields, fome in marlhes, and fome wander about every
where. The mountain-hares are the fwifteft, the field-
hares are not fo nimble, and thofe of the marfh^s are
the noweft } but the wandering hares are the moft cun¬
ning in the paths and mazes of the fields, for, knowing
the neareft ways, they run up the hills and rocks, to
the confufion of the dogs, See Hunting.
Hares and rabbits are very mifehievous to new plant¬
ed orchards, by peeling off the bark ot the young trees
for food. They do alio the fame fort of mifebrief to
nurferies ; for the prevention of which, fome bind ropes
about the trees up to a fufticient height ; fome emub
them with tar ; but though this keeps off the hares, it
is itfelf mifehievous to the trees ; but this hurtful pro¬
perty of it is in fome degree taken off by mixing any
kind of fat or greafe with it, and incorporating them
well over the fire. This mixture is to be rubbed over
the lower part of the trees in November, and will pre-
ferve them till that time the next year, without any
danger from thefe animals. It is only in the hard wea¬
ther in the winter feafon, when other food is fcarce,
that thefe creatures feed on the barks of trees.
People who have the care of warrens, pretend to
make hares fat by flopping up their ears with wax, and
rendering them deaf. The hare is fo timorous a crea¬
ture, that fire is continually liftening after every noife,
and will run a long way on the leaft fufpicion of dan¬
ger j fo that {he always eats in terror, and runs herfelf
out of flelh continually. Thefe are both prevented by
her feeding without apprehenfion.
’Java Hark. See Mus, Mammalia Index.
Harks Ear. See Bupleurum, Botany Index.
Hare, Dr Francis^ an Englifh biftiop, of whofe
birth- we have no particulars, was bred at Eton fchool,
and from that foundation became a member of King’s
college, Cambridge ; w’here he had the tuition of the
marquis of Blandford, only fon of the illuftrious duke
of Marlborough, who appointed him chaplain-general
to the army. He afterwards obtained the deanery of
Worcefter, and from thence was promoted to the bi-
fhopric of Chichefter, which he held with the deanery
of St Paul’s to his death, which happened in 1740.
Pie was difmiffed from being chaplain to George 1. in
1718, by the ftrength of party prejudices, in company
with Dr Mofs and Dr Sherlock, perfons of diftinguifli-
ed rank for parts and learning. About the latter end
of Queen Anne’s reign he publiftied a remarkable
pamphlet, intitled, The difficulties and difeourage-
ments which attend the ftudy of the Scriptures, in
the way of private judgment: in order to (how, that
fince fuch a ftudy of the Scriptures is an indifpenfable
duty, it concerns all Chriftian focieties to remove, as
much as poffible, thofe difeouragements. In this work,
his manner appeared to be fo ludicrous, that the con¬
vocation fell upon him, as if he were really againft the
ftudy of the Holy Scriptures: and Whifton fays, that
finding this piece likely to hinder that preferment he
was feeking for, he aimed to conceal his being the au¬
thor. He publiftied many pieces againft Biftiop Hoad-
ley, in the Bangorian Controverfy, as it is called ; and
alfo other learned works, which were collected after
his death, and publiftied in four vols 8vo. 2. An edi¬
tion of Terence, with notes, in 4to. 3. The book of
Pfalms in the Hebrew, put into the original poetical
metre, 4to. In this laft work, he pretends to have dif-
covered the Hebrew metre, which was fuppofed to be
irretrievably loft. But his hypothefis, though defend¬
ed
H A II [ 262 ] H A R
Harefburj ed by fome, yet has been confuted by feveral learned
ti. men, particularly by Dr Lowth in bis Metric# Ilar-
Har gan. €(ln£E lrcvis confutatio, annexed to his lectures De Sacra
Poeji Hebraorum.
HARESBURY, a town of Wiltfhire, on the Willy,
near Warminfter, 94 miles from London, is in old re¬
cords called Heightjbury, or Heytjbury; and now it is
written Hatchbury. It was once the feat of the emprefs
Maud. Here are fairs on May 14th and September
15th ; and it has fent members to parliament ever fmee
Henry VI. it being an ancient borough by preferip-
tion.
HARFLEUR, an ancient town of France, in the
department of the Lower Seine} but is nowr a poor place,
on account of its fortifications being demolifhed, and its
harbour choaked up. It was taken by the Englilh, by
alfault, in the year 1415. It is feated on the river Li-
zarna, near the Seine, five miles from Havre de Grace,
forty north-weft of Rouen, and 106 north-weft of Paris.
E. Long. o. 17. N. Lat. 49. 30.
HARIOT, or Heriot, in Law, a due belonging
to a lord at the death of his tenant, confifting of the
beft beaft, either horfe, or cow, or ox, rvhich he had
at the time of his death ; and in fome manors the beft
goods, piece of plate, &c. are called hariots.
Hariot, Thomas. See Harriot.
HARLECH, a town of Merionethftiire, in North
Wales. It is feated on a rock, on the fea-fhore •, and
is but a poor place, though the (hire-town, and fends a
member to parliament. It had formerly a ftrong
handfome caftle, which was a garrifon for Charles I.
in the civil w7ars, for which reafon it was afterw'ards
demoliftied by the parliament. W. Long. 4. o. N.
Lat. 54. 47.
HARLEIAN COLLECTION, a moft valuable col-
leftion of ufeful and curious manuferipts, begun near
the end of the 17th century, by Robert Harley of Bram-
ton Bryan, Efq. in Herefordlhire, afterwards earl of
Oxford and lord high-treafurcr j and which w7as con¬
duced upon the plan of the great Sir Robert Cotton.
He publiftied his firft confiderable colleCion in Auguft
1705, and in lefs than ten years he got together near
2500 rare and curious MSS. Soon after this, the ce¬
lebrated Dr George Hicks, Mr Anftis garter king at
arms, Bifliop Nicolfon, and many other eminent anti¬
quaries, not only offered him their afliftance in procur¬
ing MSS. but prefented him with feveral that were very
valuable. Being thus encouraged to perfeverance by
his fuccefs, he kept many perfons employed in purcha-
fing MSS. for him abroad, giving them written in-
ftruCions for their conduft. By thefe means the MS.
library was, in the year 1721, increafed to near 6000
books, 14,000 original charters, and 500 rolls.
On the 21ft of May 1724 Lord Oxford died : but
his fon Edward, who fucceeded to his honours and
eftate, ftill farther enlarged the colleCion j fo that when
he died, June 16th 1741, it confiftedof 8000 volumes,
feveral of them containing diftinC and independent trea-
tifes, befides many loofe papers which have been fince
forted and bound up in volumes j and above 40,000
original rolls, charters, letters patent, grants, and other
deeds and inftruments of great antiquity.
The principal defign of making this colleCion was
the eftablilhment of a MS. Englifti hiftorical library,
and the refeuing from deftruftion fuch national records
1
as had eluded the diligence of preceding cclieclors : H ulcm
but Lord Oxford’s plan wras more extenfive j for his II
colle&ion abounds alfo with curious MSS. in every fei- ,
ence. This colleCion is now in the Britifh Mufeum j
and an enumeration of its contents may be feen in the
Annual Regifter, vi. 140, &c.
HARLEM, a tow'n of the United Provinces, in
Holland, fituated on the river Sparren, in E. Long.
4. 38. N. Lat. 52. 24. It is a large and populous
city, and Hands near a lake of the fame name, with
which it has a communication, as well as with Amfter-
dam and Leyden, by means of feveral canals. Schemes
have been often formed for draining of this lake, but
were never put in execution. To the fouth of the town
lies a wood, cut into delightful walks and villas. The
town is famous for the fiege which it held out againfl:
the Spaniards for ten months in 1573 5 the townfmen,
before they capitulated, being reduced to eat the vileft
animals, and even leather and grafs. 'I he inhabitants
correfponded with the prince of Orange for a confider¬
able time by means of carrier-pigeons. Harlem, as is
well known, claims the invention of printing •, and in
fafl, the firft effays of the art are indifputably to be at¬
tributed to Laurentius, a magiftrate of that city. [See
Laurentius, and (Hi/lory of') Printing.] Before
the Reformation, Harlem was a bilhop’s fee j and the
Papifts ftill greatly outnumber the Proteftants. An
academy of fciences was founded here in I752* Vaft:
quantities of linen and thread are bleached here ; the
waters of the lake having a peculiar quality, which
renders them very fit for that purpofe.—A fort of
phrenfy with regard to flowers, particularly tulips, once
prevailed here, in confequence of which the moft beau¬
tiful forts were bought and fold at an extravagant
price.
HARLEQUIN, in the Italian comedy, a buffoon,
drefled in party-coloured clothes ; anfwering much the
fame purpofe as a merry-andrew or jack-pudding in
our drolls, on mountebanks, ftages, &c. We have al¬
fo introduced the harlequin upon our theatres; and
this is one of the Handing chara£lers in the modern
grotefque or pantomime entertainments. T^he term
took its rife from a famous Italian comedian who
came to Paris under Henry III. and who frequenting
the houfe of M. de Harlay, his companions ufed.to
call him Harlequino, q. d. little Harlay ; a name which
has defeended to all thofe of the fame rank and pro-
feflion.
HARLEY, Robert, earl of Oxford and Mortimer,
was the eldeft fon of Sir Edward Harley, and bom in
166 r. At the Revolution, Sir Edward and his fon
raifed a troop of horfe at their own expence ; and after
the acceflion of King William and Queen Mary, he
obtained a feat in parliament. His promotions were
rapid. In 1702, he was chofen fpeaker of the houfe
of commons ; in 1704> was fworn Qneen Anne’s^
privy council, and the fame year made fecretary of
flate j in 1706, he afted as one of the commiflioners
for the treaty of union j and in 1710 was appointed a
commiflioner of the treafury, and chancellor and under-
treafurer of the exchequer. A daring attempt was made
on his life, March 8. 1711, by the marquis of Guifcard
a French Papift who, when under an examination be¬
fore a committee of the privy council, ftabbed him with
a penknife. Of this wound, however, he foon recover-
H A R [2
Har!jng cd ; and was the lame year created earl of Oxford, and
II lord high-treafurer, which office he refigned jutt before
> the queen’s death. He was impeached of high treafon
in 1715, 2nd committed to the tower j but was cleared
by trial, and died in 1724. His charadter has been
varioufly reprelented, but cannot be here difcuffed. He
was not only an encourager of literature, but the great-
eft colledlor in his time of curious books and MSS.
his colledlion of which makes a capital part of the Bri-
tifti Mufeum. See Harlkian ColleBion.
HARLING. See Herling. %
HARLINGEN, a fea-port town of the. United Ne¬
therlands, in Weft Frielland. It Hands on the coalt of
the Zuyder fea, at the mouth of a large canal, in E.
Long. 5. 14. N. Lat. 53. 9. It was only a hamlet
till about the year 1 234, when it was deftroyed by the
fea; and being afterwards rebuilt, became a confider-
able town. In 1579, it was confiderably enlarged by
the care of William prince of Orange. It is now very
well fortified, and is naturally ftrong, as.the adjacent
country can very eafily be laid under water. The city
is fquare ; and the ftreets are handfome, ftraight, and
clean, with canals in the middle of them. It has five
gates j four towards the land, and one towards the fea ;
but though the harbour is good, yet veffels of great bur¬
den cannot get into it until they are lightened, for
want of water. The admiralty college of Friefland has
its feat here. The manufa&ures are fait, bricks, and
tiles, a confiderable trade is alfo carried on in all forts
tof linen cloth, and the adjacent country yields abun¬
dance of corn and good paftures.
.HARLOCH, or Harleich, a town of Merioneth-
fhire, in North Wales, 223 miles from London, on
the fea coaft, near the north-weft point of the county.
It is naturally ftrong, a garrifon being kept here for
the fecurity of the coaft. Its caftle lies now in ruins.
1 he town, though a corporation and governed by a
mayor, makes but a very mean appearance. It has a
market on Saturdays, and four fairs in the year.
HARLOT, a woman given to incontinency, or
that makes a habit or a trade of proftituting her body.
—The word is fuppofed to be ufed for the diminutive
whorelet, a “ little whore.”—Others derive it from
Arietta, miftrefs to Robert duke of Normandy, and
mother to William the Conqueror : Camden derives
it from one Arlotha, concubine to William the Con¬
queror : Others from the Italian Arlotta. “ a proud
whore.”
Harlots rvere tolerated amongft Jews, Greeks, and
Romans. Fornication indeed was prohibited among
the Jews, under fevere penalties j but thofe they ex¬
plained as extending only to women of their own na¬
tion. The public ftev.Ts w-ere therefore flocked with
foreign proftitutes, who feem to have been taken under
the proteflion of government. Hence appears the rea-
fon why the word ftrange woman is often found to fig-
nify a harlot. Proftitutes at firft wore veils or malks j
but by and by their modefty -was entirely put to flight,
and they went abroad bare-faced. At Athens the pro¬
ftitutes were generally ftrangers ; and fuch as debauch¬
ed an Athenian female were liable to a penalty. To
frequent the public ftews was not held difgraceful! The
‘wileft of the Heathen fages allowed it! Solon permitted
common whores to go publicly to the young men who
had engaged them, and encouraged the youth of A-
63 ] H A R
thens to gratify their lull with thefe, rather than feduce Harmattan.
and debauch the wives or daughters of citizens. Cato L“—"v-
the cenfor was of the lame fentiments ; and Cicero chal¬
lenges all perfons to name a time when men were either
reproved for this praftice, or not countenanced in it.
Amongft the Jews, the harlots ufed to ply in the high¬
ways and ftreets of cities j at Athens they frequented
the ceramicus, fciros, and the old forum.—In fome
places they were diftinguilhed by their drefs from other
women. Corinth was a remarkable nurfery of harlots,
and gave birth to the noted Lais. Their accompliflr-
ments were oftentimes great, in all the polite and ele¬
gant parts of female education, viz. philofophy, dan-
cing, finging, rhetoric, &c. Afpafia, the miftrefs of
Pericles, was admired by Socrates for her learning.
T he more accompliffied proftitutes frequently amaffed
large fortunes : a remarkable inftance of which we have
in Phryne, who offered to rebuild the walls of Thebes,
when deftroyed by Alexander, on condition that they
would perpetuate her memory and profeffion by an in-
fcription. Proftitutes at Rome were obliged to fix a
bill over their doors, indicating their chara&er and pro-
felfion. It was alfo cuftomary for them to change their
names, after they had fignified to the praetor their in¬
tention of leading fuch a diffolute life : this they did,
becaufe their trade was unbecoming their birth and con¬
dition ; but they reaflumed their family names when
tney quitted their infamous mode of living. Women
whole grandfather, father, or huffiand, had been a Ro¬
man knight, were forbidden by the laws to make a pub¬
lic profeffion of lewdnefs.
_ HARMATTAN, the name of a remarkable perio¬
dical wind which blows from the interior parts of Africa
towards the Atlantic ocean. Of this wind we have the
following account in the Phil. Tranf. vol. Ixxi. fur-
nilhed by Mr Norris, a gentleman who had frequent
opportunities of obferving its lingular properties and ef-
fe&s.
On that part of the coaft of Africa which lies be¬
tween Cape Verd and Cape Lopez, an eafterly wind
prevails during the months of December, January, and
February, which by the Fantees, a nation on the Gold
coaft, is called the Harmattan. Cape Verd is in 150
N. Lat. and Cape Lopez in i° S. Lat. j and the coaft
between thefe two capes runs, in an oblique dire&ion,
nearly from W. S. W. to E. S. E. forming a range of
upwards of 2100 miles. At the ifles de Los, which
are a little to the northward of Sierra Leone, and to
the fouthward of Cape Verd, it blows from the E. S. E.
on the Gold coaft from the N. E. and at Cape Lopez,
and the river Gabon, from the N. N. E. This wind
is by the French and Portuguefe, who frequent the
Gold coaft, called Amply the north-eaft wind, the
quarter from which it blows. The Englilh, who fome-
times borrow words and phrafes from the Fantee lan¬
guage, which is lefs guttural and more harmonious than
that of their neighbours, adopt the Fantee word Har¬
mattan .
The harmattan comes on indifcriminately at any
hour of the day, at any time of the tide, or at any pe¬
riod of the moon, and continues fometimes only a day
or two, fometimes five or fix days, and it has been
known to laft fifteen or fixteen days. There are gene¬
rally three or four returns of it every feafon. It blows
with a moderate force, juot q^ite fo ftrong as the fea-
breeze
264
H A II [
'Harmattan. breeze (vvhicli every day fets in daring the fair ieafon
frorn the W., V/. S. W., and S. W.) j but fomewhat
fironper than the land wind at night from the N. and
N. N. W. . ..
1. A fog or haze is one of the peculiarities wmca
always accompanies the harmattan. Ihe gloom occa-
fioned by this fog is fo great, as fometimes to make
even near objedls obfcure. 1 he linglilh fort at \\ !iy-
dah Hands about the midway between the trench and
Portuguefe forts, and not cjuite a quarter of a mile from
either, yet very often from thence neither of the otncr
forts can be dilhovered. 1 he fun, concealed tne gieat.-
eft part of the day, appears only a few hours about
noon, and then of a mild red, exciting no painful len-
fation on the eye.
2. Extreme drynefs makes another extraordinary
property of this wind. No dew falls during the con¬
tinuance of the harmattan ; nor is there the lead ap¬
pearance of moiflure in the atmofphere. Vegetables of
every kind are very much injured *, all tender plants,
and moft of the produ&ions of the garden, _ are de-
flroyed ; the grafs withers, and becomes dry like hay j
the vigorous evergreens likewife feel its pernicious in¬
fluence *, the branches of the lemon, orange, and lime
trees droop, the leaves become flaccid, wither, and if
the harmattan continues to blow for 10 or 12 days,
are fo parched, as to be eafily rubbed to dull between
the fingers : the fruit of thefe trees, deprived of its
nourifhment, and Hinted in its growth, only appears
to ripen, for it becomes yellow and dry, without ac¬
quiring half the ufual fize. The natives take this op¬
portunity of the extreme drynefs of the grafs and young
trees to fet fire to them, efpecially near their roads,
not only to keep thofe roads open to travellers, but to
deftroy the fiielter which long grafs, and thickets of
young trees, would afford to fkulking parties of their
enemies. A fire thus lighted flies with fuch rapidity,
as to endanger thofe who travel : in that fituation, a
common method of efcape is, on dilcovering a fire to
windward, to fet the grafs on fire to leeward, and
then follow your own fire. 'I here are other extraordi¬
nary efTefts produced by the extreme drynefs of the
harmattan.
The parching effe£ls of this wind are, likewile evi¬
dent on the external parts of the body. Ihe eyes, no-
flrils, lips, and palate, are rendered dry and uneafy,
and drink is often required, not fo much to quench
thirfl, as to remove a painful aridity in the fauces.
The lips and nofe become fore, and even chapped j and
though the air be cool, yet there is a troublefome fen-
fation of prickling heat on the fkin. If the harmattan
continues four or five days, the fcarf fkin peels off,
firff from the hands and face, and afterwards from the
other parts of the body if it continues a day or two
longer. Mr Norris obferved, that when fweat was ex¬
cited by exercife on thofe parts which were covered by
his clothes from the weather, it was peculiarly acrid,
and tafled, on applying his tongue to his arm, fome-
thing like fpirits of hartfhorn diluted with water.
3. Salubrity forms a third peculiarity of the harmat¬
tan. Though this wind is fo very prejudicial to vege¬
table life, and occafions fuch difagreeable parching tf-
fe£ls on the human fpecics, yet it is highly conducive
to health. Thofe labouring under fluxes and intermit-
] H A R
ting fevers generally recover in an harmattan. Thofe Ilarmattan
weakened by fevers, and finking under evacuations for li
the cure of them, particularly bleeding, which is often '■ arn^onia j
injudiciouily repeated, have their lives faved, and vi¬
gour reflored, in fpite of the doflor. It Hops the pre-
prefs of epidemics j the fmallpox, remittent fevers, &c.
not only dilappear, but thofe labouring under theie dif-
eafes, when an harmattan comes on, are almofl certain
of a fpeedy recovery. Infe&ion appears not then to be
eaiiiy communicated even by art. In the year ijjo,
there were on board the Unity, atWhydah, above 300
Haves ; the fmallpox broke out among tuem, and it
was determined to inoculate } thofe who were inocula¬
ted before the harmattan came on, got very well
through the difeafe. About 70 were inoculated^ a day
or two after the harmattan fet in, but no one of them
had either iicknefs or eruption. It w-as imagined that
the intebfion was effectually dhperfed, and the Ihip clear
of the diiorder •, but in a very few weeks it began to
appear among thole feventy. About jo °f them,v\tie
inoculated the fecond time •, the others had the difeafe
in a natural way : an harmattan came on, and they all
recovered, excepting one girl, wrho had an ugly nicer
on the inoculated part, and died fome time aitei wards
of a locked jaw.
This account differs remarkably from that given by
I)r Lind, who calls the harmattan a malignant and fa¬
tal wind : (See his Difeafes of Hot Climates.) As to
the nature of the foil over which it blows, it appeals
that, excepting a few rivers and fome lakes, the coun¬
try about and beyond Whydah is covered Lr ucc
miles back with verdure, open plains of grafs, clumps
of trees, and fome wroods of no coniiderable extent.
The furface is fandy, and below7 that a rich reddilh
earth. It riles with a gentle afeent for 150 miles from
the fea, before there is the appearance of a hill, with¬
out affording a Hone of the fize of a walnut. Beyond
thefe hills there is no account of any great ranges ci
mountains. . .
HARMODIUS, a friend of Ariflogiton, who deli¬
vered his country from the tyranny of the Pififlratidae.
(See Aristogiton.) Ihe Athenians, to reward the
patriotifm of thefe illuflricus citizens, made a law that
no one fliould ever after bear the name of Ariflogiton
or Harmodius. .. .
HARMONIA, in fabulous hiflory, the wile oi
Cadmus, both of whom were turned into ferpents.
See Cadmus.
Though many of the ancient authors, make Harmo-
nia a princefs of divine origin, there is a paffage in
Athenaeus from Euhemerus, the Vanini of his time,
which tells us, that (he was by profeflion a player on
the flute, and in the fervice of the prince of Z,idon
previous to her departure with Cadmus. ^ I his cir-
cumftance, however, might encourage the belief, that
as Cadmus brought letters into Greece, ms wile
brought harmony thither ; as the word harmo-
nia has been faid to have no other derivation than frop
her name : which makes it very difficult to alcertam
the fenfe in which tke Greeks made ufe of it m their
mufic * • for it has no roots by which it can be decom-* See Hor
pounded' in order to deduce from them its etymology. Wi”,>
The common account of the word, however, that is
given bv lexicographers, and generally adopted by
2
H A R [26
Harmonic, the learned, does not confirm this opinion. It is gene-
Harmonica nerally derived from ac£luov&, and this from the old
*' v verb apto, to Jit or join.
HARMONIC. As an adje&ive it fignifies in ge¬
neral any thing belonging to harmony ; though in our
language the adjective is more properly written har¬
monica/. In this cafe it may be applied to the harmo¬
nica/ divifions or a monochord ; or, in a word, to con-
fonances in general. As a fubflantive neuter, it im¬
ports all the concomitant or acceffary founds which, up¬
on the principles refulting from the experiments made
on fonorous bodies, attend any given found whatever,
and render it appretiable. Thus all the aliquot parts
of a mufical firing produce harmonica/ founds, or har¬
monics.
HARMONICA. This word, when originally ap¬
propriated by Dr Franklin to that peculiar form or
mode of mufical glaffes, which he himfelf, after a num¬
ber of happy experiments, had conftituted, was written
sfrmomca. In this place, however, we have ventured
to reftore it to its native plenitude of found, as we have
no antipathy againft the moderate ufe of afpirations.
It is derived from the Greek word The ra¬
dical word is x^uv, to fuit or Jit one thing to another.
By the word xoponx the Greeks expreffed aptitudes of
various kinds 5 and from the ufe which they made of
that expreflion, we have reafon to conclude, that it
was intended to import the higheft degree of refine¬
ment and delicacy in thofe relations \vhich it was
meant to fignify. Relations or aptitudes of found, in
particular, \vere underftood by it; and in this view,
Dr Franklin could not have fele£ted a name more ex-
preflive of its nature and genius, for the inftrument
which we are now to defcribe ; as, perhaps, no mu¬
fical. tones can poflibly be finer, nor confequently fuf-
ceptible of jufter concords, than thofe which it pro¬
duces.
In an old Englilh book, whofe title we cannot at
prefent recoiled!, and in which a number of various
amufements were defcnbed, we remember to have feen
the elements or firfl: approaches to mufic by glalfes.
That author enjoins his pupil to choofe half a dozen of
fuch as are ufed in drinking ; to fill each of them with
water in proportion to the gravity or acutenefs of the
found which he intended it fhould produce ; and having
thu§ adjufted them one to another, he might entertain
the company with a church-tune. Thefe, perhaps were
the rude and barbarous hints which Mr Puckeridge af-
- terwards improved. But, for a farther account of him,
of the (late in which he left the inftrument, and of the’
ftate to which it has afterwards been carried, we mull
refer our readers to the following extradls from Dr
Franklin’s letters, and from others who have written
upon the fame fubjedf.
_ The Dodlor, in his letter to Father Beccaria, has
given a minute and elegant account of the Harmonica.
Nor does it appear that his fucceflbrs have either more
fenfibly improved, or more accurately delineated, that
angelic inftrument. The detail of his own improve¬
ments, therelore, ihall be given in his own words.
“ Perhaps (fays he) it may be agreeable to you, as
you live in a mufical country, to have an account of
the new inftrument lately added here to the great
number that charming fcience was poffefted of before.
As it is an inftrument that feems peculiarly adapted
, Vol. X. Part I.
5 ] HAH
to Italian mufic, efpecially that of the foft and plain-Harmonica*
tive kind, I will endeavour to give you fuch a deferip- v
tion of it, and of the manner of conftrudling it, that
you or any of your friends may be enabled to imitate
it, if you incline fo to do, without being at the
expence and trouble of the many experiments I have
made in endeavouring to bring it to its prefent per-
fedlion.
“ You have doubtlefs heard the fweet tone that is
drawn from a drinking-glafs, by prefling a wet finger
round its brim. One Mr Puckeridge, a gentleman
from Ireland, was the firft who thought of playing
tunes formed of thefe tones. He colledled a number
of glafies of different fizes ; fixed them near each other
on a table ; and tuned them, by putting into them wa¬
ter, more or lefs as each note required. The tones
were brought out by prefting his fingers round their
brims. He was unfortunately burnt here, with his in¬
ftrument, in a fire which confumed the houfe he lived in.
Mr. E. Delaval, a moft ingenious member of our Royal
Society, made one in imitation of it with a better
choice and form of glafies, which was the firft I faw or
heard. Being charmed with the fweetnefs of its tones,
and the mufic he produced from it, I wifhed to fee the
glafles difpofed in a more convenient form, and brought
together in a narrower compafs, fo as to admit of a
greater number of tones, and all within reach of hand
to a perfon fitting before the inftrument ; which I ac-
complilhed, after various intermediate trials, and lefs
commodious forms, both of glafles and conftruftion,
in the following manner.
“ rJ he glafles are blown as near as poffible in the
form of hemifpheres, having each an open neck or
focket in the middle. The thicknefs of the glafs near
the brim is about.the tenth of an inch, or hardly quite
fo much, but thicker as it comes nearer the neck •
which in the largeft glafles is about an inch deep, and
an inch and a half wide within; thefe dimenfions lef-
fening as the glaflfes themfelves diminifh in fize, ex¬
cept that the neck of the fmalleft ought not to be
Ihorter than half an inch. The largeft glafs is nine
inches diameter, and the fmalleft three inches. Be¬
tween thefe there are 23 different fizes, differing from
each other a quarter of an inch in diameter. To make
a fmgle inftrument there ftiould be at leaft fix glaffes
blown of each fize ; and out of this number one may
probably pick 37 glaffes (which are fufficient for three
o&aves with all the femitones) that will be each either
the note one wants, or a little lharper than that note
and all fitting fo well into each other as to taper pretty
regularly from the largeft . to the fmalleft. It is true
there are not 37 fizes; but it often happens that twro of
the fame fize differ a note or half a note in tone by
reafon of a difference in thicknefs, and thefe may be
placed one in the other without fenfibly hurting the
regularity of the taper form. 6
. , being chofen, and every one marked
with a diamond the note you intend it for, they are
to be tuned by diminilhing the thicknefs of thofe
tiiat are too ftiarp. This is done by grinding them
round from the. neck towards the brim, the breadth
ot one or two inches as may be required ; often try-
ing the glafs by a well tuned harpfichord, comparing
the note drawn from the glafs by your finger with the
note you want, as founded by that firing of the harp-
^ 1 fichord,
H A R [ 266
Harmonica, fichord. When you come near the matter, be careful
y ^ to wipe the glafs clean and dry before each trial, be-
caufe the tone is fomething flatter when the glafs is
wet than it will be when dry •,—and grinding a very
little between each trial, you will thereby tune to great
•exa&nefs. The more care is neceffary in this, becaufe
if you go below your required tone, there is no fharpen-
ing it again but by grinding fomewhat off the brim,
which will afterwards require polifhing, and thus in-
creafe the trouble.
“ The glailes being thus tuned, you are to be
provided with a cafe for them, and a fpindle on which
they are to be fixed. My cafe is about three feet long,
eleven inches every w^ay wide within at the biggeft
end, and five inches at the fmalleft end ; for it tapers
all the way, to adapt it better to the conical figure of
the fet of glafles. This cafe opens in the middle of
its height, and the upper part turns up by hinges fixed
behind. The fpindle is of hard iron, lies horizontally
from end to end of the box within, exaftly iji the
middle, and is made to turn on brafs gudgeons at each
end. It is round, an inch diameter at the thickeft
end, and tapering to a quarter of a inch at the imalieft.
—A fquare fhank comes from its upper end through
the box, on which drank a wheel is fixed by a fcrew.
This wheel ferves as a fly to make the motion equable,
when the fpindle, with the glaffes, is turned by the
foot like a fpinning-wheel. My wheel is of mahogany,
1 8 inches diameter, and pretty thick, fo as to conceal
near its circumference about 251b. of lead.—An ivory
pin is fixed in the face of this wheel, about four inches
from the axis. Over the neck of this pin is put the
loop of the firing that comes up from the moveable ftep
to give it motion. The cafe Hands on a neat frame
with four legs.
“ To fix the glaffes on the fpindle, a cork is firft to
be fitted in each neck pretty tight, and projefling a
little without the neck, that the neck of one may not
touch the infide of another when put together, for
that would make a jarring, ff hefe corks are to be
perforated with holes of different diameters, fo as to
fuit that part of the fpindle on which they are to
be fixed. When a glafs is put on, by holding iUfiffiy
between both hands, while another turns the fpindle,
it may be gradually brought to its place. But care
mud be taken that the hole be not too fmall, led in
forcing it up, the neck fhould fpht j nor too large,
left the glafs, not being firmly fixed, fliould turn pr
move on the fpindle, fo as to touch or jar againfl its
neighbouring glAfs. ’Lhe glaffes thus are placed one in
another •, the largeft on the biggeft end of the fpindle,
which is to the left hand : the neck of this glafs is to¬
wards the wheel ; and the next goes into it in the fame
pofition, only about an inch of its brim appearing be¬
yond the brim of the firft ; thus proceeding, every glafs
when fixed {hows about an inch of its brim (or three
quarters of an inch, or half an inch, as they growfmall-
er) beyond the brim of the glafs that contains it ^ and
it is from thefe expofed parts of each glafs that the tone
is drawn, by laying a finger on one of them as the Ipin-
dle and glaffes turn round.
“ My largeft glafs is G a little below the reach of a
common voice, and my higheft G, including three com¬
plete oftaves.—To diftingufth the glaffes more readily
to the eye, I have painted the apparent parts of the
] H A R
glaffes within-fide, every femito -e white, and the ether Harmon
notes of the oflave with the feven prifmatic colours : ’V”
viz. C, red ; D, orange •, E, yellow ; F, green; G,
blue ; A, indigo ; B, purple ; and' G, red again ;—lo
that the glaffes of the fame colour (the white excepted)
are always oftaves to each other.
“ This inftrument is played upon by fitting before^
the middle of the fet of glaffes, as before the keys of
a harpfichord. turning them with the foot, and wetting
them now and then with a fpunge and clean water.
The fingers fliould be firft a little foaked in water, and
quite free from all greafinefs; a little fine chalk upon
them is fometimes uieful, to make them catch the glals
and bring out the tone more readily. Both hands are
ufed, by which means different parts are played toge¬
ther. Obferve, that the tones are beft drawn out when
the glaffes turn from the ends of the fingers, not when
they turn to them.
‘‘ The advantages of this inftrument are, that its
tones are incomparably Iweet beyond tliofe of any
other ; that they may be fvvelled and ioftened at plealure
by ilronger or weaker preflures of the finger, and con¬
tinued to any length ; and that the inftrument, being
once well tuned, never again wants tuning.”
Such was the Hate in which this learned and inge¬
nious author found, and luch the perfeftion to which
he carried, that celeftial inftrument of which we now-
treat. We call it celefial; becaufe, in comparifon with
any other inftrument which we know, the founds that
it produces are indeed heavenly. Some of them, how¬
ever, are ftill conftru&ed in the fame ini perfect man¬
ner as the inftrument of Mr Puckeridge. They are
contained in an oblong cheft ; their pofitions are either
exactly or nearly rectilineal ; the artificial femitones by
which the full notes are divided form another paral¬
lel line ; but the diftances between each of them are
much greater than thofe between the notes of the na¬
tural fcale, as they take their places, not direftly op-
pofite to the notes which they are intended to heighten
or deprefs, but in a fituation between the higheft and
lowed:, to fhow, that in afeending they are {harps to
the one, and in defeendmg flats to the other. I. his
ftruffure, however, is doubly inconvenient; for it not
only increafes the labour and difficulty of the performer,
but renders fome mufical operations impraflicablc,
which upon the Harmonica, as conflituted by Dr frank¬
lin, may be executed with eafe and pleaiuie. In this
fabric, if properly formed and accurately tuned, the
inftrument is equally adapted to harmony and melody.
But as no material ftruifture could ever yet be brought
to the perfection even of human ideas, this inftiument
ftill in fome meafure retains the perverfe nature of its
original ftamina. Hence it is not without the utmoft
difficulty that the glaffes can be tuned by grinning ;
and the leaf! conceivable redundancy or defect rendeis
the difeord upon this inftrument more confpicuous and
intolerable than upon any other. Hence likewife
that inexpreffible delicacy to be. obferved _ in the man¬
ner of the friCtion by which the found is produced :
for if the touch be too gentle, it cannot extort the
tone ; andKf too ftrong, befides the mellow and deli¬
cate found which ought to be heard, we likewife per¬
ceive the finger jarring upon the glafs, which, mingled
with thofe fofter founds by which the fenfes had been
foothed, cives a feeling fimilar to iron grating upon
iron.
H A n [ 267 ] H A R
Harmonica Iron, but xore difagreeable. In wmd-inftriiments the
1»—■ v——1 0peraljon 0f [he tongue, in havpficliords the flroke of
the quill, and on the violin the motion of the bow,
gives the ilrong and fenfible interruption of found
which may be called articulation, and which renders
the rhythmus or meafure of an air more perceptible-, but
upon the glades, the touch of the finger is too foft to
divide the notes with fo much force-, fo that, unlefs the
mind be fleadily attentive, they feem to melt one into
another, b^ which means the idea of rhythmus is almofl:
loll. There is no way of performing a ilur but by
forbearing to flop the firft found, when that which is
immediately fubfequent commences. Thus, when the
llur is of any length, and regularly defcends or riles
by the interval of a fecond, all the notes in the flur
mull be heard together, and produce no difagreeable
diffonance yet if it riles or delcends by perfedf chords,
the effect is pleafing. The open lhake, or trill, is ano¬
ther unhappy operation upon mufical glaffes -, which
can only be performed by the alternate pulfations of
two continued founds, differing from each other only
by a note or femitone. But as thefe pulfations thus
managed cannot be diftindt, the refult is far from b e
ing pleafant ; nor is there any fuccedaneum for the
dole lhake, which in the violin is performed by alter
nately depreffing the tiring to the finger-board, and
buffering it to rife without entirely removing the finger
from it, and which, by giving the note that tremulous
found produced by the human voice affedled with grief,
is a grace peculiarly adapted to pathetic and plaintive
airs.
We proceed, how-ever, to a farther account of the
fame inllrument, extracted from the Annual Regider,
vol. iv. p. J49.
“ Befides thofe tones, (fays the author of that
account) which every elallic ilring produces by a vi¬
bration of all its parts, it is capable of another fet of
tones in which only a part of the firing is fuppofed
to vibrate. Thefe founds are produced by the lighted:
touches, either by air, as in (Xwald’s lyre, or by
rubbing the bow in the foftell manner on the llring of
a fiddle.
“ Analogous to thefe founds are thofe produced by
bells : in thefe lad, befides thofe tones produced by
their elliptical vibrations, there are a fet of tones which
may be brought by gently rubbing their edges, and in
which the whole indrument does not appear to vibrate
in all its parts as before.
“ Take, for indance, a bell finely polidied at the
edges -, or, w-hat will perhaps be more convenient, a
drinking-glafs : let the edges be as free from any thing
oily as polfible ; then, by moidening the finger in wa¬
ter (I have found alum-water to be bed), and rubbing
it circularly round the edge of the glafs, you will at
length bring out the tone referred to.
“ This note is poffeffed of infinite fweetnefs -, it has
all the excellencies of the tone of a bell without its
defedls. It is loud, has a fufficient body, is capable
of being fwelled and-continued at pleafure } and, be¬
fides, has naturally that vibratory foftening which mu-
ficians endeavour to imitate by mixing with the note to
be played a quarter-tone from below-.
“ To vary thefe tones, nothing more is required
than to procure feveral bells or glades of different tones,
tuned as nearly as poffible, which may be done by thin¬
ning the edges of either : or, for immediate fatis-Barmorii'ea.
faction, the glaffes may be tuned by pouring in w-ater : v
the more water is poured in, the graver the tone will
be.
“ Let us fuppofe then a double o<flave of thofe
glades, thus tuned, to be procured. Any common
tune may be executed by the fingers rubbing upon
each glafs fuccedively; and this I have frequently
done w-ithout the lead difficulty, only choodng thofe
tunes which are dou- and eafy. Here then are num¬
bers of delicate tones, with which muficians have been
till very lately unacquainted ; and the only defedf is,
that they cannot be made to follow each other w-ith
that celerity and eafe w-hich is requifite for melody. In
order to remedy this, I took a large drinking-glafs,
and by means of a wheel and gut, as in the eleftrical
machine, made it to turn upon its axis with a mode¬
rately quick but equable motion ; then moidening the
finger as before, nothing more was required than merely
to touch the glafs at the edge, without any other mo¬
tion, in order to bring out the tone.
“ Indead of one glafs only turning in this manner, if
the whole number of glaffes wrere fo fixed as to keep
continually turning by means of a wheel, it follow-s,
that upon every touch of the finger a note would be
exprefled ; and thus, by touching feveral glaffes at once,
an harmony of notes might be produced, as in an harp-
iicbord.
“As I write rather to excite than fatisfy the cu¬
rious, I lhall not pretend to diredl the various ways
this number of glaffes may be contrived to turn ; it
may be fufficient to fay, that if the glaffes are placed
in the fegment of a circle, and then a drap, as in a
cutler’s wheel, be fuppofed to go round them all, the
whole number will by this means be made to turn by
means of a wheel.
“ Indead of the finger, I have applied moidened
leather to the edge of the glafs, in order to bring out
the tone : but, for want of a proper eladicity, this did
not fucceed. I tried cork, and this anfwered every
purpofe of the finger ; but made the tone much louder
than the finger could do. Indead, therefore, of the
finger, if a number of corks w-ere fo contrived as to
fall with a proper degree of preffure on the edge of
the glafs, by means of keys like the jacks of an organ, '
it is evident, that in fuch a cafe a new and tolerably
perfeft indrument would be produced \ not fo loud
indeed as fome, but infinitely more melodious than
any.
“ The mouths of the glaffes or bells ufed in this ex¬
periment diould not refemble the mouth of a trumpet,
but diould rather come forward with a perpendicular
edge. The corks ufed in this cafe diould be fmootb,
even free from thofe blemidies which are ufually found
in them, and at the fame time the more eladic the
better.”
In the two accounts here given feems to be compre¬
hended every thing valuable which has been faid upon
the fubje<d. It remains, however, our permanent opi¬
nion, that the form and drutture defigned and condi-
tuted by Dr Franklin is by much the mod eligible;
nor can we admit, that a cork, however fuccefsfully
applied, will produce the fame mellownefs and equality
of tone in general with the finger. It appears to us,
that, by this kind of voluntary attrition, a note may be
L 1 2 funk
H A R
[ 268 ]
H A R
Harmonica, funk or fwelled with mudi more art and propriety than
by the fubiditution of any thing elfe extrinfic to the
hand j and when chords are long protracted, that de¬
gree of fiiCtion, which renders every found in the chord
ienhble to the ear, without harfhnefs, mult be the molt
agreeable. For this reafon, likevvife, wTe Ihould recom¬
mend alum-water in preference to chalk.
1’rom what has already been faid, it will ealily be
perceived, that this inflrument requires to be tuned with
the nicelt degree of delicacy which the laws of tempe¬
rament will polfibly admit. For thefe laws the reader
* Chap. 'On vvill naturally have recourfe to the article Music *, in
* t. 64. this Dictionary j where, from M. D’Alembert, is gi¬
ven a plain and fatisfaCtory account, both of the me¬
thod propofed by Rameau, and of that eltablilhed in
common praCtice, wdthout anticipating the experience
and tafte ot the reader, by dictating which of thefe
plans is preferable. To thofe who have occalion to
tune the inftrument, it may likewife be ufeful to per-
ufe the detached article Temperamknt in this Work.
Without recapitulating the different rules of alteration
preferibed in thefe accounts, we (hall prefuppofe the
reader acquainted with them •, and proceed to deferibe
how7, under their influence, the Harmonica may be tu¬
ned. But it is previoully expedient to obferve, that
the lame rules which conduCf the procefs of tuning a
harpfichord, will be equally effeClual in tuning the Har¬
monica^;. with this only difference, that greater delica¬
cy in adjulting the chords fhould, if praCficable, be at¬
tempted.
There are different notes from whence the procedure
of tuning may commence. La ox A, which is the key
that pretty nearly divides the harpfichord, is chofen by
fome } this la in common fpinets is 24 natural keys
from the bottom, and 13 from the top j and the ut a-
bove it, or fecond C upon the G cliff, by others. This
lafl we fhould rather advife, becaufe w7e imagine thofe
intervals w^hich w7e have called feconds major to be more
juft through the whole oClave, wdien the courfe of tu¬
ning is begun by a natural femitone. The initiate,
therefore, may begin by tuning the fecond ut of his
Harmonica, or C above the treble cliff, unifon with
its correfpondent C upon the harpfichord or any other
inftrument in concert-pitch •, then, defeending to its
odtave below, adjuft it with the ut above, till every
pulfation if poflible be loft, and the founds rendered
fcarcely diftinguilhable when fimultaneoufly heard. To
the loweft note of this odlave he muft tune the fol or G
immediately above it by a fifth, ftill obferving the laws
of temperament : To this G, the re, or D immediately
above it, by the fame chord : To the re, or D above,
its oftave below : To this, by a fifth, the la or A im¬
mediately above it : To la, the mi or E afeending in
the fame proportion : To mi, its odlave below : To
this, they? or B immediately above it by a fifth : To
the firft ut, or C, which was tuned, the fa oxY imme¬
diately below by the fame chord.
That the pradfitioner may be ftill more fecure in the
juftice and propriety of his procedure, he may try the
thirds of the notes already adjufted, and alter, as much
as is confiftent with the fifths and odlaves, fuch among
thefe thirds as may feem grating and difagreeable to his
ear. Thus far having accomplifhed his operation, he
may tune all the other natural notes whether above or
below by o&aves. His next concern is with the femi-
tones. And here it will be fuggefted by. common Harmon’ra.
fenfe, that as in all inftruments with fixed feales, the l——v*—-'
fharp of a lower muft likewife anfwer for the flat of a
higher tone, the femitone -ought as nearly as poftible
to divide the interval. He may begin with la or A
fharp j which la in its natural ftate is a third minor be¬
neath the ul or C, from whence he began in the natu¬
ral feale. This femitone fhould correfpond with the F
natural immediately above by a fifth. To it may be
tuned the re or D fharp immediately below by a fimilar
chord : To D fharp, its odtave above : To Ji or B na¬
tural, immediately above the la or A firft mentioned,
may be adjufted the F or j'a fharp immediately above
it : To this its oclave below : To that odlave, the C
or ut fharp above by a fifth : To the C fharp, its odtave
below : To this, by a fifth, the G or fol {harp above.
Between this G fharp and the D fharp immediately
above it, the fifth will probably be too (harp *, but if
the others are juftly tuned, that difeord will not be ex¬
tremely offenfive •, and it is a neceffary confequence of
temperament. T he reft of the fharps and flats, like their
naturals, whether afeending or defeending, may be tu¬
ned by their oflaves.
The notes, with their chords, may be expreffed by
letters and figures, thus j where, however, it muft be
obferved, that the higher notes of any chord are marked
with larger capitals. It fhould likewife be remarked,
that the figures are not expreflive of the different ratios
which the notes bear to one another, confidered with
refpeft to their vibrations j but only fignificant of
their nominal diftances, according to the received de-
8 5 o 8 5
nominations of the intervals. Cc cG cD dD r>A
5 8S
aE Ee eB (
d$D$, BtjF$, F$f$. f$C$, C%c%,
The fharps and flats thus, A F
A$D$,
c|cG$.
naturals,
In running over the fharps and flats as the
it will likewife be neceffary to try the thirds,
and to alter fuch as may offend the ear ; w’hich, if cau-
tioufly done, will not fenlibly injure the other chords.
—Though this article has been protradled to a length
w?hich wre did not originally intend, wre have how¬
ever the fatisfa&ion to find, that it comprehends
every thing effential j fo that any perfon who under-
ftands the nature of chords, and the praftical prin¬
ciples of mufic as univerfally taught, may not only be
able to tune his inftrument, but to acquire its whole
manoeuvre, without the leaft afliftance from a mailer.
On Plate CCL. is reprefented an inftrument of tbis
kind.
Though this topic appeared in itfelf complete in
the former edition of this extenfive wrork, yet having
fince received from Dr Edmund Cullen of Dublin the
follow'ing obfervations, and refledling that men of mu-
fical talents have not only different taftes, but different
powers of mechanical operation, we have thought it
proper to fubmit to the choice of our readers, either
Dr Franklin’s form and arrangement of the glaffes, or
that which was adopted by Dr Cullen •, but in either
cafe, we wTould recommend it to the initiate in this in¬
ftrument, to diftinguifh by colours, according to Dr
Franklin, the notes and femitones.—We likewife can¬
not forbear to think, that the complete bafs practicable
on the harmonica, is by many degrees preferable to the
chords with which Dr Cullen propofed to grace every
emphatic
H A R [ 2
Harmonica emphatic note, with which, from the ftruclore and ar-
rangetnent of his inttrument, he was under the neceflity
of deluding inftead of fatisfying the ear, with the full
effedt of the regular procedure of the treble and bafs
upon the fame inftrument.
This inlfrument the dodfor defcribes as confifting “ of
35 glaffes of different lizes, anfwering to fo many dil-
timff founds, and ranged in the manner hereafter to be
defcribed. They are exaftly of the form of a cocoa
nut when the ufual quantity of the top is cut off; or the
fugar-bowls made of cocoa-nut fheils fo much in ufe
will give a precife idea of their figure. They are blown
with plain long ftalks, which are fitted to wooden feet
fcrew'ed on a board at proper diftances, in fuch a man¬
ner that the circular tops of all may be in the fame hori¬
zontal plane, at the diltance of about an inch afunder.
Of thefe 35, io only are allotted for half tones ; there
remain therefore 25 for the diatonic fcale. The lovveft
note correfponds to G in the bafs cliff; hence it extends
upward to the oclave above C in alt. For uniformity,
take the glaffes which are chofen gradually and regu¬
larly diminifhing in fize as they afcend in tone. This,
however, is not ablolutely neceffary, as the tone of the
glafs does not entirely depend upon its fize, but in a
great meafure upon the proportion of its different parts
to one another : hence the glafs correfponding to one
note may be fmaller than a glafs correfponding to a
note three or four times higher : however, where it is
praificable, they fhould always be chofen gradually di¬
minifhing as they afcend, both on account of the ele¬
gance of appearance, and that an equality in point of
loudnefs may be preferved ; for, as every body knows,
an inllrument may be liable to great inequality in point
of ftrength, though perfe<ftly in tune. This muff have
a very bad effect ; and therefore w'e find performers on
the violin and other inftruments of that kind very foli-
citous about the proportional thicknefs of their firings.
The glaffes being chofen in the beft manner circumftan-
ces will permit, we proceed to arrange them. Here
let me obferve, that in general the diameter of the
largeft glafs at its mouth is about feven inches, and its
folid contents about five Englifh pints, wdiile the high-
eft is of about one-fourth of an inch, and its contents
about one-third of a gill: this, however, is arbitrary,
and depends upon the pitch of the inftrument. In ar¬
ranging the glaffes, we fhall, to avoid confufion, take
the diatonic fcale firft, and afterwards the half tones will
be eafily underftood. The wooden feet before men¬
tioned are to be fcrewred on a ftrong board of a proper
fize, and they are diipofed. at convenient intervals in
tows perpendicular to the longer! Tides of the reftan-
gular board on which they Hand. In thefe feet the
glafies are difpofcd in the following manner : Beginning
with the lowel! note G, we fix that on the foot which
Hands in the neareif angle of the board on the left
hand, A in the next bottom in the fame perpendicular
line, B in the third : when we come to C, however,
we do not place it in the fame perpendicular line, but
in the neareft bottom of the fecond perpendicular row
to the left hand, D in the fecond of the fame row, E
in the third; F again in the neareft bottom of the third
rowq G in the lecond of the fame row, A in the third ;
B again in the neareil bottom of the fourth row, C in
the fecond of the fame, and fo on. By this contri¬
vance, it is eafy to fee an immenfe compals is obtain-
69 ] H A R
ed : fo great a one indeed, that if the glaffes w'ere dif-Harmonica,
pofed according to the old method, regularly afeending
in a line parallel to the front of the inftrument, to take
in the fame compafs, it muft ftretch to a confiderable
length, no lefs than a length equal to the fum of all
the perpendiculars we before fpoke of, which in ordi¬
nary fize of the glaffes would amount to upwards of 16
feet ; the inconvenience of which it is unneceffary to
dwell upon. As to the half tones, perhaps a more ju¬
dicious and convenient arrangement may be thought of
for them : but the prefent mode is far from incon¬
venient, except in fome keys; and it is fufficiently
commodious for performing fuch airs as are beft fuitecl
to the nature and deiign of the inftrument. After ex¬
plaining the arrangement, we ftiall (peak fomewhat more
exactly of them. E[; on the firft; line of the treble Have
Hands in the fourth bottom of the firft: perpendicular
row to the left hand ; Flj on the firft fpace Hands in
the fourth place of the fecond row, G[j on the fe¬
cond line of the treble Have Hands in the fourth of the
third row, Ct] on the third fpace of the fame Have
Hands in the fame manner in the fourth row, and
fo on, afeending Ft] in the fifth row, Gt| in the
fixth, At] in the feventh, Ct] in the eighth. In the ninth
perpendicular row, that is, the laft to the right hand
in the diatonic fcale, Hands C alone; but immediately
behind is placed Bt? of the middle line of the treble
Have, and again behind it Dt| of the fourth line of the
treble Have, which finilhes the whole. There is fome-
thing lingular, and perhaps wdiimfical, in the diftribu-
tion of the half tones : but it is found iuthciently con¬
venient ; and if a better is thought of, it may eafily be
adopted. In the mean time I mult obferve, that two
of them, viz. Cl] and Ftj, Handing immediately behind
the D and G refpedlively above them, are lingularly
well fitted for performing running paffages either up or
dowm in the key of G. Ex gr. let us fuppofe that we
have that very common A, G, Ft], E, femiquavers.
Here the performer touches A, which is in the firft place
of the lixth row7, with his left hand, G with the fore-fin¬
ger of his right, Ft] with the middle, and E again with
the left hand ; in the fame manner may E, D, Cl], and
B, be played, or upwards by inverting the motion :
1 hus we can with the utmoft eafe run either up or
down two very frequent paffages, in a key which might
naturally be fuppofed difficult upon this inftrument, and
that with any given rapidity. I wilh as much could
be faid of all the other half tones, of which, by the
bye, fome are altogether wanting : it is obvious, how¬
ever, that they may eafily be added, if we can find
convenient places ; and I apprehend even that very
pra£Hcable. Be that as it may, notwithftanding the
feemingly inconvenient fituation of fome half tones, and
the total want ®f others, pieces may be performed on
this inftrument of conliderable rapidity. I myfelf,
though very far from being an accomplilhed player,
can with great eafe go through all the parts of
Filher’s celebrated rondeau ; nay, I have heard the
fifth concerto of Vivaldi played upon it with as much
diftindlnefs as upon a violin. Fhe glaffes are not ne-
ceffarily chofen perfeclly in tune, but are tuned by the
help of a quantity of water. Here, however, two cau¬
tions are neceffary : ill, By no means to take a glafs
which is, when without water, flatter than the note you.
intend; as in that cafe you cannot remedy it, the water.
making;
H A R [ 270 ] HA R
Harmonica, making the tone flill flatter : rather let it be fomewhat
iliarpej-^ ancl you may tune it to the utmoft nicety by a
little water. The fecond caution is, not to choofe a
glafs which is very much (harper than the note requir¬
ed 5 as in that cafe, fo large a quantity of water
will be required to tune it as will entirely Another the
tone.
“ This inftrument is to be played fomewhat in the
manner of the harmonica, viz. the fingers are to be well
wetted *, and by the application of them to the fide,
afliited by a proper motion, the found is produced.
And here I would obferve, that the proper motion is,
to make the fingers follow the thumb, not the thumb
follow the fingers, in going round the glafs : it is necef-
fary alfo to preferve the circular motion very exaflly,
as the leaf!: deviation from it produces the molf horrible
found that can be conceived. It is likewife to be obfer-
ved, that you mull: touch the (mailer glades upon the
very top of the brim *, and for that purpofe the palm of
the hand muft be nearly parallel to the top of the glafs:
but in coming to the larger glaffes, it is abfolutely ne-
ceflary to make the fingers touch the fide, not the top
of the glafs *, and the larger the glafs, the more diftant
from the top mufl: they be touched. Praftice alone can
determine this matter.
“ From this difpofition of the glafies, it is eafy to fee
that the perfeft chord of C is always mod completely
in our power, namely, by ufing different fingers to the
different notes at the fame time : and although a full
bafs cannot be executed upon this inftrument, we have
always a great number of accompaniments which can
eafily be introduced 5 more perhaps than upon any in¬
ftrument, the organ and others of that fpecies excepted.
The thirds or fifths occafionally can be introduced *,
and when done with tafte and judgment, wall fcarcely
vield to a middling bafs. If to this is added the thril¬
ling foftnefs of the tones, inimitable by any other fub-
ftance, it wall readily appear to be an inftrument more
in the true ftyle of mufic, of that mufic wdiich the heart
acknowledges, than any that either chance or ingenuity
has hitherto produced. It is indeed incapable of that
whimlical fubdivifion to which the tafte of modern com-
pofers, that fworn enemy to harmony and real mufic,
leads ; which ferves no end but to exhibit the wonder¬
ful executions of a favourite performer, and to over¬
whelm his hearers with ftupid admiration. This is not
mufic ; and upon thefe occafions, though I acknowledge
the difficulty of doing what I fee done, I lament that
the honeft man has taken fo much pains to fo little pur¬
pofe. Our inftrument is not capable of this (at leaft
not in fo exquifite a degree as the harpfichord, violin,
and a few* others) : yet if the true and original intent
of mufic is not to aftonilh but to pleafe, if that inftru¬
ment wffiich moft readily and pleafingly feizes the heart
through the ears is the beft, I have not a moment’s
hefitation in fetting it down the firft of all mufical in-
ftruments. There is but one which wall in any degree
bear the comparifon, or rather they are the fame inftru-
ment, I mean Dr Franklin’s harmonica : but I am in¬
clined to think that the inftrument we have been fpeak-
ing of has fome fuperiority over the harmonica. The
firft ftriking difference is in the impracticability of ex¬
ecuting quick paffages on the latter; whereas it is in
moft cafes extremely eafy on the other. Again, the
very long continued vibration of the glafs, inevitably
2
muft produce horrible difcord, or at leaft confr/.on, ex- Harmonica.
cept the piece played be fo (low* that the vibration of ' J
one glafs be nearly over before the other is heard. Now,
in our inftrument, this may be remedied by laying pie-v
ces of fponge lightly between the glafies, fo as to allow
them only the proper extent of vibration. This, how¬
ever, is an exceptionable method : and it is much better
done by the touch of the performer’s finger, which in-
ftantly flops the vibration *, and the ufe of this may be
learned by a very little practice, the motion here being
entirely voluntary : But in the harmonica, the motion
being partly mechanical, v. g. the rotation of the glaf¬
fes, this cannot be done ; and for the fame reafon, in
the execution of the crefcendo the narmonica is not io
perfect as this inftrument. Befides, the inconvenience
of tuning the half tones, as (harps or flats, feparately,
is as great in the harmonica as in the harpfichord. I his
is a very great imperfection ^ as half tones, being tuned
at the medium, are falie both as (harps and as fiats, t he
learned Dr Smith fays, there is no lefs than one fifth of
the interval difference between the (harp of one note
and the fiat of the next above ; and for this purpofe
propofes to have an harpfichord conftructed with a (top,
fo as tq direct the jacks to the (harps or flats accord¬
ing to the prevalence of either in the piece to be play¬
ed : but in our inftrument, from its very conftruction,
this inconvenience is avoided. As to matters of con¬
venience, the harmonica is exceedingly apt to be out of
order 5 the glafies frequently break, plainly on account
of the great (train upon them where they join the
fpindle, and are thus with much difficulty renewed ;
wffiereas with us the lofs of a glafs is nothing. Add to
all this, that the harmonica, in point of original ex¬
pence, is about five times as high as the other: although
I apprehend it poiteffes no one advantage, except that
the performer may fit at it $ whereas with our inftru¬
ment it is convenient, if not neceffary, to (land ; but he
muft be a lazy mulician that gives himlelf much concern
about that j And if he will fit at our inftrument, he
may, though at the expence of much ea(e in point of
execution.
“ Det us now confider fome objeiftians that have
been made to this inftrument. One is, that neceflity 01
(landing, in order to do ?,ny thing capital upon it. But
is not that the cafe in all inftruments, except where
the performer fits of neceffity ? Did ever any one
fee Giardini or Fiftier play a folo fitting ? But for
the fatisfa&ion of thefe torpid gentlemen, I can faith¬
fully allure them, I knew a lady who performed on this
inftrument perfectly wrell, though (he had loft the ufe
of both her legs. A more ferious and important ob-
jeflion lies both to this and the harmonica, viz. the
want of a (hake. How this is fupplied upon die harmo¬
nica, I cannot fay, as I never faw it even attempted .
but on our inftrument, although a very perfect thake can
fcarcely be produced, fomething fo like it may be done
as will fairly excufe the want 5 and that is, by whirling
the tw’o (lands round the note concerned with the (hake
with the utmoft velocity, beginning the lower note a
little fooner than the other. By this means, except in
very large glafies where the vibrations are too diftantr
in time, fuch an intermixture of the two founds -is pro¬
duced, as extremely well imitate^ a fine (hake, and the
dexterous performer will make the beat in a turned
(hake with a fpare finger. This operation requires fome
dexterity 5
H A R [ 271 ] H A R
Harmony, dexterity; but this is a charge common to all mufical
v--—v ' inftruments ; and I queftion not but that the Highland
bagpipe itfelf requires Tome fort of fkill.
“ Upon the whole, I am clearly of opinion, that the
harmonica, and more efpecially this inftrument which
has yet got no name, is the moft exquiiite and noble
prefent that the lovers of true harmony have ever yet re¬
ceived ; and it is with much aftonifhment I find tins
invaluable treafure almoft entirely confined to Ireland,
a country not very remarkable for mufical tafte or ta*
lents : But I hope foon to fee this elegant fpecies of
muiic very generally known and pradfifed over all Eu¬
rope.”
HARMONY. The fenfe which the Greeks gave to
this word in their mufic, is fo much lefs eafy to be de¬
termined, becaufe, the word itfelf being originally a
fuhilantive proper, it has no radical words by which we
might analyfe it, to difcover its etymology. In the
ancient treatiies which remain to us, harmony appears
to be that department whofe object is the agreeable fuc-
ceffion of founds, merely confidered as high or low ;
in oppofition to the two others called rhythmica and
metrica, which have their principle in time and mea-
fure. This leaves our ideas concerning .that aptitude of
found vague and undetermined ; nor can we fix them
without Studying for that purpofe all the rules of the
art; and even after wre have done fo, it will be very
ditficult to diitinguilh harmony from melody, unlefs
we add to the laid the ideas of rhythmus and mea-
fure ; without which, in reality, no mel&dy can have
a diftinguhhing character : w'hereas harmony is cha-
rafterifed by its own nature, independent of all other
quantities except the chords or intervals which com-
pofe it.
It appears by a paffage of Nicomachus, and. by
others, that they likewife gave the name of harmony to
the chord of an odtave, and to concerts of voices and
inftruments, which performed in the diltance of an oc¬
tave one from the other, and w'hich is more commonly
called antiphone.
Harmony, according to the moderns, is a fucceffion
of chords agreeable to the laws of modulation. For a
long time this harmony had no other principle but fuch
rules as W'ere almoft arbitrary, or folely founded on
the approbation of a pra£tif-d ear, which decided con¬
cerning the agreeable or difagreeable fucceffion of
chords, and whofe determinations w’ere at laft reduced
to calculation. But Father Merfenne and M. Saveur
having found that every found, however fimple in ap¬
pearance, was always accompanied with other founds
lefs fenfible, which conflitute with itfelf a perfeft
chord-major ; with this experiment M. Rameau fet out,
and upon it formed the bafis of his harmonic fyftem,
which he has extended to a great many volumes, and
which at laft M. D’Alembert has taken the trouble
of explaining to the public.
Signior Tartini, taking his route from an experi¬
ment which is newer and more delicate, yet no lefs
certain, has reached conclufions fimilar enough to thofe
of Rameau, by purfuing a path whofe direction feems
quite oppofite. According to M. Rameau, the treble
is generated by the bafs; Signior Tartini makes the
bafs refult from the treble. One deduces harmony
from melody, and the other fuppofes quite the con¬
trary. do determine from which of the two fchools
the beft performances are likely to proceed, no more Is Harmofiy.
neceflary than to inveftigate the end of the compoicr, y~““
and difcover whether the air is made for the accom¬
paniments, or the accompaniments for the air. At
the word System in Rouffeau’s Mufical Didlionary,
is given a delineation of that publiftied by Signior
Tartini. Here he continues to fpeak of M. Rameau,
whom he has followed through this whole work, as
the artift of greateft authority in the country where he
. wrrites.
He thinks himfelf obliged, however, to declare,
That this fyftem, however ingenious it may be, is far
from being founded upon nature •, an affirmation which
he inceffantly repeats : “ That it is only eftablifhed
upon analogies and congruities, which a man of inven¬
tion may overturn to-morrow, by fubftituting others
more natural : that, in fliort, of the experiments from
whence he deduces it, one is detefted fallacious, and
the other will not yield him the confequences which he
would extort from it. In reality, when this author
took it in his head to dignify with the title of detnon-
Jiration the reafoning upon which he eftabliftied his
theory, every one turned the arrogant pretence into
ridicule. The Academy of Sciences loudly difapproved
a title fo ill founded, and fo gratuitouffy aiTumed \ and
M. Effive, of the Royal Society at Montpelier, has
fhown him, that even to begin with this propolition,
That according to the law of nature, founds are repre-
fented by their ottaves, and that the odlaves may be
lubftituted for them, there was not any one thing de-
monftrated, or even firmly eftablilhed, in his pretended
demonftration.” He returns to his fyftem.
“ The mechanical principle of refonance prefents us
with nothing but independent and folitary chords ;
it neither prefcribes nor eftablilhes their fucceflion.
Yet a regular fucceflion is neceffary ; a diftionary of
feledled words is not an oration, nor a colledlion of
legitimate chords a piece of mufic : there muft be a
meaning, there muft be conne&ions in mufic as well
as in language : it is necefiary that what has preceded
fhould tranfmit fomething of its nature to what is fub-
fequent, fo that all the parts conjoined may form a
whole, and be ftamped with the genuine character of
unity.
“ Now, the complex fenfation which refults from a.
perfedl chord muft be refolved into the fimple fenfa¬
tion of each particular found which compofes it, and
into the fenfation of each particular interval which
forms it, afcertained by comparifon one with another.
Beyond this there is nothing fenfible in any chord ;
from whence it follows, that it is only by the relation
between founds, and by the analogy between intervals,,
that the connexion now in queftion can be eftabliftied j
and this is the genuine, the only fource, from whence
flow all the laws of harmony and modulation. If, then,
the whole of harmony were only formed by a fucceffion
of perfedf chords-major, it would be fufticient to pro ¬
ceed by intervals fimilar to thofe wffiich compofe fuch
a chord j for then fome one or more founds of the pre¬
ceding chord being neceflarily protradled in that which
is fubfequent, all the chords would be found fufficiently
conne&ed; and the harmony would, at leaft in this fenfe,
be one.
“ But befides that thefe fucceflions muft exclude all
melody by excluding the diatonic feries which forms its
foundation^,
H A R [27
Harmony, foundation, it would not arrive at the real end of the
v_~" art j becaufe, as mufic is a fyftem of meanings like a
difcourfe, it ought, like a difcourfe, to have its periods,
its phrafes, its fufpenfes, its cadences, its punfluation of
every kind $ and becaufe the uniformity of a harmoni-
cal procedure implies nothing of all this, diatonic pro¬
cedures require that major and minor chords Ihould be
intermixed ; and the neceflity of difi'onances has been
felt in order to diftinguifli the phrafes, and render the
cadences fenfible. Now, a connefled feries of perfect
chords-major can neither be produftive of perfefl
chords-minor nor of diffonances, nor can fenfibly mark
■any mufical phrafe, and the pun&uation mult there
be found entirely defective.
“ M. Rameau being abfolutely determined, in his
fyltem, to deduce from nature all the harmony prac-
tifed among us, had recourfe, for this effeCt, to ano¬
ther experiment of his own invention, of which I have
formerly fpoken, and which by a different arrange¬
ment is taken from the firft. He pretended, that aqy
fimple found whatever afforded in it multiplies a per¬
fect minor or flat chord, of which it was the domi¬
nant or fifth, as it furnifhed a perfeCt chord-major by
the vibration of its aliquot parts, of which it is the to¬
nic or fundamental found. He has affirmed as a certain
faCt, that a vocal firing-caufed two others lower than
itfelf to vibrate through their whole extent, yet with¬
out making them produce any found, one to its twelfth
major and the other to its feventeenth ; and from this
joined to the former faCt, he has very ingenioufly de¬
duced not only the application of the minor mode and
of diffonances in harmony, but the rules of harmonic
phrafes and of all modulation, fuch as they are found
at the words Chord, Accompaniment, Fundamental Bafs,
Cadence, Di/Jbnance, Modulation.
“ But firft (continues Rouffeau), the experiment
is falfe. It is difcovered, that the firings tuned be¬
neath the fundamental found do not entirely vibrate
when this fundamental found is given 5 but that they
are divided in fuch a manner as to return its unifon
alone, which of confequence can have no harmonics
below. It is moreover difcovered, that the property
of firings in dividing themfelves, is not peculiar to thofe
which are tuned by a twelfth and feventeenth belowf the
principal found j but that ofcillations are likewife pro¬
duced in the lower firings by all its multiples. Whence
it follows, that, the intervals of the twelfth and feven¬
teenth below not being lingular phenomena of their
kind, nothing can be concluded in favour of the perfe£t
minor chord which they reprefent.
“ Though the truth of this experiment were grant¬
ed, even this wTould by no means remove the difficulty.
If, as M. Rameau alleges, all harmony is derived from
the refonance of fonorous bodies, it cannot then be de¬
rived only from the vibrations of fuch bodies as do not
refound. In reality, it is an extraordinary theory,
to deduce from bodies that do not refound the prin¬
ciples of harmony $ and it is a pofition in natural phi-
lofophy no lefs ftrange, that a fonorous body fhould
vibrate without refounding, as if found itfelf wrere any
thing elfe but the air impelled by thefe vibrations.
Moreover, fonorous bodies do not only produce, be-
fides the principal found, the other tones which with
itfelf compofe a perfeft chord ; but an infinite number
of other founds, formed by all the aliquot parts of the
i
2 ] II A It
bodies in vibration, which do not enter into that per- Harmony,
left harmony. Why then fhould the former founds
produce confonances, and wffiy fhould the latter not
produce them, fince all of them equally refult from
nature ?
“ Every found exhibits a chord truly perfeft, fince
it is compofed of all its harmonics, and fince it is by
them that it becomes a found. Yet thefe harmonics are
not heard, and nothing is diftinguifhed but a fimple
found, unlefs it be exceedingly ftrong : wdience Jt fol-
kuvs, that the only good harmony is an unifon ; and
that, as foon as the confonances can be diftinguifhed,
the natural proportion being altered, the harmony has
loft its purity.
“ That alteration is in this cafe produced two diffe¬
rent wrays. Firft, by caufing certain harmonics to re-
found, and not the others, the proportion of force
wffiich ought to prevail in all of them is altered, for
producing the fenfation of a fingle found 5 whence the
unity of nature is deftroyed. By doubling thefe har¬
monics, an effeft is exhibited fimilar to that which
wmuld be produced by fuppreffing all the others ; for
in that cafe we cannot doubt, but that, along wdth the
generating found, the tones of the other harmonics
wffiich were permitted to found would be heard : wdiere-
as, in leaving all of them to their natural operations,
they deftroy one another, and confpire together in
forming and ftrengthening the fimple fenfation of the
principal found. It is the fame effedt which the full
found of a flop in the organ produces, wrhen, by fuc-
ceffively removing the Hopper or regifter, the third and
fifth are permitted to found with the principal j for
then that fifth and third, wdiich remained abforbed in
the other founds, are feparately and difagreeably di-
flinguilhed by the ear.
“ Moreover, the harmonics which we caufe to found
have other harmonics pertaining to themfelves, which
cannot be fuch to the fundamental found. It is by
thefe additional harmonics that the founds which pro¬
duce them are dillinguifhed with a more fenfible degree
of harflinefs j and thefe very harmonics which thus
render the chord perceptible, do not enter into its
harmony. This is the reafon wffiy the moft perfedt
chords are naturally difpleafing to ears whofe relifli
for harmony is not fufficiently formed -, and I have
no hefitation in thinking, that even the oitave itfelf
might be difpleafing, if the mixture of male and fe¬
male voices did not inure us to that interval from our
infancy.
“ With diffonance it is ftill worfe, becaufe, not only
the harmonics of the found by which the difcord is pro¬
duced, but even the found itfelf, is excluded from the
natural harmony of the fundamental ; which is the caufe
why difcord is always diftinguiflied arnonglt all the other
founds in a manner fliocking to the fenfe.
“ Every key of an organ, with the flop fully open¬
ed, gives a perfect chord with its third major, which are
not diltinguiflied from the fundamental found, if the
hearer is not extremely attentive, and if he does not
found the whole Hop in fucceflion 5 but thefe harmonic
founds are never obferved in the fundamental, but on
account of the prodigious noife, and by fuch a fituation
of the regifters as may caufe the pipes which produce
the fundamental found to conceal by their force the
Other founds which produce thefe harmonics. Now,
no
H A R [ 273 ]
Harmony, no perfon obferves, nor can obferve, tbis continual pro- force and energy,
portion in a concert fince, by the manner of invert¬
ing the harmony, its greateft force muft in every inftant
be transferred'from one part to another j which is not
practicable, and would deftroy the whole melody.
“ When we play upon the organ, every key in the
bafs caufes to refound the perfeCf chord-major 5 but
becaufe that bafs is not always fundamental, and be-
caufe the rnufic is often modulated in a.perfeCt minor
chord, tbis perfect chord-major is rarely ilruck with
the right hand y fo that we hear the third minor wnth
the major, the fifth with the triton, the feventh re¬
dundant writh the oCtave, and a thoufand other caco¬
phonies, which, however, do not much difguft our
ears, becaufe habit renders them tradable : but it is
not to be imagined that an ear naturally juft wrould
prove fo patient of difcords, when firft expofed to the
teft of this harmony.
“ Mv Rameau prefends, that trebles compofed writh
a certain degree of fimplicity naturally luggeft their
own bafles ; and that any man having a juft, though
unpradifed ear, would fpontaneoufly fing that bafs.
This is the prejudice of a mufician, refuted by univer-
fal-experience. Not only wTould he, who has never
heard either bafs or harmony, be of himfelf incapable
of finding either the bafs or the harmony of M.
Rameau, but they would be difpleafing to him if he
heard them, and he w^ould greatly prefer the fimple
unifon.
“ When w’e' confider, that, of all the people upon
earth, w7ho have all of them fome kind of mufic and
melody, the Europeans are the only people who have
a harmony confiding of chords, and who are pleafed
wnth this mixture of founds : when we confider that
the wrorld has endured for fo many ages, whilft, of all
the nations which cultivated the fine arts, not one has
found out this harmony 5 that not one animal, not one
bird, not one being in nature, produces any other chord
. but the unifon, nor any other mufic but melody 5 that
the eaftern languages, fo fonorous, fo mufical j that
the ears of the Greeks, fo delicate, fo fenfible, prac-
tifed and cultivated with fo much art, have never con¬
duced this people, luxurious and enamoured of plea-
fure as they were, towards this harmony which we
imagined fo natural $ that without it their mufic pro¬
duced fuch aftonilhing effeCs •, that with it ours is
To impotent •, that, in fhort, it wras referved for the
people of the north, whofe grofs and callous organs of
fenfation are more affeCed wdth the noife and clamour
of voices, than with the fwreetnefs of accents and the
melody of infieCions, to make this grand difcovery,
and to vend it as the effential principle upon which all
the rules of the art were founded ; when, in fhort, at¬
tention is paid to all thefe obfervations, it is very diffi¬
cult not to fufpecl that all our harmony is nothing but
a Gothic and barbarous invention^ wffiich wmuld never
have entered into our minds, had wre been truly fenfible
to the genuine beauties of art, and of that mufic wffiich
is unqueftionably natural.
“ M. Rameau aiferts, howrever, that harmony is the
fource of the moft powerful charms in mufic. But
this notion is contradi&ory both to reafon and to mat¬
ter of faft. To faft it is contradidlory, becaufe,
fince the invention of counter-point, all the wonderful
effeCs of mufic have ceafed, and it has loft its whole
VOL. X. Part I.
H A R
To which may be added, that fuch Harmony,
beauties as purely refult from harmony are only percei-
ved by the leartied ; that they alfeC none with tranf-
port but fuch' as are deeply converfimt in the art ^
wffiereas the real beauties of mufic, refulting from na¬
ture, ought to be, and certainly are, equally obvious
to the adept and the novice. To reafon it is contradic¬
tory ; fince harmony affords us no principle of imita¬
tion by which mufic, in forming images and expreffing
fentiments, can rife above its native excellence till it be¬
comes in lome meafure dramatic or imitative, which is
the higheft pitch of elevation and energy to which the
art can aipire ; fince all the pleafures which we can re¬
ceive from the mere mechanical influence of founds are
extremely limited, and have very little power over the
human heart.”
Thus far we have heard M. Roufleau, in his obfer¬
vations on harmony, with patience and we readily
grant, that the fystem of harmony by M. Rameau is
neither demonftrated, nor capable of demon ft ration.
But it will not follow, that any man of invention can
fo eafily and fo quickly fubvert thofe aptitudes and an¬
alogies on which the fyftem is founded. Every hypo-
thefis is admitted to poflefs a degree of probability pro¬
portioned to the number of phenomena for which it
offers a fatisfaclory folution. The firft experiment of
M. Rameau is, that every fonorous body, together
with its principal found and its odlave, gives likewife
its twelfth and feventeenth major above ; wffiich being-
approximated as much as poffible, even to the chords
immediately reprefented by them, return to the third,
fifth, and oflave, or, in other words, produce perfect
harmony. ■ This is what nature, when folicited, fpon¬
taneoufly gives ; this is what the human ear, unpre¬
pared and uncultivated, imbibes with ineffable avidity
and pleafure. Could any thing wffiich claims a right
to our attention, and acceptance from nature, be im-
preffed wnth more genuine or more legible fignatures of
her fanclion than this ? We do not contend for the
truth of M. Rameau’s fecond experiment. Nor is it
neceffary we fhould. The firft, expanded and carried
into all its cortfequences, refolves the phenomena of
harmony in a manner fuflicient to eflablilh its authen¬
ticity and influence. The difficulties for which it af¬
fords no folution are too few and too trivial either to
merit the regard of an artift, or a philofopher, as M.
D’Alembert in his elements lias clearly fhown. The
fafts with wffiich M. Rouffeau confronts this principle,
the armies of multiplied harmonics generated in infi¬
nitum, wffiich he draw’s up in formidable array againff it, k
only fliowT the thin partitions which fometimes may di¬
vide philofophy from whim. For, as bodies are infi¬
nitely diyifible, according to the philofophy now efla-
blifhed, or as, according to every philofophy, they
muft be indefinitely divifible, each infinitefimal of any
given mafs, which are only harmonics to other princi¬
pal founds, muft have fundamental tones and harmo¬
nics peculiar to themfelves ; fo that, if the reafonino- 0f
Rouffeau has any force againft ffiX. Rameau’s experi¬
ment, the ear muft be continually diftracfed with a
chaos of inappretiable harmonics, and melody itfelf
muft be loft in the confufion. But the truth of the
matter is, that, by the wufe itiftitution of nature, there
is fuch a conformity eftabliihed between our fenfes and
their proper obje&s, as muft prevent all thefe difagree
M m able
H A II [ 274 ] H x\ R
Harmony, able effects. Rouffeau and bis opponent are agreed in
v~ this, that the harmonics confpire to form one predomi¬
nant found •, and are not to be detedled but by the niceft
organs, applied with the deepeft attention. It is equal¬
ly obvious, that, in an artihcial harmony, by a proper
management of this wife precaution of nature, diffo-
nances themfelves may be either entirely concealed or
confiderably foftened. So that, fince by nature fono-
rous bodies in actual vibration are predifpofed to exhi-
hit perfect harmony ; and fince the human ear is, by
the fame wife regulation, fabricated in fuch a manner
as to perceive it j the harmonical chaos of M. Rouffeau
may be left to operate on his own brain, where it will
probably meet with the wajmett reception it can ex-
* M.Rouf- pedt to find*. Nor does it avail him to pretend, that
feau -was before the harmonics can be diftinguifhed, fonorous bo-
aU-ve -when mu{t Pg impelled wdth a force which alters the
-'■ as ^IritUn ch°rds, and deitroys the purity of the harmony 5 for
this pofition is equally falfe both in theory and prac¬
tice. In theory, becaufe an impulfe, however forcible,
muft proportionally operate on all the parts of any fo¬
norous body, fo far as it extends: in practice, be¬
caufe the human ear actually perceives the harmony to
be pure. What effe£ts his various manoeuvres upon
the organ may have, we leave to fuch as have leilure
and curiofity enough to try the experiments; but it is
apprehended, that when tried, their remits will leave
rhe fyflem of Rameau, particularly as remodelled by
D’Alembert, in its full force.
Of all the whims and paradoxes maintained by this
philofopher, none is more extravagant than his af-
fertion, that every chord, except the fimple unifon, is
difpleafing to the human ear; nay, that we are only
reconciled to o&aves themfelves by being inured to
hear them from our infancy. Strange, that nature
fhould have fixed this invariable proportion between
male and female voices, whilit at the fame time fire in-
fpired the hearers with, fuch violent prepoffeflions
againft it as w7ere invincible but by long and confirmed
habit ! The tranflator of D'd/embert's Elemetits, as gi¬
ven under the article Music in this Didtionary, has
been at peculiar pains to inveftigate his earlieft recol¬
lections upon this fubjedt; and has had fuch opportu¬
nities, both of attending to his original perceptions,
and of recognifing the fidelity of his memory, as are
not common. He can remember, even from a period
of early childhood, to have been pleafed with the fim-
pleft kinds of artificial harmony ; to have diftinguifhed
the harmonics of fonorous bodies with delight \ and to
have been Itruck with horror at the found of fuch bo¬
dies as, by their llructure, or by the cohefion of their
parts, exhibited thefe ’ harmonics falfe. This is the
chief, if not the only caufe, of the tremendous and
difagreeable fenfation which we feel from the found of
, the Chinefe ghong. The fame horrible cacophony is
frequently, in fome degree, produced by a drum une¬
qually braced : from this found the tranfiator often re¬
members to have flarted and fcreamed, when carried
through the flreets of the town in which he was born
in the arms of his nurfery-maid •, and as he is confci-
cus, that the acouffic organs of many are as exquifite as
his own, he cannot doubt but they may have had the
fame fenfations, though perhaps they do not recol-
leH the fafts. So early and fo nicely may the fenfa¬
tions of harmony and difcord be diftinguifhed. But
after all, it fee'ms that harmony is no more than a mo- Harmony,
dern invention, and even at this late period only ^ v—1" 1
known to the Europeans. We fhould, however, be
glad to knmv, from what oracle our philofopher learn¬
ed that harmony was not known to antiquity. From
what remains of their wrorks, no proof of his pofition
can be derived ; and we have at leaf! mentioned one
probability againft it in our notes to the Preliminary
Difcourfe to the article Music, (fee Note B.) But though
Rouffeau’s mighty objections wrere granted, that har¬
mony can only be endured by fuch ears as are habi¬
tually formed and cultivated •, that the period of its
prevalence has been fhort, and the extent of its em¬
pire limited to Europe ; flill his conclufion, that it is a
Gothic and barbarous invention, is not fairly deducible
even from thefe premifes. Muff we affirm, that epic
poetry has no foundation in nature, becaufe, during
the long interval which happened from the beginning
■of the world to the deftruftion of Troy, no epic poem
feems to have appeared ? Or becaufe a natural and mel¬
lifluous verfification is lefs relilhed by an unpolifhed
tafle, than the uncouth rhymes of a common ballad,
lhall we infer, that the power of numbers is merely
fuppofititious and arbitrary ? On the contrary, we will
venture to affirm, that though harmony cannot, as
Rameau fuppofes, be mathematically demonftrated
from the nature and vibrations of Ibnorous bodies ; yet
the idea of its conflituent parts, and of their coalef-
cence, is no lefs eftabliffied, no lefs precife and defi¬
nite, than any mode or property of fpace or quantity
to be invelligated by geometrical refearches or alge¬
braical calculations. It is certain, that the mimetic or
imitative power of mufic chiefly confifis in melody 5 but
from this truth, however evident, it cannot be fairly
deduced, that harmony is abfolutely unfufceptible of
imitation. Perhaps every mufical found, even to the
mod fimple, and all modulations of found, are more or
lefs remotely conneCled with fome fentiment or paffion
of the human heart. We know7, that there are infh’nc-
tive expreffions of pain or pleafure in their various
modes and degrees, which, when uttered by any fenfi-
tive, and perceived by any confcious being, excite in
the mind of the percipient a feeling fympathetic wdth
that by which they are prompted. We likewife know
from experience, that all artificial founds modulated in
the fame manner, have fimilar, though not equal, ef¬
fects. We have feen that, in order to render harmony
compatible with itfelf, the, melody of each part muft
be congenial; and, for that reafon, one kindred melody
refults from the whole. So far, therefore, as any com-
pofer has it in his pow7er to render the general melody
homogeneous, fo far the imitation may be preferved,
and even heightened : for fuch objedts as are majeftic
and auguft, or the feelings which they excite, are more
aptly expreffed by a compofition of kindred founds,
than by any fimple tone wffiatever. 'ihey who fup-
pofe the mimetic powers of mufic to be confummated
in the imitation of mere unmeaning founds or degrees
of motion, muft entertain limited and unworthy ideas
of its province. It is naturally a reprefentative almoft
of every fentiment or affedtion of the foul ; and, when
this end is gained, the art muft have reached its higheft
perfection, and produced its nobleft effedts. But thefe
effedts, ho'.vever fenfible among the ancients, may in
us be fuperfeded by other caufes which remain yet un¬
explored,.
H A R [ 275 ] H A R
Harnfony explored. Theatrical performances are llkewlfe, by
II them, faid to have produced the moft wonderful ef-
Haii.efs. fe^.s . yet ^efe we do not recognife amongft ourfelves,
though we have dramatic entertainments perhaps not
inferior to theirs.
Rouffeau proceeds to tell us, that among the ancients
the enharmonic fpecies of mulic was fometimes called
harmony.
Direct Harmony, is that in which the bafs is funda¬
mental, and in which the upper parts preferve among
themfelves, and with that fundamental bs.^, the natu¬
ral and original order which ought to fubfi.lt in each of
the chords that compofe this harmony.
Inverted Harmony, is that in which the fundamental
or generating found is placed in fame of the upper
parts, and when fome other found of the chords is tranf-
ferred to the bafs beneath the others.
Harmony of the Spheres, or Celeftial Harmony, a fort
of mufic much talked of by many of the ancient phi-
lofophers and fathers, fuppofed to be produced by the
fweetly tuned motions of the liars and planets. This
harmony they attributed to the various proportionate
impreflions of the heavenly globes upon one another,
adding at proper intervals. It is impoffible, according
to them, that fuch prodigious large bodies, moving
with fo much rapidity, fhould be filent: on the con¬
trary, the atmofphere, continually impelled by them,
mull yield a fet of founds proportionate to the impref-
fion it receives ; confequently, as they do not all run
the fame circuit, nor with one and the fame velocity,
the different tones arifing from the diverfity of motions,
diredfed by the hand of the Almighty, mull form an
admirable fymphony or concert.
They therefore fuppofed, that the moon, as being
the lowed of the planets, correfponded to mi; Mer¬
cury, to fa ; Venus, to fol; the Sun, to la ; Mars, to
Jupiter, to ut; Saturn, tore; and the orb of the
fixed liars, as being the highell of all, to mi, or the
odlave.
HARMOSTES, or Harmosta, in antiquity, a
fort of magilliate among the Spartans, whereof there
were feveral, whofe bufinefs was to look, to the build¬
ing of citadels, and repairing the forte and fortifica¬
tions of the cities.—The word is dgu»?K, formed of
apto. concino, “ I adapt, concert,” &c.
HARMOSYNIANS, ctqtieo-viioi, in antiquity, were
magiftrates among the Spartans, who, after the death
of Lycurgus, were appointed to enforce the obfervance
of that law of the Spartan legiflator which required
married women to wear a veil when they appeared in
the llreets, whereby they were dillinguilhed from fingle
females, who were allowed to appear abroad with their
faces uncovered.
HARNESS, a complete armour, or the whole
equipage and accoutrements of a cavalier heavily armed ;
as cafque, cuirafs, &c. The word is formed of the
French harnois; which forne derive from the Greek „
ctoYxx.t;, “ a lamb’s Ikin,” becaufe they anciently co¬
vered themfelves therewith. Du Cange obferves, that
the word harnefium is ufed in the corrupt Latin in the
fame fenfe, and that it comes from the High Dutch
harnas or harnifch. Others derive it from the Italian
arnefe; others from the Celtic harnes, “ a cuirafs.”
Under King Richard II, it wTas exprefsly forbidden
all men to ride in harnefs with launcegays. Kideflat. 7.
Richard II. cap. 13. In the llatute 2 Hen. VI. cap. 14. Harnefs
harnefs feems to include all kinds of furniture for of- H
fence as well as defence, both of men and horie j as i  
fwords, buckles for belts, girdles, &c.
Harness is alfo ufed for the furniture put on a
horfe to draw in a coach or waggon, or other carriage j
fuch as collars, leathers, traces, &c.
HARO, a fmall town of Spain in Old Cafiile, on
the Ebro, furrounded with walls. W. Long. 2. 23.
N. Lat. 42. 40.
Harou, Harou, or Harol, in the Norman cuftoms.
— Clamour de haro is a cry or formula of invoking the
afiiftance of juflice againft the violence of fome offender,
who upon hearing the word haro is obliged to defift,
on pain of being feverely punifhed for his outrage, and
to go with the party before the judge.
The word is commonly derived of ha and roul, as be¬
ing fuppofed an invocation of the fovereign power, to
afiift the weak againft the ftrong, on occafion of Raoul
firft duke of Normandy, about the year 912, who ren¬
dered himfelf venerable to his fubjedts by the feverity
of his juftice j fo that they called on him even after
his death when they fuffered any cppreffion. Some
derive it from Harola king of Denmark, who in the
year 826 was made grand confervator of juftice at
Mentz. Others from the Danifh aa ran, q. d. “ help
me j” a cry raifed by the Nomans in flying from a
king of Denmark named Roux, who made himfelf
duke of Normandy. The letters of the French chan¬
cery have ufually this claufe, Nonobfant clameur de
haro, &c.
The haro had anciently fuch vaft power, that a poor
man of the city of Caen named Affelin, in virtue here¬
of, arrefted the corpfe of William the Conqueror, in
the middle of the funeral proceflion, till fuch time as
his fan Henry had paid the value of the land in que-
ftion, which wras that on which the chapel was built
in which he was interred.
HAROLD, the name of two Englifli kings. See
England, N° 77, 83.
HARONIA, a town of Turkey, in the Arabian
Irak, 4:; miles north of Bagdad.
HAROUE, a town of France, in the department of
Meurthe, 134 miles fouth-weft of Luneville.
HARP, a mufical inftrument of the ftringed kind,
of a triangular figure, and held upright between the
legs of the performer.
Papias, and Du Cange after him, will have the harp
to have taken its name from the Arpii, a people of
Italy, who wTere fuppofed the firft that invented it ;
and from whom, they fay, it was borrowed by other
nations. Menage, &c. derive the word from the Latin
liarpa, and that from the German herp or harp. Others
bring it from the Latin carpo, becaufe touched or
thrummed with the fingers. Dr Hickes derives it
from harpa or hearpa, which fignify the fame thing ;
the firft in the language of the Cimbri, the fecond in
that of the Anglo Saxons. The Englifli prieft who
wrote the life of St Dunftan, and who lived with him
in the tenth century, fays, cap. ii. n. x 2. Sumpfit fecuni
ex more citharam fuam, quoin paterna lingua hearpam vo-
camus ; which intimates the word to be Anglo-Saxon.
The harp w’as the favourite mufical inftrument of
the Britons and other northern nations in the middle
agesj as is evident from their latvs, and from every
Mm2 paffage
H A R [ 276 ] H A R
IlArp. paffage in their hiitory, in which there is the lead al-
lufion to raunc. By the laws of Wales, a harp was
one of the three things that were necelTary to conilitute
a gentleman, i. e. a freeman •, and none could pretend
to that chara&er who had not one of thefe favourite
inllruments, or could not play upon it. By the fame
laws, to prevent Haves from pretending to be gentle¬
men, it was exprefsly forbidden to teach, or to permit,
them to play upon the harp ; and none but the king,
the king’s muficians, and gentlemen, were allowed to
have harps in their poiTeffion. A gentleman’s harp
■was not liable to be feized for debt *, becaufe the want
of it would have degraded him from his rank, and re¬
duced him to a Have. The harp w'as in no lefs efti-
mation and univerfal ufe among the Saxons and Danes.
Thofe who played upon this inftrument were declared
gentlemen by law; their perfons wTere efteemed invio¬
lable, and fecured from injuries by very fevere penal¬
ties 5 they were readily admitted into the higheft com¬
pany, and treated with diftinguifhed marks of refpeft
wherever they appeared.
There is fome diverfity in the ftrufture of harps.
That called the triple harp has 97 firings er chords in
three rows, extending from C in the tenor cliff to
d;mble G in alt, which make five oflaves : the middle
row is for the femitones, and the two outfide row’s are
perfect unifons. On the bafs fide, which is played with
the right hand, there are 36 firings: on the treble
fide, 26; and in the middle row, 35 firings. There
are two rows of pins or ferews, on the right fide, ferving
to keep the firings tight in their holes, which are fa-
fiened at the other end to three rows of pins on the
upper fide. The harp, within the laft 40 years, has
been in fome degree improved by the addition of eight
firings to the unifon, viz. from E to double F in alt.
This inftrument is llruck with the finger and thumb of
both hands. Its mufic is much like that of the fpinet,
all its firings going from femitone to femitone \ whence
fome call it an invertedfpinct. It is capable of a much
greater degree of perfedlion than the lute.
There are among us two forts of this inftrument,
viz.'the Welch harp, being that juft deferibed ; and the
Irijh harp. Plate CCL. N* x. reprefents the harp
of Brian Boiromh, king of all Ireland, flain in battle
with the Danes A. D. 1014, at Clontarf. His fon
Donagh having murdered his brother Teige, A. D.
1023, and being depofed by his nephew, retired to
Rome, and carried with him the crown, harp, and
other regalia of his father, which he prefented to the
Pope in order to obtain abfolution. Adrian IV. fur-
named Breakfpear, alleged this circumftance as one
of the principal titles he claimed to this kingdom in
his bull transferring it to Henry II. Thefe regalia
were kept in the Vatican till the Pope fent the harp to
Henry VIII. with the title of Defender of the Faith •,
but kept the crown, which was of maflive gold. Plenry
gave the harp to the firft earl of Clanricard, in wdxofe fa¬
mily it remained till the beginning of the 18th century,
when it came by a lady of the De Burgh family into
that of Mac Mahon of Clenagh in the county of Clare,
after wdiofe death it paffed into the poffeftion of Com-
miftioner Mac Namara of Limerick. In 1782 it was
prefented to the right honourable William Conyngham,
who depofited it in Trinity college library. It is 32
inches high, and of extraordinary good workmanftiip j
the founding-board is of o®k, the arms of red fally ; > ILrp
the extremity of the uppermoft arm in part is capt with ' ' ’ v" 1 '
filver, extremely well wrought and chifeled. It con¬
tains a large cryfial fet in filver, and under it was ano¬
ther Hone now loft. The buttons or ornamental knobs
at the Tides of this arm are of filver. On the front arm
are the arms chafed in filver of the O’Brien family, the
bloody hand fupported by lions. On the fides of the
front arm within two circles are two Irilh wolf dogs
cut in the wood. The holes of the founding board
where the firings entered are neatly ornamented with
efcutcheons of brafs carved and gilt; the larger iouml-
ing-holes have been ornamented, probably with filver,
as they have been the objedl of theft. This harp has
28 keys, and as many firing-holes, confequently there
wrere as many firings. The foot piece or reft is broken
off, and the parts round which it w^as joined are very
rotten. The whole bears evidence of an expert artifi.
King David is ^ufually painted with a harp in his
hands; but we have no teftimony in all antiquity that
the ITebrew harp called chinnor, was any thing like
ours. On a Hebrew medal of Simon Maccabaeus wTe
fee two forts of mufical inftruments ; but they are both
of them very different from our harp, and only confift
of three or four firings. All authors agree, that our
harp is very different from the lyra, ckhara, or barbi-
ton, of the Romans. Fortunatus, lib. vii. carm. 8.
witneffes, that it was an inftrument of the barbarians :
Romanufque lyra, plaudat tibi barbarus harpa,
Greecus ylchilliacha, crotta Britanna canat.
Of ancient harps, two are reprefented on the fame
plate.-—N° 2. is a trigonum or triangular harp. It is
taken from an ancient painting in the mufeum of the
king of Naples, in which it is placed on the (boulder
of a little dancing Cupid, who fupports the inftrument
with his left hand and plays upon it with his right. The
trigonum is mentioned by Athenaeus, lib. iv. and by
Julius Pollux, lib. iv. cap. 9. According to Athenaeus,
Sophocles calls it a Phrygian injirurnent; and one of his
dipnofophifts tells us, that a certain mufician, named
Alexander Alexandrians, was fuch an admirable perform¬
er upon it, and had given fuch proofs of his abilities at
Rome, that he made the inhabitants pyiropumv, “ mufi-
cally mad.” N° 3. and 4. are varieties of the fame
inftrument. N° 5. is the Theban harp, according to a
drawing made from an ancient painting in one of the
fepulchral grottoes of the firft kings of Thebes, and
communicated by Mr Bruce to Dr Burney The * Vid. Bur-
performer is clad in a habit made like a Hurt, fuch as »o,’-r
the women ftill wear in Abyflinia, and the men in Nubia. °f ^uf,ct
It reaches down to his ancles j his feet are withoutz
fandals, and bare ; his neck and arms are alfo bare ; his
loofe white fleeves are gathered above his elbows ; and
his head is clofe ftiaved.- His left hand feems employed
in the upper part of the inftrument among the notes in
alto, as if in an arpeggio ; while, {looping forwards, he
feems with.his right hand to be beginning with the
loweft firing, and promifing to afeend with the moil
rapid execution : this adfion, fo obvioufiy rendered by
an indifferent artift, fliows that it was a common one
in his time ; or, in other words, that great hands were
then frequent, and confequently that mufic wTas well
underftoed and diligently followed.
On this inftrument Dr Burney makes the following
obfervations
H A K [ 277 ] H A R
Harp. obfervations : “ The number of firings, the fize and
form of this inftrument, and the elegance of its orna¬
ments, awaken reflections, which to indulge would lead
us too far from our purpofe, and indeed out of our
depth. The mind is wholly loft in the immenfe anti¬
quity of the painting in which it is reprefented. In¬
deed the time when it was executed is fo remote, as to
encourage a belief, that arts, after having been brought
to great perfection, were again loft and again invented
long after this period.—With refpeft to the number of
firings upon this harp, if conjeCtures may be allowed
concerning the method of tuning them, two might be
offered to the reader’s choice. The flrft idea that pre-
fented itfelf at the fight of 13 firings was, that they
would furnifh all the femitones to be found in modern
inftruments within the compafs of an oCtave, as from
C to c, D to d, or E to e. The fecond idea is more
Grecian, and conformable to antiquity ; which is, that
if the longeft firing reprefented projiambanortienos, or
D, the remaining 1 2 firings would fupply all the tones,
femitones and quarter-tones, of the diatonic, chroma¬
tic, and enharmonic genera of the ancients, within the
compafs of an oClave : but for my part, I would rather
incline to the firlt arrangement, as it is more natural,
and more conformable to the ftruClure of our organs,
than the fecond. For with refpeCl to the genera of the
Greeks, though no hiftoric teftimony can be produced
concerning the invention of the diatonic and chromatic,
yet ancient writers are unanimous in afcribing to Olym¬
pus the Phrygian the firft ufe of the enharmonic : and
though in the beginning the melody of this genus w^as
fo Ample and natural as to referable the wild notes and
rude effays of a people not quite emerged from barba-
rifm ; yet in after-times it became overcharged with
, finical fopperies and fanciful beauties, arifing from fuch
minute divifions of the fcale as had no other merit than
the great difficulty of forming them. It feems a mat¬
ter of great wonder, with fuch a model before their
eyes as the Theban harp, that the form and manner of
uiing fuch an inftrument fliould not have been perpe¬
tuated by pofterity ; but that, many ages after, ano¬
ther of an inferior kind, with fewer firings, fhould
take place of it. Yet if w7e confider how little we are
acquainted with the ufe and even conftru6lion of the
inftruments which afforded the greateft delight to the
Greeks and Romans, or even with others in common
ufe in a neighbouring part of Europe, only a few cen¬
turies ago, our wonder will ceafe ; efpecially if we re¬
flect upon the ignorance and barbarifm into which
it is poffible for an ingenious people to be plunged
by the tyranny and devaftation of a powerful and cruel
invader.”
Bell-HARF, a mufical inftrument of the firing kind,
thus called from the common players on it fwinging it
about, as a bell on its balls.
It is about three feet long 5 its firings, which are of
no determinate number, are of brafs or rteel wire, fixed
at one end, and ftretched acrofs the found board by
fcrew's fixed at the other. It takes in four oflaves,
according to the number of the firings, which are
ftruck only with the thumbs, the right hand playing
the treble and the left hand the bafs : and in order to
draw the found the clearer, the thumbs are armed
wi>th a little wire pin. This may perhaps be the lyra
©r cythara of the ancients j but w;e find no mention
made of it under the name it now bears, which mull be
allowed to be modem.
Harp of JEolus. See Acoustics, p. 149.
HARPAGINES, in antiquity, were hooks of iron,
hanging on the top of a pole, which, being fecured
with chains to the malls of Ihips, and then let down
with great velocity into the enemy’s veffels,- caught
them up into the air. By way of defence againft thefc
machines, they covered their Ihips with hides, which
broke and blunted the force of the iron. The harpa-
gines, by the Greeks called owe their inven¬
tion to Anacharfis the Scythian phiiofopher.
HARPAGIUS. See Arpagius.
Harp
11.
Harpies.
HARPALUS, a Greek aftronomer, who flourilhed
about 480 B. C. corredled the cycle of eight years in- '
vented by Cleoftratus 5 and propofed a new one of nine
years, in which he imagined the fun and moon returned
to the fame point. But Harpalus’s cycle was afterwards
altered by Meton, who added ten full years to it. See
Chronology, N° 27.
HARPIES (APHTIAI, HarpyIje), in antiquity, a
rapacious impure fort of monfters of the bird kind,
mentioned among the poets. They are reprefented * iVirg.JEn.
with wings, ears like bears, bodies like vultures, faces hi.
like women, and feet and hands hooked like the talons
of birds of prey.
The ancients looked on the harpies as a fort of
genii or demons. Some make them the daughters of
Tellus and Oceanus, the earth and ocean ; whence, fays
Servius, it is, that they inhabit an illand, half on land
and half in water. Valerius Flaccus makes them the
daughters of Typk°n-
There were three harpies, Aello, Oc'ypete, and Ce-
laeno, which laft Homer calls Podarge. Hefiod, in his
Theogony, ver. 267. only reckons two, Aello and Ocy-
pete, and makes them the daughters of Thaumas and
Eledlra, affirming that they had wings, and went with
the rapidity of the wind. Zephyrus begat of them
Balius and Xanthus, Achilles’s horfes. Pherecydes
relates, that the Boreades expelled them from the
ZEgean and Sicilian feas, and purfued them as far as
the iflands which he calls P/otce and Homer Cahjnce ;
and which have fince been called the Strophades,
Voffius, De Idol. lib. iii. cap. 99. p. 63. thinks,
that what the ancients have related of the harpies,
agrees to no other birds fo well as the bats found in
the territories of Darien in South America. Thefe
animals kill not only birds, but dogs and cats, and
prove very troublefome to men by their peckings. But
the ancients,, as the fame Voffius obferves, knew no¬
thing of thefe birds. By the harpies, therefore, he
thinks, they could mean nothing elfe but the winds 5
and that it was on this account they were made daugh¬
ters of Eletftra, the daughter of Oceanus. Such' is
the opinion of the fcholiafts of Apollonius, Hefiod,
and Euftathius. Their names, Aello, Ocypete, Ce-
laeno, are fuppofed to fugged a farther argument of
this.
^ Mr Bryant fuppofes that the harpies were a college
ox priefts in Bithynia, who on account of their repeat¬
ed acls of violence and cruelty, were driven out of the
country : their temple was called dlrpi, and the en¬
virons shrpiai, whence the Grecians formed Aprvixi 2
and he obferves farther, that Harpjja, was cer¬
tainly of old the name of a place.
HARPING.
Harping
II
Harpoon.
H A R [ 278 ] H A R
HARPING iron. See Harpoon.
HARPINGS, the fore parts of the wales which
encompafs the bow of a Ihip, and are faftened to the
Pern, being thicker than the after part of the wales,
in order to reinforce the ihip in this place, where fne
fuiVains the greateft ihock of refiftande in plunging into
the fen, or dividing it, under a great prellure of fail.
HARPOCRATES, in Mythology, the fon of IPs
and Ofiris. This is an Egyptian deity, whole diflin-
guiihing attribute is, that he is reprefented with his
fingers applied to his mouth, denoting that he is the
god of filence. The ftatue of this idol was fixed in
the entrance of molt of the Egyptian temples, and he
was commonly exhibited under the figure of a young
man naked, crowned with an Egyptian mitre, holding
in one hand a cornucopia, and in the other the fiower
of lotus, and fometimes bearing a quiver.
HARPOCRATTON, Valerius, a celebrated an¬
cient rhetorician of Alexandria, who has left us an ex¬
cellent Lexicon upon the ten orators of Greece. Aldus
fir ft publilhed this lexicon in the Greek at Venice in
160^. Many learned men have laboured upon it •, but
the beft edition was given by James Gronovius at Ley¬
den in 1696.
HARPOON or Harping-iron, a fpear or javelin
ufed to (trike the whales in the Greenland filhery.
The harpoon, which is fometimes called the harp¬
ing-iron, is furnifhed with a long ftaft, having at one
end a broad and flat triangular head, fharpened at both
edges, fo as to penetrate the whale with facility : to
the head of this weapon is faftened a long cord, called
the whale-line, which lies carefully coiled in the boat, in
fuch a manner as to run out without being interrupted
or entangled. See Whale-fishery, Cetology
Index.
Gun-HaRPOON, a kind of fire-arm for difeharging
harpoons at whales, and thereby killing them more
eafily and expeditioufly than formerly when the har¬
poons were thrown by the hand. 1 hough this me¬
thod was proje£fed a good many years ago, it has out
lately come into ufe; and premiums have been annually
offered by the fociety for encouraging arts, &c. to the
perfons who firft ftruck a filh in this manner. In the
Tranfa&ions of that Society for 1786, we have an ac¬
count of the firft filh flruck in this manner in 1784.
The gun was of the blunderbufs conllruclion, loaded
■with four common tobacco pipes full of glazed powdery
the filh wras ftiot at the diftance of ten fathoms, the
harpoon going into her back up to the ringand flic
was killed in about an hour. In 1785 three whales
were killed in this manner 3 four in 1786, and three in
1787. Since that time the gun-harpoon has come
more into ufe, and will probably foon fuperlede the
other method entirely. In the Iranfaclions of the
Society for 1789, we have accounts of a number of
whales killed in this manner. The inftrument appears
to be extremely ufeful in calm (till weather, as the
whale, though a timorous creature, will frequently al¬
low a boat to approach it to the diftance of 20, 15, or
even 10 fathoms, all of which diftances are within reach
of the gun-harpoon, though not within the reach of
that thrown by the hand. The greateft inconvenience
was in cafe of rain or fnow, by which the lock was
apt to get wet. To remedy this, a cafe of leather was
made to fit round the gun and over the lock, lined
3
with tin, and big enough to fire the gun when it was Harpfi-
on. The filh llruck with an harpoon difeharged in chord
this manner are foon killed by reaibn of its penetra-^ ^
ting their bodies to a great depth, not lefs than five or
fix feet, which no man’s ftrength would be able to ac-
complilh. In the volume juft quoted, wre have an ac¬
count of one which wTas fhot through the tail. The
harpoon broke in the flit, but five fathoms of line
went through the tail. The fifli was killed in eight
hours, which is perhaps the only inftance of a filh
ftruck in that part being caught. In another, the
harpoon carried fix feet of line into its body 3 the
creature died in ten minutes. Otj|prs wrere killed in
15 minutes or half an hour, and one had a rib broken
by the violence of the ftroke. In the Tranfadhons
of the Society for 1790, there are other accounts fimi-
lar to the foregoing, and ail agreeing as to the great
ufefulnefs of the inftrument both for linking the fifli
at a confiderable diftance, and for killing them in a
very ftiort time.
H ARPSICHORD, the moft harmonious of all the
mufical inftruments of the firing kind. It is played on
after the manner of the organ, and is furnilh'ed with
a fet, and fometimes with twm fets of keys 3 the touch¬
ing or (hiking of thefe keys moves a kind of little
jacks, which alfo move a double row of chords or
firings, of brads or iron, ftretched over four bridges on
the table of the inftrument.
HARQUEBUSS, a piece of fire-arms, of the
length of a mulket, ufually cocked with a wheel. It
carried a ball that weighed one ounce feven-eighths.
There was alfo a larger fort, called the great har-
quebufs, ufed for the defence of ftrong places, which
carried a ball of about three ounces and a half: but
they are now but little ufed, except in fome old caftles,
and by the French in fome of their garrifons.
HARRIER, a kind of hound, endowed with an
admirable gift of fmelling, and very bold in the purfuit
of his game. See Canis.
HARRINGTON, Sir John, an ingenious Eng-
lifti poet, w^as the fon of John Harrington, Efq 3 who
w^as committed to the Tower by Oueen Mary for hold¬
ing a correfpondence with her lifter Elizabeth 3 who,
when (he came to the crown, (food godmother to this
fon. Before he was 30, he publfthed a tranflation of
Ariofto’s Orlando Furiolo, a work by which he was
principally known 3 for though he afterwards pub-
lilhed fome epigrams, his talent did not feem to have
lain that way. He was created knight of the bath
by James I. 3 and prefented a MS. to Prince Henry,
levelled chiefly at the married bifhops. He is fup-
pofed to have died about the latter end of James’s
reign.
Harrington, James, a moft eminent Englifh wri¬
ter in the 17th century, bred at Oxford, travelled
into Holland, France, Denmark, and Germany, and
learned the languages of thofe countries. Upon his
return to England, ‘he was admitted one of the privy-
chamber extraordinary to King Charles I. He ferved
the king wsjth great fidelity, and made ufe of his inte-
reft with his friends in parliament to procure matters
to be accommodated with all parties. The king loved
his company except when the converfation happened
to turn upon commonwealths. He found means to
fee the king at St James’s 3 and attended him on the
fcaffold.
H A R [2
Harriot, fcaffold, where, or a little before, he received a token
of his majefty’s affeclion. After the death of King
Charles, he wrote his Oceana ; a kind of political ro¬
mance, in imitation of Plato’s Commonwealth, which
he dedicated to Oliver Cromwell. It is faid, that
when Oliver perufed it, he declared, that “ the gentle¬
man had wrote very well, but muft not think to cheat
him out of his power and authority ; for that wdiat
he had won by the fword, he would not fuffer himfelf
to be fcribbled out of.” This work was attacked by
feveral writers, againfl whom he defended it. Befide
his writings to promote republican principles, he in-
ftituted likewife a nightly meeting of feveral ingenious
men in the New Palace-Yard, 'Weftminfter •, which
club was called the Rcfta, and continued till the fe-
cluded members of parliament were reftored by Ge¬
neral Monk. In i66r, he was committed to the
Tower for treafonable defigns and practices ; and
Chancellor Hyde, at a conference with the lords
and commons, charged him with being concerned
in a plot. But a committee of lords and commons
could make nothing of that plot. He was convey¬
ed to St Nicholas’s bland, and from thence to Ply¬
mouth, where he fell into an uncommon diforder
of the imagination. Having obtained his liberty by
means of the earl of Bath, he was carried to London,
and died^ in 1677. He publithed, befides the above
works, feveral others, which were firft collefted by
.I oland, in one volume folio, 111 1700 : but a more
complete edition was publifhed in 1737, by the reve¬
rend Dr Birch.
HARRIOI, Ihomas, a celebrated algebraift, was
born at Oxford in 1560, where he was alfo edu¬
cated. In 1579 he completed his bachelor’s degree 5
and, being already diftinguifhed for his mathematical
learning, was foon after recommended to Sir Walter
Raleigh, as a proper perfon to inftruft him in that
fcience. He wras accordingly received into the family
of that gentleman ; who, in 1585, fent him with the
colony, under Sir Richard Granville, to Virginia 5 of
which country, having remained there about a year,
he afterwards publilhed a topographical defcription.
About the year 1588, Mr Harriot was introduced by
his patron Sir Walter Raleigh, to Henry Percy earl
of Northumberland, who allowed him a penfion of
12ol. per annum. He fpent many years of his life
in Sion college j where he died in July 1621, of a
yancer in his lip, and was buried in the church of St
ChriliOpher, where a handfome monument was erehled
to. his memory. Anthony Wood tells us, he was a
ueifl, and that the divines looked upon his death as a
judgment. Be his religious opinions what they might,
he was doubtlefs one of the firit mathematicians of the
age in which he lived, and wall always be remembered
as the inventor of the prefent improved method of
algebraical calculation. His improvements in algebra
were adopted by Des Cartes, and for a confiderable
time impofed upon the brench nation as his own
invention ; but the theft was at laid detecled, and ex-
pofed by Dr.vVallis, in his Hiftory of Algebra, where
tue reader will find our author’s invention accurately
pecified. Plis works are, 1. A brief and true re¬
port.of the new-found land of Virginia ; of the com¬
modities there found, and to be rai'fed. &c. 2. Artis
analytic# praxis ad, ctquationes algebraicas nova expe-
79 ] BAR
dita, et generah methodo refohendas, e pqflhumis Tho- Harris.
m# Harriott, &c. 3. Ephemeris chyrometrica. Ma-
nufcript, in the library of Sion college. He is faid to
have left feveral other manufcripts, which are probably
loft.
Dr Zach, who fully eftablifhed the truth of Des
Cartes having pilfered from the Artis analytic# praxis,
&c. of Harriot, and given it to the world as his own,
fpeaks thus of our celebrated mathematician and alge¬
braift : “ It is remarkable, that the fame and the ho¬
nour of this truly great man, were conftantly attacked
by the French mathematicians, who could not endure
that Harriot fhould in any wray diminilh the fame of
their Vieta and Des Cartes, especially the latter, who
was openly accufed of plagiarifm from our author.
“ Des Cartes publifhed his Geometry fix years after
Harriot’s work appeared, viz. in the year J637. Sir
Charles Cavendifh, then ambaffador at the French court,
obferved to the famous geometrician Roverval, that thefe
improvements in analyfis had been already made thefe
fix years in England j and fhewed him afterwards
Harriot's Artis Analytic# Praxis; which, as Roverval
was looking over, at every page he cried out, yes! yes!
he has feen it! Des Cartes had alfo been in England
before Harriot’s death, and had heard of his new im¬
provements and inventions in analyfis.
“ I found likewife (fays Dr Zach) among the papers
of Harriot a large fet of obfervations on the fatellites
of Jupiter, with drawings of them, their pofitions, and
calculations of their revolutions and periods. His firft
obfervation of thefe difcovered fatellites, I find to be
of January 16. 1610, and they go till February 26.
1612. Galileo pretends to have difcovered them Ja¬
nuary 7. 1610 ; fo that it is not improbable that Har¬
riot was likewife the firft difcoverer of thefe attendants
of Jupiter.”
HARRIS, James, Efq. an Englilh gentleman of
very uncommon parts and learning, was the fon of
James Harris, Efq. by a fifter of Lord Shaftefbury au¬
thor of The Charafteriftics. He was born in the'
Clofe at Saliftmry 1709 ; and educated at the gram-
mar-fchool there. In 1726, he was removed to Wad-
ham-college in Oxford, but took no degree. He cul¬
tivated letters, however, moft attentively ; and alfo
mufic, in the theory and praftice of which he is faid
to have had few equals. He was member for Chrift-
church, Hants, which he reprefented in feveral fuccel-
five parliaments. In 1763, he wTas appointed one of
the lords commiflioners of the admiralty, and foon af¬
ter removed to the board of treafury. In 1774 he
was made fecretary and comptroller to the queen, which
poll he held until his death. He died Dec. 21. 1780, in
his 7 2d year, after a long illnefs, which he bore with
calmnefs and refignation.—He is the author of fome
valuable works. I. Three Treatifes, concerning Art j
Mufic, Painting, and Poetry; and Happinefs, 174^,
8vo.. 2. Hermes; or, A Philofophical Enquiry con¬
cerning Univerfal Grammar. 3. Philofophical Ar¬
rangements. 4. Philological Inquiries, 1782, 2 vols
8vo, finifhed juft before his death, and publiihed fince.
1 hefe Inquiries ftiow much ingenuity and learning j
but being the amulement of his old age rather than an
exeition of genius; they have not the philofophic tone
of his former productions.
Harris, one of the Hebrides or Weftern Ifiands -
oh- c
H A R [ 280 ] H A K
Harrifon. 0f Scotlar d. It is about 25 miles in length, and from 6 to
v  g in breadth. Upon the eaft fide it is mofily rock *, but
on the weft there are feme tolerable farms, arid the
number of people amounts to 2500. It has Lewis on
the north, and North Uift on the fouth, from which it
is ieparated bv a channel of four miles in is 10th, c alled
the Sound of Harris. Ibis channel is navigable for
veflels of burden, but it requires a Ikilful pilot. . It is
the onlv pafifage ^between the Butt of the Lewis and
Bara for veffels of burden palling to and from the weft
fide of the Long Bland. The found is generally en¬
cumbered with rocks and illands, fome of which are
confiderable, as Bernera, Pabbay, Enfay, Killegiay.
Thefe, with Scalpay, Taranfay, and Scarp, compole
the inhabited illands on the coaft of Harris. Some of
them produce good crops oi grain, and all of them
good paflure. Harris and its iuands fell fjom 400 to
coo tons of kelp annually j it abounds on tne eaft fide
in excellent lochs or bays, and its Ihores on both lides
form one continued filhery. I he filh on this coaft,
and along the whole Ihores of the Long Bland, are
more numerous, and of larger dimenfions, than thofe
on the oppofite continent } on which account,
royal filhing ftations were begun in the reign of
Charles I. one in Loch hladdie, ana the other 111 the
Sound of Harris.
HARRISON, William, a writer much efteemed
and patronifed byr the literati of his time, was fellow
of New-college, Oxford, and had no other income than
4.0I. a-year as tutor to one of the duke of C^ueenfbeny s
1'ons. * In this employment he fortunately attrafted
the favour of Hr Swift, whofe folicitations with IMr
St John obtained for him the reputable employment
of lecretary to Lord Raby, ambaflador at the Hague,
and afterwards earl of Strafford. A lettei of h.s whiift
at Utrecht, dated Dec. 16. 171a, is printed in the
Dean’s works. Mr Harrifon, who did not long en-
ioy his nfing fortune, w’as difpatched to London with
the Barrier treaty j and died Feb. 14. 1712-13. See
the Journal to Stella, of that and the following day ;
where Dr Swift laments his lofs with die moft unaf¬
fected fincerity. Mr Tickel has mentioned him with
refpedt in his Protpedl of Peace y in Englith Poets,
vol. xxvi. p. 113? and Dr h: oung in tne beautiful
clofe of an Epiftle to Lord Lanfdowme, voh Hi.
p, 18^, moft pathetically bewails his lofs. Dr Birch,
who has given a curious note on Mr Hanilon s Letter
to Swift, has confounded him with Thomas Harrifon,
M. A. of Queen’s-college. In Nichols’s Seleft Col-
ledion are "feme pleafing fpecimens of his poetry y
which, with Woodftock-Park in Dodfiey’s Colleaion,
and an Ode to the duke of Marlborough,_ 1707, in
Duncombe’s Horace, are all the poetical writings that
are known of this excellent young man j who figured
both as an humorift and a politician in the fifth vo¬
lume. of the Tatler, of whjch (under the patronage of
Bolingbroke, Henley, and Swift) he was profelTedly
the editor. See the Supplement to Swift.—-There
was another William Harrifon, autnor of Lhe Pilgrim,
or the happy Convert, a Paltoral iragedy, 17C_9'
Harrison, a moft accurate mechanic, the
celebrated inventor of the famous time-keeper for af-
certaining the longitude at fea, and aifo of the com¬
pound, or, as it is commonly called, gridiron pen¬
dulum ; was born at Foulby, in the pariih of Wrag-
3
by, near Pontefraft in Yorldhire, in 1693* ^he vi- Hirrifun.
gour of his natural abilities, if not even ftrengthened l——w—*“
by the want of education, which confined his atten¬
tion to few’ objedls, at leaft amply compenfated the
deficiencies of it 5 as fully appeared from the aftoniih-
ing progrefs he made in that branch of mechanics to
which he devoted himfelf. His father was a carpen¬
ter, in which profedion the fon aflifted j occafionally
alfo, according to the mifcellaneous praftice of coun¬
try artifts, furveying land, and repairing clocks and
watches. He was, from his early childhood, attached to
any machinery moving by w’heels, as appeared wdrire
he lay fick of the fmall-pox about the fixth year^ of hi*
age, when he had a watch placed open upon his pil¬
low’ to amufe himfelf by contemplating the move¬
ment. In 1700, he removed with his father to Bar-
row in Lincolnfhire} where though his opportunities
of acquiring knowledge were very few’, he eagerly
improved every incident from wdiich he might colled!
information ; frequently employing all or great part
of his nights in writing or drawing : and he always
acknowledged his obligations to a clergyman who
came every Sunday to officiate in the neighbourhood,
who lent him a MS. copy of Profeffor Saunderion’s
Ledlures •, which he careinlly and neatly tranfenbed,
wdth all the diagrams. His native genius exerted
itfelf fuperior to thefe folitary difadvantages j for in
the year 1726, he had conftrudled tw7o clocks, moftly
of wood, in which he applied the efcapement and
compound pendulum of his owm invention : thefe mi-
paffed every thing then made, fcarcely erring a lecond
in a month. In 1728, he came up to London with
the drawings of a machine lor determining the longi¬
tude at fea, in expectation of being enabled to exe¬
cute one by the board of longitude. Upon applica¬
tion1 to Dr Halley, he referred him to Mr George
Graham •, wTho, dilcovering he had uncommon meiit,
adviied him to make his machine befoie he applied
to the board of longitude. He returned home to
perform this talk; and in 1735 came to London again
with his firft machine; with which he wras lent to
Lilbon the next year for a trial of its properties. In
this lliort voyage, he corredfed the dead reckoning
about a degree and a half; a fuccefs that proved the
means of his receiving both public and private encour¬
agement. About the year 1739* compie^e^
fecond machine, of a conttrudlion much more fimple
than the former, and which aniwered much better;
this, thouglr not lent to fea, recommended. Mr Har¬
rifon yet ftronger to the patronage 'of his private
friends and of the public. His third machine, which
he produced in 1749, was ftill lefs complicated than the
fecond, and fuperior in accuracy, as erring only three or
four feconds in a week. This he conceived to be the ne
plus ultra of his attempts ; but in an endeavour to im¬
prove pocket-watches, he found the principles he applied
to furpafs his expectations fo much, as to encourage him
to make his fourth time-keeper, which is in the form
of a pocket watch, about fix inches diameter. With
this time-keeper his fon made two voyages, the one
to Jamaica, and the other to Barbadoes: in both
which experiments it correded the longitude within
the nearelt limits required by the ad of the 12th ot
Queen Anne ; and the inventor there lore, at different
tunes, though not without infinite trouble, received
H A R [ 28
tlarrifon, tlie propofed reward of 20,0001. Tliefe four ma-
Harrogau. chines were given up to the board of longitude. The
v""” three former were not of any ufe, 5is all the advanta¬
ges gained by making them were comprehended in
the laft; they were worthy, however, of being carefully
preferved as mechanical curi'ofities, in which might be
traced the gradations of ingenuity executed with the
moil delicate workmanfhip j whereas they now lie
totally neglefted in the royal obfervatory at Green¬
wich. The fourth machine, emphatically diftinguiihed
by the name of the time-keeper, has been copied by
the ingenious Mr Kendal ; and that duplicate, during
a three years circumnavigation of the globe in the
fouthern hemifphere by Captain Cook, anfwered as
well as the original. The latter part of Mr Harri-
fon’s life was employed in making a fifth improved
time-keeper on the fame principles with the prece¬
ding one ; which, at the end of a ten weeks trial, in
1772, at the king’s private obfervatory at Richmond,
erred only 4! leconds. Within a few years of his
death, his confHtution vifibly declined ; and he had
frequent fits of the gout, a diforder that never attacked
him before his 77th year : he died at his houfe in
Red-Lion fquare, in 1776, aged 83. The reclufe
manner of his life in the unremitted purfifit of his fa¬
vourite obieif, was by no means calculated to qualify
him as a man of the world •, and the many difcourage-
ments he encountered in foliciting the legal reward
of his labours, ftill lefs difpofed him to accommodate
himfelf to the humours of mankind. In converfing
on his profeffion, he w;as clear* diflindf, and model! ;
yet, like many other mere mechanics, found a diffi¬
culty in delivering his meaning by writing ; in which
he adhered to a peculiar and uncouth phrafeology.
This was but too evident in his Defcription concerning
fuch mechanfm as vjili afford a nice or true menfura-
lion of time, &c. 8vo. 1775; which his well-known
mechanical talents will induce the public to account
for from his unacquaintance xvith letters, from his
advanced age, and attendant mental infirmities, a-
mong which may be reckoned his obftinate refufal to
accept of any affilfance whatever in this publication.
This fmall work includes alfo an account of his new
mufical fcale, or mechanical divifion of the o&ave,
according to the proportion which the radius and dia¬
meter of a circle have refpe&ively to the circumference*
He had in his youth been the leader of a dillinguilhed
band of church-fingers; had a very delicate ear for
mufic 5 and his experiments on found, with a mol! cu¬
rious monochord of his own improvement, are reported
to have been not lefs, accurate than thofe he was en¬
gaged in for the menfuration of time.
HARROGATE, a village in the weft riding of
Yorklhire, in the pariffi of Knarelborough, remarkable
for its medicinal fprings. Thefe are three in number,
all different in their qualities, notwithftanding their
contiguity. 1. The Tewet water or Sweet Spa, a vi¬
triolic fpring of a fort of milky tafte ufed in gravelly
cafes, was difcovered by Mr Slingfby in 1638. 2. The
{linking or fulphur fpring, ufeful in dropfical, fcorbu-
tic, and gouty cafes, rifes in the towm, and is received
m four bafons under four different buildings ; at one it
is drunk, at the others ufed for hot or cold baths. It
is perfe£tly clear; but the tafte and fmell a compofition
of rotten eggs, fea-water, and fulphur, and extremely
Vol. X. Part I.
1 ] H A R
fait. Bathing is the moft general method of ufihg it. Harm-v on-
It is the ftrongeft fulphur water in Great Britain ; the-Hill
and from the fuperior ilrength of the impregnating Har[fonp
fulphur, it does not lofe the fulphureous Imell even i 
wffien expofed to a fcalding and almoft boiling heat;
and in diftilling it, wffien three pints had been taken off
from a gallon of it, the laft was as ftrong as the firft,
and flunk intolerably. It is difcutient and attenu¬
ating; and a warm bath of it is of great benefit in pains
and aches, ftrains and lamenefs, diflblving hard fuell¬
ings, curing old ulcers and fcrophulous complaints, and
is a powerful cleanfer of the ftomach and bowTels.
3. St Mungo’s wrell is fo called from Kentigern a
Scotch faint, much honoured hereabouts, whom his
tutor Servanus biftiop of Orkney, out of affedfion for
him, called Mongah, which in the Norifli or Norway
language fignifies a dear friend.—The Harrogate fea-
fon is from May to Michaelmas ; and the company af-
femble and lodge in five or fix large houfes or inns on
the heath, a mile from the village, each houfe having
a long room and an ordinary : the beft company
ufed to lodge at Knarefborough, which is three miles
off.
HARROW-ox-the-Hill, a towm of Middlefex,
fo called from its fituation on the higheft hill in the
county, is 10 miles north-weft of London. This parish
is noted for a free fchool, founded in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth. A filver arrow is ftiot for here once a-year,
viz. Auguft 4. by a feleft number of the fcholars, who
are dreffed for the purpofe in the habit of archers.
Harrow, an inftrument in Agriculture, See A-
GRICULTURE, N° 158.
HART, a flag, or male-deer, in the fixth year.
See Cervus, Mammalia Index.
HART-BeeJl, or Quanga. See Capra, Mammalia
Index.
HART's-Horns, the horns of the common male
deer.—The fcrapings or rafpings of the horn of this
animal are medicinal, and ufed in decodfions, ptifans,
&c.
Hartfhorn jelly is nutritive and ftrengthening, and
is fometimes given in diarrhoeas; but a decodlion of
burnt hartfhorn in wrater is more frequently ufed for
this purpofe, and is called hartjhorn drink.
The coal of hartfhorn, by being calcined with a
long continued and ftrong fire, is changed into a very
white earth, called hartjhorn calcined to whitenefs.
This earth is employed in medicine as an abforbent,
and adminiftered in dyfenteries and labour pains, which
are fuppofed to be caufed by acrid and ill-digefted mat¬
ters. This earth levigated is the bafis of Sydenham’s
white decodlion, which is commonly prefcribed in theffc
difeafes.
The fait of hartftiorn is a great fudorific, and given
in fevers with fuccefs; and hartffiorn alfo yields, by
diftillation, a very penetrative volatile fpirit.
HARTFORD, the capital of the county of the
fame name, fignifying, as is commonly thought, the
“ ford of harts,” ftands on the river Lea, 21 miles
from London ; and is of confiderable antiquity. Here
the Eaft-Saxon kings often kept their court ; and here,
in 673, was held a fynod. King Alfred built a caftle
here, by which the Danifh veffels were deftroyed, that
came up from the Thames by its river as far as Ware,
where the Danes had erefted a fort, from which they
N n made
H A R [28
Hartford, made frequent {fillies to plunder and deilroy the coun-
try. The prefent cattle confitts of a gate-houfe or
lodge of brick, and a range of brick buildings, which
feem of the time of James or Charles I. and alfo of a
very ancient wall of ruble ftone, with angular towers,
fuppofed to have been {landing ever fince its firft foun¬
dation. The manor of this town was all along the
king’s, of whom both the town and cattle were for¬
merly held in capite. T he barons took the latter from
King John, but Henry III. recovered it. Edward III.
gave the town a charter for markets on Thurfday and
Saturday, and in his grant of it to John of Gaunt
it is called The Honour of Hartford. It fent members
to parliament in the reign of Edward I. but after the
yth of Henry V. on the petition of the bailiff and bur-
geffes to be exempted by reafon of their poverty, that
privilege was difcontinued till the 22d of James I.
Henry VI. who kept his Eafter here in 1429, ordained
by his charter, confirming their market, that no other
ihould be kept on the fame days, within feven miles,
on pain of having the goods feized by the bailifts of
Hartford. This manor being then part of Queen Mar¬
garet’s jointure, the courts were held in her name, and
Ine appointed a horfe fair to be kept in what part of
the town the bailiff and conftables though fit. The
flandard of weights and meafures was fixed here in the
reign of Elenry VII.; and Mary I. made this a corpora¬
tion by the name of bailiffs and burgeffes, of whom the
latter were 16 by her charter. In the 25th and
35th of Elizabeth, Michaelmas-term was kept here,
by reafon of the plague at both times in London ; and
that queen, who fometimes refided in its cattle, and
declared the borough as parcel of her duchy of Lan-
caiier, granted it a new charter, by the ttyle of a bai¬
liff, 11 capital burgeffes, and 16 aftiftants, with a mar¬
ket on Saturday. James I. granted it a new charter,
with the ftyle of mayor, burgeffes, and commonalty,
to have 10 capital burgeffes and 16 attittants, the
mayor to be chofen out of the former by both of them j
and a fair was then appointed here on May 1 2. Here
was once a monaftery, founded by a nephew of Wil¬
liam the Conqueror *, and here were formerly five
churches which are now reduced to two. In St An¬
drew’s there is a feat not only for the mayor and al¬
dermen, but another for the governors of Chrift church
hofpital in London, who have eredled a houfe in this
town on account of its healthy air and dry fituation,
to receive fuch children as wanted either health or
room in that hofpital *, and they have built a gallery
in the church, wherein 200 of their children may be
accommodated. The town is now governed by a
mayor, high-fteward, who is generally a nobleman, a
recorder, 9 aldermen, a town-clerk, chamberlain, 10
capital burgeffes, and 16 aflittants, and has 2 ferjeants
at mace. The chief commodities of its market are
wheat, malt, and wool; and it is faid to fend 5000
quarters of malt to London weekly by the rive.r Lea.
Befides the abovementioned, here are two fairs on
July 5. and November 8. and two others for cattle, viz.
the Saturday fortnight before Eafter, and its Midfum-
mer fair is chiefly for horfes. Here is a handfome
free grammar-fehool, befides 3 charity fchools •, but the
fplendour of the place is much diminilhed fince the
north road from London was turned through Ware.
The county gaol, however, is {till kept in the town,
Hartley.
2 ] H A R
and the gaol-delivery in the cattle. It gives the title of Hartford*
earl to the noble family of Seymour-Conway. ^lue
HARTFORDSHIRE, a county of England, de¬
riving its name from Hartford the capital j and that ■
from the harts with which it anciently abounded, be¬
ing then overrun with woods. It is bounded on the
eaft by Effex, on the weft by Bedfordihire and Buc-
kinghamlhire, on the fouth by Middlefex, and on the
north by Cambridgefhire. This county is much in¬
dented by thole that furround it : the longeft part is
about 35 miles, and the broadett about 27 5 and
the circumference is 190, containing about 451,000
acres. It is divided into eight hundreds, which con¬
tain 19 market towns, 54 vicarages, 120 parifties, and
near 950 villages, with about 16,500 houies, and
90,000 inhabitants; and fends fix members to parlia¬
ment, two knights for the (hire, with two burgeffes
for St Alban’s, and as many for Hartford. Before the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, one iheriff ferved both for
this {hire and Effex •, but in the ninth year of her
reign, it had one allotted for itfelf. With regard to
ecclefiaftical jurifdiftion, it belongs partly to the dio-
cefe of Lincoln, and partly to that o{ London.
Though the foil in general, efpecially in the Chil-
tern and fouthern parts, is but very indifferent, and
much inferior to that of the neighbouring counties j
yet the air is fo much fuperior, that lands in this (hire
generally fell at three or four years purchafe more than
in many others on that account. But it mutt be
owned, that the foil of Hartfordfhire has been much
improved of late, by draining, fowing grafs feeds, and
other methods. There are few or no manufactures in
the county •, but its markets are much frequented, in
confequence of its being near London, for malt and
all forts of grain, which, with the many thorough¬
fares through it, make ample amends.
HARTLAND, a town in Devonftnre, near the
Brittol channel, with a market on Saturdays, much
. frequented by the people of Cornwall, who come hi¬
ther in boats. It gives its name to a point, called
Hartland Point, at the entrance of Brittol channel
W. Long. 4. 45. N. Lat. S1’ 9‘
HARTLEPOOL, a fea-port towm in the county
of Durham. It is commcdioufly feated on a promon¬
tory, and is almoft encompaffed by the fea. It is an
ancient corporation, governed by a mayor and aider-
men, with other fubordinate officers. It is at prefent
a pretty large, but poor place. It depends chiefly on
the fiflung trade ; and its harbour is much frequented
by colliers paffing to and from Newcaftle. W. Long,
o. 55. N. Lat. 54. 40.
HARTLEY, a town of Northumberland, on the
coaft, fituated north-well of Tynemouth, where Lord
Delaval has conftrufted a pretty haven, whence coals
are (hipped for London. Here are large fait works
and copperas works, and likewife confiderable glafs
works; and there is here a canal cut through a folid rock
to the harbour, 52 feet deep, 30 broad, and 900 Jong.
Thefe wwks are the foie property of Lord Delaval, and
yield a revenue of above 20,000!. per annum.
Hartley, David, M. A. born at Ilingworth,
where his father was curate, received his academi¬
cal education at Jefus college, Cambridge, of which
he was a fellow. He firft began to pradlife phyfic at
Newark, in Nottinghamfliire ; from whence he remo¬
ved
Harutfch.
* See Ste-
H A R [2
Hartogia ved to St Edmund’s Bury, in Suffolk. After this,
he fettled for fome time in London j and laftly went
to live at Bath, where he died in 1757, aged 53,
leaving two fons and a daughter. He publifhed “ A
view of the prefent evidence for and againft Mrs Ste¬
phens’s * medicines as a folvent for the ftone, contain-
bens's Me- Jng cafes, with fome experiments and obferva-
dicines. tions j” London 1739. He is faid to have alfo writ¬
ten againft Dr Warren, of St Edmund’s Bury, in de¬
fence of inoculation ; and fome letters of his are to be
met with in the Philofophical Tranfadtions. The doc¬
tor was certainly a man of learning, and reputed a
good phyfician ■, but too fond of noftrums. But his
moft confiderable literary produ&ion is a work entitled,
“ Obfervations on man, his frame, his duty, and his
expectations, in two parts j” London, I749> 2 vo^s-
8vo. The firft part contains obfervations on the frame
of the human body and mind, and on their mutual
connections and influences. The fecond part contains
obfervations on the duty and expectations of man¬
kind.
HARTOGIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
monoecia clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 48 th order, Aggregates. See Botany
Index.
HARUSPICES, pretenders to divination by cer¬
tain figns or omens among the Romans.—The Ro¬
man harufpices were at firft all taken from Hetruria,
where their art had moft credit. Afterwards young
Romans were fent into Hetruria, in order to be brought
up in the fcience. It confifted in foretelling future
events by attending to various circumftances of the vic¬
tims. Firft, It was an ill omen when the viftim would
not come to the altar without dragging, when it broke
its rope, fled away, avoided the ftroke, ftruggled
much after it, made a great bellowing, was long a-
dying, or bled but little. Secondly, prefages were
drawn from infpeCHng the noble parts of the viClim
when opened 5 as the heart, lungs, fpleen, and efpe-
cially the liver. If all thefe were found, if the top
of the liver was large and ■well-made, and if its fibres
were ftrong, it prefaged well for the affair in queftion.
Thirdly, Knowledge was alfo drawn by the harufpi¬
ces from the manner in which the fire confumed the
victim. If the flame brightened immediately, was pure
and clear, rofe up in a pyramid without noife, and did
not go out till the victim was confumed, thefe were
happy figns. Fourthly, The fmoke alfo was confidered,
whether it whirled about in curls, or fpread itfelf to
the right or the left, or gave a fmell different from the
common one of broiled meat. Fifthly, It wTas a lucky
omen if the incenfe they burned melted all at once, and
gave a moft agreeable fmell.
HARUSPICY. See Haruspices and Divina¬
tion.
HARUTSCH, a mountainous region in the interior
of Africa, wrhich Mr Horneman calls the moft remark¬
able region which came under his obfervation during
his journey. It prefents fuch a rugged, broken and
terrific feene, as naturally leads to the fuppofition, that
its lurface has been, at fome remote period, convulfed
by volcanic eruptions. The face of the whole country
exhibits continued ranges of hills, fome not more than
1 2 feet above the plain, and others extremely lofty.
Contiguous to this region which is called Harutfch*
83 ] ft A R
el-afuat, or ‘Bloch Harutfch, lies the White Harutich
or Harutfch-el-ahiat. This latter country is a vaft plain
which fpreads to the mountains rifing towards Fezzan, u
and is interfperfed with ifolated mountains.
Many of the hills contain petrifaftions, and the mat¬
ter of which they are compofed is friable limeftone, in
which the petrifaClions are very loofely imbedded, and
may be taken out with eafe. In thefe Mr Horneman
found, among other marine productions, the heads of
fifties fo large, that one of them would have been a fuf-
ficient burden for an ordinary man. Vaft numbers ot
fhells are likewife found in the adjacent vallies, which
have the appearance of being glazed, and have a vi¬
treous fraCture. It is not the abode of man, but the A-
rabian caravans frequently pafs through it. I he ex¬
tent of this region is faid to be feven days journey from
north to fouth, and five days from eaft to weft. It
lies between 150 and 20° E. Long, and between 28J
and 30° N. Lat. Hornernan's Travels, p. 48.
HARVEST, probably derived from a Saxon word
fignifying herb feaf, is that feafon of the year when
the corn is ripe and fit to be reaped and gathered into
barns.
HjiJirEST-F/y, a large four-winged fly of the cicada
kind, very common in Italy, and erroneoufty fuppofed
to be a grafshopper. See Cicada, Entomology
Index.
HARVEST-Home, denotes the feaft often obferved at
the clofe of harveft, and alfo the fong ufed on that oc-
cafion. See December.
HARVEY, Dr William, an eminent Englifh
phyfician in the 17th century, was incorporated doctor
of phyfic in Cambridge, afterwards admitted into the
college of phylicians in London, and was appointed
leCturer of anatomy and chirurgery in that college.
In thefe leCtures he opened his difeovery relating to
the circulation of the blood 5 which, after a variety of
experiments, he communicated to the world in his Jhx-
ercitatio anatomica de motu cordis et fangumis. He was
phyfician to King James I. and to King Charles I. and
adhered to the royal caufe. . His works have eternized
his memory. In 1651, he publiihed his Exercitationes
de generatione animalium, a very curious work j but it
would have been more fo, had not his papers been de-
ftroyed during the civil wrars. In^ 1654, he was cho-
fen prefident of the college of phyficians in his abfence :
but his age and weaknefs were fo great, that he could
not difeharge the duty of that office 5 and therefore
defired them to choofe Dr Pringle. As he had no
children, he fettled his paternal eftate upon the col¬
lege. He had three years before built a combination-
room, a library, and a mufeum 5 and in 1656 he
brought the deeds of his eftate, and prefented them to
the college. He was then prefent at the firft feaft,
inftituted by himfelf, to be continued annually, to¬
gether with a commemoration fpeech in Latin, to be
fpoken on the 18th of OClober, in honour of the be¬
nefactors to the college; he having appointed a hand-
fome ftipend for the orator, and alfo for the keeper of
the library and mufeum, which are ftill called by his
name. He died in 1657.
This great phyfician had the happinefs, in his life¬
time, to find the clamours of ignorance, envy, and
prejudice, againft his doCtrine, totally filenced, and to
fee it tmiverfally eftablilhed. It has by length of
N n 2 timei
if
a r re ft
Harvey.
Harwich.
H A R [2
time, been more and more confirmed, and every man
now fees and knows it from his own experience. It
appears to be of the utmoft importance in medicine j
as it is perhaps impoflible to define health and ficknefs
in fewer words, than that the one is a free, and the
other an obftrufted, circulation. Dr Harvey was not
only an excellent phyfician, but an excellent man ; his
modefty, candour, and piety, were equal to his know¬
ledge 5 the farther he penetrated into the wonders of
nature, the more he was inclined to venerate the Author
of it.
HARWICH, a town of Efiex, in England, 72
miles from London. It is not large j but is well built
and populous, has a good maritime trade, is ahnolt
encompaffed by the fea, and has ftrong works. It is
walled in j and the llreets are paved for the mod part
with clay, which tumbling down from the cliff, where is
a petrifying wTater between the town and Beacon-Hill,
foon grows as hard as Hone j and the inhabitants boaft
the wall is as ftrong and the ftreets are as clean as thofe
that are of real ftone. The harbour or bay is very
large, fafe, and deep 5 and is commanded by a ftrong
fort on the Suffolk fide, though not in that county.
Here is a dock belonging to the government, with all
conveniences for building, cleaning, and refitting men
of war. A little way from the town, on a high hill
called Beacon-hill, is a very fine light-houfe, which is
feen at a great diftance, and is very ufeful on this
dangerous coaft. At this place the packet boats which
pafs between England and Holland are ftationed, and
the town is much benefited by the paffengers. The
bay is fo fpacious, by the influx of the Stour from Ma-
ningtree, and the Orwell from Ipfwich, and fuch ufe
was made of it in the Dutch war, that 100 fail of
men of war have been feen there at one time, with
their tenders, befides 300 or 400 fail of colliers j for it
is a perfe6t harbour to within two miles of Ipfvvich,
and able to receive (hips of 100 guns all the way. The
inns here are very good 5 but the accommodations dear,
by reafon of the great concourfe of paffengers to and
from Holland, which was the motive of fitting up Hoops
to go thither directly from the Thames, when the
ftage coaches that ufed to ply two or three times a
week between this place and London were laid down.
This place wras firft made a free borough, and had a
grant of its market on Tuefdays in the reign of Ed¬
ward JI. Its government wras fettled by charter of
King James I. in a mayor, chofen yearly, November 30.
out of eight aldermen, who with 24 capital burgeffes,
the eleftors, and the recorder, make the corporation.
By this charter it had alfo a power to ele£I twTo bur¬
geffes to parliament, the grant of its Friday market,
and its two fairs on May-day and Otftober 18. which
.are each for three days. The town has alfo an ad¬
miralty jurifdidfion wdthin its liberties, and the return
of all writs, fines, &c. Though the entrance into the
fea here is between two and three miles wide at high-
water, yet the channel where the (hips muft keep to
come to the harbour, which is on the Suffolk fide, is
deep and narrow *, fo that all (hips that come in or go
out are commanded by the guns of Landguard-Fort
on that fide. This town was fortified heretofore on
the land fide, but in the reign of King Charles I. the
fortifications were demolifhed. It has fince been or¬
dered to be refoxtified. The church here, ever fince
84 ] H A S
the reformation, has been a chapelto the mother-church Hanvooj
at Dover-Court. i)
FIARWOOD, a final 1 but pretty town in the north 1Ialie‘clul^;
riding of Yorkflnre, with a coftly Hone-bridge of 11
arches over the Wherfe, which runs in a bed of ftone,
and is as clear as rock-water. Near it are the ruins of
an ancient caftle, built foon after the conqueft j and
which remained a neat ftrong building in Camden’s
time. It had a variety of mafters; one of whom, in
the reign of King John, obtained a grant for a market
and fair here. In the reign of Edward III. it W'as va.
lued at 400 marks a-year. This caftle was ruined in
the civil vrars. It has eight or nine dependant confta-
bularies, wherein are many antiquities. The remains
of the caftle, which feems to have been the keep, is in
a condition to exift long. The caftle itfelf covered near
an acre of ground. Near it is now Harwmod-Houfe,
one of the firft houfes in the county for elegance and fu-
perior embelliftiments •, built on part of the fite of Gaw-
thorp-Hall, now no more. In the church are fome an¬
cient monuments, particularly that of lord chief-juftice
Gafcoigne, who committed the prince of Wales to
prifon for ftriking him on the bench.
HASLEMERE, a town of Surry, in England,
feated on the edge of the county next Hamplhire, 43
miles from London, is an ancient place, and was once
deftroyed by the Danes. It is a borough by preferip-
tion, and has fent members to parliament ever lince the
reign of Edward IV. who are chofen by a bailiff and
burgage-teeners. It is faid to have had feven parilh-
churches formerly, though but one church now, which
is a chapel of eafe to Chidinfold ; and that it Hood
heretofore upon a hill more to the fouth than the pre-
fent town.
HASSELQUIST, Frederic, was a native of Eaft
Gothland, and born in the year 1722. He profecuted
his medical and botanical ftudies at Upfal. The great
Linnaeus having reprefented in his leftures what impor-.
tant advantages might be gained by a young ftudent,
by travelling through the country of Paleftine, at that
time but little known, Haffelquift felt the fire of ambi¬
tion burn within him at the declaration of his mafter.
The crown giving no pecuniary encouragement for un¬
dertakings of this magnitude, extenfive collections were
made by private individuals, efpecially from the coun¬
try of our author, and ftipends wrere granted him by all
the faculties in the univerfity of Upfal.
Protected in tin's manner, he began his journ'ey in
1749 during the fummer feafon, and he obtained a paf-
fage to Smyrna in a Sw’edifh Eaft-Indiaman, through
the influence of Lagerftroem. The Swedifli conful at
Smyrna received him in the moft friendly manner, at
which 'place he arrived about the latter end of the
year. In the beginning of 1750 he fet out for Egypt,
and remained in the metropolis of that country for
about nine months, from which place he tranfmitted to
Linnaeus fome fpecimens of his refearches, which ob¬
tained the approbation of the public after they w^ere
publiftied. By the influence of Dr Wargentin, a col¬
lection of 10,000 dollars of copper currency was made
for the encouragement of young Haffelquift in the pro-
fecution of his refearches. In the fpring of 1751, he
paffed through Jaffa to Jerufalem, and returned after¬
wards to Smyrna by the way of Rhodes and Scio, com¬
pletely fulfilling the expcCIations of his country j but he
did
HAS _[ 2
HaffeU did not live long enough to reap the fruits of his la-
quifta hours. His lungs were affe&ed by the burning deferts
Haftln s -^•ra^a> an(^ af,;cr languilhing for fome time in great
dillrefs, he expired in February 1752, before he had
flnifhed the 30th year of his age.
Having been under the necedity of contracting debt,
all his collections were feized upon by the Turks, who
threatened to expofe them to fale 5 but Queen Louifa
Ulrica redeemed them by the payment of 14,000 dol¬
lars of copper money, and they arrived at Stockholm
in a date of excellent prefervation. They were com-
pofed of Arabian manufcripts, Ihells, birds, ferpents,
infeCls, &c. An account of his voyage was publilhed
by Linnaeus, by whom his memory was honoured with
a plant which he called Haflelquijia.
H ASSELQUISTA, a genus of plants belonging to
the pentandria clafs, and in the natural method rank¬
ing under the 45th order, Umbellal.e. See Botany
Index.
HASSELT, a handfome town of the United Pro¬
vinces, in Overyffel, feated on the river Wecht, in E.
Long. 6. 5. N. Lat. 23. 46.
Hasselt, a town of Germany, in the circle of
Weftphalia, and in the territory of Liege, lituated
on the river Demer, in E. Long. 4. 49. M. Lat.
50- 55*
HASSIDEANS, or Assideans. See Assi-
DEANS.
HASSOCK, a bafs made of rulhes, to kneel or red
the feet upon in churches.
HASP and Staple, in Scots Law, the fymbol com¬
monly ufed in burgage tenements for entering and in-
fefting an heir, by delivering into his hands the hafp
and daple of the door.
HAST A, or Hast a Pura, among medalills, figni-
fies a kind of fpear or javelin, not diod or headed with
iron 5 or rather an ancient iceptre, fomewhat longer
than ordinary, occafionally given to all the gods.
The hada is fuppofed a fymbol of the goodnefs of the
gods, and of the conduCh of providence, which is equally
mild and forcible.
^ Hasta, in fome countries, is a meafure or quantity
of ground amounting to thirty paces : thus called, ac¬
cording to M. Du Cange, from the hada or rod where¬
with it vras meafured.
HA STATED leaf, in Botany, a leaf of the diape
of a fpear.
HASTING-pear, a name given by the gardeners
to a fpecies of pear, called alfo by fome the green chijjel
pear. This is a moderately large pear, and is longiih
towards the pedicle 5 its fkin is thin, and of a whitidi
. green ; the pulp is melting, and of a fugary flavour.
It ripens in July.
HASTINGS, a town of Suflex in England, 64
miles from London. It is the chief of the cinque-
ports ; and was formerly obliged to find 21 Ihips, with¬
in 40 days after the king’s fummons, well furniflied
and armed for fervice, and to maintain the crews a
fortnight at its own charge. 'T'he towm is fuppofed to
have taken its name from Hadings, the famous Danifh
pirate, who ufed to build fortrefles when he went a-
(hore. for his prey, to cover his men, and fecure his re¬
peat. In King Athenian’s reign here was a mint.
This_ town had charters from Edward the Confeffor,
W illiam I. and II. Henry II, Richard I, Hen-
85 ] HAS
ry III. Edward I. and Charles II. exempting it from
toll, and empowering it to hold courts of judicature
on life and death. It is incorporated by the dyle of
mayor, jurats, and commonalty. It has handfome
houfes, and cuflomhoufe officers ; but frequent dorms
have rendered it an indifijgrent harbour, though a vail
fum of money has been laid out at times to make it a
good one. It has fent members to parliament ever
fince Edward III. London is fupplied from hence
with abundance of fiih that are taken on the coad.
The town lies between twro high cliffs towards the fea,
and as high a hill on the land fide, having two dreetS,
and in each a parilh-church, divided by a dream of frefh
water called the Bourne. About the year 1377, this
town was burnt by the French *, and after it was rebuilt,
it wTas divided into the twm parilhes. Here are two cha-
rity-fchools, eredled for the teaching of 200 or 300 chil¬
dren. There was a cadle on the hill, which overlooked
the town, but it is now in ruins. The markets here are
on Wednefdays and Saturdays: the fairs are on Tuef-
day and Wednefday in Whitfun-week, and July 26.
Odlober 23. and 24. Here was formerly a priory.
Haflings was a barony in the Huntingdon family,
now in the Rawdon family.
This town is remarkable for a battle fought in its
neighbourhood, between Harold king of England and
William duke of Normandy, on the 15th of October
1066, in which the former was defeated and killed ; and
by his death William, furnamed the Conqueror, became
king of England : (fee England, N° 86.)—The night
before the battle, the afpedt of things was very diffe¬
rent in the two camps. The Engliih fpent the time
in riot, jollity, and diforder j the Normans in prayer
and other duties of religion. The next day both ar¬
mies prepared for battle. The duke divided his army
into three lines : the firft, headed by Montgomery,
confiffed of archers and light-armed infantry : the fe-
cond, commanded by Martel, was compofed of his
bravefl: battalions, heavy-armed, and ranged in clofe
order : his cavalry, at whofe head he placed himfelf,
formed the third line ; and were fo difpofed, that they
ftretched beyond the infantry, and flanked each wing
of the army. He ordered the fignal of battle to found :
and the whole army, moving at once, and finging the
hymn or fong of Roland the famous peer of Charle-
magne, advanced, in order and with alacrity, towards
the enemy.
Harold had feized the advantage of a rifing ground,
and having befides drawn fome trenches to fecure his
flanks, he refolved to Hand upon the defenfive, and to
avoid all action with the cavalry, in which he was
inferior. The Kentilh men were placed in the van,
a poll which they had always claimed as their due ;
the Londoners guarded the ftandard ; and the king
himfelf, accompanied by his two valiant brothers,
Gurth and Leofwin, difmounting from horfeback, pla¬
ced himfelf at the head of his infantry, and expreffed
his refolution to conquer or to perilh in the^ action.
Ihe firft attack of the Normans was defperate, but was
received with equal valour by the Englifh : and after x
furious combat, which remained long undecided, the
former, overcome by the difficulty of the ground, and
hard preffed by the enemy, began firft to relax their
vigour 5 then to give ground 5 and confufion was fpread-
ing among the ranks, when William, who found him¬
felf '
Karting?.
HAS [286
■Haftings. felf on trie brink of deftruflion, haftened, vvitli a feleft
’ band, to the relief of his ditmayed forces. His pre¬
fence reftored the aftion •, the Englilh were obliged to
retreat with lofs 5 and the duke, ordering his fecond
line to advance, renewed the attack with frelh forces
and with redoubled courage. Finding that the enemy,
aided by the advantage of ground, and animated by the
example of their prince, ftill made a vigorous refinance,
he tried a ftratagem, which was very delicate in its ma¬
nagement, but which feemed adviiable in his deiperate
fituation, when, if he gained not a decifive victory, he
was totally undone : he commanded his troops to make
a hafty retreat, and to allure the enemy from their
ground by the appearance of flight. The artifice fuc-
ceeded againft thefe unexperienced troops ; who, heat¬
ed by the adion, and fanguine in their hopes, precipi-
tantly followed the Normans into the plain. William
gave orders, that at once the infantry Ihould face about
upon their purfuers, and the cavalry make an affault
upon their wings, and both of them purfue the advan¬
tage which the furprife and terror of the enemy
give them in that critical and decifive moment. The
Englifh were repulfed with great daughter, and driven
back to the hill; where being rallied again by the bra¬
very of Harold, they were able, notvyithHanding their
lofs, to maintain the poll and continue the combat.
The duke tried the fame ftratagem a fecond time with
the fame fuccefs} but even after this double advantage,
he ftill found a great body of the Englilh, who main¬
taining themfelves in firm array, feemed determined to
difpute the viftory to the laft extremity. He ordered
his heavy-armed infantry to make the aflault upon tnem j
while his archers, placed behind, fhould gall the ene¬
my, who were expofed by the fituation of the ground,
and who were intent in defending themfelves againft the
fwords and fpears of the afl'ailants. By this difpofition
he at laft prevailed. Harold was flain by an arrow,
while he was combating with great bravery at the head
of his men. His tw% brothers (hared the fame fate 5
and the Englilh, difcouraged by the fall of thefe
princes, gave ground on all fides, and were purfued
with great (laughter by the victorious Normans. A
few troops, however, of the vanquiftied dared (till to
turn upon their purfuers •, and taking them in deep and
miry ground, obtained fome revenge for the (laughter
and diftionour of the day. But the appearance of the
duke obliged them to feek their fafety by flight, and
darknefs (hved them from any farther purfuit by the
enemy. _
Thus W3.S gained by William duke oi rslorroandyj
the great and decifive viftory of Haftings, after
battle which was fought from morning t>l funfet, and
which feemed worthy, by the heroic feats of valour
difplayed by both armies, and by both commanders,
to decide the fate of a mighty kingdom. William
had three horfes killed under him } and there fell near
1 ?,ooo men on the fide of the Normans. The lofs was
ftill more confiderable on that of the vanquiftied ^ be-
fides the death of the king and his two brothers. The
dead body of Harold was brought to William, who re¬
ftored it without ranfom to his mother.
] HAT
HASTIVE, a French term, fometimes ufed in
Englifti for early, forward, or fomething that comes
before the ordinary time or feafon. The haftive fruits
are ftrawberries and cherries. We have haftive peas, ;
&.c.
Haftive
11
Hat-
Making.
HAT, a covering for the head, worn by the men
throughout the weftern part of Europe. Hats are faid
to have been firft feen about the year 1400, at which
time they became of ufe for country wear, riding, See.
F. Daniel relates, that when Charles VII. made his pub¬
lic entry into Rouen, in 1449, he had on a hat lined
with red velvet, and furmounted with a plume or tuft
of feathers : he adds, that it is from this entry, or at
lead under this reign, that the ufe of hats and caps is
to be dated, which henceforward began to take place
of the chaperoons and hoods that had been worn oe-
fore. In procefs of time, from the laity, the clergy
alfo took this part of the habit ; but it was looked on
as a great abufe, and feveral regulations wTere publuh-
ed, forbidding any prieft or religious perfon to appear
abroad in a hat without coronets, and enjoining them
to keep to the ufe of ebaperoons, made of black cloth,
with decent coronets if they were poor, they were at
leaft to have coronets faftened to their hats, and this
upon penalty of fufpenfion and excommunication. In¬
deed the ufe of hats is faid to have been of a longer
(landing among the ecclefiaftics of Britanny, by 200
vears, and efpecially among the canons j but thefe were?
no other than a kind of caps, and from hence arofe the
fquare caps wrorn in colleges, &c. Lobineau obferves^
that a biftiop of Dol, in the 12th century, zealous for
good order, allowed the canons alone to wear fuch
hats j enjoining, that if aHy other perfon came witft
them to church, divine fervice (liould immediaiely be
fufpended.
Hats make a very confiderable article in commerces
the fined, and thofe moft valued, are made ol pure hair
of an amphibious animal, called the caftor or beaver,
frequent in Canada and other provinces of Isorth Ame-
rica.
Hjt-Making. Great improvements have been made
in this art of late years by ingenious and intelligent ma-
nufaclurers. For the following account or tne different
proceffes of this manufadlure we aie indebted to IVIr
Nicholfon, from whofe Journal it is extracted, and to
John Clennell, Efq. of Newcaftle, Mr Nicholfon’s cor-
refpondent on this fubjeft, who has obligingly favoured
us with fome valuable correfrions of this account.
u The materials for making hats are rabbits and
hares fur cut off from the (Ivin, after the hairs have
been plucked out, together with wool and beaver. The
former are mixed in various proportions, and of dii.er-
ent qualities, according to the value of the article in¬
tended to be made ; and the beaver is univerfally ufed
for facing the finer articles, and never for the body or
main (luff. Experience has (hewn, that thefe materials
cannot be evenly and well felted together, unlefs all
the fibres be firft feparated, or put into the fame
with regard to each other. This is the objeft ol the
firft procefs, called bowing. The material, without any
previous preparation (a), is laid upon a platform of
* wood,
1^ Some writers mention a partial wetting of the far while on the Ikin, by lightly Waring it with a Motion
0f nitrafe^af mercury To give it a curl. M Js Collinfons do not ufe it. or any other prepara.,on.
HAT [ 287 ]
Hat- wood, or of wire, fomewhat more than four feet fquare, of felting,
Making, called a hurdle, which is fixed againll the wall of the
v work-lhop, and is enlightened by a fmail window, and
Separated by two fide partitions from other hurdles,
which occupy the reft of the Ipace along the wall. The
hurdle, if of wTood, is made of deal planks, not quite
three inches wide, difpofed parallel to the wall, and at
the dilfance of one-fortieth or one-fiftieth of an inch
from each other, for the purpofe of fuffering the dull,
and other impurities of the fluff, to pafs through ; a
purpofe Hill more effedlually anfwered by the hurdle of
wire.
“ The workman is provided with a bow, a bow-pin,
a bafket, and feveral cloths. The bow is a pole of
yellow deal wmod, between feven and eight feet long,
to which are fixed two bridges, fomewhat like that
which receives the hair in the bow of the violin (n).
Over thefe is flretched a catgut, about one-tw^elfth part
of an inch in thicknefs. The bow-pin is a Hick with a
knob at each end, and is ufed for linking or catching
the bow-ftring, by the vibration of which, as we fhall
firortly fee, the fluff is thoroughly mixed. The bafket is
a fquare piece of ozier wmrk, confiding of open flrait
bars with no eroding or interweaving. Its length acrofs
the bars may be about two feet, and its breadth eigh¬
teen inches. The Tides into which the bars are fixed
are flightly bended into a circular curve, fo that the
bafket may be fet upright on one of thefe edges near
the right hand end of the hurdle, where it ufually
Hands. The cloths are linen. Be.ides thefe imple¬
ments, the workman is alfo provided with brown
paper.
“ The bowing commences by ihovelling the material
towards the right hand partition with the baiket, upon
which, the wmrkman holding the bow horizontally in
his left hand, and the bow'-pin in his right, lightly
places tire bow-ftring, and gives it a pluck wdth the pin.
he Hring, in its return, Hrikes part of the fur, and
cauies it to rife, and fly partly acrofs the hurdle in a
light open form. By repeated ftrokes, the whole is
thus mbjected to the bow ; and this beating is repeated
till all the original clots or mafles of the filaments are
perfectly opened and obliterated. The quantity thus
treated at once is called a batt, and never exceeds half
the quantity required to make one hat.
When the batt is futficiently bowed, it is ready for
luu denmg ; which term denotes the firft commencement
HAT
„ The materia1, thus far prepared, is feen on
the hurdle fwelling in the centre, and leffening gra¬
dually towards the edges. The reafon of this is obvi¬
ous ; the hat is formed of two of thefe batts joined to¬
gether, and by their union the whole becomes equally
compafl. It is now prelfed down by the convex fide
of the bafket, then covered with a cloth, and preffed
fucceflively in its various part*: by the hands of the
workman. The prefiure is gentle, and the hands are
very nightly moved back and forwards at the fame time
through a fpace of perhaps a quarter of an inch, to fa¬
vour the hardening or entangling of the fibres. In a
very Hiort time, indeed, the fluff acquires fufficient firm-
nefs to bear careful handling. The cloth is then taken
oft, and a fheet of paper, with its corners doubled in,
fo as to give it a triangular outline, is laid upon the
batt, which laft is folded over the paper as it lies, and
its edges, meeting one over the other, form a conical
cap. fl he joining is foon made good by prelfure wdth
the hands on the cloth. Another batt, ready harden¬
ed, is in the next place laid on the hurdle, and the cap"
here mentioned placed upon it, with the joining down¬
wards : By this means, as we before Hated, the mafs
becomes uniform in thicknefs, and affumes the form of
a fiannel bag. lifts laft batt being alfo folded up, will
confequently have its place of junction diametrically op-
poflte to that of the inner felt, which it muft therefore
greatly tend to ftrengtben. The principal part of the
hat is thus put together, and nowr requires to be work¬
ed with the hands a confiderable time upon the hurdle,
the cloth being alfo occafionally fprinkled with clear
wTater. During the wrhole of this operation, which is
called bafoning (c), the article becomes firmer and
firmer, and contrafts in its dimenfions. It may eafily
be underftood, that the chief ufe of the paper is to pre¬
vent the Tides from felting together.
“ The bafoning is followed by a ftill more eflfeflual
continuation of the felting, called working (d). This
is done in another Ihop, at an apparatus called a bat-
tery, confiding of a kettle (containing water ilightly
acidulated with fulphuric acid, to which, for beaver
hats, a quantity of the grounds of beer is added, or elfe
Plain water for rinfing out), and eight planks of wood
joined together in the form of a fruilum of a pyramid,
and meeting in the kettle at the middle. The outer or
upper edge of each plank is about two feet broad, and
riles a little more than two feet and a half above the
ground $
Hat-
Making.
(r.) .The bow is bell madeof alb 5 it is compofed of the Jang or handle : the bridge at the fmaller end or that
iSCaUed“'- and the orfler brIdge> ^‘h - nearer to
r After bowing and previous to the bafoning, a hardeningJkin, that is, a large piece of Ikin, about four
feet long and three feet broad, of leather alumed or half tanned, is ^reffed upon tlJbaU, to bring k by an eafier
gradation to a compaa appearance ; after which it is bafoned, being ftill kept upon the hurdle ^ThisOperation
hat afterbowin^TheTarr 7 ^ PrOCCfS-°r be^g the fame as that praftifed upon a wool
lafZ i 1 ? uem$ d°ne UP0n 3 pieCe °f cafl metal> four feet acrofs, of a circular lhape called «
b7 fnl7 JOinin? °f TCh batt ^ made g0°d here ^ the hand, that is, by rubbing the edges of each
togLhen °Ver thC t0 thC Pr0greffive each of ^ fiWnts fn feltingf and to fob the two
un^^“Z-at77^n’ tl'f hat is dTped int0 the boiling kettfe, and allowed to lie upon the plank
too haftilv in thU ft t 1ScMedf™hng, that is, being perfe&ly faturated with the hot liquor: if they are put in
HAT
t 288
Hat- gtound and the flope towards the kettle! is coniider-
Making. abiy rapid, fo that the whole battery is little more than
“'fix feet in diameter. The quantity of fulphuric acid
added to the liquor is not fufficient to give a four tatle,
but only renders it rough to the tongue. In this li¬
quor, heated rather higher than unpraftifed hands could
bear, the article is dipped from time to time, and then
worked on the planks With a roller, and alfo by fold¬
ing or rolling it up, and opening it again *, in all which,
a certain degree of care is at firft neceffary, to prevent
the Tides from felting together ; of which, _ in the more
advanced ftages of the operation, there is no dangen
The imperfections of the work now prefent themfelves
to the eve of the workman, who picks out knots and
other hard fubftances with a bodkin, and adds more felt
upon all fuch parts as require ftrengthening. This
added felt is patted down with a wet bruih, and foon
incorporates with the reft. The beaver is laid on to¬
wards the conclufion of this kind of working. Mr
Nicholfon could not diftin&ly learn why the beer
^rounds w'ere ufed with beaver hats.. Some w'orkmen
Paid, that by rendering the liquor more tenacious, the
hat was enabled to hold a greater quantity of it for a
longer time j but others faid, that the mere acid and
water would not adhere to the beaver facing, but would
roll off immediately when the article was laid on the
plank. It is probable, as he obferves, that the manu-
fa&urers who now follow the eftabliftied praftice, may
not have tried what are the inconveniences this addition
is calculated to remove.
“ The journeymen tell me (fays Mr Clennell), that
the dregs are to hold or fill the body, whilft a little
vitriol cleanfes it of the dirt, &c..that may be on the
rabbit or other wool 5 too much vitriol w7ould make the
whole that was weighed out to the journeymen work
into the hats, but by the mutual aftion of the vitriol
and the dregs, the quantity of the firft being ftnall, a-
bout a wine glafsfull, the dirt and the ftrong hairs get
purged out (the laft from the ftirinking in being, flow,
as well as their being ftraight •, for was the leffening of
the fize at plank rapid, they would, in defiance of their
ftraightnefs, get entangled, and even as it is, they are
(lightly fo ; but care is taken to get them out by rub¬
bing the body of the hat wTell with the hand in a circu¬
lar manner) whilft, at the fame time, the dregs keep
the hats plump. Another advantage attending the ufe
of dregs, whether of beer, porter, or wine, is that as
the boiling in the dregs does not draw out much of the
mucilage from each hat, when they come to be ftiffen-
ed the dregs form a body within the hat fufliciently
ftrong or retentive to keep the glue from coming
through amongft the nap : vitriol alone would purge or
weaken the hats too much, confequently, half the quan¬
tity does better with the addition of dregs, and they
difallow7 the body to be clofer from its getting, more
work : many journeymen, however, to hurry this part
of the procefs, ufe a quantity of vitriol, and open the
body again by throwing in a handful or two of oat¬
meal •, by. this means they get a great many made,
though at the fame time they are left quite grainy from
the want of labour. This, in handling the dry. gray
hat, when made, may be in part difcovered, but in.part
only ; in wearing the effeft is (hining fpots, as if of
greafe, but is, in reality, the glue lodging upon the
grainy parts.”
] HAT
Of thefe reafdns for the ufe of dregs, the laft on¬
ly appears to be perfpicuous or at all fatisfaclory.
Acid of any kind, by taking out the greafy iubftancts
on each pile of hair, allows the roughneffes on the fur-
face of each to operate with their full effeft, and thus
facilitates the mechanical a£tion of felting-, and. Mr
Collinfon informed Mr Nicholfon, that in. a procefs,
called carolling) they make ufe of nitrous acid. In this
operation, the material is put into a mixture of the ni¬
trous and fulphuric acids in water, and kept in the di-
gelting heat of a ftove all night j by which means tne
hair acquires a ruddy or yellow colour, luce the inner
part of a carrot, from w'hich it derives its name, and
though it lofes part of its ftrength it receives a curl
which more readily promotes the aftion of felting.
“ It muft be remembered, that our hat ftill poffeffes
the form of a cone, and that the whole ot the feveral
aflions it has undergone have only converted it into a
foft flexible felt, capable of being extended,. though
with feme difficulty, in every aive&ion. I ne next'
-thing to be done is to give it the form required by the
w-earer. For this purpofe, the workman turns up the
edge or rim to the depth of about an inch and a haif,
and then returns the point back again through the cen¬
tre or axis of the cap, fo far as not to take out this
fold, but to produce another inner fold of the lame
depth. The point being returned back again in the
fame manner, produces a third fold j and thus the
workman proceeds, until the w-hole has. acquired the
appearance of a flat circular piece, confifting of a num¬
ber of concentric undulations or folds, with the point in
the centre. This is laid upon the plank,, wdiere the,
workman, keeping the piece wet with the liquor, pulls
out the point with his fingers, and preffes it dowm with
his hand, at the fame time turning it round on its cen¬
tre in contadl with the plank, till he has, by this means,
rubbed out a flat portion equal to the intended crown
of the hat. In the next place, he takes a block, to the
crown of which he applies the flat central portion ox
the felt, and by forcing a firing down the lides or the
block, he caufes the next part to affume the figure ot
the crown, which he continues to wet and work, until
it has properly difpofed itfelf round the block. I he
rim now appears like a flounced or puckered appendage
round the edge of the crown •, but the block being let
upright on the plank, the requifite figure is foon given
bv working, rubbing, and extending this part. \\ ater
only is ufed in this operation of. faftuoning or block¬
ing ; at the conclufion of which it is preffed out by the
fame copper implement by which he drove down the
“ Previous to the dyeing, the nap of the hat is.railed
or loofened out with a wire bruih, or carding inftru-
ment. The fibres are too rotten after the dyeing to
bear this operation 5 or if they could bear the opera¬
tion, the colour of the hat would not be uniform, from
a part of the nap having been confined, and coniequent-
lv not receiving the full adion of the dye liquor I he
dyeing materials are logwood, and a mixture of the iul-
phates of iron and of copper, known m the market by
the names of green copperas and blue vitriol. As the
time of Mr Collinfon was limited, and my attention,
fays Mr Nicholfon, was more, particularly direfled to
the mechanical proceffes, I did not go into the dye-
houfe ; but I have no doubt that the hats are boiled
Hai-
Makmg.
2
HAT [ 289 ] HAT
iiat- with the logwood, and afterwards immerfed in the fa-
tnaking. line folution, I particularly aiked whether galls were
" ufed, and w'as anfwered in the negative.
“ The dyed hats are, in the next place, taken to the
ftiffening (hop. One workman, afiifted by a boy, does
this part of the bufinefs. He has two veffels, or boil¬
ers. the one containing the grounds of ftrong beer,
which cods feven {hillings per barrel, and the other
vefiel containing melted glue, a little thinner than it is
ufed by carpenters. Our author particularly aiked,
whether this lad folution contained any other ingre¬
dient belides glue, and was allured that it did not. The
beer grounds are applied in the iniide of the crown to
prevent the glue from coming through to the face, and
alfo, as he fuppofes, to give the requilite firmnefs at a
lefs expence than could be produced by glue alone. If
the glue were to pal’s through the hat in different places,
it might, he imagines, be more difficult to produce an
even glofs upon the face in the fubfequent fmilhing*
The glue ftiffening is applied after the beer grounds
are dried, and then only upon the lower face of the
Tap, and the iniide of the crown. For this purpole,
the hat is put into another hat, called a ftiffening hat,
the crown of which is notched, or Hit open in various
diredHons. Thefe are then plaped in a hole in a deal
board, wffiieh fupports the flap, and the glue is applied
with a brulh.
“ The dry hat, after this operation, is very rigid, and
its figure irregular. The next operation, therefore, is
clearing wdth Ibap and boiling w^ater to cleanfe the glue
from the nap or pile } it is then dried. The lalt dref-
fing is given by the application of moifture and heat,
and the ufe of the brulh, and a hot iron, fomewhat in
the lhape of that ufed by tailors, but Ihorter and broader
on the face. The hat being foftened by expofure to
fleam, is drawn upon a block, to which it is fecurely ap¬
plied by the former method of forcing a firing down
from the crown to the commencement of the rim. The
judgment of the workman is employed in moiftening,
brulhing, and ironing the hat, in order to give and pre-
ferve the proper figure. When the rim of the hat is
not intended to be of an equal width throughout, it is
cut by means of a wmoden, or perhaps metallic pattern j
but as no fuch hats are now in falhion, Mr Nicholfon
faw only the tool for cutting them round* The con¬
trivance is very ingenious and fimple. A number of
notches are made in one edge of a flat piece of wood
for the purpofe of inferting the point of a knife,
and from one fide or edge of this piece of wood
there proceeds a ftrait handle, which lies parallel to
the notched fide, forming an angle fomewhat like that
of a carpenter’s fquare. When the legs of this angle
are applied to the outfide of the crown, and the board
lies flat on the rim of the hat, the notched edge will
lie nearly in the direffion of the radius, or line point¬
ing to the centre of the hat. A knife being there¬
fore inferted in one of the notches, it is eafy to draw
it round by leaning the tool againft the crown, and it
will cut the border very regular and true. This cut
is made before the hat is quite finifhed, and is not car¬
ried entirely through * fo that one of the laft ope¬
rations confifts in tearing off the redundant part, which
by that means leave an edging of beaver round the ex¬
ternal face of the flap. When the hat is completely
finifhed, the crown is tied up in gauze paper, which is
Vol. X. Part I.
neatly ironed down. It is them ready for the fubfe- Hat-
quent operations of lining,” &c. , nia!ullg-
This valuable memoir on the fabrication of hats is
concluded with fome obfervations on the probable gain
or lofs of employing machinery in the manGfaclure.
Thefe obfervations we recommend to the ferious atten¬
tion of every judicious hat-maker, wTo carries on his
bufinefs on a large fcale •, for he wall find them not the
reveries of a rafh fpeculatift, but the cool refledfions of a
real philofopher, who is at the fame time no ftranger to
the arts of life. They fuggeft the following fubjedls of
enquiry j Whether carding, which is rapidly and me¬
chanically done, be inferior to bowing, which does not
promife much facility for mechanical operation ? Whe¬
ther a fucceflion of batts or cardings might be thrown
round a fluted cone, which rapidly revolving, in contafl
with three or more cylinders, might perform the harden¬
ing, and even the working, with much more precifion and
fpeed than they are now done by hand ? Whether block¬
ing or fhaping be not an operation extremely well calcu¬
lated for the operation of one or more machines ? Whe¬
ther loofe weaving and fubfequent felting might not pro¬
duce a lighter, cheaper, and ftronger article ? And how
far the mechanical felting, which is not confined merely
to the hairs of animals, might-be applied to this art ? *
Mr Dunnage has propofed a method of making wa-^0[t j.x‘
ter-proof hats, in imitation of beaver, for which, in No¬
vember 1794, he obtained a patent. This method is as
follows : Let a (hag be woven, of fuch count in the reed,
and cut over fuch fized wire, as will give the hats to be
manufadtured from it that degree of richnefs, or appear¬
ance of fur, which may be thought neceffary. The ma¬
terials of which this (hag may be compofed are various,
and firould be accommodated to diffei'ent kinds of hats,
according to the degree of beauty and durability to be
given them, and the price at which they are defigned
to be fold ; that is to fay, filk, mohair, or any other
hair that is capable of being fpun into an end fine
enough for the purpofe, cotton, inkle, wool, or a mix¬
ture of any, or all the above materials, as may fuit the
different purpofes of the manufadturer. Thofe anfwer
bell, (lays our author,) which are made with two
poles, either of Bergam, Piedmont, or Organzine filk,
rifing alternately, in a reed of about nine hundred count
to eighteen inches wide, with three Ihoots over each
wire. This method of Weaving diftributes the filk
(as it may be put fingle into the harnefs), and pre¬
vents any ribby appearance which it might have if the
filk were paffed double, and the whole of the pole cut
over each wire. This may be made either on a two
or four thread ground of hard filk, Ihot with fine cot¬
ton, w'hich he thinks preferable for ihoots, to filk, inkle,
or any other material, as it forms both a clofe and fine
texture. An inferior kind of hats may be made from
any of the before mentioned materials, and with cheap¬
er filk. This lhag Ihould be ftretched on a frame,
fuch as dyers ufe to rack cloth ; then (having previ-
oufly fet the pile upright wdth a comb, to prevent its
being injured or ftuck together), go over the ground
with thin lize, laid on with a foft brulh. For black,
or dark colours, common fize will do 5 wuth white or any
light colour, ufe ifinglafs, or a fize made from white
kid leather. Thefe, or gum, or any other mucilagi¬
nous matter, which, without altering the colour, will
prevent oil from getting through the ground fo as to
O o injure
H A T
iujure tke pile, will anfwer the purpofe. Take care
not to apply more of any material, as a preparation,
than may be fully laturated with oil or varnith, fo that
water will not difcharge it from the ground. The
lize, or rather glutinous matter, being dry, the pile
mult be teafeled, or carded with a fine card, till
the filk is completely taken out of the twill or throw¬
ing, when it will lofe its coarfe lhaggy look, and af-
fume the appearance of a very fine fur. It muft now
be once more fet upright with a comb, and you may
proceed to lay on your w7ater-proof material •, this too
may be varied according to circumftances. For black,
or any dark colour, linfeed oil well boiled with the u-
fual driers, and thickened wdth a fmall quantity of any
good drying colour, will do ; for vrhite, or very fine co¬
lours, poppy or nut oil, or copal or other varnilhes, may
be ufed. In this particular the manufacturer mult
judge wdiat will belt anfwer his purpofe, taking care
never to ufe any thing that will dry hard, or be lubject
to crack. Mr Dunnage has found good drying lin¬
feed oil preferable to any other thing which he has
ufed, and, with the precaution of laying on very little
the firit time, it will not injure the finelt colours. When
the firit coat of oil is dry, go over it a fecond and
a third time, if necelfary, till you are convinced the
pores of the ground are fully doled up, and the fluff
rendered impervious to water. It Ihould now ftand
feveral days, till the fmell is fufficiently gone off, and
before it is taken from the frame, fliould be gone over
with fome ox gall or lime-water, to take off the greali-
nefs, which would otherwife prevent the ftiffening from
adhering to the oil. The material being now ready to
be formed into hats, fhould be cut into proper Ihapes
for that purpofe. The crown fhould be made up overt
a block, with needle and filk, the oiled fide outwards.
The learns ftiould then be rubbed with a piece of hard
■wood, bone, or ivory, to make them lie flat, and the
edges of the fluff pared off very near the flitches, that
no joint may appear on the right fide. I he feams
fliould then be carefully gone over with the prepared
oil, till every crevice or hole made by the needle is
completely filled up, and the crown rendered perfectly
water-proof. The crown may then be turned and fliff-
ened, by flicking linen, leather, paper, or any other
material that may be found to anfwer the purpofe, to
the inner or painted fide, till it acquires about the fame
degree of ftiffnefs, or refiftance to the touch, as a good
beaver. 'The mucilaginous matter which he ufed to
attach the ftiffening to the crown, and the upper and
under parts of the brim to each other, was compofed
of one pound of gum-arabic or fenega, one pound of
fiarch, and half a pound of glue, boiled up with as
much water as reduced the whole to the confiftence of
a thick pafte. A greater or lefs proportion of any of
thefe ingredients may be ufed, and other glutinous and
adhefive fubftances may anfwer the fame purpofes •, or
drying-oils may be made ufe of inftead of this or other
mucilage j or any of the refinous gums diffolved in
oil or fpirits -, only it ftiould be obferved, in this cafe,
•the hats will require more time in the preparation, as
the oily matter, unlefs expofed to the air, wall not rea¬
dily dry; but he found by experience that the above
mentioned compofition does not dry hard or brittle,
but retains that plea font flexibility which is agreeable
to the touch, while it communicates to the other mate-
H A T
rials a fufficient degree of elaflicity. Before the brim Hat-
is perfeitly dry, care Ihould be taken to form a neck , making«
or riling round the hole where it is to be attached to
the crown, by notching it round with a pair of fci-
fars, and then forcing it over a block fomething larger
than you have made the hole, fo that the uncut fluff may
turn up, under the lower edge of the crown, about a
quarter of an inch. Before you join the crown and brim
together, go over the outiide of the neck of the brim,
and the inlide of the crown, as high as the neck will
come (which Ihould be about half an inch), with the
prepared oil •, and when they are nearly dry, fo as to
adhere to the finger on touching them, put the crown
over the neck of the brim, and let them be fewTed
ftrongly together, taking care to few down as little of
the pile as poffible, and uling the fame precaution of
oiling, where the needle has been through, as was ob-
ferted in making up the crown. The hat is now' rea¬
dy for drefling } which operation may be performed
over a block, with a hot iron, brulh, &c. in the fame
manner as thofe commonly called felts. When putting
in the lining, be very careful to let the needle only take
hold of the under furface of the brim •, for ihould it
perforate the upper one, the w:ater will find its way
through, and the hat be of no value. Though we have
already declared how little wre are acquainted with the
operation 6f hat-making, we cannot help fuggefting the
enquiry, whether thefe water-proof hats might not be
improved both in ftrength and beauty, by a flight felt¬
ing before the application of the fize by the brufli.
Such of them as are compofed of w'ool or hair, or con¬
tain a mixture of thefe materials, are unqueftionably
fufceptible of felting.
Di/eing of Hats. The inftructions of Colbert di-
re<ft hats to be firft ftrongly galled, by boiling them
a long time in a decodfion of galls with a little log¬
wood, that the dye may penetrate the better into their
fubftance ; after which a proper quantity of vitriol,
and decodion of logwood, with a little verdigrife, are
added, and the hats continued in this mixture alio for
a confiderable time. They are afterwards to be put
into a frefti liquor of logwood, galls, vitriol, and ver¬
digrife ■, and where the hats are of great price, or of
a hair which difficultly takes the dye, the fame pro-
cefs is to be repeated a third time. For obtaining the
moft perfedt colour, the hair or wrool is to be dyed
blue previoufly to its being formed into hats. But the
following ffiorter procefs is generally pradtiied.
An hundred pounds of logwmod, x 2 pounds of gum,
and fix pounds of galls, are boiled in a proper quan¬
tity of water for fome hours; after which, about fix
pounds of verdigrife and ten of green vitriol are add¬
ed, and the liquor kept juft fimmering, or of a heat
a little below boiling. Ten or twelve dozen of hats
are immediately put in, each on its block, and kept
down by crofs bars for about an hour and an half:
they are then taken out and aired, and the fame num¬
ber of others put in their room. The two fets of hats
are thus dipped and aired alternately, eight times each j
the liquor being refrefhed each time with more of the
ingredients, but in lefs quantity than at firfl.
This procefs (fays Dr Lewis) affords a very good
black on woollen and filk fluffs as well as on hats, as
wre may fee in the fmall pieces of both kinds which are
fometimes dyed by the hatters. The workmen lay
great
L' 290 ]
HAT [ 291 j H A T
Hat great ftrefs upon tlie verdigrife, and affirm tliat they
li. cannot dye a black hat without it : it were to be wifhed
Hatching. t^e ufe 0f this ingredient were more common in the
other branches of the black dye $ for the hatters dye,
both on filk and woollen, is reckoned a finer black than
what is commonly produced by the woollen and filk dyer.
But the general pradtice among hatters is to leave
out the galls and verdigrife, on account of the advance
in price, and to ufe blue vitriol inftead of them, in the
proportion of 51b. to 1 2 dozen of hats, which is found
to anfvver the purpofe equally well.
Hats are alfo made for women’s -wear, not only
of the above fluffs, but of chips, ftrarv, or cane, by
plaiting, and fewing the plaits together *, beginning
With the centre of the crown, and working round till
the whole is finifhed. Hats for the fame purpofe are
alfo woven and made of horfe-hair, filk, &c.
Hat is alfo figuratively ufed for the dignity of car¬
dinal, or a promotion to that dignity. In this fenfe
they fay, “ to expedt the hat j to claim, or have pre-
tenlions to, the hat,” &c.
Pope Innocent IV. firft made the hat the fymbol or
cognizance of the cardinals, enjoining them to wear a
red hat at the ceremonies and proceffions, in token of
their being ready to fpill their blood for Jefus Chrift.
HATCH, or Hatchway, a fquare or oblong open¬
ing in the Deck of a fhip, of which there are feveral,
forming the palfages from one deck to another, and into
the hold or kwer Apartments. See Plate CLXIX.
where A reprefents the main-hatchway of the lovrer
deck j NN the fore-hatchwray j and OO the after¬
hatchway.—There are like wife hatches of a fmaller
kind, called /cutties. See UU in the fame figure ; as
alfo the article Scuttle.—Hatches is alfo, though
improperly, a name applied by failors to the covers or
lids of the hatchway.
HATCHEL, or Hitchel, in the manufadlory of
flax, hemp, &c. a tool, not unlike a card, for dreffing
and combing them into fine hairs.
They confift of fharp-pointed iron pins, or,teeth,
fet orderly in a board.
Of thefe there are feveral forts, fome with finer and
fhorter teeth, others with them coarfer and longer.
HATCHES, in mining, a term ufed in Cornwall,
to exprefs any of the openings of the earth either into
mines or in fearch of them. The fruitlefs openings
are called ej/ay-hatelies i the real mouths of the veins,
tin-hatches; and the places where they wind up the
buckets of ore, wind-hatches.
Hatches alfo denote flood gates fet in a river, &c.
to flop the current of the water, particularly certain
dams or mounds made of rubbifh, clay, or earth, to
prevent the water that iflues from the ftream-works
and tin-wafhes in Cornwall from running into the frefh
rivers.
HATCHET, a fmall light fort of an axe, with a
bafil edge on its left fide, and a fhort handle, as being
to be ufed with one hand.—Hatchets are ufed by vari¬
ous artificers, and more particularly in hewing of wood.
HATCHING, the maturating fecundated eggs,
rvhether by the incubation and warmth of the parent
bird, or by artificial heat, fo as to produce young
chickens alive. *
I he art of hatching chickens by means of ovens has
long been pradlifed in Egypt j but it is there only
knowm to the inhabitants of a Angle village named H
Berme, and to thofe that live at a fmall diflance from
it. Towards the beginning of autumn they flatter
themfelves all over the country ; where each perfen
among them is ready to undertake the management of
an oven, each of which is of a different fize 5 but, in
general, they are capable of containing from forty to
fourfeore thoufand eggs. The number of thefe ovens
placed up and down the country is about 386, andthey
ufually keep them working for about fix months : as,
therefore j each brood takes up in an oven, as under a
hen, only 21 days, it is eafy in every one of them to
hatch eight different broods of chickens. Every Ber-
mean is under the obligation of delivering to the per-
fon who intrufts him with an oven, only two-thirds of
as many chickens as there have been eggs put under
his care j and he is a gainer by this bargain, as more
than two-thirds of the eggs ufually produce chickens.
In order to make a calculation of the number of chic¬
kens yearly fo hatched in Egypt, it has been fuppofed
that only two-thirds of the eggs are hatched, and that
each brood confifts of at leaft 30,000 chickens ; and
thus it would appear, that the ovens of Egypt give life
yearly to at leafl 92,640,000 of thefe animals.
This ufeful and advantageous method of hatching
eggs has been lately difeovered in France by the in¬
genious Mr Reaumur; who, by a number of experi¬
ments, has reduced the art to certain principles. He
found by experience, that the heat neceffary for this
purpofe is nearly the fame with that marked 3 2 on his
thermometer, or that marked 96 on Fahrenheit’s. This
denree of heSt is nearly that of the Ikin of the hen, and
what is remarkable, of the Ikin of all other domeftic
fowls, and probably of all other kinds of birds. The
degree of heat which brings about the developement
of the cygnet, the gofling, and the turkey-pout, is the
fame as that which fits for hatching the canary-fong-
fter, and, in all probability, the fmalleff humming¬
bird : the difference is only in the time during which
this heat ought to be communicated to the eggs of
different birds j it will bring the canary-bird to per-
fedlion in 11 or 12 days, while the turkey-pout will
require 27 or 28.
After many experiments, Mr Reaumur found, that
ftoves heated by means of a baker’s oven, fucceeded
better than thofe made hot by layers of dung : and the
furnaces of glafs-houfes and thofe of the melters of me¬
tals, by means of pipes to convey heat into a room,
might, no doubt, be made to anfwer the fame purpofe.
As to the form of the floves, no great nicety is required.
A chamber over an oven will do very well. Nothing
more will be neceffary but to afeertain the degree of
heat j which may be done by melting a lump of butter
of the fize of a walnut, with half as much tallow, and
putting it into a phial. This will ferve to indicate the
heat with fufficient exaflnefs : for when it is too great,
this mixture will become as liquid as oil ; and when the
heat is too finall, it'will remain fixed in a lump : but
it will flow like a thick fyrup, upon inclining the bottle,
if the ftove be of a right temper. Great attention
therefore Ihould be given to keep the heat always at
this degree, by letting in frefti air if it be too great,
or flmtting the ftove more clofe if it be too fmall: and
that all the eggs in the Hove may equally (hare the ir- ..
regularities of the heat, it will be neceffary to fhift them
O 0 2 from
HAT
Hatching from the fides to the centre j and thus to
1! hens, who are frequently feen to make ufe of their bills,
1I,:U.fV'la to pulh to the outer parts thofe eggs that were neareft
^ ' ‘ to the middle of their neils, and to bring into the
middle fuch as lay neareft the fides.
Mr Reaumur has invented a fort of low boxes, with¬
out bottoms, and lined with furs. J hefe, which he
calls artificial parents^ not only {belter the chickens
from the injuries or the air, but afford a kindly warmth,
fo that they prefently take the benefit of their .fhelter
as readily as they would have done under the wings of
a hen. After hatching, it wall be neceffary to keep
the chickens, for fome time, in a room artfully heat¬
ed and furnifhed with thele boxes j but afterwards they
may be fafely expofed to the air in the court-yard, in
which it may not be amifs to place one of thefe artifi¬
cial parents to Ihelter them if there ftiould be occafion
for it.
As to the manner of feeding the young brood, they
are generally a whole day after being hatched, before
they take any food at all *, and then a few’ crumbs, of
bread may be given them for a day or two, after which
they will begin to pick up infects and grals for them-
felves.
But to fave the trouble of attending them, capons
may be taught to watch them in the fame manner as
hens do. Mr Reaumur allures, that he has feen,above
200 chitkens at once, all led about and defended on¬
ly by three or four fuch capons. Nay, cocks may
be taught to perform the fame office *, which they,, as
well as the capons, will continue to do all their lives
after.
Hatching, or Hacking, in defigning, &c. the
making of lines with a pen, pencil, graver, or the like •,
and the interfering or going acrofs thofe lines with
others drawn a contrary wTay, is called counter-hatching.
The depths and fliadows of draughts are ufually formed
by hatching. _ _
Hatching is of Angular ufe in heraldry, to diftinguilh
the feveral colours of a fliield, without being illumined :
thus, gules or red is hatched by lines drawn from the
top to the bottom j azure, by lines drawn acrofs the
ihield ; and fo of other colours.
HATCHMENT, in Heraldry, the coat-of-arms of
a perfon dead, ufually placed on the front of a houfe,
whereby may be known what rank the deceafed perfon
was of when living : the whole diftinguiffied in fuch a
manner as to enable the beholder to know whether he
was a bachelor, married man, or widower $ with the
like diftinftions for women.
HATFIELD, Bishots, a towm of Hartfordftnre
19 miles north from London. It was called Biffiops
Hatfield, becaufe it belonged to the biffiops of Ely.
Theodore archbiffiop of Canterbury held a fynod here,
anno 681, again!! the Eutychean herefy. Here was
once a royal palace, from whence both Edward VI.
and Queen Elizabeth were conduced to the throne.
King James I. exchanged the manor with Sir Robert
Hiivanna.
Cecil, afterwards earl of Saliffiury, for Theobald’s, in the
parifh of Cheffiunt in this county j and the lordffiip ftill
remains in that noble family, who have a very fine feat
here. . .
Hatfield and Chace, a town in the weft riding of
Yorkffiire, four miles from Doncafter. The chace is
famous for deer-hunting. There are many intrench-
[ 292 ] H A V
imitate the ments near the town, as if it had been the camp of fome Hatfield-
great army. It is faid that no rats were ever feen in this broaij-oak
town.
Hatfield-broad-oak, or King's Hatfield, a town
of Effex in England, feated on a branch of the river
Lea, 30 miles from London, is fo called from the nature
of the foil, from its tenure by King William the Conque¬
ror and his fucceffors, and from a broad oak growing in
the town. It has a market on Saturdays, and a fair in
Auguft.
HATTEM, a town of the United Provinces, in the *
duchy of Guelderland, feated on the river Uffol, in E.
Long. 6. o. N. Lat. 53. 30.
HATTEMISTS, in ecclefiaftical hiftory, the name
of a modern Dutch fed!, fo called from Pontian Van
Hattem, a minifter in the province of Zealand, to*
wards the clofe of the 17th century, who being addufted
to the fentiments of Spinoza, was on that account de¬
graded from his paftoral office. The Verfchorifts and
Hattemifts refemble each other in their religious fy items,
though they never fo entirely agreed as to form one
communion. The founders of thefe feels deduced
from the dodtrine of abfolute decrees a fyftem of fatal
and uncontrollable neceffity; they denied the difference
between moral good and evil, and the corruption of
human nature : from hence they farther concluded,
that mankind were under no fort of obligation to cor¬
rect their manners, to improve their minds, or to obey
the divine laws 5 that the wdiole of religion confiited
not in adting, but in fuffering *, and that all the pre¬
cepts of Jefus Chriil are reducible to this one, that we
bear with cheerfulnefs and patience the events that
happen to us through the divine will, and make it our
conftant and only ftudy to maintain a permanent tran¬
quillity of mind. Thus far they agreed •, but the Hatte¬
mifts farther affirmed, that Chrift made no expiation
for the fins of men by his death, but had only fuggeft-
ed to us by his mediation, that there was nothing in us
that could offend the Deity ; this, they fay, was Chrift’s
manner of juftifying his fervants, and prefenting them
blamelefs before the tribunal of God. It was one of
their diftinguiffied tenets, that God does not punifti men
for their fins, but by their fins. Thefe two fedts, fays
Mofheim, ftill fubfift, though they no longer bear the
names of their founders.
HATTOCK, a ffiock of corn containing twelve
{heaves j others make it only three {heaves laid toge¬
ther.
HATUAN, a town and fort of Upper Hungary, in
the county of Novigrod. It was taken by the Imperia-
lifts in 1685. It is feated on a mountain, in E. Long.
19. 48. N. Lat. 47. 52.
HAVANNA, a fea-port town in theifland of Cuba,
in the Weft Indies, and on the north-weft part of it, op-
pofite to Florida. It is famous for its harbour, which
is in every refpedt one of the belt in the Weft In¬
dies, and perhaps in the world. It is entered by a
narrow paffage, upwards of half a mile in length, which
afterwards expands into a large bafon, forming three
Cul de Sacs, and is fufficient, in extent and depth, to
contain 1000 fail of the large!! ffiips, having almoft
throughout fix fathoms water, and being perfectly co¬
vered from every wind. The town was built by Diego
de Velafquez, who conquered the ifland of Cuba. It
was but a fmall place, and named originally the port of
Carenas y
H A V [ 293 ] H A V
Havanna. Carenas 5 but afterwards, when the city by its increafe
—""v of wealth grew conliderable, it was called St Ghrijlo-
pher of the Jriavanna. In 1536, it was of fo inconfi-
derable a value, that being taken by a French pirate,
he ranfomed the place for the paltry fum of 700 pieces
of eight. Some time after it was taken by the Englifh,
and a fecond time by the French : nor was its value
unaerftood, or any care taken to put it in a poflure of
defence, till the reign of Philip II. j though what was
then done proved infufficient. But fince the accef-
fion of a branch of the houfe of Bourbon to the Spa-
niih crown, more pains have been taken to render it a
place of ftrength.
The Havanna Hands on the wreft fide of the harbour,
in a pleafant plain 3 and is the refidence of the gover¬
nor and captain-general of Cuba, and of the royal offi¬
cers, as well as of an affieffor for the affiflance of the
governor and captain-general of the Weft Indies. The
biftiop of St Jago de Cuba likewife choofes to fix his
refidence here. The buildings are elegant, built of
ftone, and fome of them moft fuperbly furniftied.
Here are eleven churches and monafteries, and two
handfome hofpitals. Near the middle of the town is a
fpacious fquare, furrounded with uniform buildings.
The churches are rich and magnificent ; the lamps,
candlefticks, and ornaments for the altars, being of
gold and filver ; fome of the lamps are of the moft cu¬
rious workmanlhip, and weigh near 100 weight. The
Recollects church, wduch Hands on the beft ground in
the city, has x 2 beautiful chapels in it, and in the mo-
naftery are cells for 50 fathers. The church of St Clara
has feven altars adorned wdth plate, and the nunnery con¬
tains 100 women and fervants, all clothed in blue. The
church belonging to the Auguftines has 13 altars j that
of St Juan de Dios 9, with an hofpital for foldiers of
12,000 pieces of eight revenue. It is not a bhhop’s
fee, though the bifhop of St Jago refides here, the re¬
venue of which prelate is not lets than 50,000 pieces of
eight a-year. In 1 700 the inhabitants were computed
at 26,000, and we may very well imagine them to be
increafed fince. They are a more polite and focial
people than the inhabitants of any of the Spanifti ports
on the continent ; and of late imitate the French both
in their drefs and manners. The city is fupplied with
water by a fmall river called Lagida, which rifes from
the hills on the fouth v/eft fide of the towm, and di¬
vides itfelf into three ftreams, one of which falls into
the fea on the eaft fide of the town, but the other two
flow through the place, entering the wralls near the
middle of the city.
As to the fortifications, it w7as already remarked,
that the entrance to the harbour is by a narrow gut
near half a mile in length : this paffage is defended on
the eaft fide by a ftrong caftle called El Moro, fituated
on a high. rock ; and on the wTalls and baftions are
mounted 40 pieces of cannon. Under the faces of the
fouth-weft baftion of the Moro, and more within the
entrance of the harbour, is a battery of ftone called the
Twelve dpoflles, almoft level with the water, and the
guns of which carry each a ball of 36 pounds. A little
higher, and oppofite to the Point gate, is the La Di-
vina Paftora, or the Shepherd’s Battery, of 14 guns,
level with the water. On the weft fide of the entrance,
at the point, is a fquare fort called the Punta, with
tour baftions well mounted with cannon, about 200
yards diftant from the Punta gate of the town. On
the baftions of the town, next the harbour, are a num¬
ber of cannon j and about the middle of the city is
another fort, called El Fuerte, a fquare fort with four
baftions, mounted with 22 pieces of cannon, of no
great ftrength ; but in this laft the governor refides,
and in it the king of Spain’s treafures are depofited till
the arrival of the galleons. On the land-fide, from the
Punta gate to the dock-yard, there is a rampart with
baftions, faced with ftone, and earthen parapets with a
ditch, which in feveral places has fallen in, and is almoft
filled up, particularly behind the Punta and land-gates,
near the ftone quarries, which, if joined to one another,
might be of great detriment to the place in cafe of a
fiege, as a lodgement might be made in them. The
ground here rifes with an eafy afcent to the land-gate j
and is either open pafture or garden ground, well fto-
red with the cabbage-tree. Before the land-gate is a
ravelin. The hill on a rifing ground from this gate
(which is the higheft part of the town) to the dock¬
yard, is deeper than on the other fide.
Such are the fortifications of the Havanna, which
are the beft the Spaniards have in the Weft Indies, as
indeed the place is of the greateft importance. But
though ftrong, they have many defefts, and from the
fituation of the towm and forts, are commanded by
many eminences, of which an enemy could not fail to
take advantage. On the eaft fide of the harbour,
the Cavannas, on a part of which the Moro is built,
commands in a great meafure that fort, but abfolutcly
commands the Punta, El Fuerte, and whole north-eaft
part of the city, which is the beft fortified. On the
weft fide of the city runs a fuburb, called Guadaloupe,
whofe church is fituated on an eminence about half a
mile from the land-gate, with wFich it is on a level,
and higher than any other part of the fortifications.
From the north fide of thi-s rifing ground, the Punta
gate may be Hanked ; and from the fouth-eaft fide the
dock yard is commanded. Along the north fide runs
an aquedinft, w-hich falling into the ditch at the land-
gate, runs dowm to the dock-yard, both for watering
the ihips and turning a faw-mill. About half a mile
from the church, is a bridge made oVer a rivulet that
runs into the bay about 100 yards. That road leads to
the centre of the iftand, and extends to Baracoa, above
600 miles diftant. From this bridge to the Lazaretto,
is about two miles, with a rifing ground betwixt them.
A trench thrown up between thefe two places would
cut off the communication with the town by land.
From thefe obfervations it wdll plainly appear, that
the Havanna, though well fortified, is not impreg¬
nable.
The Havanna has greatly contributed to the mari¬
time ftrength of the crowm of Spain, many Ihips ha¬
ving been built here within thefe few years, from 60
to 80 guns, the ifland furnilhing the fineft materials,
fuch as oak, pine, cedar, and mahogany. The only
defedf of the harbour is the narrownefs of its entry *,
for though free from bars and ftioals, yet only one ftrip
at a time can enter it j from which circumltance the
galleons have more than once been infulted, and fome
of them taken, at the mouth of the harbour, the forts
there not being able to afford them any affiftance
Upon the rupture with Spain in 1762, the Britilh
mjtiiftry fent a fquadron and army againft this place
under.
Havanna.
H A V [ 29-j. ] H A U
under the command of Admiral Pocock and lord Aloe-
marle. The Spaniards had in the harbour at the time
a fleet of twelve fail of the line, two of them but juft
launched, two more on the flocks nearly finilhed, and
feveral merchant (hips. The men of war were almoft
ready for fea j but no account had reached the gover¬
nor of the intended attack. The place, however, was
gallantly defended, and (uftained a fiege of two months
and eight days before it could be reduced ", when a
capitulation was ligned, and aiongft with the city was
yielded a diftria of 180 miles to the weftward. This
conqueft was without doubt in itfelf the moft confider-
able, and in its confequences the moft deciftve, of any
we had made fince the beginning of the war •, and hr
no operation were the courage, fteadinefs, and perle-
verance of the Britilh troops, and the condua of their
leaders, more confpicuous. The acquifition of this
place united in itfelf all the advantages which can be
acquired in war. It was a military atchievement
of the higheft clafs. By its effea on the enemy’s ma¬
rine it was equal to the greateft naval vkhory, and
in the plunder it equalled the produce of a national
fubfrdy. Nine fail of the enemy’s line-of-battle Ihips
were taken } three of their capital ftiips had been funk
by themfelves at the beginning of the liege j two more
wTere in forwrardnefs upon the flocks, and wrere after-
w'ards deftroyed by the captors. The enemy on this
occafion loft a whole fleet of ftiips of wTar, befides a
number of confiderable merchant ftiips •, and in ready
money, in tobacco colledled at the Havanna on account
of the king of Spain, and in other valuable mechan-
difes, the fum loft by the enemy perhaps did not fall
ftiort of three millions fterling.
The city of Havanna was reftored by the peace of
I 763 •, and is of the greateft importance to Spain, be¬
ing the rendezvous for all their fleets to return from
America to Europe, lying at the mouth of the gulf
of Florida, through which they are all obliged to pafs.
Here the navy of Spain ftationed in the \Veft Indies
ride ; and here the galleons, the flota, and other mer¬
chant ftnps from other ports both of the continent and
iflands, meet in September, to take in provifions and
water, with great part of their lading, and for the
convenience of returning to Spain in a body. A con¬
tinual fair is held till their departure, which generally
happens before the end of the month, when proclama¬
tion is made, forbidding any perfon belonging to the
fleet to ftay in town on pain of death $ and accordingly,
on firing the warning gun, they all retire on board.
The commerce carried on in this port, which is. very
confiderable; may be diftinguifhed into the particular
commerce of the ifland of Cuba, and that more general
by the galleons and flota. The former confifts in
hides, dually ftyled of the Havanna, which are excel¬
lent, and of great value ; fugar, tobacco, admirable in
its kind, &T-C. Though ftrangers are prohibited to
trade, yet a contraband commerce is carried on brifker
here than at La Vera Cruz. Some little trade is car¬
ried on by other ports of Cuba, but it is very incon-
fiderable. As to the general commerce., this port is
the place of rendezvous (as already mentioned) for all
fhips, particularly from Carthagena, Puerto Velo, and
La Vera Cruz, which return to Spain from the Indies.
The Havanna is regularly fupplied with. European
goods only by the regifter (hips from Cadiz and the
Canaries. The flota and galleons bring there no more
than the refufe of their cargoes, which they had not
been able to difpofe of at Carthagena, Puerto Velo, or u.
Da Vela Cruz. When the fleet is in the harbour,
provifions are exceflively dear on ftiore, and money fo
plenty, that a Spaniard expefts half a piece of eight
a-day from a male flave, and a quarter from a female,
out of what they earn for their labour. The fleet ge¬
nerally fails from thence, through the channel of Ba¬
hama," in the month of September ; and is the richeft
in the world ; fince, in lilver and merchandile, there
is feldom lefs than thirty millions of pieces of eight on
board, or fix millions feven hundred and fifty thoufand
pounds of our money.—It is natural to imagine, that
a port of fo much confequence as the Havanna ought
to be well fortified. Since it has been reftored to
Spain, many new w’orks have been added, to prevent
if poflible a fimilar dilafter befalling it. W. Long.
82. 13. N. Lat. 23. 12.
HAVEL, a river of Brandenburgh, which proceeds
from a lake in the duchy of Mecklenburg, and running
through the middle Marche, and through Branden¬
burg and other towns, runs north, and falls into the
Elbe.
HAVELBERG, a town of Germany, in the circle
of Low7er Saxony, and in the eleftorate of Branden¬
burg, with a biftiop’s fee, fecularized in favour of the
houfe of Brandenburg. It is feated on the river Havel,
in E. Long. 12. 26. N. Lat. 53. 5.
HAVEN, a fea-port or harbour for ftiips. See
Port and Harbour. The word is derived from the
Saxon havene, or the German hafen, or the French
havre, which all fignify the fame thing.
HAVERCAMP, Sigibert, a celebrated Dutch
fcholar and critic, profeffor of hiftory, eloquence, and
the Greek tongue, at Leyden. He was particularly
fkilled in medals; and was the author of fome efteemed
works in that way, befide giving good and elegant
editions of feveral Greek and Latin authors. He died
at Leyden in 1742, aged 58.
HAVERFORD-west, a town of Pembrokeflnre
in South Wales, feated in W. Long. 5. N. Lat. 51.50.
on the fide of a hill, wdiich forms a part of the weft
bank of the river Dongledye, 256 miles from London.
It is an incorporated town and county of itfelf. The
mayor of the town is admiral, coroner, efcheater, and
clerk of the markets, within its precinas. .Here the
affizes are held and the county-jail kept. A he town
enjoys feveral privileges, and has its own courts. It
was formerly fortified with a rampart and caftle, which
are now in ruins.
HAVERILL, a town of England, in the county
of Suffolk, where there is a confiderable manufaftory of
checks, cottons, and fuftians. By the ruins of a
church and caftle (fill to be feen, it appears to have
been formerly a place of much greater confequence
than at prefent. It has now only about 300 poor clay-
houfes, and one wide ftreet not paved. E. Long. o. 28.
N. Lat. 52. 6.
HAUL, an expreflion peculiar to leamen, imply¬
ing to pull a Angle rope, without the afliftance of
blocks or other fuch mechanical powers. When a
rope is otherwife pulled, as by the application of tackles,
or the connection with blocks, Stc. the term is changed
into boxvfing.
To
H A U [ 295 ] HAW
Hatim To Havl the Wind, is to direct the fhip’s courfe
fl nearer to that point of the compafs from which the
Hau-iant. wjncj arjfeSt Thus, fuppofing a (hip to fail fouth-
weft, with the wind northerly, and fome particular oc-
calion requires to haul the wind more weftward 5 to
perform this operation, it is neceffary to arrange the
fails more obliquely w-ith her keel ; to brace the yards
more forward, by llackening the {larboard and pulling
in the larboard braces, and to haul the lower fheets
further aft; and, finally, to put the helm a-port, i. e.
over to the larboard fide of the veffel. As foon as her
head is turned direftly to the weftward, and her fails
are trimmed accordingly, file is faid to have hauled
the wdnd four points; that is to fay, from fouth-weft
to weft. She may ftill go two points nearer to the di-
redtion of the wind, by difpofing her fails according to
their greateft obliquity, or, in the fea-phrafe, by trim¬
ming all [harp y and in this fituation ftie is faid to be
clofe-hauled, as failing weft-north-weft.
HAUM, Halm, or Hawn, among farmers, denotes
the ftem or ftalk of corn, peafe, beans, &c. from the
root to the ear.
HAUNCH, or Hanch, the Hip, or that part of
the body between the laft ribs and the thigh.
The haunches of a horfe are too long, if when
{landing in the liable he limps, with his hind-legs far-
ther back than he ought 5 and when the top or onfet
of his tail is not in a perpendicular line to the tip of
his hocks, as it always does in horfes whofe haunches
are of a juft length. There are fome horfes which,
though they have too long haunches, yet commonly
walk well : fuch are good to climb hills, but are not
at all fure upon a defeent •, for they cannot ply their
hams, and never gallop {lowly, but always nearly upon
a full fpeed. The art of riding the great horfe has
not a more neceffary leffon than that of putting a horfe
upon his haunches ; which, in other words, is called
coupling him well, or putting him well together, or com-
padf. A horle that cannot bend or lower his haunches,
throws himfelf too much upon his ftioulder, and lies
heavy upon the bridle.
HAVRE, in geography, &c. a French term figni-
fying the fame with haven or harbour.
Hap-rf. de Grace, a fea-port town of France, and
capital of a diftridl of the fame name, is feated in the
province of Normandy, on the Englifti channel, in a
large plain at the mouth of the river Seine. It is a fmall
fortified town, nearly of a fquare figure, divided into
two parts by the harbour, furrounded with a -wall and
other works, and defended by a very ftrong citadel. It
is one of the moft important places in France, on ac¬
count of its foreign trade and convenient harbour ; for
■which reafon it w'as made a diftimPc government from
the reft of Normandy. It was furprifed in 1 562 by the
Proteftants, who delivered it to Queen Elizabeth 5 but
it was loft next year. In 1694 it was bombarded by
the Englifh, and alfo in the year 1758. E. Long.o. 11.
N. Lat. 49. 29.
Havrf de Grace, a poft-town and port of entry in
America, in the county of Harford, Maryland. It
contains about 300 inhabitants, and lies about 65 miles
fouth-weft of Philadelphia. N. Lat. 39-39-
PI A UR IA NT, in Heraldry, a term peculiar to
fifties j and iignifies their {landing upright, as if they
were refreftfing themfelves by fucking in the air.
HAUTE FEUILLE, John, an ingenious media- Haute’
nic, born at Orleans in 1647. Though he embraced *eu>Ue
the Hate of an ecclefiaftic, and enjoyed feveral benefi- Hawkers
ces, he applied almoft his whole life to mechanics, in 1 —y.- j
which he made a great progrefs. He had a particular
tafte for clock-work, and made feveral difeoveries in it
that wrcre of fingular ufe. He claimed the difeovery
of moderating the vibration of the balance in watches
by means of a fmall fteel-fpring, which has fince been
made ufe of. This difeovery he laid before the mem¬
bers of the Academy of Sciences in 1674; and thefe
watches are, by way of eminence, called pendulum-^ Hooke
watches; not that they have real pendulums, but be-anc* Watch*
caufe they nearly approach to the juftnefs of pendu¬
lums. M. Huygens perfeded this happy invention ;
but having declared himfelf the inventor, and obtained
from Louis XIV. a patent for making watches with
fpiral fpri-ngs, the Abbe Feuille oppofed the regiftering
of this privilege, and publiihed a piece on the fubjedt
againft M. Huygens. He wrote a great number of
other pieces, moil of which are fmall pamphlets con¬
fiding of a few pages, but very curious ; as, 1. His
perpetual pendulum, quarto. 2 New inventions,
quarto. 3. The Art of Breathing under Water, and
the means of preferving a Flame ftiut up in a fmall
Place. 4. Reftedions on Machines for railing Water.
5. His opinion on the different fentiments of Malle-
branche and Regis relating to the appearance of the
Moon when feen in the Horizon. 6. The Magnetic
Balance. 7. A Placet to the King on the Longitude.
8. Letter on the Secret of the Longitude. 9. A new
Syftem on the Flux and Reflux of the Sea. 10. The
Means of making fenfible Experiments that prove the
Motion of thp Earth} and many other pieces. He
died in 1724.
HAUTBOY, a mufical inftrument of the wind kind,
ftiaped much like the lute, only that it fpreads and
widens towards the bottom, and is founded through a
reed. The treble is twTo feet long j the tenor goes a
fifth lower when blown open : it has only eight holes j
but the bafs, which is five feet long, has eleven.
The word is French, haul hois, q. d. “ high wrood j”
and is given to this inftrument becaufe the tone of it is
higher than that of the violin.
HAW, a fort of berry, the fruit of feveral fpecies
of mefpilus, thence denominated hawthorns. See Mes-
filus, Botany Index.
Haw, among farriers, an excrefcence refembling a
griltle, growing under the nether eyelid and eye of a
horfe, wrhich, if not timely removed, deftroys it. See
Farriery.
Haw, a fmall parcel of land fo called in Kent, as
a llemphaw, or Beanhatv, lying near the houfe, and
inclofed for thefe ufes. But Sir Edward Coke, in an
ancient plea concerning Feverlham in Kent, fays hawes
are houfes.
HAw-Finch. See Loxia, Ornithology Index.
HAWGH, or Howgh, fignifies a green plot in a
valley as they ufe it in the north of England.
HAWK. See Falco, Ornithology Index.
HAWKERS, anciently, were fraudulent perfons,
who went from place to place buying and felling brafs,
pewter, and other merchandife, which ought to be
uttered in open market. In this fenfe the word is
mentioned anno 25 Hen. VIII. cap. 6. and 33 ejufdem
cap,.
H A W
[ 296
Hawkers, cap. 4. Tlie appellation hawkers feems to have ar'ifen
Hawke- from t]lfcir uncertain wandering, like thoie who, with
. fwonh- , hawks, feek their game where they can find it.
Xhe term is now ufed as fynonymous with pedlar \
a per Con who travels, about the country felling wares.
Every hawker muft take out an annual licence, lor
which he muft pay 4b and if he travels with a hor e,
afs, or mule, for every one of them Bl. If he trave s
without a licence* or contrary to it, he forfeits for
every offence to the informer, and the poor ot the
parilh where difcovered, 10I. The aiffs relating to
hawkers do not extend to makers . of goods or their
agents : or to thofe who fell goods in fairs or markets j
to the fellers of fifti, fruit, or other viftuals; nor to
the venders of books and newfpapers, 9 and 10 W.
can 2-7. } and 4 Anne, cap. 4. But hawkers {hall
not, by virtue of fuch licence, fell or offer to /ale any
tea or fpirituous liquors, though with a permit, under
the penalty of having the fame feized, and imprilon-
ment and profecution of the offender, 9. Geo. II. cap. 35.
Hawkers who were licenced on June 23. 1785, may
fet up any bufmefs in the place where they are reh-
dent inhabitants, though not brought up thereto, and
may employ therein perfons who have not been ap-
P Hawkers, is a term alfo applied to thofe who go up
and down London ftreets and country towns, felling
newfpapers, pamphlets, &c.
HAWKESWORTH, John, a celebrated irnghlh
writer, was born about the year 1719 ; though his
epitaph, as we find it in the Gentleman’s Magazine for
„ Auguft 1781, makes him to have been born m 1715.
He was brought up to a mechanical profeflion, that ol
a watchmaker as is fuppofed. He was of the prefby-
terian perfuafion, and a member of the celebrated Tom
Bradbury’s meeting, from which he was expelled for
1'ome irregularities. He afterwards devoted himfelf to
literature, and became an author of confiderable emi¬
nence. In the early part of life his circumftancfes
were rather confined. He refided fome time at Bromley
in Kent, where his wife kept a boarding-fchool. He
afterwards became known to a lady who had great
property and intereft in the Eaft India company and
’ through her means was chofen a direftor m that body.
As an author, his Adventurer is his capital work •, the
merits of which, if we miftake not procured him the
decree of LL. D. from Herring archbiftiop of Canter¬
bury. When the defign of compiling a narrative ot
the" difeoveries in the South Seas was on foot, he was
recommended as a proper perfon to be employed on
the occafion : but in truth he was not a proper perion,
nor did the performance anfwer expectation. Works
of tafte and elegance, where imagination and the pai-
fions were to be affeAed, were his province •, not works
of dry, cold, accurate narrative. However, he exe¬
cuted his talk, and is faid to have received for it the
enormous fum of 6000I. He died in 1773 *, fome fay
of high living*, others of chagrin from the ill recep¬
tion of his Narrative : for he was a man of the keeneft
fenfibility, and obnoxious to all the evils of fuch irri¬
table natures. On a handfome. marble, monument
erefted to his memory at Bromley in Kent is an mfenp-
tion, of which the following is a part taken from the
laft number of The Adventurer :
was very
Britain,
diverfion
Pliny *
] H A W
“ The hour is hafting, in which whatever praile Hawking-^
“ or cenfure I have acquired will be remembered
“ with equal indifference. Time, who is impatient
“ to date my laft paper, will ftiortly moulder the
“ hand which is now writing in the duft, and frill
“ the breaft that now throbs at the refleiftion. But
« iet not this be read as fomething that relates
“ only to another •, for a fewr years only can divide
“ the eye that is now reading from the hand that
“ has written.”
HAWKING, the exercife of taking wild-fowl by
means of hawks. The method of reclaiming, man¬
ning, and bringing up a hawk to this exercife, is called
falconry. See Falconry. i ,
There are only two countries in the world where
we have any evidence that the exercife of hawking
anciently in vogue. I heie are, I brace and
In the former, it was purfued merely as the
of a particular diftrift, if we may believe
w'hofe account is rendered obfeure by the * ^00
darknefs of his own ideas of the matter. The pri- '
maeval Britons, with a fondnefs for the exercife of
hunting, had alfo a tafte for that of hawking ; and
every chief among them maintained a confide!able num¬
ber of birds for that fport. It appears alfo from a .
ctiriouS paffage in the poems of Offian f, that the fame t 0 •
diverfiort was fafhlonable at a very early period 111
Scotland. The poet tells us, that a peace was endea¬
voured to be gained by the proffer of 100 managed
fteeds, ICO foreign captives, and “ ICO hawks with
fluttering wings, that fly acrofs the iky.’ lo the
Romans this diverfion was fcarce known m the days
of Vefpafian ; yet it was introduced immediately af¬
terwards. Moft probably they adopted it from the
Britons *, but we certainly know that they greatly im¬
proved it by the introduaion of fpaniels into the
ifland. In this ftate it appears among the Roman
Britons in the fixth century. Gildas, in a remarkable
paffage in his firft epiftle, fpeaks of Maglocunus, on
his relinquiftiing the fphere of ambition, and taking re¬
fuge in a monafteryj and proverbially compares him
to a dove, that haftens away at the noify approach ot
the dogs, and with various turns and windings takes
her flight from the talons of the hawk. _
In after times, hawking was the principal amufement
of the Englifh : a perfon of rank fcarce ftirred out
without his hawk on his hand 5 which, in old paint¬
ings, is the criterion of nobility. Harold, afterwards
king of England, when he Went oil a moft important
embaffy into Normandy, is painted embarking with a
bird on his fift, and a dog under his arm : and m an
ancient pifture of the nuptials of Henry VI. a noble¬
man is reprefented in much the fame manner 5 tor m
thofe days, it was thought Sufficient for a nobleman to
voinde their horn, and to carry their hawk fair, and
leave fudy and learning to the children of mean people.
The former were the accomplifhxnents of the times 5
Spenfer makes his gallant Sir Triftram boaft,
Ne is there hawk which mantleth her on pearch,
Whether high tow’ring,, or accoaftmg low,
But I the meafure of her flight doe fearch,
And all her prey, and all her diet know.
Book vi. canto 2.
In
2
H A W
[ 297 ]
HAW
Hawking. Iii fliort, this diverfion was, among the old Engliih,
the pride of the rich, and the privilege of the poor }
no rank of men feems to have been excluded the
amufement: we learn from the book of St Alban’s
that every degree had its peculiar hawk, from the
emperor down to the holy-water clerh. Vaft was the
expence that fometimes attended this fport. In the
reign of James I. Sir Thomas Monfon is laid to have
given 1000I. for a call of hawks : we are not then to
wonder at the rigour of the law's that tended to pre-
ferve a pleafure that was carried to luch an extrava¬
gant pitch.- In the 34th of Edward III. it w7as made
felony to deal a hawk ; to take its eggs, even in a
perfon’s own ground, was punilhable with imprilon-
ment for a year and a day, bendes a fine at the king’s
pleafure : in Queen Elizabeth’s feign, the imprilonment
was reduced to three months •, but the ollender was to
find lecurity for his good behaviour for feven years, or
lie in prifon till he did. Such was the enviable Itate
of the times of old England •, during the whole day,
the gentry were given to the fowls of the air and the
beails of the field) in the evening, they celebrated their^,
exploits with the molt abandoned and brutilh fottilh-
nefs ; at the fame time, the inferior ranks of people, by
the molt unjult and arbitrary laws, were liable to ca¬
pital punilhments, to fines, and lofs of liberty, for de-
Itroying the molt noxious of the feathered tribe.
According to Olearius, the diverfion of hawking is
more followed by the Tartars and Perfians than ever
it was in any part of Europe. // w’y avoit point de
hutte (fays he) qui n'eujlfon aigle ou fon fancon.
The falcons or hawks that were in ufe in thefe king¬
doms, are now7 found to breed in Wales, and in North
Britain and its ifles. The peregrine falcon inhabits
the rocks of Caernarvonlhire. The fame fpecies, with
the gyrlalcon, the gentil, and the golhawk, are found
in Scotland, and the lanner in Ireland.
We may here take notice, that the Norwegian breed
was, in old times, in high efteem in England : they
Maddox were thought bribes worthy a king. Jeolfrey Fitz-
Antiquit. pierre gave two good Norway hawks to King John, to
Exchequer, 0j-)ta}n for }iis friend the liberty of exporting ico cwt.
’ ^ of cheefe ; and Nicholas the Dane was to give the
king a hawk every time he came into England, that
he might have free liberty to traffic throughout the
king’s dominions.
Blunt's Anc. They v7ere alfo made the tenures that fome of the no-
ability he.3 their eftates by, from the crown. Thus Sir
John Stanley had a grant of the Hie of Man from Hen¬
ry IV. to be held of the king, his heirs, and fucceffbrs,
by homage and the fervice of twm falcons, payable on
the day of his or their coronation. And Philip de
Haftang held his manor of Combertoun in Cambridge-
Ihire, by the fervice of keeping the king’s lalcons.
Hawking, though an exercife now much difufed
among us, in comparifon of what it anciently was,
does yet furnilh a great variety of fignificant, terms,
which ilill obtain in our language, Thus, the parts
of a hawk have their proper names.—The legs, from
the thigh to the foot, are called arms ; the toes, the
pettij Jingles ; the claws, the pounces.—The wings are
called the fails; the long feathers thereof, the beams ^
the two longeft, the principal feathers \ thofe next
thereto, the flags.—The tail is called the train; the
breail-feathers, the mails ; thofe behind the thigh, the
VoL, X. Part I.
pendant feathers.—‘When the feathers are not yet full Hawking,
grown, ffie is faid to be unfummed; when they are v "
complete, ffie is fummed:—The craw, or crop, is called
the gorge:—The pipe next the fundament, where the
feces are drawn down, is called thcpannel:—The filmy
fubftance lying in the pannel, is called the glut:—The
upper and crooked part of the bill, is called the beak ;
the nether part, the clap ; the yellow part between the
beak and the eyes, xhflfear or fere; the two fmall holes
therein, the nares.
As to her furniture :—The leathers, with bells but¬
tled on her legs, are called betvits.—The leathern
thong, whereby the falconer holds the hawk, is called
the leafe or leajh; the little ftraps, by which the leafe
is faftened to the \e.gp,jeffis; and a line or pack-thread
fattened to the leafe, in difeiplining her, a creance.—
A cover for her head, to keep her in the dark, is called
a hood; a large wide hood, open behind, to be wore
at firft, is called a rufier hood: To draw the firings,
that the hood may be in readinefs to be pulled off, is
called unflriking the hood.—The blinding a hawk jufl
taken, by running a thread through her eye-lids, and
thus drawing them over the eyes, to prepare her for
being hooded, is called feeling.—A figure or refemb-
lance of a fowl, made of leather and feathers, is called
a lure.—Her refting-place, when off the falconer’s fitt,
is called the perch.—The place where her meat is laid,
is called the hack ; and that wherein fire is fet, while
her-feathers fall and come again, the mew.
Something given a hawk, to cleanfe and purge her
gorge, is called cafling.—Small feathers given her to
make her cart, are called plumage :—Gravel given her to
help to bring dowm her ttomach, is called tangle: Her
throwing up filth from the gorge after catting, is called
gleaming.—The purging of her greafe, &c. enfeaming.
—A being fluffed is called gurgiting.—The inferting
a feather in her wing, in lieu of a broken one, is called
imping.—The giving her a leg, wing, or pinion of a
fowl to pull at, is called tiring:—The neck of a bird
the hawk preys on, is called the inke : What the
hawk leaves of her prey, is called the pill or pelf.
There are alfo proper terms for her feveral ablions.
—When ffie flutters with her wings, as if ftriving to
get aw’ay, either from perch or fill, fhe is faid to bate.
—When Handing too near they fight with each other,
it is called crabbing :—When the young ones quiver,
and ffiake their wings in obedience to the elder, it is
called cowring:—When fhe wupes her beak after feed¬
ing, ffie is faid to feak :—When fhe lleeps, fhe is faid
to jouk :—From the time of exchanging her coat, till
ffie turn white again, is callec) her interviewing:—•
Treading is called cawking: When fire ttretches one
of her wings after her legs, and then the other, it is
called mantling:—Her dung is called muting : when
ffie mutes a good way from her, fire is faid to flice;
when ffie does it diredtly down, inftead of jerking
backwards, ffie is faid to Jlime; and if it be in drops,
it is called dropping. When fhe as it were fneezes, it
is called failings—When ffie raifes and ffiakes herfelf,
fhe is faid to rowze. When, after mantling, ffie
crofles her wings together over her back, fhe is faid
to warble.
When a hawk feizes, fire is faid to bind:—When
after feizing, ffie pulls off the feathers, ffie is faid to
plume.—When ffie raifes a fowl aloft, and at length
P p v defeends
HAW [ 298 ]
Hawking, defcends with it to the ground, it is called truffing.—-
  v—^ When, being aloft, (he defcends to ilrike her prey, it is
called Jloofnng.—When (lie flies out too far from the
game, ihe is faid to rake.—When, forfaking her proper
game, flie flies at pyes, crows, &c. that chance to crofs
her, it is called check.—When, miffing the fowl, ffie
betakes herfelf to the next check, ffie is laid to Jly on
head. The fowl or game (he flies at is called the
quarry.—The dead body of a fowl killed by the hawk,
is called a pelt.—When ffie flies away with the quarry,
(lie is faid to carry.—When in (looping (lie turns two
or three times on the wing, to recover herfelf ere ffie
feizes, it is called canceliering.—When ffie hits the
prey, yet does not truis it, it is called niff.—The
making a hawk tame and gentle, is called reclaiming.
 The bringing her to endure company, manning her.
—An old (launch hawk, ufed to fly and fet example
to a young one, is called a make-hawk.
The reclaiming, manning, and bringing up a hawk
to the fport, is not eafy to be brought to any precife
let of rules.—It confifts in a number of little practices
and obfervances, calculated to familiarize the falconer
to his bird, to procure the love thereof, &.c. See the
article Falconry.
When your hawk comes readily to the lure, a large
pair of luring-bells are to be put upon her j and the
more giddy-headed and apt to rake out your hawk is,
the larger muft the bells be. Having done this, and
ffie being ffiarp-fet, ride out in a fair morning, into
fome large field unencumbered with trees or wood,
with your hawk on your fid ; then having loofened
her hood, whiftle foftly, to provoke her to fly j unhood
her, and let her fly with her head into the wind } for
by that means (lie will be the better able to get upon
the wing, and wdll naturally climb upwards, flying a
circle. After (lie has flown three or four turns, then
lure her with your voice, calling the lure about your
head, having firft tied a pullet to it \ and if your fal-
co*i come in and approach near you, cad out the lure
into the wind, and if Are doop to it reward her.
You will often find, that when (lie flies from the
fid, (lie will take dand on the ground : this is a fault
which is very common with foar-falcons. To remedy
this, fright her up with your wand j and when you
have forced her to take a turn or twm, take her down
to the lure, and feed her. But if this does not do,
then you mud have in readinefs a duck fealed, fo that
Ihe may fee no way but backwards, and that will
make her mount the higher. Hold this duck in your
hand, by one of the wungs near the body *, then lure
with the voice, to make the falcon turn her head •, and
when ffie is at a reafonable pitch, cad your duck up
jufl under her} when, if ffie drike, doop, or trufs the
duck, permit her to kill it, and reward her by gmng
her a reafonable gorge. After you have praCtifed
this two or three times, your hawk will leave the
Hand, and, delighted to be on the wing, will be very
obedient.
It is not convenient, for the fird or fecond time, to
ffiow your hawk a large fowl; for it frequently happens,
that they efcape from the hawk, and die, not recovering
them, rakes after them : this gives the falconer trouble,
and frequently occalions the lofs of the hawk. But if
ffie happens to purfue a fowl, and being unable to re¬
cover it, gives it over, and comes in again directly,
HAW
then cad out a fealed duck ; and if die doop and trufs Hawking*
it acrofs the wings, permit her to take her pleafure, Hawkings.^
rewarding her alfo with the heart, brains, tongue, and
liver. But if you have not a quick duck, take her down
with a dfy lure, and let her plume a pullet and feed
upon it. By this means a hawk will learn to give over
a fowl that rakes out, and on hearing the falconer’s
lure, will make back again, and know the better how
to hold in the head.
Some hawks have a difdainful coynefs, proceeding
from their being high fed : fuch a hawk mud not be
rewarded though (he ffiould kill : but you may give
her leave to plume a little ; and then taking a (heep’s
heart cold, or the leg of a pullet, when the hawk is
bufy in pluming, let either of them be conveyed into
the body of the fowl, that it may favour of it ; and
when the hawk has eaten the heart, brains, and tongue
of the fowl, take out what is inclofed, call her to your
fid, and feed her with it : afterwards give her fome of
the feathers of the fowl’s neck, to fcour her, and
make her cad.
If your hawk be a dately high-flying one, (Ire
ought not to take more than one flight in a morn¬
ing ; and if ffie be made for the river, let her not
fly more than twice: when ffie is at the highefl,
take her down with your lure; and wffien ffie has
plumed and broken the fowl a little, feed her, by
which means you will keep her a high-flyer, and fond
of the lure.
HAWKINS, Sir John, a very indudrious writer
and valuable magiilrate, wras born at London in. the
year 1719, wffiere his father was employed as a builder
and furveyor. He received an education for the fame
profeflion, but aiterwards a clerk to an attorney. His
employment being chiefly copying, he improved his
mind in knowledge by riling early, and had made very
great advances by the time that his clerkffiip ended.
He was foon after admitted as an attorney, and his
tade for mufic made him become a member of the
Academy of Ancient Mufic. Having attained a de¬
gree of celebrity by publiffiing the words of two fets of
cantatas, the mufic of which was furniflied by Mr
Stanley, he wTas introduced to fome valuable acquain¬
tances who aflided him in carrying forward his profef-
fional views. In 1749 kc was introduced as a member
of a tavern club which had been indituted by Dr Samuel
Johnfon, and the connedlion thus formed between that
great man and him wTas only diffolved by death. In
*753 ke married a daughter of Peter Storer, Elq. by
wffiich he obtained a very handfome fortune ; and this
being augmented by the death of Mr Hawkins s brother,
he laid alide the profeffion of an attorney, and lived as
an independent gentleman. He afterw’ards became a ju.- ^
tice of the peace for the county of Middlelex, and was
both an adlive and ufeful magidrate. Being extremely
fond of angling, he became the editor of Watton’s
Complete Angler, which he enriched with notes ot his
own and a life of the author, a vvork which has been
frequently republiflied fince.
His “ Obfervations on the Highways” brought him
a liberal (hare of public approbation, and it has ferved
as a model for all the adls which have fince been paffed.
In 1765 he was chofen chairman to the quarter feflions,
and in the year 1772 he obtained the honour of knight¬
hood. Some of the notes to the edition of Shakefpeare by
Johafoa
HAW [ 299 ] RAY
Hawfe. Johnfon and Steevens were furnxflied by Sir John, who
" 1 for many years was engaged in writing the hiftory of
mufic, which he finifhed in 1776, in five vols* 410, de¬
dicated to his majefty. It abounds with curious and
original information, and may be confidered as a repo-
fitory of many ufeful things not elfewhere to be met
with. His valuable library was deftroyed by fire, which
interrupted his literary labours, but made no change on
the tranquillity of his mind. In the year 1787 his life
and works of Dr Samuel Johnfon appeared in eleven
vols. 8vo. This life is a garrulous mifcellany of anec¬
dote, in which the author frequently wanders from his
fubjeflj yet it contains many fafls refpecHng that extra¬
ordinary man which his enthufiaftic admirers could with
had been concealed. After this he prepared for the
termination of- his own life, which he perceived ap¬
proaching, for he died in the month of May 1789,
about 70 years of age.
HAWSE, or Hause, is generally underftood to
imply the fituation of the cables before the (hip’s Item,
when (he is moored with two anchors out from for¬
ward, viz. one on the ftarboard, and the other on the
larboard bow. Hence it is ufual to fay, Jhe has a
clear hawfe, or a foul hawfe. It alfo denotes any
fmall diftance a head of a (hip, or between her head
and the anchors employed to ride her, as, “ He has
anchored in our hawfe, The brig fell athwart our
hawfe,” &c.
A (hip is faid to ride with a clear hawfe, when the
cables are direfted to their anchors, without lying
athwart the ftem j or eroding, or being twilled round
each other by the (hip’s winding about, according to
the change of the wind, tide, or current.
A foul hawfe, on the contrary, implies that the ca¬
bles lie acrofs the (lem, or bear upon each other, fo as
to be rubbed and chafed by the motion of the veffel.
The hawfe accordingly is foul, by having either a crofs,
an elbow, or a round turn. If the larboard cable,
lying acrofs the (lem, points out on the (larboard fide,
while the (larboard cable at the fame time grows out
on the larboard fide, there is a crofs in the hawfe. If,
after this, the (hip, without returning to her former
polition, continues to wind about the fame way, fo as
to perform an entire revolution, each of the cables will
be twifted round the other, and then directed out from
the oppofite bow, forming what is called a round turn.
An elbow is produced when the (hip (lops in the mid¬
dle of that revolution, after having had a crofs: or, in
other w ords, if (he rides with her head northward with
a clear hawfe, and afterwards turns quite round fo as
to direct her head northward again, (he will have an
elbow.
HAtv$E~Holes, certain cylindrical holes cut through
the bows of a (hip on each fide of the (lem, through
which the cables pafs in order to be drawn into or let
out of the veffel as occafion requires. They are for¬
tified on each fide by the
HArrsE-Pieces, a name given to the foremofl timbers
or a drip, wdiofe lower ends reft on the knuckle-tim¬
ber, or the foremoft of the cant-timbers. They are
generally parallel to the ftem, having their upper ends
fometimes terminated by the lower part of the beak-
head ; and otherwife by the top of the bow, particu¬
larly in fmall (hips and merchantmen.
HAWSER, a large rope which holds the middle Hawfer
degree between the cable and tow-line, in any (hip H
whereto it belongs, being a fize fmaller than the for- a)'WiM'
mer, and as much larger than the latter.
HAY, any kind of grafs cut and dried for the food
of cattle. See Agriculture Index.
Hay, a town of Brecknocklhire, in Wales, feated
near the confluence of the rivers Wye and Dulas. It
wTas a town of good note in the time of the Romans;
it being then fortified with a caftle and a wall, wliich
were ruined in the rebellion of Owen Glendowcr. It
is at prefent a pretty good town; and the market is
large for corn, cattle, and provilions. W. Long, o,
56. N. Lat. 52. 10.
HAYES, Charles, Efq. a very lingular perfon,
whofe great erudition was fo concealed by his modefty,
that his name is known to very few, though his publica¬
tions are many. He was born in 1678, and became
diftinguifiied in 1704 by A Treatife of Fluxions, fo¬
lio $ the only work to wrhich he ever fet his name. In
1710, came out a fmall 410 pamphlet of 19 pages, inti-
tled, A new and eafy Method to find out the Longi¬
tude, from obferving the Altitudes of the Celetlial Bo¬
dies : and in 1723, The Moon, a Philofophical Dia¬
logue -, tending to (how, that the moon is not an
opaque body, but has original light of her own. Du¬
ring a long courfe of years, the management of the
late Royal African Company lay in a manner wdiolly
upon Mr Hayes, he being annually either fub-governor
or deputy-governor j notvvithftanding which, he conti¬
nued his purfuit after general knowledge. To a (kill
in the Greek and Latin as wrell as modern languages,
he added the knowledge of the Hebrew : and publiihed
feveral pieces relating to the tranflation and chrono¬
logy of the Scriptures. The African Company being
diffolved in 1752, he retired to Down in Kent, where
he gave himfelf up to ftudy. May 1753, he began to
compile in Latin his Chronographia fjiatica, et JEgr/p~
tiaca, which he lived to finilh but not to publhh 5
which, hovrever, was publifhed afterwards. Auguft
1758, he left his houfe in Kent, and took chambers in
Gray’s-Inn, wdiere he died, Dec. 18. 1760, in his 8 2d
year. The title of his pofthumous works runs thus:
Chronographice jJfaticce et Kgyptiacce Specimen ; in quo,
I. Origo Chronologic? lxz Interpretum invefigatur. I.Con-
fpetius totius operis exhibetur, 8vo.
HAYNAULT. See Hainault.
HAYS, particular nets for taking rabbits, hares,
&c. common to be bought in (hops that (ell nets, and
they may be had larger or (liorter as you think fit ;
from 15 to 20 fathoms is a good length, and for depth
a fathom.
As rabbits often draggle abroad about mid-day for
fre(h grafs, wdiere you perceive a number gone forth to
any remote brakes or thickets, pitch two or three of
thefc hays about their burrowrs j lie clofe there : but in
cafe you have not nets enough to inclofe all their bur¬
rows, fome may be (lopped up with ftones, &c. Then
fet out with the coney-dog to hunt up and down at a
good diftance, and draw on by degrees to the man who
is with you, and lies clofe by the hay, who may take
them as they bolt into it.
HAYWARD, the perfon who keeps the common
herd or cattle of a town. He is appointed by the lord’s
P p 2 courts
\ ,
H A Z [ 300 ] ' H E A
courtand Ins office is to fee that the cattle neither
break ntir crop the hedges of inclofed grounds.
HAZAEL, an officer belonging to Benhadad king
of Syria, cauled that prince to be put to death, and
reigned in his (lead. He defeated Joram, Jehu, and
Jehoahaz, kings of Ifrael ; and, after his death, was
fucceeded by Benhadad his fon, 852 B. C.
HAZARD, or Chance, in gaming. See Gam¬
ing.
Hazard, a game on dice, without tables, is very
properly fo called ; fmee it fpeedily makes a man, or
undoes him.
It is played with only two dice 5 and as many may
play at it as can Hand round the largeft round table.
Two things are chiefly to be obferved, viz. main and
chance ; the latter belonging to the caller, and the
former, or main, to the other gamellers. There can
be no main thrown above nine, nor under five •, fo that
five, fix, (even, eight, and nine, are the only mains
flung at hazard. Chances and nicks are from four to
ten : thus four is a chance to nine, five to eight, fix to
(even, feven to fix, eight to five ; and nine and ten a
chance to five, fix, feven, and eight : in (hurt, four,
five, fix, feven, eight, nine, and ten, are chances to
any main, if any of thefe nick it not. Now nicks
are either when the chance is the fame with the main,
as five and five, or the like •, or fix and twelve, feven
and eleven, eight and twelve. Here obferve, that
twelve is out to nine, feven, and five ; eleven is out to
nine, eight, fix, and five 5 and ames-ace and duce-ace,
are out to all mains whatever.
HAZI^p, or Hazel. See Corylus, Botany
Index.
The kernels of thte fruit have a mild, farinaceous,
oily tafte, agreeable to moft palates. Squirrels and
mice are fond of them, as well as feme birds, fuch as
iays, nutcrackers, &c. A kind of chocolate has been
prepared from them, and there are inftances of their
having been formed into bread. The oil exprefied
from them is little inferior to the oil of almonds ; and
is ufed by painters and by chemifts for receiving and
retaining odours. The charcoal made of the wrood is
ufed by painters in drawing.—Some of the Highland¬
ers, where fuperllition has not totally fubfided, look up¬
on the tree itfelf as unlucky 5 but are glad to get two
of the nuts naturally conjoined, wlfich is a good omen.
Thefe they call eno-chomhlaich, and carry them as an
efficacious charm againft witchcraft.
Evelyn tells us," that no plant is more proper for
thickening of copfes than the hazle, for which he di-
refts the following expeditious method. Take a pole
of hazle (afh or poplar may alfo be ufed) of 20 or 30
feet in length, the head a little lopped into the ground',
giving it a chop near the ground to make it fuccumb 5
this faftened to the earth with a hook or two, and co¬
vered with fome freflr mould at a competent depth (as
gardeners lay their carnations), will produce a great
number of fuckers, and thicken and furnifh a copie
fpeedily.
Hazle Earth, or Hadley Earth, a kind of red loam,
which is faid to be an excellent mixture with other forts-
of earth •, uniting what is too loofe, cooling what is too
hot, and gently retaining the moifture.
Witch-HAZLE. See Hamamelis.
HEAD, the uppermoft or foremoft part of the body Bead. ^
of an animal. See Anatomy Index. * ^
Head-HcIi, a moft troublefome fenfation in the head,
produced by various caufes, and attended with different
fymptoms, according to its different degrees and the
place where it is feated. See Medicine Index.
Dragon's Head, in AJironomy, is the afeending node
of the moon or other planet.
Head of a Ship, an ornamental figure ereffed on the
continuation of a fhip’s ftem, as being expreffive of her
name, and emblematical of war, navigation, commerce,
&c.
Head, is alfo ufed in a more enlarged fenfe to fig-
nify the whole front or fore part of the ffiip, including
the bows on each fide : the head therefore opens the
column of water through which the ffiip paffes when
advancing. Hence we fay, head-fails, head-fea, head¬
way, &c.
Thus, fig. 1. Plate CCL. reprefents one fide of the
fore part or head of a 74 gun Ihip, together with part
of the bow, keel, and gunnel. The names of the fe-
veral pieces, exhibited therein, are as follow :
A A Fore part of the keel, with a a the two falfe
keels beneath it.
AC the ftem.
a a The cat-head.
b b The fupporter of the cat-head.
cc The knight-head, or bollard-timber, of which
there is one on each fide, to fecure the inner end of the
bowfprit.
dd The haufe-holes.
ee The naval-hoods, i. e. thick pieces of plank laid
upon the bow to ftrengthen the edges of the haufe-
holes.
f The davit-chock, by which the davit is firmly
wedged while employed to filh the anchor.
g The bulk-head, whJ^h terminates the forecaftle on
the fore fide, being called the beak-head, bulk-head, by
flripwrights.
H The gun-ports of the lower deck.
h The gun-ports of the upper deck and forecaftle.
I, I, The channel, with their dead-eyes and chain-
plates.
i The gripe, or fore foot, which unites the keel with
the ftem, forming a part of either.
kk Thefe dotted lines reprefent the thicknefs and
defeent of the different decks from the fore part of the
ffiip towards the middle. The loweft of the three dot¬
ted lines / expreffes the convexity of the beams, or the
difference between the height of the deck in the middle
of its breadth and at the {hip’s fide. This is alfo exhi¬
bited more clearly in the MiDSHiP-Frame ; where the
red cifrve of the beam is delineated. N. B. Ihefe lines
muft be always parallel to the lines which terminate the
gun-ports above and below.
m m The timbers of the head, and part of the bow-
fprit.
X The rails of the head which lie acrofs the tim¬
bers.
QZ Fore part of the main-wale.
RX Fore part of the channel-wale.
UC The load water-line.
Fig. 2. reprefents a head-view of a ffiip, with the
projedtion
1
late C CL.
H E A To
projection of her principal timbers and all her planks
laid on one fide. . .
It is evident that the fore part of a fhip is c.ided its
head, fr»m the affinity of motion and poiition it^ bears
to a fiffi, and in general to the horizontal fituation of
all animals whilft fwimming.
Bij the Head ; tlie Hate of a Ihip, which is laden
deeper at the fore end than the after en^.
Head-Botow, or HsAD-Borough, fignifies the perton
who' is the chief of the frank pledge, and had anciently
the principal diredlion of thofe within his own pledge.
He was alfo called burrow-head, bur [boulder, now borf-
holder, third-borow, tything-man. chief pledge, and bo-
row-elder, according to the diverfity of fpeech in dif¬
ferent places. This office is now ufually called a hgh-
conjlable. The head-borow was the chief of ten pledges:
the other nine were called hand-lorows, ox piegu ma-
nuales, &c.
HEAB-Mou/d-fhot, a difeafe in children, wherein the
futures of the Ikull, generally the coronal, ride; that
is, have their edges (hot one over another and are fo
clofe locked together, as to comprefs the internal parts,
the meninges, or even the brain itfelf. (he dileafe
ufually occafions convulfions, and is mppofed to admit
of no cure from medicine, unlefs room could be given
by manual operation or a divulfion of the iutuies.
The head-mould-fhot is the diforder oppodte to the
horfe-fhoe head.
Head Pence, an exaftion of a certain fum formerly
collefted by the ffieriff of Northumberland from the in¬
habitants of that county, without any account to be
made to the king. This was aboliihed by the (latute
23 Henry VI. cap. 7. .
He ad-Tin, in Metallurgy, is a preparation of tm-ore
toward the fitting it for working into metal. When
the ore has been pounded and twice waffied, that part
of it which lies uppermoft, or makes the furface of the
mafs in the tub, is called the head-tin; this is feparated
from the reft, and after a little more walking becomes
fit for the blowing-houfe.
H&AD-FaJl, a rope employed to faften a (hip to a
wharf, chain, or buoy, or to lome other veffel along-
fide.
Head-Land, a name frequently given to a cape or
promontory. _ _
HEAD-Drefs, amongft the Jewiffi, Grecian, and Ro¬
man ladies, as among ourfelves, wras various, according
to the different periods of time, and the fluiduation of
falhion. In general, it principally confided of their
hair differently tricked out. It was ufually divided
before with a bodkin, into two equal parts; fome-
times it wras covered with a net, or put into a kind of
purfe, or tied behind in the lorm of a knot, or bound
back and plaited with ribbands. It was waffied with
great care ; effence and perfumes wTere applied to it,
and gold duft fometimes made ufe of as powder. Pearls
and jewels made a part of their ornaments 5 and pen¬
dants worn in the ear. "I o cover the defedl of hau,
perukes were made ufe of by the gentlemen of Rome.
And we read that Otho had a covering of falfe hair,
becaufe he had not much of his own. See Hair
and Jewels. _ ^
Both Grecian and Roman ladies w7ore tetes. But
whether they ever built up their heads fo high as the
01 ] H E A
Englifh, or our continental neighbours, will admit of Headmoft
a difpute. '. r n ■ m* Health.
Headmost, the fituation of any (hip or. imps
which are the moft advanced in a fleet, or line of
battle.
HEAD-Rope, that part of the bolt-rope which termi¬
nates any of the principal fails on the upper edge,
wffiich is accordingly fewed thereto. See the article
Bolt-rope. ,
Head-SoUs, a general name for all thofe fails wmch
are extended on the foremalt and bowfprit, and em¬
ployed to command the fore part of the Ihip : Joch aie
the forefail, fore-top-lail, fore-top-gallant-fail, jib, rore-
ftay-fail, and the fpritfail, with its topfail. This term
is ufed in oppolition to after-fails, viz. all thofe which
are extended on the mizen-maft, and on the ftays be¬
tween the mizen and main-mafts.
HEAD-to-wind; the fituation of a (hip or boat, when
her head is turned to windward. .
Head-Wov, the motion of advancing at fea. It is
generally ufed when a (hip firft begins to advance or
when it is doubtful whether (he is in a ftate of reft or
motion. It is in both fenfes oppofed to retreating, or
moving with the ftern foremoft. See the article Stern¬
way. v .
HE ALFANG, Healsfang, or Halsfang, m our
ancient cuftoms, fignifies colliftrigium or the pumfhment
of the pillory. The word is compounded oi. two Saxon
words 5 halp, neck, and pangen, “ to contain Poena
fcilicet qua alicuicollumjlringatur. The healfang, how¬
ever, cannot fignify a pillory in the charter ot Canutus,
De Foreftis, cap. xiv. Et pro culpa folvat regi duos Jo*
lidos, quos Ham vacant halfehang.
Healfang is alfo taken for a pecuniary pumfliment
or mul£t to commute for llanding in the pi bury } and
is to be paid either to the king or the chief lord. -Jui
fafam tejlimonium dedit, reddat regi vel terra; domino
healfang.
HEALING, in its general fenfe, includes the whole
procefs of curing or removing a difoider, and recover¬
ing health. In this fenfe medicine is defined the art or
healing. In its more reftrained fenfe, as tiled in fur-
gery, &c. healing denotes the uniting or confolidating
the lips of a wound or ulcer. I he medicines proper
for this intention are called incarnatives, agglutinatives,
vulneraries, Stc. .
Healing, in ArchiteHure, denotes tne covering the
roof of a building. The healing is various^ as of
lead, tiles, (late, Horffiam (lone, (hingles, or reeds and
HEALTH, is a right difpofition of the body, and
of all its parts ", confiding in a due temperature, a right
conformation, juft connexion, and ready and fiee exer»
cife of the feveral vital fun&ions.
Health admits of latitude, as not being the fame m
all fubje&s, who may yet be faid to enjoy health.
That part of medicine which (hows the means of
preferving health, is termed hygeine. See Medicine
1.Tl doX %
The Greeks and Romans deified Health, reprefent-
ing it under the figure of a woman, whom they fuppo-
fed to be the daughter of iEfculapius. We find the
name of the goddefs Sa/us, or Health, mi many medals
of the Roman emperors, with different infcnptxims ;
H E A [ 302 ] H E A
as, SAEUS PUBLICA, SALUS REIPUBLICiE, SALES Au-
GUSTI, &C.
Methods of preferving the Health of Mariners. See
Mariner.
HEAM, in hearts, denotes the fame with after birth
in wTomen. Thyme, pennyroyal, winter-favory, and
common hore-hound, boiled in white wine, and given
to a mare, are efteemed good to expel the beam. Dit¬
tany, applied in a peffary, expels the beam, as well as
the dead foal j fo alfo do fennel, hops, favin, angeli¬
ca, &e.
HEARING, the aft or faculty of perceiving founds.
Hearing is reckoned among our external fenfes. Its
organ is the ear, and particularly the auditory nerve
diffufed through the fame $ and its objefr, certain mo¬
tions or vibrations of the air. Hence hearing may be
more fcientifically defined a fenfation, whereby, from
a due motion impreffed on the fibrillae of the auditory
nerve, and communicated thence to the fenfory, the
mind perceives and gets the idea of founds. See Ana¬
tomy, N° 141.
HEARSE, among hunters, a hind in the fecond
year of her age. See Hunting.
Hearse is the name of a well-known carriage, ufed
for conveying the dead to the grave. The word is alfo
ufed by Shakefpeare in his Henry VI. for a monument
ere6led over a grave.
HEART, in Anatomy, a mufculous part of the ani¬
mal body, lituated in the thorax, on the anterior part
of the diaphragm, between the two laminae of the me-
diaftinum, wherein the veins all terminate, and from
which all the arteries arife 5 and which, by its alternate
contraction and dilatation, is the chief inftrument of
the circulation of the blood, and the principle of life.
See Anatomy, N° 121, 122.
Several ingenious perfons have from time to time at¬
tempted to make eftimates of the force of the blood in
the heart and arteries $ who have as widely differed
from each other, as they have from the truth, for want
of a fufficient number of data to argue upon. This fet
the truly ingenious Dr Hales upon making proper ex¬
periments, in order to afcertain the force of the blood
in the veins and arteries of feveral animals.
If, according to Dr Keil’s eftimate, the left ventri¬
cle of a man’s heart throws out in each fyftole an ounce
or 1.638 cubic inches of blood, and the area of the ori¬
fice of the aorta be = 0.418*7, then dividing the former
by this, the quotient 3.9 is the length of the cylinder
of blood which is formed in parting through the aorta
in each fyftole of the ventricle \ and in the 75 pulfes of
a minute, a cylinder of 292.5 inches in length will
pafs : this is at the rate of 1462 feet in an hour. But
the fyftole of the heart being performed in one-third of
this time, the velocity of the blood in that inftant will
be thrice as much, viz. at the rate of 4386 feet in an
hour, or 73 feet in a minute. And if the ventricle
throws out one ounce in a pulfe, then in the 75 pulfes
of a minute, the quantity of blood will be equal to
4.41b. 11 oz. and, in 34 minutes, a quantity equal to
a middle-fized man, viz. 1 c81b. will pafs through the
heart. But if, with Dr Harvey and Dr Lower, we
fuppofe two ounces of blood, that is, 3.276 cubic inches,
to be thrown out at each fyftole of the ventricle, then
the velocity of the blood in entering the orifice of the
aorta will be double the former, viz. at the rate of 146
feet in a minute, and a quantity of blood equal to the
weight of a man’s body will pafs in half the time, viz.
17 minutes.
If we fuppofe, what is probable, that the blood will
rife 7~f4- feet high in a tube fixed to the carotid artery
of a man, and that the inward area of the left ventricle
of his heart is equal to 15 fquare inches, thefe multi¬
plied- into 7-f-T feet, give 1350 cubic inches of blood,
w hich preffes on that ventricle, when it firft begins to
contra6f, a weight equal to 15.5 pounds.
What the doftor thus calculates, from fuppofition,
with regard to mankind, he aftually experimented upon
horfes, dogs, fallow-does, &c. by fixing tubes in ori¬
fices opened in their veins and arteries *, by obferving
the- feveral heights to which the blood rofe in thefe
tubes, as they lay on the ground ; and by meafuring
the capacities of the ventricles of the heart and ori¬
fices of the arteries. And, that the reader may the
more readily compare the faid eftimates together, he
has given a table of them, ranged in the following
order.
Heart.,
TABLE’
l
H E A [ 3°3 3 H E A
Heart
HtART-Burn, a difeafe ufually called cardialgia by
phyficians. In furfeits, or upon fwallowing without
due maftication •, when meats are eaten tough and fat, or
with farinaceous-fubflances unfermented •, or when by
any accident the faliva is vitiated, too fcanty, or not
intimately mixed with the food, the fermentation be¬
comes tumultuous, the ftomach fwells with air, and
this extraordinary commotion being attended with an
uriufual heat, brings on the unealinefs called tbe heart¬
burn ; which is remedied by whatever promotes a
greater fecrethm of faliva, or helps to mix it with our
aliment. The teflaceous powders, as oyfter-fliells,
crabs-eyes,. chalk, &c. are the ufual rttnedies for the
heart-burn.
HEARTH, that part of the pavement of a room
on which the fire is immediately placed.
Hearta-Money. See CtUMNEr-Money.
HEAT, in Physiology, has a double meaning •, be¬
ing put either for that peculiar fenfation which is felt
on the approach of burning bodies, or for the caufe of
that fenfation ; in which laft fenfe it is fynonymous with
Fire. This mode of fpeaking, however, is inaccurate,
and, by confounding the effeft with the caufe, fome-
times produces obfcurity : it were to be wifhed therefore
that the word heat was ufed only to denote the effect;
and Jire, or fome other term, to denote the caufe of
that effeft.
The difputes which formerly were fo much agitated
in the learned world concerning tbe nature of heat,
viz. whether it coniifted merely in the motion of the
terreitrial particles of bodies, or in that of a fubtile
fluid, are now moftly ceafed, and it is almoft univer-
fally believed to be the effedt of a fluid. See Chemi¬
stry Index.
Heat of Burning Bodies. 1 See Combustion, Che-
Heat of Chemical Mixtures, j mistry Index.
Method of Meafuring Heat. See Thermometer
and Pyrometer, Chemistry Index.
Degrees of Heat which Animals are capable of bear¬
ing.—The ancients were of opinion, that all countries
lying within the tropics were uninhabitable by reafon
of their heat : but time has difeovered their millake ;
and it is now found, that no part of the world is too
hot for mankind to live in. The learned Profelfor
Boerhaave, in his cbemiftry, relates certain experi¬
ments made with great accuracy by the celebrated
Fahrenheit, and others, at his defire, on this fubjedf,
in a fugar-baker’s office ; where the heat, at the time
of making the experiments, was up to 146 degrees
of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. A fparrow, fubjedfed-
to air thus heated, died, after breathing very labori-
oufly, in lefs than feven minutes. A cat refilled this
great heat fomewhat above a quarter of an hour \ and
a dog about 28 minutes, difeharging before his death
a confiderable quantity of a ruddy coloured foam, and
exhaled a flench fo peculiarly offenfive, as to throw
one of the affiflants into a fainting fit. This diflblu-
tion of the humours, or great change from a natural
I A ate,.
H E A s [ 304 ] H E A
ftate, the profeflbr attributes not to the heat of the
ftove alone, which would not have produced any fuch
cffetd on the flelh of a dead animal ; but likewife to
the vital motion, by which a Hill greater degree of
heat, he fuppofes, was produced in the fluids circula¬
ting through the lungs, in confequence of which the
oils, falts, and fpirits of the animal became fo highly
exalted.
Meffieurs Du Hamel and Tillet having been fent
into the province of Augomois, in the years 1760 and
1761, with a view of endeavouring to deftroy an in-
fed which confumed the grain of that province, ef¬
fected the fame in the manner related in the Memoirs
for 1761, by expoflng the affeCted corn, with the
infeds included in it, in an oven, where the heat tvas
fufficient to kill them without injuring the grain.
This operation was performed at Rochefoiicault, in a
large public oven, where, for economical views, their
fir ft ftep wras to affure themfclves of the heat remaining
in it on the day after bread had been baked in it.
This they did, by conveying in a thermometer on the
end of a (hovel, which, on its being withdrawn, indi¬
cated a degree of heat conliderably above that of boil¬
ing water; but M. Tillet, convinced that the thermo¬
meter had fallen feveral degrees in drawing to the
mouth of the oven, and appearing under fome embar-
raffment on that head, a girl, one of the attendants
on the oven, offered to enter, and mark with a pencil
the height at which the thermometer flood within the
oven. " The girl fmiled on M. Tillet’s appearing to
hefitate at this ftrange propofition and entering the
oven, with a pencil given her for that purpofe, mark¬
ed the thermometer, after flaying two or three minutes,
Handing at 100 degrees of Reaumur’s fcale, or, to
make ufe of a fcale better known in this country, at
near 260 degrees of Fahrenheit’s. M. Tillet began
to exprefs an anxiety for the welfare of his female
afliftant, and to prefs her return. This female fala-
mander, however, affuring him that (lie felt no incon¬
venience from her fituation, remained there 10 minutes
longer ; that is, near the time when Boerhaave’s cat
parted with her nine lives under a much lefs degree of
heat ", when the thermometer Handing at 288 degrees,
or 76 degrees above that of boiling water, (he came
out of the oven, her complexion indeed confiderably
heightened, but her refpiration by no means quick or
laborious. After M. Tillet’s return to Paris, thefe
experiments were repeated by Monf. Marantin, com-
miffaire de guerre, at Rochefoucault, an intelligent and
accurate obferver, on a fecond girl belonging to the
oven, who remained in it, without much inconvenience,
under the fame degree of heat, as long as her predecef-
for ", and even breathed an air heated to about 325 de¬
grees for the fpace of five minutes.
M. Tillet endeavoured to clear up the very apparent
contrariety between thefe experiments and thofe made
under the direftion of Boerhaave, by fubje&ing vari¬
ous animals, under different circumftances, to great
degrees of heat. From his experiments, in fome of
which the animals wTere fwaddled with clothes, and
were thereby enabled to refill for a much longer time
the effefls of the extraordinary heat, he infers, that Heat,
the heat of the air received into the lungs was not, as
was funpofed by Boerhaa-*;, the only or principal
caufe of the anxiety, laborious breathing, and death,
o( the animals on whom his experiments were made j
but that the hot air, which had free and immediate
aceeis to every part of the furface of their bodies, pe¬
netrated the lubftance on all fides, and brought on a
fever, from whence proceeded all the fymptoms : on
the contrary, the girls at Rochefoucault, having their
bodies in great meafure protefted from this adtion by
their clothes, were enabled to breathe the air, thus
violently heated, for a long time without great incon¬
venience. In fact, we (hould think too, that the bulk
of their bodies, though not thought of much confe¬
quence by M. Tillet, appears to have contributed not
a little to their fecurity. In common refpiration, the
blood, in its paffage through the lungs, is cooled by
being brought into contafl with the external inlpired
air. In the prefent experiments, on the Contrary, the
veficles and veffels of the lungs receiving at each in-
fpiration an air heated to 3OO degrees, muit have been
continually cooled and refreihed, as well as the fubcu-
taneous veffels, by the fucceffive arrival of the whole
mafs of blood contained in the interior parts of the
body, whole heat might be fuppofed at the beginning
of the experiment not to exceed 100 degrees. Not to
mention, that M. Tillet’s two girls may not poflibly
have been fubjedled to fo great a degrefe of heat as that
indicated by the thermometer ; which appears to us to
have always remained on the (hovel, in contadl with
the earth.
Thefe experiments foon excited other philofophers to
make fimilar ones, of which fome very remarkable ones
are thofe of Dr Dobfon at Liverpool, who gives the fol¬
lowing account of them in the Philofophical Tranfec-
tions, vol. Ixv.
“ I. The fweating-room of our public hofpital at Li¬
verpool, which is nearly a cube of nine feet, lighted
from the top, was heated till the quickfilver flood at
224° on Fahrenheit’s fcale, nor wrould the tube of
the thermometer indeed admit the heat to be raifed
higher. The thermometer wTas fufpended by a firing
fixed to the wmoden frame of the (ky-light, and hung
down about the centre of the room. Myfelf and
feveral others were at this time inclofed in the (love,
without experiencing any oppreflive or painful fenfa-
tion of heat proportioned to the degree pointed out by
the thermometer. Every metallic fubftance about us
foon became very hot.
“ II. My friend Mr Park, an ingenious furgeon
of this place, w’ent into the (love heateu to 202*. Af¬
ter ten minutes, I found the pulfe quicked to 120.
And to determine the increafe of the animal heat, ano¬
ther thermometer was handed to him, in which the
quickfilver already flood at 98° j but it rofe only to
99 L whether the bulb of the thermometer was in¬
clofed in the palms of the hands or received in the
mouth (a). The natural (late of this gentlemaiv’s pulfe
is about 65.
“ III. Another gentlman went through the fame
experiment
(a) The fcale of the thermometer, which was fufpended by the firing about the middle of the room, was of
2 metal $
H E A [ .305 ] H E A
Heat, experiment in the fame circumftattceS, and with the
'~'v fame eifetis.
“ IV. One of the porters to the hofpital, a healthy-
young man, and the pulfe 7 9, wras inclofed in the
Itove when the quickfilver flood at 2io* j and he re¬
mained there, with little inconvenience, for 20 minutes.
The pulfe, now 164, and the animal heat, determined
by another thermometer as in the former experiments,
was 1 o 1
V. A young gentleman of a delicate and irritable
habit, whofe natural pulfe is about 80, remained in
the itove ten minutes when heated to 2240. The
pulfe rofe to 145, and the animal heat to 102°. This
gentleman, who had been frequently in the flove du¬
ring the courfe of the day, found himfelf feeble, and
difpofed to break out into fweats for 24 hours after the
experiment.
“ VI. Two fmall tin veffels, containing each the
white of an egg, were put into the ftove heated to
2240. One of them wras placed on a wooden feat
near the wall, and the other fufpended by a firing
about the middle of the flove. After ten minutes, they
began to coagulate 5 but the coagulation was fenfibly
quicker and firmer in that which was fufpended, than
in that which was placed on the wooden feat. The pro-
grefs of the coagulation was as follows : it was firfl for¬
med on the fides, and gradually extended itfelf $ the
whole of the bottom was next coagulated ; and lafl of
all, the middle part of the top.
“ VII. Part of the (hell of an egg wras peeled away,
leaving only the film which furrounds the white ; and
part of the white being drawn out, the film funk fo
as to form a little cup. This cup was filled with
fome of the albumen ovi, which was confequently de¬
tached as much as poflible from every thing but the
cup. The lower part of the egg flood upon fome
light tow in a common gallipot, and was placed on
the wooden feat in the flove. The quickfilver in the
thermometer flill continued at 2240. After remaining
in the flove for an hour, the lower part of the egg
which was covered with the fhell was firmly coagula¬
ted, but that which was in the little cup was fluid and
tranfparent. At the end of another hour it was flill
fluid, except on the edges where it was thinnefl j and
here it was Hill tranfparent 5 a fufficient proof that it
was dried, not coagulated.
“ VIII. A piece of bees-wax, placed in the fame
fituation with the albumen ovi of the preceding expe¬
riment, and expofed to the fame degree of heat in
the flove, began to melt in five minutes : another piece
fufpended by a firing, and a third piece put into the
tin velfel and fufpended, began likewife to liquefy in
five minutes.
Even thefe experiments, though more accurate
than the former, do not fhow the utmofl degrees
of heat which the human body is capable of endu-
. ring. Some others, flill more remarkable (as in them
the body was expofed to the heat without clothes),
Vol. X. Part I.
by Drs Fordyce and Blagden, are alfo recorded in the Heat.
Philofophical Tranfaclions. They were made in rooms
heated by flues in the floor, and by pouring upon it
boiling water. There was no chimney in them, or
any vent for the air, excepting through crevices at the
door. In the firft room were placed three thermome¬
ters, one in the hottefl part of it, another in the cool-
eft part, and a third on the table, to be ufed occafion-
ally in the courfe of the experiment. Of thefe expe¬
riments, the two following may be taken as a fpeci-
men?
“ About three hours after breakfaft, Dr Fordyce
having taken off all his clothes, except his fhirt, and
being furnilhed wdth wooden fhoes tied on with lift,
went into one of the rooms, where he flaid five mi¬
nutes in a heat of 90°, and begun to fweat gently.
He then entered another room, and flood in a part of
it heated to no*. In about half a minute his fhirt
became fo wet that he was obliged to throw it afide,
and then the water poured down in ftreams over his
whole body. Having remained in this heat for ten
minutes, he removed to a part of the room heated to
I 20® ; and after flaying there 20 minutes, found that
the thermometer placed under his tongue, and held in
his hand, flood juft at ioo*, and that his urine was
of the fame temperature. His pulfe had gradually
rifen to 145 pulfations in a minute. The external cir¬
culation \Yas greatly increafed, the veins had become
very large, and an univerfal rednefs had diffufed itfelf
all over the body, attended with a ftrong feeling of
heat j his refpiration, however, w^as little affefled. He
concluded this experiment by plunging in wrater heat¬
ed to ioo° 5 and after being wiped dry, was carried
home in a chair 5 but the circulation did not fubfide
for two hours. ,
“ Dr Blagden took off his coat, waiftcoat, and
fliirt, and went into one of the rooms, as foon as the
thermometer had indicated a degree of heat above
that of boiling water. The firft impreffion of this
hot air upon his body was exceedingly difagreeable, but
in a few minutes all his uneafinefs was removed by the
breaking out of a fweat. At the end of 1 2 minutes
he left the room very much fatigued, but no otherwife
difordered. His pulfe beat 136 in a minute, and the
thermometer had rifen to 220 degrees.
In others of thefe experiments it w’as found, that a
heat even of 260° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer could
be fubmitted to with tolerable eafe. But it muft be
obferved, that in thefe great heats every piece of me¬
tal they carried about with them became intolerably
hot. Small {quantities of water placed in metalline
veffels quickly boiled 5 but in a common earthen vef-
fel it required an hour and an half to arrive at a tem¬
perature of 140*, nor could it ever be brought near
the boiling point. Neither durft the people, who with
impunity breathed the air of this very hot room at
264 degrees, bear to put their fingers into the boiling
water, which indicated only a heat of 212°. So far
Q. q from
metal j this was the only one I could then procure on which the degrees ran fo high as to give any fcope to the
experiment. The fcale of the other thermometer, which was employed for afcertaining the variations in the ani¬
mal heat, was of ivory.
H E A [ 306 ] H E A
Heat, fiom this, they could not bear the touch of quickfilver
y'“~~ heated only to 1 20°, and could but juft bear fpirit of
wine at 130°.
Anmial Hfat. Of this there are various degrees •,
feme animals preferving a heat of 100° or more in all
the different temperatures of the atmofphere; others
keep only a few degrees warmer than the medium
. which furrounds them j and in feme of the more im-
perftft animals, the heat is fcarcely one degree above
the air or water in which they live.
The phenomenon of animal heat hath, frofti the
earlielt ages, been the fubjeft of philofophical difeuf-
fion 5 and, like moft other lubjefts of this nature, its
caufe is not yet afeertained. The bell treatifes that
*. have appeared on the fubjeff are thofe of Dr Dugud
Leflie, publilhed in 1778 j and Mr Adair Crawford,
in 1779. From the lirft of thefe performances, the
following account of the different opinions on this fub-
je£t is extradled.
i “ The ancients poffeffed not the requifites for mi¬
nutely invefligating the fcience of nature ; and, prone
to fuperitition, attributed every phenomenon which
eluded their inveftigation to the influence of a fuper-
natural power. Hippocrates, the father and founder
of medicine, accounted animal heat a myftery, and be¬
llowed on it many attributes of the Deity. In treat¬
ing of that fubjecl, he fays in exprefs terms, “ what
we call heat, appears to me to be fomething immortal,
which underilands, fees, hears, and knows every thing
prefent and to come.”—Aritlotle feems to have con-
lidered the fubjedl particularly, but nothing is to be
met with in his works that can be faid to throw light
upon it.— Galen tells us that the difpute between the
philofophers and phyficians of his time wTas, “ w'hether
animal-heat depended on the motion of the heart and
arterie#; or whether, as the motion of the heart and
arteries w'as innate, the heat was not alfo innate.”
Both thefe opinions, however, he reje&s; and attempts
a folution of the quellion on his favourite fyflem,
namely, the peripatetic philofophy : but his leading
principles being erroneous, his dedmffions are of courfe
inadmiffible.
“ To enter into a minute detail of all the opinions
offered by the moderns on the caufe of animal-heat,
would far exceed cur limits. Moft of them, how¬
ever, may be referred to one or other of the three
general caufes of heat, viz. mixture, fermentation,
and mechanical means, or friction. See Chemistry
Index.
Internal IIfar of the Earth. It was formerly fup-
pofed that the heat of the earth increafed in proportion
to the depth from the furface ; but this hypothelis pro¬
ceeded from imperfeft and inaccurate obfervation, or
from the preconceived notion of the exiftence of cen¬
tral fires.. At great depths, it feems not impoffible that
the temperature of the earth is uniformly and invariably
the fame \ that is, at depths beyond the more immediate
influence of the fun’s rays. But at moderate depths, fo
far as obfervation and experiment go, the temperature
of the earth is precifeiy the fame as the average tempera¬
ture of the climate where the obfervaticn is made. This
fafr, which is eftablifhed by the uniform temperature of
fpiings correfponding exaflly with the average tempe¬
rature of the climate, leems to be an irrefiftible argument
againft the opinion of the exiftence of central fires.
This heat of the earth has been variouily explain- Heat,
ed. Some have had recourfe to an immenfe body of
fire lodged in the centre of the earth, which they con-
lider as a central fun, and the great principle of the
generation, vegetation, nutrition, &c. of foffil and
vegetable bodies. But Mr Boyle, who had been at the
bottom of fome mines himfelf, fufpefls that this degree
of heat, at leaft in fome of them, may arife from the
peculiar nature of the minerals generated therein. To
confirm this, he inftances a mineral of a vitriolic kind,
dug up in large quantities in many parts of England,
which by the bare affufion of common w’ater will grow
fo hot, that it will almoft take fire.—Thefe hypothc-
fes are liable to the following objections ; 1. If there
is within the earth a body of aftual fire, it feems dif¬
ficult to ■ ftrow why that fire fticuld not confume and
moulder awray the outer ftrell of earth, till either the
earth wras totally deftroyed, or the fire extinguiihed.
2. If the internal heat of the earth is owfing to the
affion of water upon mineral fubflances, that affion
through time muft have ceafed, and the heat have to¬
tally vaniftred ; but wTe have no reafon to think that
the heat of the earth is any thing lets juft now than it
wras a thoufand years ago. If heat is nothing elfe than
a certain mode of aftion in the ethereal fluid, or the
matter of light, by which it flows cut from a body in
all directions as radii drawm from the centre to the cir¬
cumference of a circle 5 it will then follow, that if an
opaque body abforbs any confiderable quantity of light,
it muft neceffarily grow hot. The reafon of this is
plain. The body can hold no more than a certain
quantity of ethereal matter •, if more is continually for¬
cing itlelf in, that which has already entered muft go out.
But it cannot eafily get out, becaufe it is hindered by
thfe particles of the body among which it is detained. It
makes an effort therefore in all directions to feparate
thefe particles from each other; and hence the body
expands, and the effort of the fluid to efcape is felt
when we put our hands on the body, which we then
fay is hot. Now, as the earth is perpetually abforbing
the ethereal matter, which comes from the fun in an
immenfe ftream, and which we call his light, it is plain
that every pore of it muft have been filled with this
matter long ago. The quantity that is lodged in the
earth, therefore, muft be continually endeavouring to
feparate its particles from each other, and oonfequent-
ly muft make it hot. The atmofphere, which is perpe¬
tually receiving that portion of The ethereal matter
which iffues from the earth, counterafls the force of
the internal heat, and cools the external furface of the
earth, and for a confiderable way down j and hence, it is
fuppofed, the earth for 20 or 30 feet down (hows none of
that heat which is felt at greater depths. See Heat.
Heat, in Medicine. Great heats are not fo much
the immediate, as the remote, caufe of a general fick-
irefs,. by relaxing the fibres, and difpofing the juices to
putrefaftion j efpecially among foldiers and perfons
expofed the whole day to the fun : for the greateft
heats are feldom found to produce epidemic difeafes,
till the perfpiration is flopped, by w’et clothes, fogs,
dews, damps, &c. and then fome bilious or putrid di-
ftemper is the certain confequence, as fluxes and ardent
intermitting fevers. Neverthelefs, it muft be alloW'ed,
that heats have fometimes keen fo great as to prove the
more immediate caufe of particular diforders; as when
fentinels
II E A [ 307 ] H E A
Heath fentinels have been placed without cover or frequent
II reliefs in fcorching heats ; or when troops march or are
Eleaven. exercifecj in t}ie heat 0f the day ; or when people im-
. prudently lie down and deep in the fun. All thefe
circumftances are apt to bring on diftempers, varying
according to the feafon of the year. In the begin¬
ning of fummer, thefe errors produce inflammatory fe¬
vers ; and in autumn, a remitting fever or dyfentery.
To prevent, therefore, the effects of immoderate heats,
commanders have found it expedient fo to order the
marches, that the men come to their ground before the
heat of the day ; and td'' give ftrict orders, that none
of them fleep out of their tents, which, in fixed en¬
campments, may be covered with boughs to ihade them
from the fun. It is likewife a rule of great importance
to have the foldiers exercifed before the cool of the
morning is over ; for by that means not only the fultry
heats are avoided, but the blood being cooled, and the
fibres braced, the body will be better prepared to bear
the heat of the day. Laftly, in very hot weather, it
has often been found proper to Ihorten the fentinels
duty, when obliged to Hand in the fun.
HEATH. See Erica, Botany Index.
Berry-bearing Heath. See Empetrum, Botany
Index.
Heath, James, an Engliih hiftorian, was born in
1629 at London-, where his father, who was the king’s
cutler, lived. He was educated at Weftminfter fchool,
and became a ftudent of Cl 1 rift-church, Oxford, in
1646. In 1648 he was ejedled from thence by the
parliament vifitors for his adherence to the royal
caufe ; lived upon his patrimony till it was almoft
fpent and then marrying, w7as obliged to write books
and correct thq, prefs in order to maintain his family.
Pie died of a confumption and dropfy at London in
Auguft 1664, and left feveral children to the pariih.
His principal publications were, I. A brief ^Chronicle
of the late Interline War in the Three Kingdoms of
England, Scotland, and Ireland, &.c. 1661, 8vo ; af¬
terwards enlarged by the author, and completed from
1637 to 1663, in four parts, 1663, in a thick 8vo.
To this was again added a continuation from 1663 to
1675 by John Philips, nephew by the mother to Mil-
ton, 1676, folio. 2. Flagellum: or, The Life and
Death, Birth and Burial, of Oliver Cromwell, the late
Ufurper, 1663. The third edition came out with ad¬
ditions in 1665, 8vo. 3. A New Book of Loyal
Engliflr Martyrs and Confeffors, w-ho have endured
the Pains and Terrors of Death, Arraignment, &c.
for the Maintenance of the juft and legal Government
of thefe Kingdoms both in Church and State, 1663,
12mo. The reafon why fuch writers as our author
continue to be read, and will probably always be read,
is not only becaufe Hijloria quoqiio modo fcripta deleBat;
but alfo becaufe in the meaneft hiftorian there will al¬
ways be found fome fadts, of which there will be no
caufe to doubt the truth, and which yet will not be
found in the beft. Thus Heath, who perhaps had
nothing but pamphlets and newfpapers to compile
from, frequently relates facts that throw light upon
the hiftory of thofe times, which Clarendon, though
he drew- every thing from the moft authentic records,
has omitted.
HEATHENS, in matters of religion. See Pagans.
HEAVEN, literally fignifies.the expanfe of the fir¬
mament, furrounding our earth, and extended every Heaven.
W'ay to an immenfe diftance. ^ y——
Heaven, among Chriftian divines and philofophers.
is confidered as a place in fome remote part of infinite
fpace, in which the omniprefent f)eity is faid to af¬
ford a nearer and more immediate view of himfelf,
and a more fenfible manifeftation of his glory, than
in the other parts of the univerfe. This is often call¬
ed the empyrean, from that fplend our with which it
is fuppofed to be in veiled ; and of this place the in-
fpired writers give us the moft noble and magnificent
defcriptions.
The Pagans confidered heaven as the refidence only
of the celeftia-1 gods, into which no mortals were ad¬
mitted after death, unlefs they were deified. As for
the fouls of good men, they were configned to the elv-
fian fields. See EersiAN Fields.
Heaven, among aftronomers, called alfo the ethereal
and Harry heaven, is that immenfe region wherein the
ftars, planets, and comets, are difpofed. See Astro¬
nomy Index.
. This is what Mofes calls the firmament, fpeaking of
it as the work of the fecond day’s creation 5 at leaft it
is thus the word jrpn h ufually rendered by his inter¬
preters •, though fomew-hat abufively, to countenance
their own notion of the heavens being firm or folid. .
The word, it is certain, properly fignifies no more
than expanfe or extenfion ; a term very well adapted
by the prophet to the impreflion which the heavens
make on our fenfes j whence, in other parts of fcrip-
ture, the heaven is compared to a curtain, or a tewt
ftretched out to dwell in. The LXX firft added to
this idea of expanfion that of firm or folid; render¬
ing it by according to the philofophy of thofe
times; in which they have been followed by the mo¬
dern tranflators.
The latter philofophers, as Des Cartes, Kircher, &c.
have ealily demonftrated this heaven not to be fblid, but
fluid •, but they Hill fuppofe it full, or perfedfly denfe,
without any vacuity, and cantoned out into many vor¬
tices. But others have overturned not only the fo-
lidity, but the fuppofed plenitude, of the heavens. Sir
Ifaac Newton has abundantly fliown the heavens void
of almoft all refiftance, and, confequently, of almoft all
matter: this he proves from the phenomena of the
celeftial bodies j from the planets perfifting in their
motions without any fenfible diminution of their ve¬
locity 5 and the comets freely pafling in all diredlions
tow-ards all parts of the heavens.
Heaven, taken in a general fenfe, for the whole ex¬
panfe between our earth and the remoteft regions of
the fixed ftars, may be divided into two very unequal
parts,'according to the matter found therein; viz. the
atmofphere, or aerial heaven, pofleffed by air ; and the
ethereal heaven, pofleffed by a thin, unrefiliing me¬
dium, called ether.
Heaven is more particularly ufed, in HJlronomy, for
an orb, or circular region, of the ethereal heaven.
The ancient aftronortiers aflumed as many different
heavens as they obferved different motions therein.
Thefe they fuppofed all to be folid, as thinking they
could not otherwife fuftain the bodies fixed in them; and
fpherical, that being the moft proper form for motion.
Thus we had feven heavens for the feven planets, viz.
the heavens of the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Si'Ti
Qvi 2 Mars’
H £ B [ 308 ] H E B
Hebdoma- Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The eighth was for the
dary fixed ftars, which they particularly called the firmament.
Hebe Ptolemy adds a ninth heaven, which he called the pn-
 1-- mum mobile. After him two cryftalline heavens were
added by King Alphonfus, &c. to account for fome ir¬
regularities in the motions of the other heavens: and
laftly, an empyrean heaven was drawn over the whole,
for the refidence of the Deity j which made the num¬
ber twelve. But others admitted many more heavens,
according as their different views and hypothefes requi¬
red. Eudoxus fuppofed 23, Calippus 30, Regiomon¬
tanus 33, Ariftotle 47, and Fracaftor no lefs than 70.
It muff be added, however, that the aftronomers did
not much concern themfelves whether the heavens
they thus allow of were real or not $ provided they
ferved a purpofe in accounting for any of the celeftial
motions, and agreed with the phenomena.
HEBDOMADARY, Hebdomadarius, or Heb-
DOMADIus, a member of a chapter or convent, whofe
week it is to officiate in the choir, to rehearfe the an¬
thems and prayers, and to perform the ufual funftions
which the fuperiors perform at folemn feafts, and other
extraordinary occafions. The word is formed of the
Greek which fignities the number /even ? of
Itttx, /even.
The hebdomadary generally collates to the benefices
. which become vacant during his week j though it is
ufually looked upon as an abufe.
In cathedrals, the hebdomadary was a canon or pre¬
bendary, who had the peculiar care of the choir, and
the infpeflion of the officers for his week.
In monalteries, the hebdomadary is he who waits at
table for a week, or other dated period ) direfts and
affifts the cook, &c.
HEBDOME, a folemnity of the ancient Greeks,
in honour of Apollo, in which the Athenians fung
hymns to his praife, and carried in their hands branches
- of laurel. The word fignifies the feventh day, this fo¬
lemnity being obferved on the feventh day of every lu¬
nar month.
HEBE, in ancient mythology, a goddefs, the idea
of whom, among the Romans, feems to have been
much the fame with that of eternal youth, or an im¬
mortality of blifs ; agreeably to which, fhe is reprefent-
ed on a gem, in the great duke’s colleflion at Florence,
with a young airy look, and drinking out of a little
bowl 5 or, according to Milton’s expreffion, “ Quaffing
immortality and joy.” She is fabled to have been a
daughter of Jupiter and Juno. According to fome fhe
was the daughter of Juno only, who conceived her af¬
ter eating lettuces. As fhe w7as fair and always in the
bloom of youth, fhe w'as called the goddefs of youth,
and made by her mother cup-bearer to all the gods.
.She was difmiffed from her office by Jupiter, becaufe
{he fell down in an indecent pofture as ffie was pouring
ne&ar to the ods at a grand feftival \ and Ganymedes,
the favourite of Jupiter, fucceeded her as cup-bearer.
She was employed by her mother to prepare her cha¬
riot, and to harnefs her peacocks wffienever requifite.
When Hercules was raifed to the rank of a god, he was
reconciled to Juno by marrying her daughter Hebe, by
whom he had two Ions, Alexiares and Anicetus. As
Hebe had the power of reftoring gods and men to the
vigour of youth, ffie, at the inflance of her huffiand,
^formed that kind office to lolaus his friend. Hebe
wfas worffiipped at Sicyon, under the name of Dia, and Hebenftre-
at Rome under that of Juventas. , tia
HEBENSTRETIA, a genus of plants belonging jqebjew
to the didynamia clafs ; and in the natural method 1^ ' ■
ranking under the 48th order, Aggregatee. See Bo¬
tany Index.
HEBER, the fon of Salah, and father of Peleg,
from whom the Hebrews derived their name, according
to Jofephus, Eufebius, Jerome, Bede, and mod of the
interpreters of the facred writings ; but Huet bifhop of
Avranches, in his Evangelical Demonftration, has at¬
tempted to prove, that the Hebrews took their name
from the word heber, which fignifies beyond, becaufe
they came from beyond the Euphrates. Heber is fup¬
pofed to have been born 2281 years B. C. and to have
lived 464 years.
HEBRAISM, an idiom, or manner of fpeaking,
peculiar to the Hebrew language. See the next ar¬
ticle.
HEBREW, fomething relating to the Hebrew.
See Hebrews. Thus we fay, Hebrew Bible. See
Bible.
Hebrew CharaRer. There are two kinds of He¬
brew charafters : the ancient, called alfo the fquare ;
and the modern, or rabbinical character.
l. The fquare Hebrew takes its denomination from
the figure of its charafters, which Hand more fquare,
and have their angles more exadt and precife than the
other. This character is ufed in the text of Holy Scrip¬
ture, and their other principal and mod important writ¬
ings. When both this and the rabbinical character are
ufed in the fame work, the former is for the text, or the
fundamental part j.-and the latter for the acceffory part,
as the glofs, notes, commentaries, &c.
The bed and mod beautiful characters of this kind,
are thofe copied from the charadters in the Spaniffi ma-
nufcripts ; next, thofe from the Italian manufcripts ;
then thofe from the French j and ladly, thofe of the
Germans, whofe charadters are much the fame, with
refpedt to the other genuine fquare Hebrew charadters,
that the Gothic or Dutch charadters are with refpedt to
the Roman.
Several authors contend, that the fquare charadter is
not the real ancient Hebrew charadter, written from
the beginning of the language to the time of the Baby-
loniffi captivity ; but that it is the Affyrian or Chaldee
charadter, which the Jewys affumed, and accudomed
themfelves to, during the captivity, and retained after¬
wards. They fay, that the Jews, during their captivi¬
ty, had quite difufed their ancient charadter ; fo that
Ezra found it neceffary to have the facred books tranf-
cribed into the Chaldean fquare charadter. Thefe au¬
thors add, that what we call the Samaritan charadter,
is the genuine ancient Hebrew. Ot this opinion are
Scaliger, Bochart, Cafaubon, \offius, Grotius, al-
ton, Capellus, &c. and among the ancients Jerome and
Eufebius. On this fide it is urged, that the prefent
charadters are called Afifyrian by the ancient Jewifli
writers of the Talmud, and therefore mult have been
brought from Affyria : but to this argument it is re¬
plied, that there were two forts of charadters anciently
in ufe, viz. the facred or prefent fquare charadler, and
the profane or civil, which we call Samaritan ; and
that the facred is called Affyrian, becaufe it firit began
in Affyria to come into common ufe. It is farther al¬
leged.
H E B [ 3°9 ] H E B
Hebrew, leged, that the Chaldee letters, which the Jews now
ufe5 were unknown to the ancient Jews before the cap¬
tivity, from Dan. i. 4. Moreover, it is inferred from
2 Kings xvii. 28. whence we learn that a Jewilh priefl
was lent to teach the Samaritans the worfhip of Jeho¬
vah ; on which occalion he muft have taught them the
law ; and yet no mention occurs of his teaching them
the language or character that the law was then written
in, the charadter which the Samaritans ufed. But the
chief argument is taken from fome ancient Jewilh Ihe-
kels, with a legend on one lide “ The ihekel of Ifrael,”
and on the other “ Jerufalem the holy,” both in Sama¬
ritan charadters. Thefe (hekels, it is faid, muft have
been coined before the divifion of the two kingdoms of
Judah and Ifrael, or at leaft before the Affyrian capti¬
vity, becaufe the Samaritans never afterwards reckoned
Jerufalem holy. On the other fide, or for the primi¬
tive antiquity of the fquare character, are the two Bux-
torfs, Leufden, Calovius, Hottinger, Spanheim, Light-
foot, &c. They urge, from Matthew v. 18. thatyW
is really the leaft of the confonants in the prefent He¬
brew', whereas it is one of the large!! charadters in the
Samaritan alphabet : but Walton replies, that if our
Saviour here fpeaks of the leaft letter of the alphabet,
we can only infer, that the Chaldee charadler was ufed
in our Saviour’s time, which is not denied by thofe
who maintain the Samaritan to be the original. They
alfo allege, that the Jews were too obftinate and fuper-
ftitious to allow their facred charadler to be altered 5
but if this wras done under the diredlion and authority
of Ezra, the argument will be much invalidated. Far¬
ther, they fay, that Ezra could not alter the ancient
charadter, becaufe it was impoftible to make the altera¬
tions in all their copies. This argument, howTever, is
contradidled by fadl 5 fince the old Englifh black let¬
ter is adlually changed for the Roman. They fay, like-
wife, that Ezra was not difpofed to profane the facred
writings with a heathen charadler : but this fuppofes
that Ezra was fo fuperftitious as to imagine, that there
was fome peculiar fandlity in the fhape of the letters.
Moreover, the advocates for this opinion appeal to an¬
cient coins found in Judaea, with a legend in the Chal¬
dee or Affyrian charadler. But the genuinenefs of thefe
coins is much fufpedled.
The learned Jefuit Souciet maintains, wdth great ad-
drefs, that the ancient Hebrew charadler is that found
on the medals of Simon, and others, commonly called
Samaritan medals ; but which, he afferts, were really
Hebrew medals, ftruck by the Jews, and not the Sa¬
maritans.
Buxtorf endeavours to reconcile thefe two opinions,
by producing a variety of paffages from the rabbies to
prove, that both thefe charadlers were anciently ufed ;
the prefent fquare charadler being that in which the
tables of the law, and the copy depofite^l in the arkj
were written •, and the other charadler being ufed in
the copies of the law which were written for private
and common ufe, and in civil affairs in general ; and
that after the captivity, Ezra enjoined the former to
be ufed by the Jews on all occafions, leaving the latter
to the Samaritans and apoftates. But it can hardly be
allowed by any who confider the difference between
the Chaldee and Samaritan charadlers, with refpedl to
convenience and beauty, that they w7ere ever ufed at
the fame time, - After all, it is of no great moment
whi«h of thefe, or whether either of them, tvere the
original charadlers 5 fince it appears, that no change
of the words has arifen from the manner of writing
them, becaufe the Samaritan and Jewifti Pentateuch
almolt always agree after fo many ages. It is moft
probable that the form of thefe charadlers has varied in
different periods j this appears from the teftimony of
Montfaucon, in his Hexapla Origenis, vol. i. p. 22.
&c. and is implied in Dr Kennicot’s making the cha¬
radlers in which manufcripts are written one teft of their
Hebrew.
age.
2. The modern, or rabbinical, is a good neat cha¬
radler, formed of the fquare Hebrew, by rounding it,
and retrenching moft of the angles or corners of the
letters, to make it the more eafy and flowing. The
letters ufed by tile Germans are very different from the
rabbinical charadler ufed everywhere elfe, though all
formed alike from the fquare charadler, by the German
in a more fiovenly manner than the reft.—The rabbins
frequently make ufe either of their own, or the fquare
Hebrew charadler, to write the modern languages in.
There aro even books in the vulgar tongues printed in
Hebrew charadlers ; inftances whereof are feen in the
French king’s library.
HF.Bs.Efr Language, that fpoken by the Hebrews, .
and wherein the Old Teftament is written.
This appears to be the moft ancient of all the lan¬
guages in the world, at leaft we know of none older j
and fome learned men are of opinion, that this is the
language in which God fpoke to Adam in Paradife.-
Dr Sharpe adopts the opinion that the Hebrew was
the original language; not indeed that the Hebrew is
the unvaried language of our firft parents, but that it
was the general language of men at the difperfion ;
and however it might have been improved and altered
from the firft fpeech of our firft parents, it was the
original of all the languages, or almoft all the lam
guages, or rather dialedls, that have fince arifen in the
world.
The books of the Old Teftament are the only pieces
to be found, in all antiquity, written in pure Pie-
brew ; and the language of many of thefe is extreme¬
ly fublime : it appears perfedlly regular, and particu¬
larly fo in its conjugations. Indeed, properly fpeak-
ing, it has but one conjugation •, but this is varied in
each feven or eight different ways, which has the effedl
of fo many different conjugations, and affords a great
variety of exprefiions to reprefent by a fingle word
the different modifications of a verb, and many ideas
which in the modern and in many of the ancient and
learned languages cannot be expreffed without a peri-
phrafis.
The primitive words, which are called roots, have
feldom more than three letters or two fyllables.
In this language there are 2 2 letters, only five of
which are ufually reckoned vowels, which are the fame
with ours, viz. a, e, i, 0, u ; but then each vowel is
divided into two, a long and a ftiort, the found of the
former being fomewhat grave and long, and that of
the latter fnort and acute : it muft however be remark¬
ed, that the two laft vowels have founds that differ in
other refpe£ls befides quantity and a greater or lefs
elevation. To thefe 10 or 12 vowels may be added
others, called femi-vowels, which ferve to connedl the
confonants, and to make the eafier tranfitions from one
to
11 E £ [3
Tftebrcw.
to another. The number of accents in this language
is indeed prodigious: of thefe there are near 40,.
the ufe of fome of which, notwithftanding all the in¬
quiries of the learned, are not yet perfectly known.
We know, in general, that they ferve to diftinguiih
the fentences like the points called commas, femicolorts,
&c. in our language 5 to determine the quantity of the
fyllables 5 and to mark the tone with which they are to
be fpoken cr lung. It is no wonder, then, that there
are more accents in the Hebrew than in other lan¬
guages, fmce they perform the office of three different
tilings, which in other languages are called by different
names.
As we have no Hebrew but what is contained in
the Scripture, that language to us wants a great many
words) not only becaufe in thofe primitive times the
languages wTere not fo copious as at prefent ; but alfo
on this account, that the infpired writers had no occa-
fion to mention many of the terms that might be in the
language.
The Chaldee, Syriac, Ethiopia, &c. languages, are
by fome held to be only dialeffs of the Hebrew7 ; as
the French, Italian, Spaniffi, &c. are dialeffs of the
Latin. It has been fuppofed by many very learned
men, that the Hebrew7 charaflers or letters were often
ufed hieroglyphically, and that each had its feveral di-
llincf fenfe underftood as a hieroglyphic. Neuman,
who feems to have taken infinite pains to find out this
lecret meaning of thefe letters, gives the followdng ex¬
plication : a alefi/i, he fays, is a charadler denoting mo¬
tion, readinefs, and adlivity •, s Let/i, fignifies, x. Mat¬
ter, body, fubftance, thing ; 2. Place, fpace, or ca¬
pacity ; and, 3. In, within, or contained : 3 gime/.
Hands for flexion, bending, or obliquity of any kind :
*r daleth, fignifies any protruflon made from w’ithout,
or any promotion of any kind : rr he, ftands for pre¬
fence, or demonftrative efience of any thing : 1 vau,
Hands for copulation or growing together of things :
t dfain, expreffes vehement protrufion and violent com-
preffion, fuch as is occafioned by at once violently
Jifcharging and conftringing a thing together 5 it alfo
iignifies fometimes the ftraitening of any figure into a
narrow point at the end : n cheth, expreffes alfocia-
tion, fociety, or any kind of compofition or combi¬
nation of things together: u teth, ftands for the with¬
drawing, drawing back, or recefs of any thing : ' jod,
fignifies extenfion and length, whether in matter or
in time : 3 caph, expreffes a turning, curvednefs, or
concavity : ^ lamech, ftands for an addition, accefs,
impulfe, or adverfation, and fometimes for preffure :
o mem, expreffes amplitude, or the amplifying any
thing in wffiatever fenfe ; in regard to contiguous qua¬
lities, it fignifies the*adding length, breadth, and cir¬
cumference ; and in disjunct qualities it fignifies mul¬
titude : 3 nun, fignifies the propagation of one thing
from another, or of the fame thing from one perfon
to another : 0 famech, expreffes cin&ure and coardla-
tion : S? ain, ftands for obfervation, objeTion, or obvia¬
tion : s pe, ftands for a crookednefs or an angle of any
figure : x tfade, expreffes contiguity and clofe fuccef-
fion : p koph, expreffes a circuit or ambit : ’i rejh, ex¬
preffes the egrefs of any thing, as alfo the exterior
part of a thing, and the extremity or end of any
thing : jhin, fignifies the number three, or the third
degree, or the utmoft pcrfedlion of any thing : n tan,
3
]
H £ B
Hebiides,
expreffes a fequel, continuation, or fucceffion of any Hebrew
thing. li
According to this explication, as the feveral particu¬
lar letters of the Hebrew alphabet feparately fignify the
ideas of motion, matter, fpace, and feveral modifica¬
tions of matter, fpace, and motion, it follows that a
language, the words of which are compofed of facia ex-
prdfive charaCiers, nauft neceifarily be of all languages
the moft perfect and expreffive, as .the w7ords formed of
fuch letters, according to their determinate feparate fig-
nifications, muft convey the idea of all the matters con¬
tained in the fenfe of the feveral charafters, and be at
once a name and a definition, or f’uccindt defeription of
the fubjefl, and all things material as w7ell as fpixitual,
all objedls in the natural and moral world, rauft be
known as foon as their names are known, and their fe¬
parate letters confidered.
The w7ords unm and thummim are thus eafily ex¬
plained, and found perhaps the moft appofite and expref¬
five words that were ever formed.
Rabbinical or modern Hebrew, is the language ufed
by the rabbins in the writings they have compofed.
The bafis or body hereof is the Hebrew and Chaldee,
with divers alterations in the words of thefe two lan¬
guages, the meanings whereof they have confiderably
enlarged and extended. Abundance of things they
have borrowed from the Arabic : the reft is chiefly
compofed of w7ords and expreffions, chiefly from the
Greek 5 fome from the Latin; and others from the
other modern tongues ; particularly that fpoken in the
place where each rabbin lived or wrote.
The rabbinical Hebrew muft be allowed to be a very
copious language. M. Simon, in his Hift. Crit. du
Vieux Teftam. liv. iii. chap. 27. obferves, that there is
fcarce any art or fcience but the rabbins have treated
thereof in it. They have tranflated moft of the ancient
philofophers, mathematicians, aftronomers, and phyfi-
cians j and have written themfelves on moft fubjefts :
they do not want even orators and poets. Add, that
this language, notwuthftanding it is fo crowded writh fo¬
reign words, has its beauties viflble enough in the works
of thofe who have written well in it.
HEBREWS, the defendants of Heber, commonly
called yews. See Hebrew and Jews.
Hebrews, or Epiftle to the Hebrews, a canonical
book of the New Teftament.
Though St Paul did not prefix his name to this
epiftle, the concurrent teftimony of the beft authors
ancient and modern afford fuch evidence of his being
the author of it, that the obje&ions to the contrary are
of little or no weight.
The’Hebrews, to whom this epiftle w7as written, were
the believing Jews of Paleftine •, and its defign was to
convince them, and by their means all the Jewifh con¬
verts wherefoever difperfed, of the infufficiency and
abolifhment of the ceremonial and ritual law.
HEBRIDES) the general name of fome iflands ly¬
ing to the north-weft of Scotland, of which kingdom
they conftitute a part. They are fituated between the
35th and 59th degrees of latitude, are iuppofed to be
about 300 in number, and to contain 48,000 inhabi¬
tants. The names of the largeft are Lewis, Sky,
Mull, Ilay, and Arran. Of thefe iflands Mr Pen¬
nant hath given the following hiftory.
“ All the accounts left us by the Greek and Roman
writers
H E B [31
Hebr»dec. writers are enveloped with obfcurity ; at all times brief
1,1 even in their defcriptions of places they had eafieft ac-
cefs to, and might have defcribed with the molt fatis-
faflory precilion ; but in remote places, their relations
furnilh little more than hints, the food for conjecture to
the vifionary antiquary.
“ That Pytheas, a traveller mentioned by Strabo,
had vilited Great Britain, I would wilh to make only
apocrypha!. He afferts that he vilited the remoter parts •,
and that he had alfo feen Thule, the land of romance
amongit the ancients 5 which all might pretend to have
leen ; but every voyager, to fwell his lame, made the
iiland he faw laid the Ultima Thule of his travels. If
Pytheas had reached thefe parts, he might have ob-
ferved, floating in the feas, multitudes of gelatinous
animals, the medvfce of Linnaeus, and out of thefe have
formed his fable. He made his Thule a compojltion of
neither earth, fea, nor air ; but like a compojition of them
all: then, catching his limile from what floated before
him, compares it to the lungs of the fea, the Ariidote-
lian idea of thefe bodies ; and from him adopted by na-
turalilds, fucceffors to that great philofopher. Strabo
very juldly explodes thefe abfurd tales ; yet allows him
merit in defending the climate of the places he had
feen. As a farther proof of his having vifited the He¬
brides, he mentions their unfriendly Iky, that prohibits
the growth of the finer fruits ; and that the natives are
obliged to carry their corn under Ihelter, to beat the
grain out, left it Ihould be fpoiled by the defied of fun
and violence of the rains. This is the probable part
of his narrative •, but when the time that the great geo¬
grapher wrote is confidered, at a period that thefe iilands
had been negleCded for a very long fpace by the Ro¬
mans, and when the difficulties of getting among a
fierce and unfriendly nation mull be almold infuperable,
doubts innumerable refpedding the veracity of this re-
later mull arife. All that can be admitted in favour of
him is, that he was a great traveller ; and that he might
have either vifited Britain from fome of the nations
commercing with our ille ; or received from them ac¬
counts, which he afterwards dreffed out, mixed with
the ornaments of fable. A traffic mull have been car¬
ried on with the very northern inhabitants of our ifbnds
in the time of Pytheas, for one of the articles of com¬
merce mentioned by Strabo, the ivory bits, were made
either of the teeth of the walrus, or of a fpecies of
wffiale native of the northern feas.
“ The geographer Mela, who flouriffied in the reign
of Claudius, is the next who takes notice of our lefier
iilands. He mentions the Orcades as confining of 30 ;
the iEmodae of feven. The Romans had then made a
eonqueft of the former, and might have feen the latter:
but, from the words of the hiftorian, it is probable that
the Shetland ifiands were thofe intended ; for he in¬
forms us, that the “ iEmodae were carried out over
agaisfi: Germany the fite of the Hebrides will not
admit this defeription, which agrees very well with the
others •, for the ancients extended their Germany, and
its imaginary iilands, to the extreme north.
“ Pliny the Elder is the next that mentions thefe re¬
mote places. He lived later than the preceding writ¬
ers, and of courfe his information is fuller ; by means
of intervening difeoveries, he has added ten more to the
number of the Orcades; is the firft writer that mentions
i ] H E B
the Hoebudcs, the iflands in queftion y and joins in the Hebrides,
fame line Aimodae, or, as it is in the beft editions more ' '
properly written, the Acmoda:, or extreme point of the
Roman expeditions to the north, as the Shetland ifles
in the higheft probability w?ere. Pliny and Mela agree
in the number of the ALmodae, or Acmodm ; the form¬
er makes that of the Hoebudes 30 ; an account extreme¬
ly near the truth, deducting the little iiles, or rather
rocks, that furround moil of the greater, and many of
them fo indilthuft as fcarcely to be remarked, except
on an atlual furvey.
“ Solinus fucceeds Pliny. If he, as is fuppofed, was
contemporary with Agricola, he has made very ill ufe
of the light he might have received from the expedi¬
tions of that great general j his officers might have fur-
nilhed the hiftorian with better materials than thofe he
has communicated. He has reduced the number of the
Hcebudes to five. He tells us, that “ the inhabitants
were unacquainted with corn : that they lived only on
fifti and milk ;• that they had one king, as the iflands
were only feparated from each other by narrow ftraits;
that their prince wTas bound by certain rules of govern¬
ment to do juftice : and was prevented by poverty from
deviating from the true courfe, being fupported by the
public, and allow7ed nothing that he could call his owm,
not even a wife j but then he was allowed free choice,
by turns one out of every diftribl, of any female that
caught his affection ; which deprived him of all ambi¬
tion about a fucceflor.
“ By the number of thefe iflands, and by the mi¬
nute attention given by the hiftorian to the circum-
ftance of their being feparated from each other by very
narrow ftraits, I ffiould imagine, that which is now
called the Long IJland, and includes Lewis, North Uift,
Benbecula, South Uift, and Barra, to have been the
five Hcebudes of Solinus 5 for the other great iflands,
fuch as Sky, &c. are too remote from each other to
form the preceding very charadleriftic defeription of
that chain of iflands. Thefe might naturally fall un¬
der the rule of one petty prince ; almoft the only pro¬
bable part of Solinus’s narrative.
“ After a long interval appears Ptolemy, the E-
gyptian geographer. He alfo enumerates five Ebudse j
and has given each a name) the Weftern Ebuda, the
Eaftern, Ricina, Maleos, Epidium. Camden conjec¬
tures them to be the modern Sky, Lewis, Rathry or
Racline, Mull, and Hay ) and I will not controvert his
opinion.
“ The Roman hiftorians give very little light into
the geography of thefe parts. Tacitus, from whom
moll might have been expefled, is quite filent about
the names of places ) notwithftanding he informs us,
that a fleet by the command of Agricola performed
the circumnavigation of Britain. All that he takes
notice of is the difeovery and the conqueft of the
Orkneys : it fliould feem, that with the biographers
of an ambitious nation, nothing feemed worthy of no¬
tice but what they could dignify with the glory of
vidlory.
“ It is very difficult to afiign a reafon for the change
of name from Ebudce to Hebrides ; the laft is modern ;
and ieems, as the annotator on Dr Macpherfon fuppo-
fes, to have arifen from the error of a tranferiber, who
changed the u into ri.
“ From
H E B [ 3 t 2 ]
u From all that has been colle£led from the an¬
cients, it appears, that they were acquainted with little
more of the Hebrides than the bare names : it is pro¬
bable, that the Romans, either from contempt of fuch
barren fpots, from the dangers of the leas, the violence
of the tides, and horrors oi the narrow founds, in the
inexperienced ages of navigation, never attempted their
conqueif, or faw more of them than what they had in
fight during the few circumnavigations of Great Bri¬
tain, which were expeditions more of oftentation than
of utility.
“ The inhabitants had probably, for fome ages
their own governors, one little king to each iiland,
or to each group, as neceffity required. It is reafon-
able to fuppofe, that their government was as much
divided as that of Great Britain, which, it is well
known, was under the direftion of numbers of petty
princes before it was reduced under the power of the
Romans.
“ No account is given in hillory of the time thefe
iflands were annexed to the government of Scotland.
If we may credit our Saxon hiftorians, they appear to
have been early under the dominion of the Pifts j for
Bede and Adamnanus inform us, that foon after the
arrival of St Columba in their country, Brude, a Pic-
tilh monarch, made the faint a prefent of the celebrated
ifland of Iona. But neither the holy men of this
ifland, nor the natives of the reft of the Hebrides, en¬
joyed a permanent repofe after this event. I he firft
invafion of the Danes does not feem to be eaftly afcer-
tained. It appears that they ravaged Ireland, and the
ifle of Rathry, as early as the year 735. In the fol¬
lowing century, their expeditions became more fre¬
quent : Harold Harfager, or the light-haired, purfued,
in 875, feveral petty princes, whom he had expelled
out of Norway ; who had taken refuge in the Hebri¬
des, and molefted his dominions by perpetual defcents
from thofe iflands. He feems to have made a rapid
conqueft : he gained as many viftorfes as he fought
battles ; he put to death the chief of the pirates, and
made an indifcriminate daughter of their followers.
Soon after his return, the iflanders repoffeffed their an¬
cient feats 5 and, in order to reprefs their infults, he
lent Ketil the Jiat-ncfed with a fleet and fome forces
for that purpofe. He foon reduced them to terms, but
made his victories fubfervient to his own ambition j he
made alliances with the reguli he had fubdued •, * he
formed intermarriages, and confirmed to them their
old dominions. This effeaed, he fent back the fleet
to Haroldopenly declared himfelf independent 5
made himfelf prince of the Hebrides 5 and caufed
them to acknowledge him as fuch, by the payment
of tribute and the badges of vaflalage. Ketil re¬
mained, during life, mafter of the iflands •, and his
fubjeas appear to have been a warlike let of freeboot¬
ers, ready to join with any adventurers. Thus when
Eric, fon of Harold Harfager, after being driven out
of his own country, made an invafion of England, he
put with his fleet into the Hebrides, received a large
reinforcement of people fired with the hopes of prey,
and then proceeded on his plan of rapine. After the
death of Ketil, a kingdom was in after times compofed
out of them, which from the refidence of the little
monarch in the ifle of Man, was. ftyled that of Man.
H E B
The iflands became tributary to that of Norway for a Hebrides,
confiderable time, and princes were fent from thence'
to govern ■, but at length they again Ihook off the
yoke. Whether the little potentates ruled indepen¬
dent, or whether they put themfelves under the pro¬
tection of the Scottith monarchs, does net clearly ap¬
pear : but it is reafonable to fuppofe the laft, as Do-
nald-bane is accufed of making the Hebrides the price
of the afiiftance given him by the Norwegians, againft
his own fubjeCts. Notwithllanding they might occa-
fionally feek the protection of Scotland, yet they ne¬
ver were without princes of their own : policy alone
direCted them to the former. From the chronicles of
the kings of Man we learn, that they had a fucceffjon
of princes.
“ In 1089 is an evident proof of the independency
of the iflanders on Norway ; for, on the death of Lag-
nan, one of their monarchs, they fent a deputation to
O’Brian king of Ireland, to requeft a regent of royal
blood to govern them during the minority of their
young prince. They probably might in turn com¬
pliment in fome other refpefts their Scottifh neigh¬
bours : the iflanders muft have given them fome pre¬
tence to fovereignty j for,
“ In 1093, Donald-bane, king of Scotland, calls
in the afliftance of Magnus the Barefooted, king of
Norway, and bribes him with the promife of all the
iflands. Magnus accepts the terms ; but at the fame
time boafts, that he does not come to invade the ter¬
ritories of others, but only to refume the ancient rights
of Norway. His conquefts are rapid and complete ;
for, befides the iflands, by an ingenious fraud he adds
Cantyre to his dominions.
“ The Hebrides continued governed by a prince
dependent on Norway, a fpecies of viceroy appointed
by that court; and who paid, on affuming the dignity,
ten marks of gold, and never made any other pecuni¬
ary acknowledgment during life : but if another vice¬
roy was appointed, the fame fum rvas exafted from
him. Thefe viceroys were fometimes Norwegians,
fometimes natives of the ifles. In 1097 we find, that
Magnus deputes a nobleman of the name of Inge-
mund: in after times we learn, that natives were ap¬
pointed to that high office. Thus were the Hebrides
governed, from the conqueft by Magnus, till the year
1263, when Acho, or Haquin, king of Norway, by
an unfortunate invafion of Scotland, terminating in
his defeat at Largs, fo weakened the powers of his
kingdom, that his fucceffor Magnus IV. was content
to make a ceflion of the iflands to Alexander III. j
but not without ftipulating for the payment of a large
fum, and a tribute of 100 merks for ever, which
bore the name of the annual of Norway. Ample provi-
fion was alfo made by Magnus in the fame treaty, for the
fecurity of the rights and properties of his Norwegian
fubjefts who chofe to continue in the ifles, where many
of their pofterity remain to this day.
“ Notwithftanding this revolution, Scotland feems
to have received no real acquifition of ftrength. The
iflands ftill remained governed by powerful chieftains,
the defeendants of Somerled, thane of Heregaidel,
or Argyle, who, marrying the daughter of Olave,
king of Man, left a divided dominion to his fons Du-
gal and Reginald : from the firft were defeended the
Macdougals
3
Hebrides. IVTacJou .gals of Lorn
H E B [ c
, from the laft, the powerful
— clan of the Macdonalds. The lordfidp of Argyle, with
Mull, and the illands north of it, fell to the fliare of
the fird ; Lay, Cantyre, and the fouthern itles, were
the portion of the laid : a divifion that formed the di-
flinflion ol the Sudereys and Nordireys, (as further
noticed in the article Iona).
44 f hele chieftains were the fcourges of the king¬
dom : they are known in hiftory but as the devalla-
tions of a temped: ; for their paths were marked with
the moil barbarous defolation. Lncouraged by their
didance from the feat of royalty, and the turbulence
of the times, which gave their monarchs full employ,
they exercifed a regal power, and often affumed the
trtie ; but are more generally known in hiftory by the
ftyle of the lords of the ifles, or the earls of Rofs) and
fometimes by that of the Great Macdonald.
“ Hiftorians are filent about their proceedings,
from tire retreat of the Danes, in 1263, till that of
*33 5b when John, lord of the iftes, withdrew his al¬
legiance. In the beginning of the next century his
fucceffors were fo independent that Henry IV. en¬
tered into a rormal alliance with the brothers Donald
and John. This encouraged them to commit frefh
hoftilities againft their natural prince. Donald, under
pretence of a claim to the earldom of R.ofs, invaded
and made a conqueft of that county : but penetrating
as fir as tne (hire of Aberdeen, after a fierce but un-
decifiye battle^ with, the royal party, thought proper
to letire, and in a little time to fwear allegiance to his
monarch James I. But he was permitted to retain
the county of Rofs, and affume the title of earl. His
fuccelTor, Alexander, at the head of 10,000 men, at¬
tacked and burnt Invernefs 5 at length terrified with
the preparations made againft him, he fell at the royal
feet, and obtained pardon as to life, but was com¬
mitted to ftriift confinement.
“ His kinfman and deputy, Donald Balloch, re-
fenting the imprifonment of his chieftain, excited ano-
f.ner rebellion, and deftroyed the country with fire
and fword ; but on his flight was taken and put to
death by an Irifh chieftain, with whom he fought pro-
teftion.”
“ Thefe barbarous inroads were very frequent rvith
a fet of banditti, who had no other motive in war but
the infamous inducement of plunder.
In the reign of James II. in the year T46r,
Donald, another petty tyrant, an earl of Rofs, and’
lord of the ifles, renewed the pretence of independency}
furprifed the caftle of Invernefs 5 forced his way as far
as Athol 5 and obliged the earl and countefs, with the
principal inhabitants, to feck refuge in the church of
St Bridget, in hopes of finding fecurity from his
cruelty by the fancftity of the place: but the barba¬
rian and. his followers fet fire to the church, put the
ecclefiaftics to the fword, and, with a great booty,
carried the earl and countefs prifoners to his caftle of
Claig, in the i[land of Hay. In a fecond expedition,
immediately following the firft, he fuffered the penalty
of his impiety : a tempeft overtook him, and over¬
whelmed moft of his aflbciates •, and he, efcaping to
Invernefs, peridied by the hands of an Irilh harper :
his furvivmg followers returned to Hay, conveyed the
earl and countefs of Athol to the fancftuary they had
Vol. X. Part I. ^ J
H E B
and expiated their crime by reftoring the Hebrides.
T3 ]
violated,   __j_      
plunder, and making large donations to the Ihrine of
the offended faint.
“ John, fucceflbr to the laft earl of Rofs, entered
into alliance with Edward IV. and lent ambafladors to
tlie court of England, where Edward empowered the
biftiop of Durham and earl of Winchelter to conclu le
a treaty with him, another Donald Balloch, and his
fon and heir John. They agreed to ferve the king
with ail their power, and to become his lubjetts : the
earl was to have roo marks lierling for life in time of
peace, and 200I. in time of war; and thefe ifland
allies, in cafe of tlie conqueft of Scotland, were to
have confirmed to them all the poffeftions benorth of
the Scottifti lea ; and in cafe of a truce with the Scot-
tifti monarch, they were to be included in it. But
about the year 1476, Edward, from a change of po¬
litics, courted the alliance of James III, and dropt his
new allies. James, determined to fubdue this rebel¬
lious race, fent againit them, a powerful army under
the earl of Athol; and took leave of him with this
good wifh, Forth, Fortune, andfill the fetters ; as much
as to fay, “ Go forth, be fortunate, and bring home
many captives 3” which the family of Athol has ufed
ever fince for. its motto. Rofs was terrified into fub-
million 5 obtained his pardon 3 but was deprived of his
earldom, which by ail or parliament was then decla¬
red unalienably annexed to the crown : at the fame
time the king reftored to him Knapdale and Cantyre,
which the earl had refigned 3 and inverted him anew
with the lordfliip of the iiles, to hold them of the king
by fervice and relief. 0
“ Hnus the great power of the ifles was broken :
yet for a. confiderable time after, the petty chieftains
were continually breaking out into fmall rebellions,
or haraffed each other in private wars 3 and tyranny
feems but to have been multiplied. James V. found
it neceffary to make the voyage of the ifles in perfon
in feized and brought away with him feveral
of the moft confiderable leaders, and obliged them to
find fecurity for their own good behaviour and that of
their vaflals. The names of thefe chieftains were
(according to Lindefay), Mydyart, Mac-connel, Mac-
loyd, of the Lewis 3 Mac-mel, Mac-lane, Mac- intojh.
Join Mudyart, Mac-kay, Mac-kenx.ie, and many others’
but by the names of fome of the above, there feem to
have been continental as well as infular malecontents.
He examined the titles of their holdings; and finding
feveral to have been ufurped, reunited their lands to the
crown. In the fame voyage he had the glory of caufinu-
a furvey to be taken of the coafts of Scotland, and o°f
the iflands, by his pilot Alexander Lindefay 3 which
w’ere publiflied in 1583, at Paris, by Nicholas de Ni-
cholay, geographer to the French monarch.
“ 'Lhe troubles that fucceeded the death of James
occafioned a. negleift of thefe infulated parts of the
Scottilh dominions, and left them in a ftate of anarchy.
In .1614, the Mac-donalds made a formidable infur-
redlion, oppugning the royal grant of Cantyre to the
earl of Argyle and his relations. The petty chieftains
continued in a fort of rebellion 3 and the fword of the
greater, as ufual in weak governments, was employed
againft them : the encouragement and prote&ion given
by them to pirates, employed the power of the Camp-
& r bells
Hebrides.
H £ B [31
bells during the reign of James VI. and the beginning
Smollet's
Mod. Hifl.
i. 430, &C
of that of Charles I. (a).
“ But the turbulent fpirit of the old times conti¬
nued even to the prefent age. The heads of clans
were by the divifions, and a falfe policy that predomi¬
nated in Scotland during the reign of William ill.
flattered with an ideal importance : nillead of being
treated as bad fubjeas, they were courted as delirable
allies : inftead of feeling the hand of power money
was allowed to bribe them into the loyalty of the times.
They would have accepted the fubfidies, notwithftan
ing they deteiled the prince that offered them. 1 hey
were taught to believe themfelves of fuch confequence,
that in thefe days turned to their deftruaion. 1 wo re¬
cent rebellions gave legiflature a late experience of the
folly of permitting the feudal fyitem to exift m any
part of its dominions. The aa of 1748, for aboh 1-
ing heritable jurifdiaions, at once deprived the chief,
tains of all power of injuring the public by their com¬
motions. Many of thefe Reguh fecond this effort of
legiflature, and negka no opportunity of rendering
themfelves hateful to their unhappy vaffals, the lormer
inftruments of their ambition.’ . .
“ The fituation of thefe iflands in the great Atlantic
ocean renders the air cold and moift m the greater
part of them. In the moft northerly ifles the iun, at
the fummer folftice, is not above an hour under the
horizon at midnight, and not longer above it at mid¬
day in the depth of winter. The foil of the Hebxides
varies alfo in different iiles, and in different parts of the
fame ifland : fome are mountainous and barren, produ¬
cing little elfe than heath, wild myrtle, fern, and a
little grafs ; while others, being cultivated and manured
with fea-weed, yield plentiful crops of oats and barley.
“ Lead mines have been difeovered m fome of thele
iflands, but not worked to much advantage j others
have been found to contain quarries of marble, hme-
ftone, and freeilone •, nor are they deftitute of iron
talc, cryflals, and many curious pebbles, fome of which
emulate the Brafilian topaz.
“ With refpebl to vegetables, over and above the
plentiful harvefts of corn that the natives earn from
agriculture, and the pot-herbs and roots that are plant¬
ed in gardens for the fultenance of the people, thele
iflands produce fpontaneoufly a variety of plants and
fimples, ufed by the iflanders in the cure of their dil-
eafes-, but there is hardly a ftirub or tree to be feen,
except in a very few fpots, where fome gentlemen have
endeavoured to rear them with much more trouble
tha« Xhe^nimals, both of the land and fea, domeftic
and wild, quadrupeds, fowls, and fifties, foun m an
about thefe iflands, are of the fame fpecies, fize, and
configuration, with thofe of the Orkneys.
“ The people inhabiting thefe iflands are of the
fame race with thofe who live in the Highlands of
Scotland 5 fpeak the fame language, wear the fame ha¬
bit, and obferve the fame cuttoms. [See the article
Highlands.]
4. ] H E B
“ The commodities which may be deemed the flapies
of this country are black cattle, flieep, and fifli, which
they fell to their fellow-fubje£ts of Scotland. 1 art ot
the wool they work up into knit-ftockings, coarle
cloth, and that variegated fluff called tartan.^ Ihey
likewife fait mutton in the hide, and export it in boats
or barklings to different parts of the main land. Cod,
ling, mackerel, whiting, haddock, and foies, are here
caught in abundance, together with a fmall red cod,
remarkably voracious, of a very delicate flavour : there
are likewife two kinds of jvhite filh, which feem to be
peculiar to this coafl, known by the names oi lithe and
lea, efteemed good eating. But the grea^ft trealure
the ocean pours forth is the prodigious quantity of. hex-
rings, which, at one feafon of the year, fwarm m all
the creeks and bays along the weflern fhore of Scotland.
Thefe are counted the largeft, fattell, and find! her¬
rings caught in any part of the northern feas. _ Tin*
fithery employs a great number of hands, and br.ngs d
confiderable advantage to the kingdom. The fifli are
caught, cured, barrelled up, and exported: but whe¬
ther from want of fkill, or a proper fait for picking,
the Scotch-cured herrings of this coafl, though fupe-
rior to all others in their natural flate are counted in¬
ferior to thofe which are dreffed and pickled by the
Dutch fifhermen.
“ How mean and contra£led foever the commerce
and produce of thefe iilands may be at prefent, they
are perhaps more capable of improvement m both
articles than any part of ^Bnufh domniions in Eu¬
rope. The inhabitants are fo little flailed m hufbandry,
that the foil, though generally good m the low grounds
yields nothing but fcanty crops of oats and barley , and
great trads of land lie altogether uncultivated. If a
very fmall number of judicious farmers would fettle m
fome of the moft confiderable iflands they would ioou
raife fuch harvefts as would enrich themfelves; employ
and maintain all the idle people a great number of
whom are obliged to repair to foreign countries for
fubflftence; afford fufficient bread for the inhabitants,
and even fupply the barren parts of the oppofite con¬
tinent. The foil in many places would produce wheat,
and almoft everywhere would give good pafturage,
infomuch that, with proper culture, the people mi^ht
provide hay and fodder for their cattle, which during
the feverity of the winter die m great numbers for want
of provifion. Improvements of this kind would be
the1 more eafily made, as the fea-ftiore abounds with
(hells for lime and fea-weeds for manure j and the la¬
bourers would be eafily fubfifted by the fiftr that fwafrn
not only in the ocean which furrounds thefe iflands,
but likewife in the numerous lakes and river, of fe
water. Martin declares, that he knew 100 familms
Z this country maintained by as many little farms, the
rent of each not exceeding 5s. one (beep, and a few
PCC“ The^ommerce of thefe iflands might be extended
in fuch a manner as to render them a of trade
and an excellent nurfery for feamen. ihey are fur
(A) In the beginning of the 17th century the man^ers ^ it^made Tedbl to^receive thefe Hebridhm
inginvafions, or landing there to fupport rebellious: at length it was m
Redlhanks as they were ftykd.
H E B
Hebrides
mfhed with an infinite number of bays, creeks, and har-
hours, for the convenience of navigation: the inhabi¬
tants are numerous, ftrong, aftive, and every way
qualified for the life of a mariner. The fea affords
myriads of filh tor exportation : the lands might afford
plenty of pafturage for black cattle, horfes, and Iheep,
as well as plenteous harvefts of corn and other grain:
woollen and linen manufactures might be profecuted
to great advantage, where labour is cheap and provi-
fions are reafonable. The illands afford good done and
lime ; and feme parts of the oppofite main land, tim¬
ber for building. They have plenty of fuel, not only
for the ordinary purpofes of life, but alfo for lalt-pans,
which might be erefted on different parts of the coafl: j
and for burning fea-ware for the ufe of a glafs or foap
manufacture. Finally, the fituation of thefe iflands
is fo commodious for trade, that the navigator is im¬
mediately in the open fea, and almoft in the neigh¬
bourhood of Denmark, Sweden, Hamburgh, Hol¬
land ; nay, with a favourable wind, he can reach the
coaits of France and Spain in a week’s failing : if he
is bound for the Britifh plantations, or indeed for any
part of the known globe, he is at once difencumbered
of the land, and profecutes his voyage through the
open fea without obitruCtion or difficulty.”
To the negleCted date of thefe iflands, and to their
great importance in various natural refpeCts, the atten¬
tion of government has been called within thefe few
years by the reprefentation and efforts of different pa¬
triotic noblemen and gentlemen, and a regular efta-
bliffiment has been formed under the name of the Bri-
tiffi Society for extending the Fiffieries and improving
the Sea-coafts of the Kingdom ; in confequence of
which many ufeful plans for the improvement of thofe
ifiands have been adopted, and are gradually carrying
into execution.
^ New Hebrides, a clufter of iflands lying in the
Great South fea, or Pacific ocean. The northern
iflands of this archipelago were firfl: difeovered by that
great navigator Quiros in 1606, and not without rea-
fon. confidered as a part of the fouthern continent,
which at that time, and till very lately, was fuppofed
to exift. They were next vifited by M. de Bougain¬
ville in 1768, who, hefides landirtg on the ifland of
Lepers, did no more than difeover that the land was
not connected, but compofed of iflands, w'hich he call¬
ed the Great Cyclades. Captain Cook, befides afeer-
taining the extent and fituation of thefe iflands, added
the knowledge of feveral in this group which were be¬
fore unknown. He explored the whole clufter; and
thinking himfelf thereby intitled to affix to them a ge¬
neral appellation, he named them the New Hebrides.
They are fituated between latitudes of 14 deg. 25. min.
and 20 deg. 4 min. fouth j and between 166 deg. 41
min. and 170 deg. 21 min. eaft longitude; and extend
1 25 leagues in the direCHon of north-north-weft and
fouth-fouth-eaft. The moft northern part of this archi¬
pelago was called by M. de Bougainville the Peak of
the Etoile. The whole clufter confifts of the following
iflands; fome of which have received names from
tiie different European navigators; others retain the
names which they bear among the natives . viz. Tierra
Efpiritu Santo,, Mallicollo, St Bartholomew, file
of Lepers, Aurora, Whitfuntide, Ambrym, Immer,
Apee, Three Hills, Sandwich, Montagu, Hinchin-
[ 3*5 1
H E B
brook, Shepherd, Eorramanga, Irronan, Anna!on, and
Tanna.
HEBRON, in Ancient Geography, a very ancient
city fituated in the hilly country of the tribe of Judah
to the fouth. Its more ancient name was Kiriath Ar-
ba, or Cariath Arba. In antiquity this city vied with
moft ancient cities of Egypt, being feven years
prior to Zoan, tranflated Tunis by the Seventy. Jo-
fephus makes it not only older than Tanis, but even
than Memphis. It flood to the weft of the lake Afphal-
tites, and was for fome time the royal refidence of
David. After the captivity it fell into hands of the
Edomites, as did all the fouth country of Judea. It is
now called Habroun, fituated feven leagues to the fouth
of Bethlehem. The Arabs call it El-kalil, “ the well-
beloved f which is the epithet they ufually apply to
Abraham, whofe fepulchral grotto they ftill mown
Habroun is feated at the foot of an eminence, on which
are fome wretched ruins, the miihapen remains of an
ancient caftle. The adjacent country is a fort of ob¬
long hollow, five or fix leagues in length, and not dif-
agreeably varied by rocky hillocks, groves of fir-trees,
ftunted oaks, and a few plantations of vines and olive
trees. Thefe vineyards are not cultivated with a view to
make wine, the inhabitants being fuch zealous Maho¬
metans as not to permit any Chriftians to live among
them : they are only of ufe to procure dried raifins,
which are badly prepared, though the grapes are of an
excellent kind. The peafants cultivate cotton likewife,
wffiich is fpun by their wives, and fold at Jerufalem and
Gaza. They have alfo fome foap manufactories, the
kali for wffiich is fold them by the Bedouins; and a
very ancient glafs-houfe, the only one in Syria. They
make^ there a great quantity of coloured rings, brace¬
lets for the wwifts and legs, and for the arms above the
elbows, befides a variety of other trinkets, which are
fent even to Conftantinople. In confequence of thefe
manufactures, Mr Volney informs us, Habroun is the
moft powerful village in all this quarter ; and is able to
arm 800 or 900 men, who adhere to the faCtion Kaifi,
and are the perpetual enemies of the people of Bethle¬
hem. This difeord, w'hich has prevailed throughout
the country from the earlieft times of the Arabs, caufes
a perpetual civil war. The peafants are inceffantly ma¬
king inroads on each other’s lands, deitroying their
corn, dourra, fefamum, and olive trees, and carrying
off their ffieep, goats, and camels. The Turks, who
aye everywhere negligent in repreffing fimilar diforders,
are the lefs attentive *to them here, fince their autho- *
rity is very precarious. The Bedouins, whofe camps
occupy the level country, are continually at open ho-
ftilities with them; of w'hich the peafants avail them-
felves to refift their authority, or do mifehief to each
other, according to the blind caprice of their igno¬
rance or the intereft of the moment. Hence arifes an
anarchy which is ftill more dreadful than the defpotifm
wfliich prevails elfewhere, while the mutual devaftations
of the contending parties render the appearance of this
part of Syria more wretched than that of any other.
HEBRUS, in Ancient Geography, the largeft river
of I hrace, rifing from Mount Scombrus; running in
two channels till it comes to Philippopolis, where they
unite. It empties itfelf at two mouths into the Aegean
lea, to the north of Samothrace. It was fuppofed to
roll its W'aters upon golden fands. The head of Orphe-
R r 2 us
Hshrorq
Hebrus.
H E C
us was thrown into it after it had been cut off by the
Ciconian women.
HECATE, in fabulous hiflory, a daughter of Perfes
and Afteria>, the lame as Proferpinc or Diana. She
was called Luna in heaven, Diana on earth, and He¬
cate or Proferpine in hell} whence her name of Diva
trformis, tergemina, triceps. She was luppoled to prefide
over magic and enchantments. She was generally repre-
fented like a woman, with the head of a horfe, a dog^or
a boar ; and fometirnes lire appeared with three diiier-
ent bodies, and three different faces, with one neck.
Dogs, lambs, and honey, w’ere generally oftered to her,
efpecially in ways and crofs roads } whence Ihe obtain¬
ed the name of Trivia. Her powTer w’as extended over
heaven, the earth, fea, and hell •, and to her kings and
nations fuppoled themielvesindebted for their prolperity.
HECATE SI A, a yearly feftiyal obferved by the
Stratonicenlians in honour of Hecate, i he Athenians
paid alfo particular worlhip to this goddefs, who was
deemed the patronefs of families and of children. From
tlris circumilance the ftatues of the goddeis were erec¬
ted before the doors of the houfes •, and upon every
new moon a public fupper was always provided at the
expence of the richell people, and fet in the llreets,
where the poorelt of the citizens were permitted to re¬
tire and fealt upon it, while they reported that i lecate
had devoured it. There were alfo expiatory offerings,
to fupplicate the goddeis to remove wdiatever evils might
impend on the head of the public, &.c.
HECATOMB, in antiquity, a facrifice of a hun¬
dred beads of the fame kind, at a hundred altars, and
by a hundred priefls or facrificers. The word is formed
of the Greek (KctleftSyi, which properly lignifies a fump-
tuous or magnificent facrifice.— Other derives it fr©m
the Greek Uxroy centum, “ a hundred,” and bos,
“ bullock,” &c. •, on which footing the hecatomb
fhould be a facrifice of I oo bullocks.—Others derive
the word from \y.u.roy and pes, “ foot 5” and on
that principle hold, that the hecatomb might conlill of
only 25 four-footed beafts. i hey add, that it did not
matter what kind of beafts w’ere chofen for victims, pro¬
vided the quota of feet were but had.
Pythagoras is faid to have lacrificed a hecatomb to
the mufes of IOO oxen, in joy and gratitude for his
difcovering the demonftration of the 47th propofition of
the firft book of Euclid, viz. that in a re&angled
triangle the fquare of the hypothenufe is equal to the
fquares of the two other fides.
For the origin of hecatombs : Straoo relates, that
there were 100 cities in Laconia, and that each city
ufed to facrifice a bullock every year for the common
fafety of the country 5 whence the inftitution of the ce¬
lebrated facrifice of 100 victims, called hecatombs. Ci¬
thers refer the origin of hecatombs to a plague, wheie-
with the 100 cities of Peloponnefus were affiicled } for
the removal whereof, they jointly contributed to fo
fplendid a facrifice.
Julius Capitolinus relates, that for a hecatomb they
erected loo altars of turf, and on thefe lacrificed 100
flieep and 100 hogs. He adds, that when the empe¬
rors offered facrifices of this kind, they facrificed too
lions, xoo eagles, and 100 other beafts pf the like kind.
' HECATOMBiEON was the firft month of the A-
thenian year, confifting of 30 days j beginning on the
H E G
firft new moon after the fummer lolftice, and confe- Hecatotn-
quently anfwering to the latter part of our June and P°^s
the beginning of July. It had its name from the great jjecia>
number of hecatombs facrificed in it. See HECATOMB. y-—
HEC ATOM POL IS, in Ancient Geography, a file¬
name of the ifland of Crete, from its 100 cities- The
territory of Laconia alfo had anciently this name for
the fame reafon •, and the cuftom of thefe 100 cities was
to facrifice a hecatomb annually.
FI EC ATOMPYLOS, in Ancient Geography, the
metropolis of Parthia, and royal relidence of Ari'aces,
fituated at the fprings of the Araxes. Thebes in Egypt
had alfo the fame name from its too gates.
HECK, an engine to take fiftn A falmon heck is
a grate for catching that fort of filh.
FIECKLE, among hemp-drefiers. See HaTCHEL.
HECLA, a volcano of Iceland, and one of the rooft
furious in the world, fituated in the fouthern part of
the iiland. See Iceland.
It was vifited in the year 1772 by Dr Van Troil, a
Swedifh gentleman, along with Mr (now Sir Jofeph)
Banks, Dr Solander, and Dr James Lind of Edinburgh.
On their firft landing they found a tract of land 60 or
70 miles in extent entirely ruined by lava,, which ap¬
peared to have been in the higheft ftate of liquefaction.
Having undertaken a journey to the top of the moun¬
tain, they travelled 300 or 36c Engliftx miles over an
uninterrupted tract of lava} and had at length the
plealure of being the firft who had ainved at tne fum-
mit of the mountain.
Plecla, according to the accounts of thefe gentle¬
men, is fituated in the fouthern part of the iiland,
about four miles from the fea-coaft, and is divided into
three parts at the top, the middle point being the
higheft } and, according to an exad obfervation with
Ramfden’s barometer, is 50CO feet above the level of
the fea. They were obliged to quit tneir horfes at the
firft opening from which the fire had burft. They de-
fcribe this as a place with lofty glazed walls and -ugh
glazed cliffs, unlike any thing which they had ever feen
before. .
A little higher up they found a large quantity ot
grit and ftones 5 and ftill farther on another opening,
which, though not deep, defcended lower than that of
the higheft point. Here they imagined they plainly
difcerned the effects of boiling water 3 and not far from
thence the mountain began to be covered with fnow,
excepting fome fpots which were bare. Ihe icaion ot
this difference they foon perceived to be the hot vapour
afcending from the mountain. As they afcended higher
they found thefe fpots become larger ; and about 200.
yards below the fummit, a hole about a yard and a half
in diameter was obferved, from whence iffued fo hot a
fleam, that they could not meafure the degree ot heat
with the thermometer. T. he cold now began to be \ e-
ry intenle } Fahrenheit’s thermometer, which, at the
foot of the mountain was at 54, now fell to 24 5. the
wind alfo became lo violent, that they weie fometimes
obliged to lie down for fear of being blown down the
moil dreadful precipices. On the very fummtt they
experienced at the fame time a high degree of heat and
cold ; for, in the air, Fahrenheit’s thermometer flood
conftantly at 24, but when fet on the ground, rofe to
i : the barometer flood at 2 2»247* Though they
were
t 316 1
H E C [ 3i7 ] H E D
Hecla.
f
were very much inclined to remain here for fome time,
it could by no means be done with fafety ; for which
reafon they were obliged to defcend very quickly.
The mountain feems to be made up, not. of lava, but
of fand, grit, and allies ; which are thrown up with the
Hones partly difcoloured, and partly melted by the fire.
Several forts of pumice (tones were found on it, among
which was one with fome fulphur. Sometimes the pu¬
mice w7as' fo much burnt, that it was as light as tow.
Its form and colour was fometimes very fine, but at
the fame time fo foft, that it was difficult to remove it
from one place to another. The common lava was
found both in large pieces and fmall bits; as likewife
a quantity of black jafper burned at the extremities,
and refembling trees and branches. Some Hate of a
ftrong red colour was obferved among the ftones thrown
out by the volcano. In one place the lava had taken
the form of chimney-ftacks half broken down..—As
they defcended the mountain they obferved three open¬
ings. In one, every thing looked as red as brick ; from
another, the lava had flowed in a ftream about 50 yards
broad, and after proceeding for fonie way, had divided
into three large branches. Further on they perceived
an opening, at the bottom of which was a mount in
form of a fugar-loaf, in throwing up of which the fire
appeared to have exhaufled itfelf.
We have already obferved, that our travellers were
the firft who afcended to the top of this mountain.
The reafon that no one before them had ever done fo
ivas partly founded in fuperitition, and partly the fteep-
nefs and difficulty of the afcent, which was greatly fa¬
cilitated by an irruption in 1766. Moft kinds of lava
found in other volcanic countries are to be met with
about Hecla, or other Iceland volanoes; as the gray,
dark perforated kind, fimilar to the Derby (hire load-
ftone ; the Iceland agate, pumcx vitreus both the niger
and viridis. Some have conjectured this to be the lapis
ohjidianus of the ancients, which they formed into
ftatues.
The lava is feldom found near the openings whence
the eruptions proceed, but rather loofe grit and aflres;
and indeed the greater part of the Icelandic mountains
confift of this matter j which, when it is grown cold,
-generally takes an arched form. The upper cruft
frequently grows hard and folid, whilit the melted mat¬
ter beneath it continues liquid. This forms great ca¬
vities, whofe walls, bed, and roof, are of lava, and where
great quantities of ftala&ite lava are found. There are
a vaft number of thefe caves in the ifland. fome of which
are very large, and are made ufe of by the inhabitants
for (heltering their cattle. The largeft in the ifland is
5034 feet long, and from 50 to 34 in breadth, and be¬
tween 34 and 36 in height.—There are fome prodigi¬
ous clefts left by the eruptions, the largeft of which is
called Almeneggaa, near the water of Tingalla, in the
fouth-weftern part of the ifland. It is 105 feet broad
and very long. The direflion of the chafm itfelf is
from north to fouth. Its weftern wall, from wffiich the
other has been perpendicularly divided, is 107 feet fix
inches in height, and confifts of many ftrata, of about
10 inches each in height, of lava grown cold at different
uiues. I he eaftern w all is only 45 feet four inches in
eight, and that part of it wffiich is direffly oppofite to
ine higheft part of the other fide is no more than 36
i€et 5 inches high.
HECTIC Fever. See Medicine Index.
HECI Off, the Ion of Priam and Hecuba, and the
father of Aftyanax, is celebrated for the valour with
which he defended the city of Troy againft the Greeks. <.
He was killed by Achilles, wffio dragged his body, fa-
ftened to bis chariot, thrice round the walls of Troy,
and aftenvurds reftored it to Priam for a large ranfom.
See Troy.
HEDERA, Ivy, a genus of plants belonging to
the pentandria clafs j and in the natural method giving
name to the 46th order, Hcderacece. See Botany
Index.
HEDERACEAt (from/Wmz, “ivy”), the name
of the 46th order in Linnseus’s fragments of a natural
method, confifting of ivy, and a few other genera, which
from their general habit and appearance feem nearly al¬
lied to it. See Botany Index.
HEDGES, in Agriculture, are either planted to
make fences round inclofures, or to divide the feveral
parts of a garden. When they are deligned as out¬
ward fences, they are planted either with haxvthorn,
crabs, or black-thorn j but thofe hedges which are
planted in gardens, either to furround wildernefs-quar-
ters, or to fcreen the other parts of a garden from fight,
are planted according to the fancy of the owner; fome
preferring ever-greens, in which cafe the holly is belt ;
next the yew, then the laurel, laurultinus, phyilyrea, &c.
Others prefer the beech, the hornbeam, and the elm.
See Agriculture and Gardening.
Hedge-Hog. See Erinaceus, Mammalia Index.
HedgE-Sparrow. See Motacilla, Ornithology
Inaex.
HEDWIG, John, a botanift of great eminence, w'as
born at Cronftadt in Tranfylvania, in October 1730,
of an originally Saxon family. In his earlieft years he*
difcovered a ftrong attachment to the ftudy of botany,
in wffiich he afterwards excelled fo much. He was
left with very little to fupport him on the death of his
father. The fame of Gerlach led him to Zittau in Lu-
fatia, where he profecuted his Audios for three years,
adiiied by the generolity of different benefadlors. He*
ftudied philofophy, mathematics, and medicine, at Leip-
fic, where he was diftinguilhed for his diligence and
regularity of deportment. He afterwards affifted Lud¬
wig in the regulation of his library, anatomical mu-
leum and botanical garden ; and in 1756, he entered
into the family of Bofe, profeffor of botany, for whom
he prepared plants for demonftration, and attended pa¬
tients in the public infirmary. In 1 759 he took the de¬
gree of M. D. and pra&ifed at Chemnitz in Saxony
where he entered^into the married ftate.
It was cuftoma’ry with him to walk the fields by five
in the morning, to contemplate the beauties of nature
to vifit his patients after breakfaft, and (pend the after-*
noon and evening in examining ffich plants as he had
collebfed during his early excurfions. He particularly
applied himfelf to the inveftigation of the graffes, and
indeed of the whole cryptogamia clafs of plants, wffiich
botamfts at that period had greatly neglected. At the
age of 40, he taught himfelf Jo draw and paint the ob-
jeffs which he had difcovered, and the compound mi-
crofeope wffiich he received from Koehler of Drefden
greatly affifted him in thofe refearches. By the per-
fuafion of his fecond wife (wffiom he married about a year
after the death of his firft), he was prevailed with to
fettle.
‘Heilwig
II
Heel.
H E E [ 31
fettle at Leipfic in 1781, where he publifhed his great
work, entitled, Fundamentum Hi flame Naturahs Muf-
1 coTiuji Frondoforum. In this he gave an accurate hi-
Itory of moffes from his own obfervations, and illuftrated
the whole with appropriate plates. In it he difeovered
fuch fagacity, induftry, and profound refearch, as afto-
nilhed all the botanifts of his time, and induced them
to pay more attention to this curious fubjefl. He gain¬
ed the prize given by the Peterfburgh academy lor his
curious and excellent treatife Theoria (jenerationis et
FruElificatioms Plantarum Cnjptogamicariim Linncei,
mere propriis Ohfervationibus et Experiment is Super-
publilhed in 1784.
His literary reputation increafed his medical prac¬
tice 5 he was chofen phyfician to the town guards in
the laft mentioned year, and two years after he became
profelfor of medicine in the univerlity. In 1789, lie
was chofen ordinary profeffor of botany, and fuperin-
tended the phyfic garden. He corre&ed the falfe no¬
tions which then prevailed, refpefling the efficacy of
■the medulla or pith, the perforation of the flowers, the
excrements of plants, the increafe of the veifels of vege¬
tables, and the genuine ufe of the leaves. By the death
of a favourite daughter of a confumption at 16 yekrs
of age, he received a fevere ffiock 5 and a catairhal af-
feflion, followed by a nervous fever, deprived the world
of that great man on 7th of February 1799? hi the 69th
year of his age.
It is agreed on all hands, that Dr Hedwig was a
man of great modefty, the ufual concomitant of ex¬
traordinary talents j that he was friendly and benevo¬
lent, upright in his dealings, not felicitous about wealth,
and free from parade, both in teaching and in writing.
In the forefts of Hifpaniola there is an ever-green tree,
the name of which, hedwigio balJamiferA, w’as intended
in the moft honourable manner to perpetuate his memo¬
ry. He left behind him two fons, one a painter of emi¬
nence at Magdeburg, and the other Dr Romanus Adol¬
phus Hedwig, already known to the botanical world by
feveral publications.
HEDYC ARYA, a genus of plants belonging to the
dioecia clafs. See Botany Index.
HEDYOTIS, a genus of plants belonging to the
tetrandria clafs of plants •, and in the natural method
ranking under the 47th order, Stellatce. See Botany
Index.
HEDYSARUM, a genus of plants belonging to
the diadelphia clafs of plants j and in the natural tne-
,thod ranking under the 3 2d order, Papihonacece. See
Botany Index. . , . 0
HEEL, in Anatomy, the hind part of the toot. See
Anatomy, n° 66. , r i. r
Heel of a Horfe, the lower hinder-part of the foot
comprehended between the quarters and oppoflte to the
toe. The heel of a horfe ffiould be high and large, and
one fide of it ffiould not rife higher than the other up¬
on the pattern. To recover the heels of a horfe that
is hoof-bound, you fliould take out his foie and keep
his heels very wide, by which they will be reftored in
a month.
Heel of a Hotfeman. This being the part that is
armed wuth the fpur, the word is ufed for the fpur it-
felf: “This horfe underftands the heel well.” lo
ride a horfe from one heel to another, is to make him
8 ] H E G
go fideways, fometimes to one heel and fometimes to
another.
Heel, in the fea-language. If a fliip leans on one
fide, wffiether ffie be aground or afloat, then it is faid
the heels a-ftarboard, or a-port *, or that fhe heels off-
wards, or to the fiiore ; that is, inclines more to one
fide than to another.
HEELER, or Bloody-HEEL Cock, a fighting cock,
that itrikes or wounds much with his fpurs.
The matters knowT fuch a cock, even while a chick¬
en, by the linking of his two heels together in his
going.
HEEMSKIRK. See Hemskirk.
HEGIRA, in Chronology, a celebrated.epoch among
the Mahometans. The word ^ is Arabic, formed of
man, hagirah, “ flight of nan, “ to fly, quit one’s
country, family, friends, &c.
The event wffiich gave occafion to this epocha, was
Mahomet’s flight from Mecca. The magiftrates of
that city, fearing his impoftures might raife a fedition,
refolved to expel him : this, accordingly, they effefted
in the year of our Lord 622, on the evening of the 15th
or 16th of July. See Arabia, N° 44.
To render this epocha more creditable, the. Maho¬
metans affeft to ufe the word hegira in a peculiar fenfe
for an a£f of religion, whereby a man forlakes his coun¬
try, and gives way to the violence of perfecutors and
enemies of the faith : they add, that the Coraffiites, be¬
ing then the ftrongeft party in the city, obliged their
prophet to fly, as not being able to endure his aboliffi-
ing of idolatry. This flight was not the firft of Maho¬
met’s, but it was the moft famous. It happened in the
14th year from his affuming the charafter of prophet
and apoftle, and promulgating his new religion.
The orjentals do not agree with us as to the time of
the hegir'a. Among the Mahometans, Amali fixes it
to the year of Chrift 6309 Bnd from the death of Mofes
2347 ; and Ben Caffem to the year of the world 5800:
according to the Greek computation, among the Chrif-
tians, Said Ebn Batrik refers the hegira to the year of
Chrift 614, and of the creation 6114.
Khondemir relates, that it was Omar, the fecond ca¬
liph, that firft eftablifhed the hegira as an epocha, and
appointed the years to ^3, numbered from it : at the
time he made this decM, there w^ere already feyen
years elapfed. This eftabliffiment was made in imita¬
tion of the Chriftians, who, in thofe times, reckoned
their years from the perfecution of Dioclefian.
But there is another hegira, and that earlier too,
though of lefs eminence. Mahomet, in the 1.4th year
of his miffion, wras obliged to relinquilh Medina : the
Coraftiites had all along oppofed him very vigoroufly,
as an innovator and difturber of the public peace j and
many of his difciples, not enduring to be reputed fol-
low'ers of an impoftor, defired leave of him to abandon
the city, for fear of being obliged to renounce^ their
religion. This retreat makes the firft hegira. Ihefe
two hegiras the Mahometans, in their language, call
hegiratan. t
The years of the hegira confift only of 354 days.
To reduce thefe years to the Julian kalendar, i. e. to
find what Julian year a given year of the hegira an-
fwers to, reduce the year of the hegira given into
days, by multiplying by 354, divide the produft by
d6i>
1
■ ■ H El. . [ 3
■ 3^5> anc^ from the quotient fubtracl the intercalations,
i. e. as many days as there are four years in the
quotient j and laftly, to the remainder add 622. See
Year.
HEIDEGGER, John James, was the fon of a cler¬
gyman, and a native of Zurich in Switzerland, where
he married, but left his country in confequence of an
intrigue. Having had an opportunity of vifiting the
principal cities of Europe, he acquired a tade for ele¬
gant and refined pleafures, as they are called, which,
united to a throng inclination for voluptuoufnefs, by de-
grees qualified him for the management of public amufe-
ments. In 1708, when he was near 50 years old, he
came to England on a negociation from the Swifs at
Zurich ; but, failing in his embafly, he entered as a
private foldier in the guards for protection. Ey his
fprightly engaging converfation and infinuating addrefs,
he foon worked himfelf into the good graces of our
young people of falhion ; from whom he obtained the
appellation of the Swifs Count. He had the addrefs
to procure a fubfcription, with which, in 1709, he
was enabled to furnith out the opera of “ Thomyris,”
which rvas written in Englith, and performed at the
queen’s theat/e in the Haymarket. The mafic, how¬
ever, was Italian j that is to lay, airs felefted from fun-
dry of the foreign operas by Bunoncini, Scarlatti, Stef-
fani, Galparini, and Albinoni. Heidegger by this per¬
formance alone was a gainer of 500 guineas. The ju¬
dicious remarks he made on feveral defeCts in the con-
dud of our operas in general, and the hints he threw
out for improving the entertainments of the royal thea¬
tre,^ foon ellabliihed his charader as a good critic. Ap¬
peals v\ ere made to his judgment j and fome very mag¬
nificent and elegant decorations introduced upon the
ftage in confequence of his advice, gave fuch fatisfac-
tion to. George II. who was fond of operas, that, upon
being .in formed to ivhofe genius he was indebted for
theie improvements, his majelty wras pleafed from that
time to countenance him, and he foon obtained the chief
T9 j H E I
management of.the opera-houfe in the Haymarket. HeHekfegger,
then fet about improving another fpecies of diverfion, He‘den-
not lefs agreeable to the king, which was the mafque- , he‘m~ ,
rades, and over tiiefe he always prefided at the king’s
theatre. He w^as likewife appointed mafter of the re¬
vels. The nobility now carefled him fo much, and had
fuch an opinion of his tafte, that all fplendid and ele*'
gant entertainments given by them upon particular oc-
cafions, and all private affemblies by fubfcriptions, were
fubmitted to his direction. From the emoluments of
thefe feveral employments, he gained a regular confi-
derable income, amounting, it is faid, in fome years,
to 5000I. which he fpent. with much liberality, particu¬
larly in the maintenance of a fomewhat too luxurious
table j fo that it may be faid he raifed an income, but
never a fortune. At the fame time his charities ought
not to pafs unnoticed, which were frequent and ample-
After a fuccefsful mafquerade, he has been known to
give away feveral hundred pouqds at a time. “ You
know poor objefts of diftrefs better than I do,” he
would frequently fay to a particular acquaintance ;
be fo kind as to give away this money for me.”
1 his well-known liberality, perhaps, contributed much
to his carrying on that diverfion wdth fo little oppofition
as he met wfith. Fie died in 1749, at the advanced
age of 90 years.
As this perfon was long the slrbiter K/eganticirutn of
England, and is alluded to in many publications of his
time, fome account of him, it was thought, might be
here expeCted : but to add all the anecdotes that have
appeared concerning him, would enlarge this article be¬
yond the limits to which it is entitled. One or tivo of
the moll remarkable, however, are fubjoined in a
note (a), as they may afford entertainment to many of
our readers.
HEIDENHEIM, a town of Germany, in Swabia,
and in the territory of Brentzhall, with a handfome pa¬
lace or caftle, belonging to the houfe of Wirtemberg.
E. Long. 10. 19. N. Lat. 48. 37.
HEIDELBERG,
s c0^ntenance was peculiarly unpleafmg, from an unufual harthnefs of features. There is a
more thaf ^ ‘ ‘■742’ paiming by Var‘lo°’ 3 itriklng likenefs 5 and his ^ ^ introduced
an one ofjHogarth s prints—Heidegger was, however, the firfl to joke upon his own uglinefs 1 and he
nrodure ^ ^ii f Ckefterfield> that within a certain given time his lordfhip would not be able to
r^ht thou.K°US 3 T m abLondT uAfter fearch, a woman was found, whole features were at firft
lowed gIr haU HeidTegfrS’ bf uP°n claPPIng ^r head-drefs upon himfelf, he was univerfally al-
fion Gid " nV°n the W3gf • , Jo1^’ a well-known taylor, carrying his bill to a noble duke ; his grace, foreva-
bowJ ?ai5n y°Ur Ug y face’ IJnrer WlU Pay y°u t511 y°u bring me an uglier fellow than vomfelf!” Jolly
bowed and retired, wrote a letter, and fent it by a fervant to Heideg|er ; faying, “ His grace wilhed to fee h m
cu'encf ^ ” Heidegger attended’ ^ ™ there to mL him and in con "
quence as foon as Heidegger’s vifit was over, Jolly received the caih. ?
marked T faCetl°U! duke °f Montagu(the memorable author of the Bottle Conjurer at the theatre in the Hay-
Xe moftfont- • rtCr aTentt at ^.^vil-tavern, Temple-bar, to feveral of the nobility and gentry, feleafng
1 ‘ r °7lvlaI’ and 3 kard drinkers, who were all in the plot. Heidegger was invited and in a few
A Profound r6" T TdCi° deRd idrUn!fTthae h£ W3S °Ut °f tbe r°om^ and laid inrenfi’bIe upon a bed-
in platter of Park611 ’ Tw™ theiate MrS daughter was introduced, who took a mould from his face
nromifed t-n K f tl”i’ 3 maflt was made» and a few' days before the next mafquerade (at which the kine
to knovwwhat fuR^of^crth1 t he COUR^fS the duke made application to Hddegger’s valet-de-chambre^
ftature he gave hi" HPU hl.WaS llk^y ^ Wear ’ and;1Ven Procuring 3 fi^ilar drefs, a°nd a perfon of the fame
was always known bvhib UfAnS' tHe eVe”,ng °f the maf{iuerade, as foon as his majefty was feated (who
drefs from^he^mnanA6 aP the entertainment and the officers of the court, though concealed by his
was no tooner tnr^ A’ Hfld^ggeL a.s ^1, ordered the mufic to play “ God fave the king j” but his back
looner turned, than the fade Heidegger ordered them to ftrike up “ Charly o’er the water.” The whole
company
H E I
[
3:
Heidelberg, HEIDELBERG, a confiderable and populous town
[ Height. 0£ Germany, capital of the Lower Palatinate, with a
' v ' celebrated univerfity. It is noted for its great tun,
which holds 800 hoglheads, generally kept full of good
Rhenilh wine. It hands in a pleafant rich country, and
was a famous feat of learning : but it has undergone lo
many calamities, that it is nothing now to what it was
formerly. It was firft reduced to a heap of rums m
1622 by the Spaniards *, and the rich library was trani-
ported partly to Vienna, and partly to the Vatican at
Rome. After this it enjoyed the benefits of peace, till
the Proteftant electoral houfe became extina, and a
bloody war enfued, in which not only the caftle was
ruined, but the tombs and bodies of the eleftors were
lhamefully violated and pillaged. This happened in
1693 •, and the people of the Palatinate were oblige
to leave their dwellings, and to go for refuge mto fo¬
reign countries. To add to thefe misfortunes, the elec¬
tor reiided at Manheim, and carried moft of the people
of diltindion along with him, fo that rt is uncertain
whether Heidelberg will ever recover itlelr or not,
though they have begun to rebuild fome ot the Jorti“*
cations. The great tun was broke to pieces m 1093 7
the French, and at great expence in 17 29 was repair¬
ed. The town Hands on the river Neckar, over which
there is a handfome bridge. E. Long. 8. 48. N. Lat.
49HE1GHT, in general, fignifies the difference be¬
tween the ground and the top of any objea meafured
1 C \leafuring Heights. See Mensuration
and Barometer.
,0 1 H E I
HEILA, a town of royal Pruflia, in Calfubla, feated
at the mouth of the river Viltula, on the Baltic fea, and
formerly fubjeft to Poland, 12 miles north of Dantzic. >.
E. Long. 19. 2?. N. Lat. 34. 53.
HEILEGEN-have, a fea-port town of Germany,
in Lower Saxony, and in Wageria, feated on the Bal¬
tic fea, over againft the iiland of Termeren. E. Long.
II. K. N. Lat. 57. 20.
HEINECCIUS, John GotlieB, one ot the great-
eft civilians of the 18th century, was born at Eifenberg,
in the principality of Altenburg, in 1681. After Hav¬
ing ftudied at Collar and Leipfic, he was dehgned tor
the miniftrv, and began to preach •, but diflikmg that
profellion, "he laid it Aide, and applied Hmfelf entirely
to the ftudy of philofophy and the civil law. In > 710,
he became profeflbr of philc'ophy at Hall-, and in
1721, he was made profeffor ou civil law, w-ith tne title
of counfellor of the court. His great reputation made
the ftates of Friefland invite him to Franeker 101724 ;
but three years after, the king of-Pruflia prevailed on
him to accept of a profefforfhip of law at i'ranc.ort on
Heila
IJ .
H eiiVeccius.
Handing his being invited to Marpurg, Denmark, and
three academies in Holland. He wrote many works,
all of them much efteemed. The principal are, I. An¬
tiquit alum Romanarum junfprudentiam lihjlrannum Jyn~
tapma. It was this excellent abridgment that gave rue
to his reputation in foreign countries. 2. Element a ju¬
ris civilis fecundum ordinem injlitutionum et pandcita-
rum. 2. Fundamenla Jlyli cultioris. There are lew
^ works
company were inftantly thunderftruck and all the courtiers not m ^ ^cLfing the^i^fticTans of drunkennefs, or
tion' Heidegger flew to the muftc-gallery, f-ore> andXe tuSel kughed fo immoderately, that they
of being fet on by fome fecret enemy to rum him. I he k g - ^ ^ faye the was the tune j but when,
hazarded a difeovery. While Heidegger ftaid in ,the, gab J’ ^ ^ obferve if decorum was kept by the com-
after fetting matters to rights, he retired to one °.f th^a g the’floor 0f the theatre, juft in front of the mu-
pany, the counterfeit ftepping W-ard, and P^g fl^ned them for blockheads, had he not
ftc gallery, called out m a moft audible voice, 1I™tatnA gg , flcians who knew his charafter, in
luftgtold ;km to play “ Charly o’er the ’hu'J&S, “ Char.v” teas played again
their turn thought him either drunk or nut. , 0tflcers of the guards, who always attended upon thefe
At this repetition of the fuppofed affront, fome of the o t§. but the late duke of Cumberland, who
occafions, were for afeending the gallery and kicking the ’ bUt^ confufl0n. “ Shame ! Shame !”
could hardly contain himfelf interpofed. The company -^^age t!Tat part of the theatre facing the
refounded from all parts, and Heidegger once more fl S . it The yn was m a violent
gallery. Here the duke of Montagu, artfully addreffmg himfelf to ^ muficians g.ere mad, and afr
paflionthat his bell way was to go inftantly and Heidegger to do the fame. The
let-ward, to difeharge then,. Almoft at the lame mftan he ”d«'d 'f had no raade a genteel apology
feene now became truly comic in the circle befme the . g. & kintive tone, cried out, Indeed,
for the infolence of his muficians, but the/alfe Heidegg H;ideager turned round, flared, ftaggered, grew
•s
leTr^AtlAn " wit™fh'e wS woman did n« break the'mould, and melt down the maik
before his face. flebated Which nationalift of Europe had
Being once at fupper with a large company, when a que _ charafter for the Swifs, and appealed to
the greateft ingenuity ? to the furprife ot ca^ to E^Iand without a farthing, where I
himfelf for the truth of it. “ I was born a Svvffs (faid he), and m"ft able Engliftmian to go to Swit-
have found means to gain 5000I. a-year, and to fpendit No 1 b ^ is faid to have had f0 remarkable a me-
wStr Ch^“&^Ai:A & again; and when he came home, wrote
down every fign on each lide of the ftreet.
2
H E I [ 32
works fo ufeful as this for forming a Latin ftyle.
4. Elementa phllofophice rational:1! et morahs, qinbus prce-
mijjh hifloria philojbphica. 5. Hiftoria juris chilis Ro¬
mani ac Germanici. 6. Elementa juris naturce et gen¬
tium, &c. _
HEINETKEN, Christian, an extraordinary child,
the prodigy of the North, was born at Lubeck in 1721.
He fpoke his maternal tongue fluently at ten months.
At one year old, he knew the principal events of the
pentateuch •, in two months more, he was mafter of the
entire hiftory of the Old and New leftaments j at two
years and a half, he a:' wered the principal queltions in
geography and in ancient and modern hillory 5 and he
fpoke Latin and French with great facility before the
commencement of his lourth year. His conftitut’.on
was fo delicate, that he was not weaned till a few
months before his death. M. Martini of Lubeck pub-
liihed a pamphlet in 1730, in which he endeavoured to
give natural reafons for the extraordinary capacity of
this infant, who died in his fifth year.
HEINSIUS, Daniel, profeffor of politics and hif¬
tory at Leyden, and librarian to the univerfity there,
was born at Gand in Flanders in 13 Bo. He became a
fcholar to Jofeph Scaliger at Leyden, and was indebted
to the encouragement and care of that great man for
the perfe&ion to which he attained in literature, and
which at the beginning of his life there was little reafon
to hope from him. He diflinguilhed himfelf as a critic
by his labours on many claffical authors j and ivas highly
honoured as well abroad as at home : Guftavus Adol¬
phus, king of Sweden, gave him a place among^ his
counfellors of ftate } the republic of V enice made him a
knight of the order of St Mark ; and Pope Urban VIII.
made him great offers, if he would come, as he expreffed
it, “ to refcue Rome from barbarifm.” He died in
1666, leaving feveral works of his own, both in poetry
and profe.
Heinsius, Nicholas, the fon of Daniel Heinfius, was
born at Leyden •, and became as great a Latin poet, and
a greater critic, than his father. His poems have been
feveral times printed, but the beft edition is that of
Amfterdam in 1666. He gave editions of feveral of
the claflics, with notes j his Claudian is dedicated in a
Latin poem to Queen Chriftina of Sweden, and his
Ovid to Thuanus. At his death, which happened in
1681, he difclaimed all his works, and expreffed the
utmoft regret at having left behind him fo many “ mo¬
numents of his vanity,” as he called them. He was
as much diftinguiflie’d by his great employments in
the ftate, as by his talents, learning, and good quali¬
ties.
HEIR, in Law, fignifies the perfon who fucceeds
another by defcent to lands, tenements, and heredita¬
ments, being an eftate of inheritance, or an eftate in
fee •, becaufe nothing paffes by right of inheritance but
in fee. See the articles CONSANGUINITY, DESCENT,
Fee, Succession, and Law Index.
Heir-apparent, is a perfon fo called in the lifetime
of his anceftor, at whofe death he is heir at law.
Heir -Prefumptive, is one who, if the anceftor fhould
die immediately, would, in the prefent circumftances of
things, be his heir •, but whofe right of inheritance may
be defeated by the contingency of fome nearer heir be¬
ing born.
HEiR-Loom (formed of heir and the Saxon loom, de-
Vol. X. Part I.
!, ] H E L
noting limb or members') in our law-books, fignifies fuch
goods and perfonal chattels as are not inventoried after
the owner’s deceale, but neceffarily come to the heir
along with the houfe.
Heir-loom comprehends divers implements; as tables,
preffes, cupboards, bedfteads, furnaces, wainfcot, and
fuch like j which in fome countries have belonged to a
houfe for certain defcents, and are never inventoried af¬
ter the deceafe of the owner, as chattels are, but accrue
by cuftom, not by common law, to the heir, with the
houfe itfelf. The ancient jewels of the crown are held
to be heir-looms, and are not devifable by will, but
defcend to the next iucceffor.
HEIRESS, a female heir to one who has an eftate
in lands, &.c. See Heir.
Stealing an Heiress. See Forcible Marriage.
HEIRSHIP MOVEABLES, in Scots Law, the beft of
certain kinds of moveables, which the heir of line is en¬
titled to take, befides the heritable eftate. See Law
Index.
HEISTER, Laurence, an eminent phyfician, fur-
geon, and anatomift, was born at Irankfort on the
Mayne, in the year 1683. After being educated in
the univerfities of Germany, he profecuted the ftudy of
anatomy and furgery at Amfterdam, in 1706. Next
year he added as furgeon in the Dutch camp in Bra¬
bant, and afterwards ftudied medicine at Leyden under
the celebrated Boerhaave, at the expiration of which
he took his degrees. In 1709, he was appointed phy-
fician-general to the Dutch military hofpital, by which
means he acquired vaft experience, both in medicine
and furgery. He was appointed profeffor of anatomy
and furgery at Altdorf in 1710, where he acquired
great celebrity by his ledtures and writings.
In 1720 he removed to the univerfity of Helmftadt,
where he continued during the remainder of his life.
The czar Peter invited him to Ruflia *, but the efteem in
which he was held by different fovereigns induced him
to remain in Germany. His death happened in the year
1758, in the 7 >th year of his age. Dr Heifter was
uncommonly induftrious, and wrote a prodigious num¬
ber of books j but his principal fame was derived from
his fingular Ikill and fuccefs in furgery. He is particu¬
larly known by his Compendium Anatomicum, which
has been frequently reprinted, and tranflated into dif¬
ferent languages. The chief of his furgical publications
is his Inftitutions of Surgery, which was long confider-
ed as a ftandard book of the kind, till it was fuper-
feded by more modern fyftems. As a phyfician his
principal works are, Obfervationes Medico - m if cella nece,
Theoreticce et Rraclicce ; De Medicince Mechanics Pref-
tantia; and Compendium Inftitutionum et Fundamentorum
Medicince. A Colledlion of Medical, Chirurgical, and
Anatomical Obfervations, was publilhed after his death
in 2 vols quarto.
HEISTERIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
decandria clafs; and in the natural method ranking
under the 1 2th order, Holoracece. See Botany Index.
HELENA, or St Helena, an iiland in the At¬
lantic ocean, belonging to the Englilh Eaft India Com¬
pany, and fituated in W. Long. 6. 30. S. Lat. 16.
The greateft length of the ifland is about eight miles,
and its circumference is above 20. Some of the moun¬
tains are pretty high, covered with wood to the top,
and exhibit marks of volcanic eruptions. The coun-
S f try.
H EL [ 52
try, according to Mr Forfter, has a fine appearance •,
the foil is in many places a rich mould, from fix to ten
inches deep, and a variety of plants thrive in it luxuri¬
antly. He found many plants here which he had not
obferved in other parts of the world. Among thefe
■were fome called by the natives cabbage-trees, gum-trees,
and red wood. The former thrive in moift places ; but
the latter are always found on the ridges of hills, where
the foil is dry. The cabbage-tree has rather large
leaves ; but after many inquiries Mr Fofter could not
find that it was ufed for any other purpofe than that of
fuel, and no reafon could be afligned why it had ob¬
tained that name. It muft not be confounded with the
cabbage-tree of America, India, and the South feas,
which is a fpecies of palm.
The ifland is laid out entirely in gardens and paflu-
rage. Befides peaches, we are affured that the plantain
and banana thrive here remarkably well. Cabbages,
and other greens, which thrive extremely well, are de¬
voured by caterpillars j and every fpecies of corn is de-
ftroyed by rats. All the partures were overrun with
furze ; which, though in our country a very ufelels and
even pernicious plant, was of lingular advantage to the
inhabitants of St Helena. Before the introdu£Hon of
that plant, the ground was parched with the intenfe
heat, and all kinds of grafs and herbage were Ihrivelled
up. But the furze-bullies, which throve as it wrere in
defpite of the fun, preferved a degree of moifture in
the ground 5 by wbich means the grafs fprung up vigo-
roufly, and the country became covered with a rich and
beautiful fod. The furze is now no longer wTanted, and
the people afliduoufly root it out for fuel. The num¬
ber of people on St Helena does not exceed 2000 per¬
sons, including 500 foldiers, and 600 Haves; and it is
faid that the number of females born on the iflaud con-
fiderably exceeds that of the males. By the arrival of
the India fhips, which they fupply with refrelhments,
they are in return provided with all forts of manufac¬
tures and other neceflaries ; and the company annually
order one or two of their fhips to touch there in their
way to India, in order to fend them a fufficient quan¬
tity of European goods and provifions. Many of their
{laves are employed in catching filh, which are very
plentiful j and by the help of thefe, together with
their poultry, cattle, roots, and fait provifions, they
fubfift through the year. Their life (fays Mr Forfier)
feems to pals along very happily j free from the mul¬
titude of cares which diftrefs their countrymen in Eng¬
land, and bleffed wdth quiet and content.
A botanic garden has been eftablifhed near the
country houfe of the governor, and a well-informed
gardener fent by the company to take care of it. The
fea around the ifland abounds with efculent filhes, 70
differeht fpecies of which have been taken upon the
coaits. There are great numbers of whales around the
ifland, w7here the fouthern whale fifliery, it is believed,
might be carried on with great advantage to the na¬
tion.
The country, in general, is cultivated by flaves j but
as thefe are now placed under the proteftion of the ma-
giftracy, and various regulations ena£ted in their favour,
they may comparatively be faid to be comfortable and
fecure. Before thefe regulations took place, ten out of
a hundred wrere known to die annually, wdrereas they
are now on the increafe, and the expences occafioned
2 ] H E L
by the replacing of thofe who died formerly are thus Helena
avoided. ^ ^11
There are fome blacks who are in aftate of freedom, '
independent of the flaves. Thefe, at firft, were ob¬
noxious to the flave owners $ but, upon examination, it
was found that not one of them had been tried for a
crime for feveral years, nor had any of them been upon
the parilh. By the humane interference of the compa¬
ny they fhare the proteftion of the government, and are
almoft on a footing with the other free inhabitants, ha¬
ving the benefit of a jury w'hen accufed of crimes, as
well as in civil cafes.
This country is fo fertile, and the climate fo exaftly
fuited to the feelings of human nature, that perfons in¬
different to the enjoyments of the world, or far advanced
in years, could fcarcely find another fpot better calcu¬
lated to prolong their exiftence in eafe, health, and
comfort.
St Helena rvas firfl: difcovered by the Portuguefe in
1502, on St Helen’s day j whence its name. They
flocked it with different kinds of ufeful animals \ but
whether they ever fetiled a colony on it or not, is un¬
certain. The Portuguefe having either abandoned or
never taken poffeflion of it, the Dutch became its maf-
ters; and kept poffeflion of it till the year 1600, w'hen
they were driven out by the Englifh. In 1673, t^e
Dutch took it by furprife j but a Ihort time after it was
recovered by the brave Captain Munden, who alfo took
three Dutch Eaft Indiamen then lying in the harbour.
On this occafion the Hollanders had fortified the land¬
ing place, of which there is only one on the ifland 5
and erefted batteries of great guns to prevent a defcent:
but the Englilh having knowdedge of a fmall creek,
wrhere only twTo men abreaft could creep up, climbed
to the top of the rock in the night 5 and appearing the
next morning behind the batteries, the Dutch were fo
terrified, that they threw' dowm their arms, and furren-
dered at difcretion. This creek has been fince fortified,
and a battery of large cannon placed at the entrance of
it; fo that now the ifland is rendered perfedlly fecure
againft all regular approaches or hidden attacks.
Accidents frequently happened in approaching to, or
leaving the fliore 5 but a wharf having been erefted,
the arrivals and departures of veffels are rendered
perfeftly fecure. Storms are little known at St Hele¬
na, thunder is a rare occurrence, and lightning is very
feldom feen.
HELEN, in fabulous hiftory, the daughter of Tyn-
darus and Leda, was married to Menelaus king of
Sparta, but was ftolen from him by Thefeus, 1 235 B. C.
She was reftored foon after j but carried off- again by
Paris, the Trojan prince ; which occafioned the famous
Trojan war. See Troy.
St Helen's. See Hellen’s.
HELENIUM, bastard SUN-FLOWER j a genus of
plants belonging to the fyngenefia clafs; and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the qpth order, Compojitce.
See Botany Index.
HELENUS, in fabulous hiftory, a celebrated footh-
fayer, fon of Priam and Hecuba. He was greatly re-
fpe&ed by all the Trojans. When Deiphobus was gi¬
ven in marriage to Helen in preference to himfelf, he
refolved to leave his country, and retired to Mount Ida,
w’here Ulyffes took him prifoner by the advice of Cal-
chas. As he was well acquainted with futurity, the
Greeks
H E L [ 323 ] H E L
He!erms Greeks made ufe of prayers, threats, and promifes, to
II induce him to reveal the fecrets of the Trojans ; and
Ilclidmhus. ejtker the fear Gf death, or gratification of refentment,
feduced him to difclofe to the enemies of his country,
that Troy could not be taken whilft it was in poffeffion
of the Palladium, nor before Polydedtes came from his
retreat at Lemnos and aflifted to fupport the fiege.
After the ruin of his country, he fell to the {hare of
Pyrrhus the fon of Achilles, and faved his life by warn¬
ing him to avoid a dangerous tempeft, which in reality
proved fatal to all thofe who fet lail. I his endeared
him to Pyrrhus •, and he received from his hand An¬
dromache the widow of his brother Hedlor, by whom
he had a fon called Cejlrinus. This marriage, accord¬
ing to fome, was confummated after the death of Pyr¬
rhus, who lived with Andromache as with a wife. He-
lenus was the only one of Priam’s fons who furvived the
ruin of his country. After the death of Pyrrhus he
reigned over part of Epirus, which he called Chaoma
in memory of his brother Chaon, whom he had inad¬
vertently killed. Helenus received iEneas as he voy¬
aged towards Italy, and foretold him fome of the cala¬
mities which attended bis fleet. The manner in which
he received the gift of prophecy is doubtful.
HELEPOLIS, in the ancient art of war, a ma¬
chine for battering down the walls of a place befieged,
the invention of which is aferibed to Demetrius Po-
liorcetes.— Diodorus Siculus fays, that each fide of
the Helepolis was 405 cubits in breadth and 90 in
height ; that it had nine flages, and was carried on
four throng folid wheels eight cubits in diameter 5 that
it was armed with large battering rams, and had two
roofs capable of fupporting them j that in the lower
flages there were different forts of engines for calling
flones; and in the middle they had large catapultas for
difeharging arrows, and fmaller ones in thofe above,
with a number of expert men for working all thefe ma¬
chines.
HELIADES, in Mijthology, the daughters of the
Sun and Clymenes, according to the poets. They
were fo afflifted, as they fay, with the death of their
brother Phaeton, that the gods, moved with compaffion,
transformed them into poplars on the banks of the river
Eridanus.
HELIiEA, in Grecian antiquity, was the greateft
and moll frequented court in Athens for the trial of ci¬
vil affairs. See Heliastte.
HELIACAL, in AJlronomy, a term applied to the
rifing and fetting of the liars ; or, more llriflly fpeak-
ing, to their emerfion out of and immerfion into the
rays and fuperior fplendor of the fun.—A liar is faid to
rife heliacally, when, after having been in conjunftion
with the fun, and on that account invifible, it comes to
be at fuch a diltance from him as to be feen in the
morning before funrifing $ the Cm, by his apparent mo¬
tion, receding from the liar towards the call. On the
contrary, the heliacal fetting is when the fun approach¬
es fo near a liar as to hide it with his beams, which pre¬
vent the fainter light of the liar from being perceived ;
fo that the terms apparition and occultation would be
more proper than rifing and fetting.
HELIANTHUS, the great sunflower j a ge¬
nus of plants belonging to the fyngenefia clafs •, and in
the natural method ranking under the 49th order, Com-
pojitce. See Botany Index.
HELtASTiE, in antiquity, the judges of the Heliaitee.
court HelIvEA. They were fo called, according to
fome authors, from a Greek word which fignifies to af-
femble in a great number; and, according to others,
from another word which fignifies the fun, becaufe they
held their affemblies in an open place. They compofed
not only the moll numerous, but likewife the moll im¬
portant of the Athenian tribunals 5 for their province
was either to explain the obfeure laws, or to give new
vigour and authority to thofe which had been violated.
The Thefmothetae convoked the affembly of the Heli-
allae, which fometimes amounted to 1000, fometimes
to 1500, judges. Mr Blanchard is of opinion,
that, to make this number, the Thefmothetae fome¬
times fummoned thofe of each tribe who had lall quit¬
ted the public offices which they had exercifed in ano¬
ther court. »
However that may be, it appears that the affemblies
of the Helialtae were not frequent, as they would have
interrupted the jurifdidlion of the Hated tribunals and
the common courfe of affairs.
The Thefmothetae paid to each member of this af¬
fembly, for his attendance, three oboli : which are
equal to two Roman felterces, or to half a drachma.
Hence Ariffophanes terms them the brothers of the tri-
obolus. They were likewife condemned to pay a fine if
they came too late ; and if they did not prefent them-
felves till after the orators had begun to fpeak, they
were not admitted. Their attendance was requited out
of the public treafury, and their pay was called mi/lhos
heliajlicus.
The affembly met, at firll, according to Arillophanes,
at the rifing of the fun. If the judges were obliged
to meet under cover on account of frotl and fnow,
they had a fire ; but there is not a paffage in any
ancient author which informs us of the place where
thefe affemblies were held either in the rigorous
or in the mild feafons. We only learn, that there was
a double enclofure around the affembly, that it might
not be diflurbed. The firfl: was a kind of arbour-
work, from fpace to fpace, feparated by doors, over
which were painted in red the ten or twelve firlt letters
of the Greek alphabet, which dire&ed the entrance of
the officers who compofed the tribunal, each of them
entering under the letter which diftinguiffied his tribe.
The beadles of the court, to whom they Ihowed the
wand which had been fent them by the Thefmothetae
• as a fummons to meet, examined its mark, to fee if it
was authentic, and then introduced them. The fecond
enclofure, which was at the diftance of 20 feet from the
former, was a rope or cord j that the people who Hood
round the firlt enclofure, and -were defirous to fee what
palled within the fecond, might not be prevented from
gratifying their curiofity at a proper diltance. Thus the
attention of the judges was not interrupted by the con-
courfe of the multitude, many of whom were heated by
views of interelt or of party.
To each of the members of the affembly were diltri-
buted two pieces of copper j one of which was perfo¬
rated, not certainly that it might be diitinguilhed from
the other by feeling, for thefe affemblies met at the
rifing and were diffolved at the letting of the fun.
Thofe pieces of copper had been fubftituted for little
fea-lhells, which were at firfl: in ufe. The king was
prefent at the affembly, at whofe command it had been
* S f 2 fummoned.
H E L [ 324 ] HE L
fumraoned. The Thefmothetee read the names of thofe
^vho were to compofe it, and each man took his place
as he was called. The Thefmothetse were then fent
for, whofe function it was to obierve prodigies and to
iuperintend the facrifices 5 and if they gave their fanc-
tion, the deliberations were began, It is well known,
that the officers called Exegetfe were olten corrupted by
thofe who were interefted in the debates of the alterably *,
and that they excited fuch tumults as were railed by the
Roman tribunes in the popular alTemblies convoked by
the confuls.
Of all the monuments which remain relating to the
Heliaftre, the molt curious is the oath which thofe
judges took before the Thefmothetae : Demofthenes bath
preferved it in his oration againft Timocrates, who ha¬
ving been bribed by thofe who had been intruded with
the eiiefts taken on board a vefiel of Naucratis, and re-
fufed to give an account of them, got a law paffed, by
which an enlargement -was granted to prifoners for
public debts on giving bail. Demolthenes in making
his oration againit that law, ordered the oath of the
Heliaitae to be read aloud, as a perpetual auxiliary to his
arguments, and happily calculated to intereft the mul¬
titude and inflame their pafiions. This oath we lhall
quote, that our readers may know how reipeftable a
tribunal that of the Heliaftae was, and the importance of
their decilions.
“ I will judge according to the latvs and decrees of
the people of Athens, and of the fenate of 500. I
will never give my vote for the eftabliffiment of a tyrant,
nor of an oligarchy. Nor will I ever give my appro¬
bation to an opinion prejudicial to the liberty or to the
union of the people of Athens. I wrill not fecond
thofe perfons who may propofe a reduftion of private
debts, or a diftribution of the lands or houles of the
Athenians. I wnll not recal exiles, nor endeavour to
produce a pardon for thofe who ffiall be condemned to
die. Nor will I force thofe to retire wffiom the laws
and the fuffrages of the people ffiall permit to remain
in their country. I will not give my vote to any can¬
didate for a publicTun&ion who gives not an account
of his conduct in the office which he has previoully
filled } nor will I prefume to folicit any trull from the
commonwealth without fubje&ing myfelf to this con¬
dition, which I mean as obligatory to the nine archons,
to the chief of religious matters, to thofe who are bal¬
loted on the fame day with the nine archons, to the
herald, the ambaffador, and the other officers of their
court. I will not fuffer the fame man to hold the fame
office twice, or to hold two offices in the fame year.
I will not accept any prefent, either myfelf or by ano¬
ther, either direftly or indireftly, as a member of the
Heliaftic affembly. I folemnly declare that I am 30
years old. I will be equally attentive and impartial to
the accufer and the accufedj I will give my fentence
rigoroufly according to evidence. Thus I fwear, by
Jupiter, by Neptune, and by Ceres, to a£t. And if I
violate any of my engagements, I imprecate from thefe
deities ruin on myfelf and my family; and I requeft
them to grant rne every kind of profperity, if I am
faithful to my oath.”
The reader fliould perufe what follows this oath, to
fee with what eloquence Demoflhenes avails himfelf of
it, and how he applies its piinciples to the caule which
he defends.
Here we have one of the motives of the meeting of Hellaflae
this aifembly. Aridotle informs us of another-, wffiich II
was by the public authority deputed to them, to ele& , He!lcor-
a magiftrate in the room of one dead. It is furprifing v
that Paufanias, wffio enters fo often into details, gives
us no particular account of this affembly. All that he
fays of it is, that the moft numerous of the Athenian
affemblies wa$ called Helicc.
We are told by Diogenes Laertius, in his life of
Solon, that it was before one of thefe Heliaitic affem¬
blies that Piffilratus prefented himfelf, covered with
wounds and contufions (for thus he had treated him¬
felf and the mules which drew his car,) to excite the
indignation of the people againft his pretended ene¬
mies, who, jealous, as he alleged, of the popularity
he had acquired by afferting the rights of his poorer
fellow-citizens, in oppolition to the men in power,
had attacked him while he w^as hunting, and had
wounded him in that barbarous manner. His dengn
fucceeded : a guard was appointed him; by the affiit-
ance of which he acquired the fovereignty or tyranny
of Athens, and kept it 33 years. The power of the
affembly appeared remarkably on that occafion j for
Solon, wffio was prefent, oppofed it with all his efforts,
and did not fucceed.
As to the manner in which the judges gave their
fuffrages, there wras a fort of veffel covered with an
ofier mat, in which were placed two urns, the one of
copper, the other of wood. In the lid of thefe
urns there was an oblong hole, which was large at
the top, and grew narrow-er downwards, as we fee
in fome old boxes ot our churches. The fuffrages
which condemned the accufed perfon w-ere thrown in¬
to the w-ooden urn, wffiich is termed hyrios. That
of copper, named akijros, received thofe which abfolved
him.
Ariftotle obferves, that Solon, whofe aim wras to
make his people happy, and who found an ariftocracy
eftabliffied by the eledtion of the nine archons (annual
officers, whole pow-er was almoff abfolute), tempered
their lovereignty, by inllituting the privilege of ap¬
pealing from them to the people, who w-ere to be af-
fembled by lot to give their fuffrage; after having
taken the oath of the Heliallae, in a place near the
Panathenaeum \ where Hiffus had in former days, calmed
a fedition of the people, and bound them to unanimity
by a oath. It has likewife been remarked, that the
god Apollo wras not invoked in the oath of the Heliaftae,
as in the oaths of the other judges. We have obferved,
that he who took the oath of the Heliaftae, engaged
that he would not be corrupted by folicitation or money.
Thofe who violated this part of their oath w-ere con¬
demned to pay a fevere fine. The decemvirs at Rome
made fuch corruption a capital crime. But Afconius
remarks, that the puniffiment denounced againft them
was mitigated in later times 5 and that they were ex¬
pelled the fenate, or baniffied for a certain time, accord¬
ing to the degree of their guilt.
HELICOID PARABOLA, or the parabolic fpiral^
is a curve arifing from the fuppofition that the common
or Apollonian parabola is bent or twifted, till the axis
comes into the circumference of a circle, the ordinates
ftill retaining their places and perpendicular pofitions
with refpeft to the circle, all thefe lines ffill remaining
in the fame plane.
HELICON,
H E L [ 32
Helicon HELICON, in Ancient Geography, the name of a
N mountain in the neighbourhood of Pamaflus and Cy-
Helioriorns.^eron^ {•gj.j.gj to Apollo and the mufes, who are thence
called He/iconide.,?. It is lituated in Livadia, and now
called Zagura or Zaguya.—i\eX\con was one of the
moll fertile and woody mountains in Greece. On it
the ’ruit of the adrachnus, a fpecies of the arbutus or of
the lirawberry-tree, was uncommonly fweet •, and the
inhabitants affirmed, that the plants and roots were all
friendly to man, and that even the lerpents had their
poifon weakened by the innoxious qualities of their
food. It approached Parnaffus on the north, where
it touched on Phocis} and refembled that mountain in
loftinefs, extent, and magnitude.—Here was the ffiady
grove of the mufes and their images 5 with ftatues of
Apollo and Bacchus, of Linus and Orpheus, and the
illuitrious poets who had recited their verfes to the
harp. Among the tripods, in the fecond century, was
that confecrated by Heliod. On the leit hand gomg
to the grove was the fountain Aganippe •, and about
twenty tiadia, or two miles and an half, higher up, the
violet-coloured Hippocrene. Round the grove were
houfes. A feftival was celebrated there by the Ihef-
pieans wuth games called Mufea. The valleys of He¬
licon are defcribed by Wheler as green and flowery in
the fpring ; and enlivened by pleafing cafcades and
ftreams, and by fountains and wells of clear water.
The Boeotian cities in general, two or three excepted,
were reduced to inconfiderable villages in the time of
Strabo. The grove of the mufes was plundered under
the aufpices of Conftantine the Great. J he Helico¬
nian goddeffes were afterwards confumed in a fire at
Conftantinople, to which city they had been removed.
Their ancient feat on the mountain, Aganippe and
Hippocrene, are unafcertained.
HELICONIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs. See Botany Index.
HELICTERES, the screw-tree j a genus of
plants belonging to the gynandria clals, and in the na¬
tural method ranking under the 37th order, Columni-
fene. See Botany Index.
HELIOCARPUS, a genus of plants belonging to
the dodecandria clafs, and in the natural method rank¬
ing under the 37th order, Colunmiferce. See Botany
Index.
HELIOCENTRIC latitude of a Planet, the
inclination of a line drawn between the centre of the
fun and the centre of a planet to the plane of the
ecliptic.
Heliocentric P/a$e of a Planet, the place of the
ecliptic Wherein the planet would appear to a fpedlator
placed at the centre of the fun.
^ HELIOCOMETES, a phenomenon fometimes ob-
ferved about fun-fetting ; being a large luminous tail or
column of light proceeding from the body of the fun,
and dragging after it, not unlike the tail of a comet j
whence the name.
HELIODORUS of Phoenicia, biffiop of Trica
in Theffaly, better known by the romance he compofed
in his youth entitled JEthiopics, and relating the amours
of Theagenes and Chariclea. Some fay he was depo-
fed by a fynod becaufe he would not confent to the
fuppreffing that romance. The fable has a moral ten¬
dency, and particularly inculcates the virtue of chaftity.
5 1 H E L. . ,
As it was the firft of this fpecies of writing, he is ilyled Heliome.
the Father of Romances. He was alfo a good Latin poet. ; t'~r^
He lived in the 4th century.
HELIOMETER, formed of Alas fan, and I
meafure, the name of an inttrument called alfo ajlrome-
/<?r, invented by M. Bouguer in 1747, for meafuring
with particular exaftnefs the diameters of the ifars, and
efpecially thofe of the fun and moon.
This inftrument is a kind of telefcope, confifting of
two objeH-glaffes of equal focal dirtance, placed one of
them by the fide of the other, fo that the fame eye-
glafs ferves for .both. The tube of this inftruraent is
of a conic form, larger at the upper end, which re¬
ceives the two objeft-glafles, than at the lower, which
is furnifhed with an eye-glafs and micrometer. By
the conftrudflion of this intlrument two diilinfl images
of an obje£t are formed in the focus of the eye-glafs,
whofe diftance, depending on that of the two objetE
glaffes from one another, may be meafured with great
accuracy : nor is it neceffary that the whole dilc of
the fun or moon come within the field of view, fince,
if the images of only a fmall part of the dife be form¬
ed by each objeH-glafs, the whole diameter may be
eafily computed by their poiition with refpeff to one
another: for if the objeft be large, the images will
approach, or perhaps lie even over one another, and
the objeft-glaffes being moveable, the two images may
always be brought exadlly to touch one another, and
the diameter may be computed from the known diflance
of the centres of the two glafles. Befides, as this in-
Ifrument has a common micrometer in the focus of
the eye-glafs, when the two images of the fun or moon
are made in part to cover one 'another, that part which
is common to both the images may be meafured w ith
great exa&nefs, as being viewed upon a ground that
is only one half lefs luminous than itfelf; whereas, in
general, the heavenly bodies are viewed upon a dark
ground, and on that account are imagined to be larger
than they really are. By a fmall addition to this inftru¬
ment, provided it be of a moderate length, M. Bouguer
thought it very poffible to meafure angles of three or four
degrees, which is of particular confequence in taking the
diftance of ftars from the moon. With this inftrument
M. Bouguer, by repeated obfervation, found that the
fun’s vertical diameter, though fomewhat diminiffied by
the aftronomical refraftion, is longer than the horizon¬
tal diameter •, and, in afeertaining this phenomenon, he
alfo found, that the upper and lower edges of the fun’s
dife are not fo equally defined as the other parts j on
this account his image appears fomewhat extended in
the vertical diredlion. This is owing to the decom-
polition of light, which is known to confift of rays dif¬
ferently refrangible in their paffage through our atmo-
fphere. Thus the blue and violet rays, wffiich proceed
from the upper part of the dife at the fame time with
thofe of other colours, are fomewffiat more refraHed
than the others, and therefore feem to us to have pro¬
ceeded from a higher point 5 whereas, ©n the contrary,
the red rays proceeding from the lowrer edge of the
dife, being lefs refracted than the others, feem to pro¬
ceed from a lower point •, fo that the vertical diameter
is extended, or appears longer, than the horizontal dia¬
meter.
Mr Servington Savery difeovered a fimilar method
of
H E L f 3
Heliophila of improving the micrometer, which was communicated
It to the Royal Society in 1753. See Micrometer.
1 , e^’X' . HELIOPHILA, a genus of plants belon;ing to
the tetradynamia clafs of plants ; and in the natural
method ranking under the 39th order, Si/iquojle. See
Botany Index.
HELIOPHOBI, a name given to the white ne¬
groes or albinos, from their averlion to the light of the
fun. See Albino.
PIELIOPOLIS, in Ancient Geography, fo called by
Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus, by Mofes On, and in
Jeremiah Bethfemes ; a city of Egypt, to the fouth-ealt
of the Delta, and eaft of Memphis •, of a very old
Handing, its origin terminating in fable. Here Hood
the temple of the fun, held in religious veneration.
The city flood on an extraordinary mount, but in
Strabo’s time was defolate. It gave name to the No/nos
Ueliopolites.—There was another Heliopolis in Ccelo-
fyria, near the fprings of the Orontes j fo called from
the worfhip of the fun, which was in great vogue over
all Syria,
HELIOSCOPE, in Optics, a fort of telefcope, pe¬
culiarly fitted for viewing the fun without hurting the
eyes. See Telescope.
As the fun may be viewed through coloured glaffes
W’ithout hurt to the eyes, if the objeft and eye glalfes of
a telefcope be made of coloured glafs, as red or green,
fuch a telefcope will become an heliofcope.
But Mr Huygens only ufed a plain glafs, blacked
at the flame of a candle on one fide, and placed be¬
tween the eye-glafs and the eye j which anfwers the
defign of an heliolcope very well.
HELIOSTATA, in Optics, an inflrument invented
by the late learned Dr S. Gravefande, who gave it this
name from its fixing, as it were, the rays of the fun in
an horizontal direftion acrofs the dark chamber all the
while it is in ufe. See Optics Index.
HELIOTROPE {^hehotropium'), among the an¬
cients; an inllrument or machine for fhowung when
the fun arrived at the tropics and the equinoftial line.
This name wras alfo ufed for a fun-dial ih general.
Heliotrope is alfo a precious Hone, of a green co¬
lour, ftreaked with red veins. Pliny fays it is thus
called, becaufe, wdien call into a veffel of water, the
fun’s rays falling thereon feem to be of a blood-colour;
and that, wThen out of the water, it gives a faint re-
fleftion of the figure of the fun; and is proper to ob-
ferve eclipfes of the fun as a heliofcope. The helio¬
trope is alfo called oriental jafper, on account of its
ruddy fpots. It is found in the Eaft Indies, as alfo in
Ethiopia, Germany, Bohemia, &c. Some have afcribed
to it the faculty of rendering people invifible, like
Gyges’s ring.
• HELIOTROPIUM, turnsole, a genus of plants
belonging to the pentandria clafs, and in the natural
method ranking under the 41ft order, Afperifolice. See
Botany Index.
HELISPHERICAL LINE, is the rhumb line in
Navigation, being fo termed, becaufe on the globe it
winds round the pole helically or fpirally, coming Hill
nearer and nearer to it.
HELIX, in Geometry, a fpiral line. See Spiral.
—The wrord is Greek, and literally fignifies “ a
wreath or winding j” of iXie-o-u involve, “ I environ.”
In archite&ure, fome authors make a difterence be-
, 1
26 ] H E L
tween the helix and the fpiral. A ftaircafe, accord- He’ix,
ing to Daviler, is in a helix, or is helical, when the
flairs or Heps wind round a cylindrical newel ; whereas
the fpiral winds round a cone, and is continually ap¬
proaching nearer and nearer its axis.
Helix is alfo applied, in ArchiteBure, to the cauli-
cules or little volutes under the flowers of the Corin¬
thian capital •, called alio urillce.
Helix, in Anatomy, is the whole circuit or extent
of the auricle or border of the ear outwards. In op-
poiition to which, the inner protuberance furrounded
thereby, and anfwering thereto, is called anthelix. See
Anatomy, N° 141.
Helix, the Snail, a genus of ihell-fiih belonging to
the order of vermes teftacea. See Conchology Index.
HELL, the place of divine puniihment after death.
As all, religions have fuppofed a future ftate of exifl-
ence after this life, fo all have their hell or place of
torment in which the wicked are fuppofed to be pu-
niihed. The hell of the ancient heathens was divided
into two manfions, the one called Elyjium, on the right
hand, pleafant and delightful, appointed for the fouls
of good men ; the other called Tartara, on the left, a
region of mifery and torment appointed for the wdcked.
The latter only was hell, in the prefent limited fenfe of
the word. See Elysium.
The philofophers were of opinion, that the infernal
regions were at an equal diftance from all the parts of
the earth *, neverthelefs it was the opinion of fome,
that there were certain paffages which led thither, as
the river Lethe, near the Syrtes, and the Acherufian
cave in Epirus. At Hermoine it was thought, that
there was a very ftiort way to hell; for which reafon
the people of that country never put the fare into the
mouths of the dead to pay their paffage.
The Jews placed hell in the centre of the earth,
and believed it to be fituated under wTaters and moun¬
tains. According to them, there are three paflages
leading to it ; the firft is in the wildernefs, and by that
Korah, Dalhan, and Abiram, defcended into hell j
the fecond is in the fea, becaufe Jonah, who wTas
thrown into the fea, cried to God out of the belly of
hell j the third is in Jerufalem, becaufe it is faid the
fire of the Lord is in Zion, and his furnace is in Je¬
rufalem. They like wife acknowledged feven degrees
of pain in hell, becaufe they find this place called by
feven different names in Scripture. Though they be¬
lieved that infidels, and perfons eminently wicked, will
continue for ever in hell; yet they maintained, that
every Jew who is not infefted with lome herefy, and
has not afted contrary to the points mentioned by the
rabbins, will not be punilhed therein for any other
crimes above a year at moft.
The Mahometans believe the eternity of rewards and
punifhments in another life. In the Koran it is faid,
that hell has feven gates, the firft for the Muffulmans,
the fecond for the Chriitians, the third for the Jews,
the fourth for the Sabians, the fifth for the Magians,
the fixth for the Pagans, and the feventh for the hy¬
pocrites of all religions.
Among Chriftians, there are two controverted que-
ftions in regard to hell ; the one concerns locality, the
other the duration of its torments. 1. The localicy of
hell, and the reality of its fire, began firft to be con¬
troverted by Origen. That father, interpreting the
Scripture
H E L [ 3
Hellnnicus Scripture account metaphorically, makes hell to confift
!i not in external puniiliments, but in a conrcioufnefs or
Hellebom . knfe o£ guiltj and a remembrance of pad pleafures.
Amoug the moderns, Mr Whillon advanced a new
hypothefis. According to him, the comets are fo
many hells appointed in their orbits alternately to car¬
ry the damned into the confines of the fun, there to
be fcorched by its violent heat, and then to return
with them beyond the orb of Saturn, there to ftarve
them in thefe cold and difmal regions. Another mo¬
dern author, not fatisfied with any hypothefis hither¬
to advanced, affigns the fun to be the local hell. 2. As
to the fecond queftion, viz. the duration of hell tor¬
ments, we have Origen again at the head of thofe
who deny that they are eternal ^ it being that father’s
opinion, that not only men, but devils, after a due
courle of punifhment datable to their refpedfive crimes,
fhall be pardoned and rellored to heaven. The chief
principle upon which Origen built his opinion, was the
nature of punilhment, which he took to be emenda-
tory, applied only as phyfic for the recovery of the
patient’s health. The chief objedlion to the eternity
of hell torments among modern waiters, is the difpro-
portion between temporary crimes and eternal pu-
nifliments. Thofe who maintain the affirmative,
ground their opinions on Scripture accounts, which
reprefent the pains of hell under the figure of a worm
which never dies, and a fire which is not quenched j
as alfo upon the words, “ Thefe ffiall go away into
everlafting punilhment, but the righteous into life
eternal.”
HELLANICUS of Mitylene, a celebrated Greek
hiltorian, born before Herodotus, ilourilhed about
480 B. C. He wrote a hillory of the ancient kings
and founders of dries, but which hath not come down
to us.
HELLAS, in Ancient Geography, an appellation
comprifing, according to the more ancient Greeks and
Romans, Achaia and Peloponnefus, but afterwards re-
ftrained to Achaia. It was bounded on the weft by
the river Achelous, on the north by mounts Othrys
and Odfa, on the eaft by the Egean fea, and on the
fouth by the Saronic and Corinthian bays, and by the
ifthmus which joins it to Peloponnefus. It was called
Hellas, from Hellen the fon of Deucalion ; or from
Hellas, a diftritt of Theflaly •, whence Hellenes, the
gentilitious name, denoting Greek. Now called Li-
vadia.
HELLE, in fabulous hiftory, a daughter of Athamas
king of Thebes by Nephele. She fled from her father’s
houfe with her brother Phryxus, to avoid the cruel
oppreffion of her mother-in-law Ino. According to
feme accounts fhe was carried through the air on a
golden ram which her mother had received from Nep¬
tune, and in her pafiage fhe became giddy, and fell from
her feat into that part of the fea which from her re¬
ceived the name of Hellefpont. Others fay that fhe
was carried on a cloud, or rather upon a ftiip, from
which fhe fell into the fea and was drowned. Phryxus,
after he had given his lifter a burial on the neighbour¬
ing coafts, purfued his journey, and arrived in Colchis.
PIELLEBORE. See Helleborus.
White Hellebore. See VERATRUM.
HELLEBORUS, hellebore, a genus of plants
belonging to the pentandria clafs, and in the natural
27 ] HE L
method ranking under the 26th order, Multifiliquce. Hellen
See Botany Index. ,, .j*
HELLEN, the fon of Deucalion, is faid to have 4^°
given the name of Hellenifts to the people before called _
Greeks, 1521 B. C. See Greece.
HELLENISM, in matters of language, a phrafe in
the idiom, genius, or conftru&ion of the Greek tongue.
This word is only ufed when fpeaking of the au¬
thors who, writing in a different language, exprefs
themfelves in a phrafeology peculiar to the Greek.
HELLENISTIC language, that ufed by the
Grecian Jews who lived in Egypt and other parts where
the Greek tongue prevailed. In this language it is
faid the Septuagint was written, and alfo the books
of the New Teftament; and that it was thus denomi¬
nated to fhow that it wras Greek filled with Hebraifms
and Syriacifms.
HELLENISTS (Hellenijlce'), a term occurring in
the Greek text of the New Teftament, and which in
the Englifh verfion is rendered Grecians.
The critics are divided as to the fignification of the
wmrd. CEcumenius, in his Scholia on Adis vi. 1. ob-
ferves, that it is not to be underftood as fignifying thofe
of the religion of the Greeks, but thofe who fpoke
Greek, tkj eAA»j*;v< <phy%ciy.viHi. The authors of the Vul¬
gate verfion, indeed, render it like ours, Greeci ; but
Meffieurs Du Port Royal more accurately, Juifs Grecsv
Greek or Grecian Jews j it being the Jews who fpoke
Greek that are here treated of, and who are hereby
diftinguifhed from the Jews called Hebrews, that is,
who fpoke the Hebrew tongue of that time.
The Hellenifts, or Grecian Jews, were thofe who
lived in Egypt and other parts where the Greek tongue
prevailed. It is to them we owe the Greek verfion of
the Old Teftament, commonly called the Septuagint, or
that of the feventy.
Salmafius and Voffius are of a different fentiment
with regard to the Hellenifts. The latter will only
have them to be thofe who adhered to the Grecian in-
terefts.
Scaliger is reprefented, in the Scaligerana, as affert-
ing the Hellenifts to be the Jews who lived in Greece
and other places, and who read the Greek Bible in
their fynagogue, and ufed the Greek language in fa-
cris : and thus they were oppofed to the Hebrew Jews,
who performed their public worlhip in the Hebrew
tongue ; and in this fenfe St Paul fpeaks of himfelf
as a Hebrew of the Hebrews, Phil. iii. 5. i. e. a He¬
brew both by nation and language. The Hellenifts
are thus properly diftinguiffied from the Hellenes or
Greeks, mentioned John xii. 20. who were Greeks
by birth and nation, and yet profelytes to the Jewiih
religion.
HELLENODICiE, in antiquity, the
direftors of the Olympian games. At firft there w’as
only one, afterwards the number increafed to two and
to three, and at length to nine. They affembled in a
place called 'BAArvo^jcotw, in the Elean forum, where
they were obliged to refide- ten months before the ce¬
lebration of the games, to take care that fuch as offer¬
ed themfelves to contend, performeebtheir ■x^yvy.nx.try.ct-
tcl, or preparatory exercifes, and to be inftrubted in all
the laws of games by certain men called rejMofpvAosxej, 1. e.
“ keepers of the laws.” And the better to prevent all
unjuft practices, they were farther obliged to take an
H E L r 328 ] H E L
Hellefpont oalli, that they would aft impartially, would take no
bribes, nor difcover the reafon for which they diiliked
. - y ‘' ■ or approved of any of the contenders. At the folem-
nity they fat naked, having before them the viftorial
crown till the exercifes were finifhed, and then it was
prefented to whomfoever they adjudged it. Neverthe-
lels" there lay an appeal from the hellenodicae to the
Olympian fenate.
HELLESPONT, a narrow ftrait between Afiaand
Europe, near the Propontis, which received its name
from Helle who was drowned there in her voyage to
Colchis. It is celebrated for the love and death of
Leander, and for the bridge of boats which Xerxes
built over it when he invaded Greece. The folly of this
great prince is w'ell knowm in beating and fettering the
waves of the fea, whofe impetuofity fettered his {hips,
and rendered all his labours ineffeftual. It is now
called the Dardanelles. It is about 33 miles long, and
in the broadeft parts the Afiatic coaft is about one mile
and a half diftant from the European, and only half
a mile in the narrowed, according to modern inveftL
gation, and the cocks are heard crowing from the op-
pofite fhores.
HELLEN’S, St, a town of the ifle of Wight, in
Eaft-Medina, has a bay wdiich runs a confiderable way
within land, and in a war with France is often the
flation and place of rendezvous for the royal navy. At
the mouth of the bay is that duller of rocks called the
Mixen. It had an old church fituated at the extre¬
mity of the coaft, which was endangered to be walked
away, as was a great part of the church-yard, w’hich
occalioned a new church to be built in I719- Ihe
priory to wdiich the old church belonged is now
converted into a gentleman’s feat 5 is in a remarkably
pleafant fituation, and commands a fine profpeft of
Portfmouth and the road at Spithead. St Hellen’s
appears to have been of more confideration in former
times than at prefent.
HELM, a long and flat .piece of timber, or an af-
femblage of feveral pieces, fufpended along the hind-
part of a fliip’s ftern-poft, where it turns upon hinges
to the right or left, ferving to direft the courfe of the
veflel, as the tail of a fifh guides the body.
The helm is ufually compofed of three parts, viz. the
rudder, the tiller, and the wheel, except in fmall vef-
fels, where the wheel is unnecefiary.
As to the form of the rudder, it becomes gradually
broader in proportion to its diftance from the top, or
to its depth under the w?ater. The back, or inner part
of it, which joins to the ftern poll, is diminifhed into
the form of a wedge throughout its whole length, fo
as that the rudder may be more eafily turned from one
fide to the other, where it makes an obtufe angle with
the keel. It is fupported upon hinges ; of w’hich thofe
that are bolted round the Hern-poll to the after ex¬
tremity of the Ihip, are called googings, and are fur-
nilhed with a large hole on the after-part of the ftern-
poft. The other parts of the hinges, which are bolted
to the back of the rudder, are called pintles, being
ftrong cylindrical pins, wrhich enter into the googings,
and reft upon them. The length and-thicknefs of the
rudder is nearly equal to that of the ftern-poft.
The rudder is turned upon its hinges by means of a
long bar of timber, called the tiller, which is fixed ho¬
rizontally in its upper end within the veffel. The
' z
movements of the tiller to the right and left, accord- Helm
ingly direft the efforts of the rudder to the govern-
ment of the fhip’s courfe as fhe advances \ which, in
the fea-language, is called Jieering. The operations of
the tiller are guided and aflifted by a fort of tackle,
communicating with the fhip’s fide, called the tiller-
rope, w'hich is ufually compofed of untarred rope-yarns
for the purpofc of traverfing more readily through the
blocks or pulleys.
In order to facilitate the management of the helm,
the tiller-rope, in all large veffexs, is wound about a
wheel, w'hich afts upon it w’ith the powers of a crane
or windlafs. The rope employed in this fervice being
conveyed from the fore-end of the tiller k, to a fingle
block i, on each fide of the fhip *, is farther commu-*See Deck,
nicated to the wheel, by means of twro blocks fuf-
pended near the mizen-maft, and two holes immediate¬
ly above, leading up to the w'heel, which is fixed upon
an axis on the quarter-deck, almoft perpendicularly
over the fore-end of the tiller. Five turns of the tiller-
rope are ufually wmund about the barrel of the W’heel *,
and, when the helm is amidthip, the middle turn is
nailed to the top of the barrel, with a mark by which
the helmfman readily difcovers the fituaticn of the
helm, as the wheel turns it from the ftarboard to the
larboard fide. The fpokes of the wheel generally
reach about eight inches beyond the rim or circumfe¬
rence, ferving as handles to the perfon who fleers the,
veflel. As the effeft of a lever increafes in propor¬
tion to the length of its arm, it is evident that the
power of the helmfman to turn the wheel will be in-
creafed according to the length of the fpokes beyond
the circumference of the barrel.
When the helm, ir.ftead of lyi vg in a right line
with the keel, is turned to one fide or the other, as
in BD (fig. 1.), it receives an immediate fhock from Hate CCL.
the water, which glides along the fhip’s bottom in
running aft from A to B j and this fluid pufhes it
towards the oppofite fide, whilft it is retained in this
pofition : fo that the ftem, to which the rudder is con¬
fined, receives the fame impreflion, and accordingly
turns from B to £ about feme point c, whilft the head
of the fhip paffes from A to a. It muft be obferved,
that the current of water falls upon the rudder oblique¬
ly, and only ftrikes it with that part of its motion
which afts according to the fine of incidence, pufhing
it in the direftion of NP, with a force w'hich not only
depends on the velocity of the fhip’s courfe, by which
this current of water is produced, but alfo upon the
extent of the fine of incidence. This force is by con-
fequence compofed of the fquare of the velocity with
which the fhip advances, and the fquare of the fine of
incidence, which will neceflarily be greater or fmaller
according to circumilances; fo that if the veffel runs
three or four times more fwiftly, the abfolute fhock of
the water upon the rudder will be nine or 16 times
ftronger under the fame incidence: and, if the inci¬
dence is increafed, it will yet be augmented in a greater
proportion, becaufe the fquare of the fine of incidence
is more enlarged. This impreflion, or, what is the
fame thing, the pow'er of the helm, is always very
feeble, when compared with the weight of the veffel j
but as it operates with the force of a long lever, its
efforts to turn the fhip are extremely advantageous.
For the helm being applied to a great diftance from
H E L [ 329
Helm, the centre of gravity G, or from the point about which
""v   the veffel turns horizontally, if the direction PN of the
impreflion of the water upon the rudder be prolonged,
it is evident that it will pafs perpendicularly to R,
widely dillant from the centre of gravity G : thus the
abfolute cttort of the water is very powerful. It. is not
therefore furprifmg, that this machine impreffes the
(hip with a confiderable circular movement, by pulhing
the ftern from B to b, and the head from A to as and
even much farther vvhilft fire fails with rapidity, becaufe
the effecl of the helm always keeps pace with the velo¬
city with which the veflel advances.
Amongft the feveral angles that the rudder makes
with the keel, there is always one pofition more fa¬
vourable than any of the others, as it more readily pro¬
duces the delired effect of turning the fhip, in order to
change her courfe. To afcertain this, it mull; be con-
irdered, that if the obliquity of the rudder with the
keel is greater than the obtufe angle ABD, fo as to
diminifh that angle, the aflion of the water upon the
rudder will increafe, and at the fame time oppofe the
courfe of the fhip in a greater degree ; becaufe the
angle of incidence will be more open, fo as to prefent
a greater furface to the fhock of the water, by oppo-
fing its paffage more perpendicularly. But at that time
the dire&ion NP of the effort of the helm upon the
fhip will pafs rvith a fmaller diftance from the centre
of gravity G towards R, and lefs approach the per¬
pendicular NL, according to which it is abfolutely ne-
ceffary that the power applied fhould a£l with a greater
effect to turn the veffel. Thus it is evident, that if
the obtufe angle ABD is too much inclofed, the great-
eft impulfe of the water will not counterbalance the
lofs fuftained by the diftance of the diredtion NP from
NL, or by the great obliquity which is given to the
fame direction NP of the abfolute effort of the helm
with the keel AB. If, on the contrary, the angle
ABD is too much opened, the direction NP of the
force of the action of the helm will become more ad¬
vantageous to turn the veffel, becaufe it will approach
nearer the perpendicular NL; fo that the line pro¬
longed from NP will increafe the line GR, by remo¬
ving R to a greater diftance from the centre of gra¬
vity G : but then the helm wall receive the impredion
of the water too obliquely, for the angle of incidence
will be more acute ; fo that it wall only prefent a
fmall portion of its breadth to the fhock of the wa¬
ter, and by confequence will only receive a feeble ef¬
fort. By this principle it is eafy to conceive, that
the greateft diftance GR from the centre of gravity
G, is- not fufficient to repair the diminution of force
occafloned by the too great obliquity of the fhock
of the water. Hence we may conclude, that when the
water either ftrikes the helm too diredlly, or too ob¬
liquely, it lofes a great deal of the effedl it ought to
produce. Between the two extremes there is there¬
fore a mean polition, which is the moft favourable to
its operations.
The diagonal NP of the redlangle IL reprefents the
abfolute direction of the effort of the water upon the
helm. NI expreiYes the portion of this effort which is
oppofed to the fhip’s head-way, or which pufhes her
aftern, in a direction parallel to the keel. It is eafily
perceived, that this part NI of the whole power of the
helm contributes but little to turn the veffel ; for, if IN
VOL. X. Part I.
] H E L
is prolonged, it appears that its direction approaches
to a very fmall diftance GV from the centre of gravity
G ; and that the arm of the lever BN~GV, to which
the force is applied, is not in the whole more than
equal to half the breadth of the rudder : but the rela¬
tive force NL, which ads perpendicular to the keel,
is extremely different. If the firft NI is almoft ufelefs,
and even pernicious, by retarding the velocity ; the
fecond NL is capable of a very great effed, becaufe it
operates at a confiderable diftance from the centre of
gravity G of the fhip, and acts upon the arm of a le¬
ver G E, which is very long. Thus it appears, that
between the effe&s NI. and NI, which refult from the
abfolute effort NP, there is one which always oppofes
the fhip’s courfe, and contributes little to her motion
of turning : whilft the other produces only this move¬
ment of rotation, without operating to retard her ve¬
locity.
Geometricians have determined the moft advantage¬
ous angle made by the helm with the line prolonged
from the keel, and fixed it at 540 44', prefuming that
the fhip is as narrow at her floating-line, or at the line
defcribed by the furface of the water round her bot¬
tom, as at the keel. But as this fuppofition is abfo¬
lutely falfe, in as much as all veffels augment their
breadth from the keel upward to the extreme breadth,
where the floating-line or the higheft water-line is ter¬
minated ; it follows, that this angle is too large by a
certain number of degrees. For the rudder is impref-
fed by the water, at the height of the floating-line,
more diredly than at the keel, becaufe the fluid exa£t-
ly follows the horizontal outlines of the bottom ; fo
that a particular pofition of the helm might be fuppo-
fed neceffary for each different incidence wdsich it en¬
counters from the keel upwards. But as a middle po¬
fition may be taken between all thefe points, it will be
fufficient to confider the angle formed by the fides of
the fhip, and her axis, or the middle line of her length,
at the furface of the water, in order to determine af¬
terwards the mean point, and the mean angle of inci¬
dence.
It is evident that the angle 540 44' is too open, and
very unfavourable to the fhip’s head-way, becaufe the
water a£!s upon the rudder there with too great a fine
of incidence, as being equal to that of the angle which
it mikes with the line prolonged from the keel below :
but above, the {hock of the water is almoft perpendi¬
cular to the rudder, becaufe of the breadth of the bot¬
tom, as we have already remarked. If then the rud¬
der is only oppofed to the fluid, by making an angle
of 450 with the line prolonged from the keel, the im¬
preflion, by becoming weaker, will be lefs oppofed to
the flap’s head-way, and the direction NP of the
abfolute effort of the water upon the helm drawing
nearer to the lateral perpendicular, will be placed more
advantageoufly, for the reafons above mentioned. On
the other hand, experience daily teftifies, that a fhip
fteers vrell when the rudder makes the angle DEE
equal to 350 only.
It has been already remarked, that the effefl of
moving the wheel to govern the helm increafes in pro¬
portion to the length of the fpokes ; and fo great is
the power of the wheel, that if the helmfman employs
a force upon its fpokes equivalent to 30 pounds, it
will produce an effe<ft of 90 or 1 20 pounds upon the
T t tiller.
H E I, [3;
Helm, tiller. On tlie contrary, the aflion of the water is col-
]e^ed into the middle of the breadth of the rudder,
which is very narrow in comparifon with the length of
the tiller ; fo the effort of the water is very little remo¬
ved from the fulcrum B upon which it turns; where¬
as the tiller forms the arm of a lever 10 or 15 times
longer, which alfo increafes the power of the helmfman
in the fame proportion that the tiller bears to the lever
upon which the impulfe of the water is direfted. This
force then is by confequence 10 or 15 times ftronger j
and the effort of 30 pounds, which at firff gave the
helmfman a power equa’l to 90 or 1 20 pounds, becomes
accumulated to one of 9CO or 1 800 pounds upon the
rudder. This advantage then arifes from the (hortnefs
of the lever upon which the a£lion of the water is irri-
preffed, and the great comparative length of the tiller,
or lever, by which the rudder is governed ; together
with the additional power of the wdreel that direfls the
movements of the tiller, and Hill farther accumulates
the power of the helmfman over it. Such a demon-
flration ought to remove the furprife with which the
prodigious effefl of the helm is fometimes confidered,
from an inattention to its mechanifm : for we need on¬
ly to obferve the preffure of the water, which a£ls at a
great diftance from the centre of gravity G, about
which the fh*p is fuppofed to turn, and we (hall eafily
perceive the difference there is between the effort of
the water againft the helmfman, and the effect of the
fame impulfe againft the veffel. With regard to the
perfon who fleers, the water a£!s only with the arm of
a very fhort lever NB, of which B is the fulcrum : on
the contrary, with regard to the (hip, the force of the
water is impreffed in the direftion NP, wdrich pafles to
a great diftance from G, and adts upon a very long
lever EG, which renders the adlion of the rudder ex¬
tremely powerful in turning the veffel •, fo that, in a
large (hip, the rudder receives a (hock from the water
of 2700 or 2800 pounds, wdiich is frequently the cafe
when (he (ails at the rate of three or four leagues by
the hour ; and this force being applied in E, perhaps
100 or no feet diftant from the centre of gravity G,
will operate upon the (hip, to turn her about, with
270,000 or 308,000 pounds ; whilft, in the latter cafe,
the helmfman adfs with an effort wdiich exceeds not 30
pounds upon the fpokes of the wheel.
o 3 H E L
After what has been (aid of the helm, it is eafy to He;m
judge, that the more a (hip increafes her velocity with 0
regard to the fea, the more powerful will be the effedf1 10
of the rudder •, becaufe it adls againft the water with a _
force, which increafes as the fquare of the fwiftnefs of
the fluid, whether the (hip advances or retreats j or, in
other words, whether (lie has head-way or ftern-way :
with his diftindlion, that in thefe two circumftances
the effedts wall be contrary. For if the veffel retreats,
or moves aftern, the helm will be impreffed from I to
N; and inffead of being pufhed, according to NP, it
will receive the effort of the water from N towards
R 5 fo that the (tern will be tranfported to the lame
movement, and the head turned in a contrary direc¬
tion.
When the helm operates by itfelf, the centre of ro¬
tation of the drip, and her movement, are determined
by effimating the force of this machine ; that is to fay,
by multiplying the furface of the rudder by the fquare
of the (hip’s velocity.
There are feveral terms in the fea-language relating
to the helm ; as, Bear up the helm ; that is, Let the
(hip go more large before the wind. Helm a mid-Jhipy
or right the helm: that is, Keep it even with the mid¬
dle of the (hip. Bert the helm, Put it over the left fide
of the (hip. Starboard the helm, Put it on the right fide
of the drip.
HELMET, an ancient defenfive armour worn by
hoifemen both in war and in tournaments. It co¬
vered both the head and face, only leaving an aper¬
ture in the front fecured by bars, which was called the
vifor.
In atch’er'ements, it is placed above the efcutcheon
for the principal ornament, and is the true mark of
chivalry and nobility. Helmets vary according to the
different degrees of thofe who bear them. They are
alfo ufed as a bearing in coats of arms. See He¬
raldry.
HELMINTHOLITHUS, in Natural Hijlory, a
name given by Linnaeus to petrified bodies refembling
worms.
Of thefe he reckons four genera. 1. Petrified litho-
phyta. 2. Petrified (hells. 3. Petrified zoophytes.
4. Petrified reptiles.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
INTRODUCTION.
Definition. TTNDER this head we propofe to give the natural
^ hiftory of thofe animals which Linnaeus has arranged
under the clafs of Vermes, forming the laft clafs of the
animal kingdom. The title which \ve have adopted
for this article is derived from the Greek thpivs, an
earth-worm, and Zoyos a difeourfe.
In this article w^e are to confider, not only thofe ani¬
mals which are commonly known by the name of
worms, but all thofe which have the fame general cha-
radfter of being Jlow in motion, of a foft fubjlance, ex-
tremely tenacious of life, capable of reproducing fuch
parts of their body as may have been tahen away or ae-
Jlroyed, and inhabiting moijl places. f
Linnseus has divided the clafs into five orders. Dwifion.
1. Intejlina, confiding of animals which are very lnteft3in;u
fimple in their ftruaure, and moft of which live within
other animals •, fuch as the worms which infeft the in-
teftines of man, quadrupeds, &c. though many of
them are found in moift clay, and other damp fitua-
tions. # # 4
2. Mollufca, containing fuch animals as have naked Mollufca.
bodies, or are not furniftied with (hells, but are provid¬
ed with tentacula or arms, being moftly inhabitants of
the fea.
3. Tejlacea,
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Introduc- TeJIacea, differing from the former in little more
, u°n' , than their being furnilhed with calcareous, Ihelly co-
. verings, which they carry about with them, conllituting
Teftacea. the great variety of fliell-filh, fnails, &c.
6 4. Zoophyta, containing fuch creatures as feem to
Zoophyta. bear a refemblance. both to plants and animals ; being
fixed to one place by a fort of root, and (hooting up into
(terns like plants, but poffeffing befides the powers of
^ animation, and partially of locomotion.
Infuforia. 5. Infuforia, comprihng thofe animated beings ge¬
nerally called animalcules, that are found in moft watery
liquors j efpecially in the infufions of vegetable fub-
(tances.
Of thefe five orders, only four fall to be particularly
confidered in this article, the tejlacea having been al-
g ready fully treated of under CoNCHOLOGY.
Hehnintho- The animals which we are about to defcribe are ge-
logy the nerally confidered as the lowed in the fcale of animated
fcNl parTuf 1 (implicity of their form, the humility of
natural their dation, and the low degree of fenfe and motion
hiftory. which mod of them enjoy, render them an objefl of
little attention to mankind in general, excepting in fo
far as they contribute to the fupply of their wants, or
render themfelves formidable, by the pain and didrefs
which they occalion to thofe bodies which nature feems
to have dedined for their habitation. But to the eye
©f the naturalid, every part of nature becomes intered-
ing, and this humble clafs of beings has, in later
9 times, attra&ed a confiderable (hare of attention.
Difficulty Still, however, this part of natural hidory is much
of theftudy. more imperfeft than any other, and fo it will probably
long remain, partly from the difficulty of profecuting
our enquiries, and partly from the little Intered which
a fuperficial obfervation of many of thefe animals is cal¬
culated to excite. It will not be thought extraordinary
that they are lefs known than other animals, when we
condder, that the examination of them does not offer
fo many allurements as that of infe£fs, birds, and the
more (howy part of the animal creation, and is befides
impeded by much greater difficulties. Many of them
cannot be obtained without diving to the bottom of the
fea, or braving pain and danger in the purfuit. The
furia infernalis attacks the fearcher in the marfliy plains
of Bothnia, and the fepia oElopus dretches forth his
. gigantic arms, to entangle and drag him to his watery
den. Hence the opportunities of examination are often
rare $ and from the changes which many of the fpecies
undergo, we cannot always be certain whether one
which we may meet with hereafter be a new fpecies, or
one which we have feen before.
This circumdance has occafioned feveral varieties to
be defcribed as dilfindl fpecies, and the fame fpecies to
be repeated under different names, to the great confufion
of the naturalid. Again ; the confidence of their bodies
is, in many cafes, fo foft, that they can fcarccly be
preferred in our cabinets, and thus the obferver is de-
.331
prived of one of the chief fources of information and fmroduc-
reference, which, in other departments of the fcience, tl0“
is fo well calculated to affid his dudies.
The dudy of helminthology, however, holds out Ad van.
many inducements to the admirer of nature’s works, astages at-
it affords an ample field for the gratification of his cu-ten<linK
riofity, and may even be rendered fubfervient to thetae
advancement of more folid and ufeful knowledge.
If we confider the number of animals, which na-
turaliffs have included under the general name of
worms ; if we obferve the fimplicity of form in fome of
them, and the complicated llructure of others; in fine,
if we refleft on the various modes in which they are
propagated, and on the furprifing faculty, which many
of them poffefs, of fpontaneous reproduction : the ima¬
gination will be adonilhed with their number and va¬
riety, and confounded by their wonderful properties.
The waters are- peopled with myriads of animated be¬
ings, which, though invifible to our unaffiffed eyes,,
are endowed with organs as perfeid as the larged ani¬
mals, fince, like thefe, they reproduce their like, and
hold in the fcale of nature a rank as little equivocal,
though lefs obvious and obtrufive. The elegance of
form and beauty of colour, which (bme of the mollufca
and %oophyta poffefs, mud render them an object of ad¬
miration to the mod indifferent obferver.
The phyfiologid will derive confiderable aflidance in
explaining fome obfeure funftions of the animal econo¬
my, from 'a comparative view of them in this humble
clafs of beings j while the phyfician, by acquiring a
knowledge of the habitudes of fuch of them as infed
the bodies of man, will be the better able to afeertain
their prefence, expel them from their habitation, or
counteract their effeCts. The geologid, though he
cannot admit the hypothefis of Buffon, that all the
hmedone of this earth has been formed from the relicks
of corals and (hell-fi(h, will yet here trace the origin
of many of the fecondary drata, and from the wonder¬
fully rapid production of coral reefs, which we (hall
notice towards the conclufion of this article, will find
httle difficulty in accounting for the evolution of new
land from the bofom of the deep.
We (hall divide the fequel of this article into two
chapters, the fidt of which will contain a general view
of the claffification of the genera, and in the fecond
will be given the claffification and natural hidory of
the fpecies. The latter will be fub-divided into four
fedions, correfponding to the four orders of intejlina,
mollufca, szoophyta, and infuforia. As we are able to
devote but a fmall pardon of our work to this fubjed,
we (hall confine any particular defeription to thofe
fpecies which are cf mod importance ; and to relieve
the tedioufnefs of fydematic arrangement, we (hall men- _
tion every thing worth notice under the genus or fpecits
then under confideration.
T t 2
CHAP. I.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
332
Genera.
CHAP. I. CLASSIFICATION OF THE GENERA.
Chap. I.
Genera.
LINNiEUS, whofe extenfive genius has difplayed
itlelt io eminently in almoil every department of na¬
tural hiftory, has, perhaps, failed more in this part of
the fcience than in any other. In the earlier edi¬
tions of the Syjlema Natures, the individuals deferibed
are comparatively few, and the charatlers of many of
them are imperfett or erroneous. Thefe imperfections
mult be attributed to the fmall progrefs which helmin¬
thology had made in the beginning of laft century, as
the difeoveries of fucceeding naturalifts have contribut¬
ed not only to increafe the number of genera and ipe-
cies far beyond what were known at that time, but alio
to improve their diftinguilhing characlers.
M. Bruigiere, to whom this part of the Encyclopedia
Methodique wTas allotted, made feveral alterations in the
arrangement of Linnaeus, whofe general claflification
he has followed in the tabular view of the fubjedt pre¬
fixed to the plates of helminthology. M. Bruigiere’s
work is entitled to much praife, and it is to be regret¬
ted that he did not live to complete his undertak-
11
Claffifica- The arrangement of thefe animals given by Cuvier,
tion of Cu- is in great efteem on the continent, and will probably,
vier. when fully completed by future difeoveries of that ce¬
lebrated naturalift, fuperlede the Linnaian clafiification.
Cuvier has given a tabular view of his claflification, at
the end of the firft volume of his Comparative Anatomy,
and a more detailed account in his Tableau Elementaire
d^Hi/loire Naturelle. He arranges the vermes of Lin-
nasus under three heads; Mollusca, Worms, and
Zoophytes. The following is a tranflatioa of the
tables.
I. MOLLUSCA.
A. Headfurnijhed with Tentacula that ferve for Feet.
Family i. Cephalopoda.
a. Naked.
Sepia, comprehending the fepia, loligo, and oElopus,
b. Tejlaceous.
Argonauta.
Nautilus.
B. Head free, and crawling on the belly.
Fam. 2. Gasteropoda.
a. Having no fell, or having the jhell concealed by the
fejh.
Clio.
Scyll^a.
Doris.
Tritonia.
,/Eolia.
Phyllidia,
Thetis.
Limax.
Testacell a.
Segaretus.
Apxysia.
b. With an apparent Shell,
a. In feveral pieces. Multivalves.
Chitox.
/3. Conical. Conivalves.
Patella, comprehending fjfurella, patella, crcp'u
dula, and calyptreea.
y. Spiral. Spirivalves.
I. With the Aperture entire.
Halyotis.
NeRITA, comprehending nenta and narica.
Turbo, comprehending turbo, cycloftoma, and turre-
tella.
Vermitus.
Trochus, comprehending pyramidahs, trochus, mo-
nodonta, and folanum.
Bulla.
Helix, comprehendingplanorbis, helix, ampullaria%
mellania, buhmus, achatina.
2. With the Aperture foped towards the bottom.
Voluta, comprehending valuta, nntra, columbella,
marginalia, ancdla, and ohva.
OVULA.
CyPRjEA.
Conus.
Terebellum.
3. With the Aperture ending in a Canal.
Murex, comprehending centluum, pleurotoma, fufus,
fafciolaria, pyrula, murex, and turbinella.
Strombus, comprehending>y?ro/«Z,ttJ', pterocera, and
rojlellaria.
Buccinum, comprehending cajjidea, harpa, buccinum,
terebra, purpura, and najfa.
C. Having no diflinB Head.
Fam. 3. Acephala.
a. Having no Shells, but furnijhed with a menbranous
leathery cloak.
Ascidia.
•Salpa.
Pterotrachea.
Thalia.
b. With a cloak, and furnijhed with Shells.
<t. Open anteriorly, having no reticulated Feelers, nor
ciliated arms.
1. Inequivalves.
Ostrea.
Lazarus.
Spondylus.
, Placuna.
Anomia.
Pecten.
2. Equivokes t
Chap. I.
w—y-—J 2, Equivokes, having a Toot fitted for crawling, with¬
out tubes.
Axodontites.
UvA.
3. Equivokes with a Foot confirucied for fpinnmg,
without tubes,
Lima.
Perna.
Avicula, comprehending avicula and malleus.
Mytilus, comprehending mijtilus, and modeolus.
Pinna.
4. Having tubes in the clokc, ferving for an anus, and
for refpiration, and a Foot frequently fitted fior fipm-
ning.
Tellina. .
Cardium, comprehending cardium and ifocardia.
Mactra, comprehending maElra, lutrana, and crafi-
fiatella.
Venus, comprehending venus, meretnx, cyclas, pa-
phia, and capfia.
Donax.
Chama, comprehending cardita, tridacna, and hip-
popus.
Arca, comprehending area, pertunculus^ and nucula.
g. Open at one extremity, which is perforated by the
foot, and prolonged towards the other end into a dou¬
ble tube.
Solen, comprehending folen and fanguilonama.
My A, comprehending my a, glycimeris, and cyrto-
daria.
Phoeas, comprehending pholas and gieema.
Teredo, comprehending teredo znAfifiulana.
y. Open before, having neither fool nor tubes, but two
ciliated arms rolled into a fpiralform.
Terebratula, comprehending terebratula, calceola,
and hyalcea.
Lingula.
Orbicula.
Open before, having neither feet nor tubef, except one
proceeding from the body, and fur ni[bed with feelers
that are horny, articulated, and arranged in pairs.
Anatifa.
Balanus.
II. WORMS.
A. Having external organs fitted for refpiration.
a. Furnifihed with brfiles on the fide of the body.
Aphrodita.
TERE BELLA.
Nereis.
Serpula.
Penicillus.
SlLIQUARIA.
Amphitriti*.
Dentalium.
333
Genera.
B. Having no external organs of refpiration.
a. With br files on the fides of the body,
Nais.
Lumbricus,
Thalosoema.
b. Having no brfiles on the fides of the body.
Hirudo.
Fasciola.
Planaria.
Gordius.
Cuvier is uncertain whether he fliould place the fol¬
lowing genera in the fame clafs with the preceding, or
arrange them under a new clafs, next to the zoophytes..
Family 1.
Taenia.
Hydatigena.
Ligula.
Linguatula.
Family 2.
Ascaris, and the other intefiinaha.
III. ZOOPHYTES.
A. Not attached.
a. Having a calcareous or leathery covering, and the in-
tefiines footing in the internal cavity. Echinodermata.
Echinus, comprehending echinus, briffus, and fipa-
tagus.
Asterias.
Holothuria.
SlPUNCULUS.
b. Having a flefhy or gelatinous covering, and the in-
tefiines adhering within the body. Urtica marina.
Actinia, comprehending aBima and •zaanthus.
Medusa, comprehending medufa, beroe, and rhrzo-
Jioma.
c. Very fimall, and found fiwimming in liquors. In-
fuforia.
Rotifer.
Brachionus.
Trichocercus.
Trichoda.
Leucophrus, and the reft of the animalcula in-
fuforia.
c. Having a gelatinous body, and propagating by fhoots
or branches. Polypa.
Hydra.
VORTICELLA.
B. Attached to a folid trunk,
a. Having the medullary fubfiance traverfing a horny
HELMINTHOLOGY.
33+ H E L M J N 1
Genera. axis, and terminating the branches, in the form of
""" v" Polypes. ‘ Zoophyta properly fo called.
Floscularia.
Tubularia.
Capsularia.
Sertularia.
b. Having the polypes not connecled to a tnedullary axis,
but each inclofed in a horny or calcareous cell. Ef-
cara.
Cellullaria.
Flustra.
CORALLINA.
c. Having the folid axis covered with fenfble flefh, from
the hollows of which the polypes proceed. Cerato-
phyta.
Antipathes.
Gorgonia.
Cor allium.
Isis.
Pennatula.
Verticilium.
Umbellula.
H O L O G y. chip T.
d. Having cavities in the fony bajis, for receptacles to - Ge"era<\
the Polypes. Lithophyta.
Madrepora.
Millepora.
e. Having a fpongy friable or fbrous bcjis. Sponges.
Alcyokium,
Spongia.
Since the publication of thefe tables, M. Cuvier
has made feveral alterations and additions to the clafs
of Mollusca, which are the fubjefl of feveral excel¬
lent memoirs publilhed in the Annales de Mufeutn Na¬
tional; in particular he has formed a new order in this
clafs, to which he gives the following chara&ers. Bo¬
dy free, fwimming; head difincl; having no other mem¬
ber but fins. In this order he arranges three genera,
the old genus Clio, and two new ones, which he calls
Hyale and Pneumoderme.
As the arrangement of Linnaeus is ftill that which is
molt generally received, efpecially in this country, and
is therefore molt familiar to our readers, we lhall follow
it In this article.
12
Generic
charaifters.
13
Of the in-
teitina.
GENERIC CHARACTERS,
Or DO I, INTESTINA; animalia fimplicia, nuda, ar-
tubus deftituta.
Order I. INTESTINAj animals fimple, naked, and
deftitute of limbs.
* Intra alia animalia degentia, ocu/is nullis.
* Living within other animals, without eyes.
Gen. i. Ascaris. Corpus teres, utrinque attenua-
tum; capite trinodi.
2. Trichuris. Corpus teres, pofterius filiforme }
capite roftrato.
3. Filaria. Corpus filiforme totum.
4. UncinaRIA. Corpus filiforme, elalticum j capite
labiato, labiis membranaceis *, cauda (femince) aciformi,
(tnaris) uncis duobus veficae pellucidae inclulis armata.
5. ScoleX. Corpus minimum, gelatinofum, opa-
cum 5 capite exfertili et retradtili, auriculis 4 pelluci-
dis. •
6. Ligula. Corpus lineare, sequale, elongatum.
7. Linguatula. Corpus deprefium, oblongum j
ore anterior} oltiis 4 cindto.
8. Strongylus. Corpus teres, elongatum j ante-
rius globofo-truncatum, apertura circulari margine ci-
liataj pofterius {femince') acuminatum, (tnaris} cuculla-
tum.
9 Echinorhynchus. Corpus teres j probofcide cy-
lindrica retradtili aculeis uncinatis coronata.
10. Ha:ruca. Corpus teres j capite aculeis coro-
nato.
11. Cucullanus. Corpus pofterius acuminatum j
anterius obtufum j ore orbiculari.
12. Car YopHYLLail's. Corpus teres, Iteve ore am¬
ple.
13. Fasciola. Corpus depreffum, ovatum, poro
terminal! et latexali.
A. Body round, tapering both ways 5 head furnilhed
with three protuberances.
T. Body round, filiform behind j head furnilhed
with a probofeis.
F. Body entirely filiform.
U. Body filiform, elaftic j head with membranace¬
ous angular lips $ tail of the female needle-lhaped, of
the male armed with two hooks inclofed in a pellucid
veficle.
S. Body minute, gelatinous, opake j head exfertile
and retradfile, with 4 pellucid auricles.
L. Body linear, equal, and long.
L. Body depreffed, oblong j mouth placed on the
fore part, and furrounded with 4 paffages.
S. Body round, long ; the fore part globular and
truncate, with a circular aperture fringed at the mar¬
gin 5 hind part of the female pointed, of the male
hooded.
E. Body round ; probofeis cylindrical, retradlile, and
crowned with hooked prickles.
H. Body round j head crowned with prickles.
C. Body pointed behind j the fore part obtufe, with
an orbicular mouth.
C. Body round, fmooth, with a large dilated mouth.
F. Body deprefled, ovate, with a terminal and late¬
ral pore.
I
14.
4
Chap. I.
Genera. 14. TVenia. Corpus articulatum, depreffum; an-
terius tubulo 4-fido inftruftum.
15. Furia. Corpus Hneare, aculcis reflexis, utrin-
que qiliatum.
** Extra alia animalia habitantia.
f Eoro laterali nullo.
16. Gordius. Corpus aequale, filiforme totum, te¬
res, leave.
17. Hirudo. Corpus anterius et pofterius trunca-
tum, ore caudaque progrediendo dilatata.
X Poro lateralipertufa.
18. Lugubrious. Corpus teres, annulatum j aculeis
conditis.
19. Sipunculus. Corpus teres, roftro cylindrico an-
guftato.
20. Planaria. Corpus depreffum, poro ventrali.
*4
Of the mol-ORDO II. MOLLUSCA. Anlraalia fimplicia, ar-
ulca' tubus inilru&a.
* Ore fupero.
21. Actinia. Apertura unica communi, dilatabili,
nuda, ball affixa.
22. Clava. Apertura unica comrauni, dilatabili,
verticali, tentaculis clavatis cinfta.
23. Pedickllaria. Corpus pedunculatum, fixum j
pedunculo rigido.
24. Mammaria. Apertura unica, cirris nullis, lae-
vis.
23. Ascidia. Aperturis duabus, altera humiliori
affixa.
26. Salpa. Aperturis duabus, utraque terminali.
27. Dagysia. Aperturis duabus j corpus angula-
tum.
** Ore antico.
28. Pterotrachea. Corpus pervium, gelatinofum,
pinna mobili ad abdomen vel caudam.
29. Derris. Corpus teres, acuminatum articula¬
tum j tentacula 2.
*** Cor pore pertufo foraminula laterali.
30. Liiuax. Tentacula 4. Anus communis cum
poro laterali.
31. Lapiysia. Tentacula 4; anus fupra pofte-
riora.
32. Doris. Tentacula 2 ; anus fupra pofieriora.
33. Tethis. Foramina lateralia finiilra gemina.
**** Corpore tentaculis anticis cinElo.
34. Holothuria. Tentacula carnofa.
3S' Terebella. Tentacula capillaria.
***** Corpore brachiala.
3^* Triton. Brachia 12, bipartita, quibufdam che-
lireris.
335
T. Body flat, jointed, furnifhed before with 4 ori- Genera. ^
F. Body linear, with each fide ciliated with refle&ed
prickles.
** Not inhabiting other animals,
f Having no lateral pore.
G. Body equal, filiform, round, and fmooth.
H. Body truncate at each extremity j head and tail
dilated when in motion.
J Perforated with a lateral pore.
L. Body round, annulate, fumifiied with minute hid¬
den prickles.
S. Body round, with a cylindrical mouth, narrower
than the head.
P. Body flattened, with a ventral pore.
Order II. MOLLUSCA. Animals fimple, furnifh¬
ed with limbs.
* With the mouth placed above.
A. Body fixed, with a fingle terminal dilatable aper¬
ture furrounded by tentacula.
C. Body fixed, with a fingle dilatable vertical aper¬
ture, furrounded with clavate tentacula.
P. Body fixed and furnifhed with a rigid peduncle.
M. Body loofe, fmooth, with a fingle aperture with¬
out cirri.
A. Body fixed, with two apertures, one of which is
terminal, the other placed a little beneath.
S. Body loofe, with two apertures, one at each end.
D. Body loofe, angular, open at each end.
•
** Mouth placed before.
P. Body pervious, gelatinous, with a moveable fin
at the head or tail.
D. Body round, tapering, articulate; feelers 2.
*** Body with a lateral perforation.
L. Feelers 4 ; vent common with the lateral pore.
„ ■ ' - I
L. Feelers 4 j vent placed above the lower extre¬
mity.
D. Feelers 2; vent above the lower extremities.
T. Body with two fmall pores on the left fide. .
**** Body furrounded with feelers on the fore part.
H. Feelers flefliy.
T. Feelers capillary.
***** Body furnijhed with arms.
T. Arms 12, divided, fome of them cheliferous.
HELMINTHOLOG Y.
37-
336
Genera. ^<7. Sepia* Brachia 8—10, inftrufla cotylis.
v ~J Clio. Brachia 2, aliformia, extenfa.
39. Onchidium. Brachia 2, dilatata ad latera ca¬
pitis.
40. Lobaria. Corpus fupra convexum, fubtus pla¬
num, lobatum.
41. LerNjEA. Brachia 2—3, teritia, tenuia.
42. SCYLLiEA. Brachia 6, paribus remotis.
#***#* Cor pore pedato.
43. Aphrodita. Corpus ovale, ocellatum; ten-
tacula duo, fetacea, annulatum.
44. Amphitrite. Corpus tubo extrufum, annula¬
tum *, tentacula pinnata, oculi o.
45. Spio. Corpus tubo extrufum, articulatum $ ten¬
tacula duo fimplicia } oculi duo.
46. Nereis. Corpus elongatum repens •, peduncu-
lis lateralibus pennicillatis •, tentacula limplicia.
47. Nais. Corpus elongatum, repens *, pedunculis
fetaceis frmplicibus j tentacula nulla } oculi nulli vel 2.
ff-f- Ore infero, utplurimum centrale.
48. Physsophora. Corpus gelatinofum, e veficula
acrea pendens.
49. Medusa. Corpus gelatinofum, laeve.
50. LucerNARIA. Corpus gelatinofum, rugofum,
brachiatum.
. 51. Asterias, Coriaceum, muricatum.
$2. Echinus. Corpus cruftaceum, aculeatum.
Of the5 Ordo IV. ZOOPHYTA. Animalia compofita, more
Zoophyta. vegetabilium, efflorefcentia.
* Stirpe calcctrea. Lithophyta.
53. Tubipora. Corallium tubis cylindricis..
54. Madripora. Corallium, ftellis concayis.
55. Millepcka. Corallium, poris fubulatis.
56. Cellepora. Corallium, cellulis cavis.
57. Isis. Stirps lapidea.
** Stirpe molliore.
58. AntipathEs. Stirps Cornea, fpinulis obfita,
carne gelatinofa tedla.
59. Gorgonia. Stirps cornea, carne cellulofa feu
vafculofa tefta.
60. Alcyonium. Stirps fuberofa.
61. Spongia. Stirps ftupofa, flexilis, bibula.
62. Elustra. Stirps porofiffima.
63. Tubularia. Stirps tubularis, filiformis.
64. Corallina. Stirps articulis filiformibus cal-
careis.
65. SERTULARIA. Stirps articulis filiformibus fi-
brofis.
66. Pennatula. Stirps coriacea, penniformis.
67. Hydra. Stirps medullofa, nuda.
Chap. 1-.
S. Arms 8—10, befet with fuckers. Genera,
C. Arms 2, dilated, extended like wings. —v—
O. Arms 2, dilated, and placed at the fides of the
head.
L. Body convex above, flat below, lobate.
L. Arms 2—3, round and flender.
S. Arms 6, each pair at a diflance.
****** Body furnifhed with feet.
A. Body oval, furnilhed with eyes 5 feelers 2, feta-
ceous, annulate.
A. Body proceeding from a tube, and annulate ;
feelers feathered ; eyes wanting.
S. Body proceeding from a tube, and jointed } feel¬
ers 2, Ample ; eyes 2.
N. Body long, creeping, with lateral pencilled pe¬
duncles } feelers Ample.
N. Body long, creeping •, peduncles furnilhed with
Ample bridles ; feelers none j eyes o or 2.
fff Mouth beneath, commonly central.
P. Body gelatinous, hanging by an air bubble.
M. Body gelatinous, fmooth.
L. Body gelatinous, wrinkled, furnilhed with arms.
A. Body coriaceous, flat, generally radiate and mu-
ricate with papillae.
E. Body cruflaceous, and covered with moveable
fpines.
Order IV. ZOOPHYTES. Compound animals,
{hooting up like vegetables.
* With a calcareous Jlem. Lithophyta.
T. Coral, with cylindrical tubes.
M. Coral, with concave ftars.
M. Coral, with fubulate pores.
C. Coral, with hollow cells.
I. Stem ftony.
** With a fof ter Jlem.
A. Stem horny, befet with fmall fpines, and covered
with a fleftiy gelatinous coat. _ •
G. Stem homy, and covered with a cellular or flelhy
vafcular coat.
A. Stem like cork.
S. Stem ftringy, flexile, and bibulous.
F. Stem extremely porous.
T. Stem tubular, filiform.
C. Stem jointed, filiform, calcareous.
S. Stem jointed, filiform, fibrous.
P. Stem leathery, refembling a quill,
H. Stem medullous, naked.
©RDO
HELMINTHOLOGY.
2
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Chap. II.
Species.
Inteftina. OrDO V- INFUSORIA.
Animalia minima flmpli- Order V.
68.
turn.
69.
7°.
71-
72.
f 0;jam's externis.
Brachionus. Corpus tefla teftum, apice cilia-
VoRTICELLA. Corpus nudum, apice ciliatum.
Trichoda. Corpus altera parte crinitum.
Cercaria. Corpus rotundatum caudatum.
Leucophra. Corpus undique ciliatum.
ft Orjaais extends nullis.
73. Gonium. Corpus angulatum.
74. Colpoda. Corpus linuatum.
75. Paramesium. Corpus oblongum.
76. Cyclidium. Corpus orbiculare vel ovatura.
77. Burs aria. Corpus cavum.
78. Vibrio. Corpus elongatum.
79. Enchelis. Corpus cylindraceum.
80. Bacillaria. Corpus ex trabeculis in varias
formas accommodatis compofitum.-
81. Volvox. Corpus fpbericum.
82. Monas. Corpus pundliforme.
337
Species.
INFUSORIA. Animals extremely mi-
nute and fimple. l|' v
f Fumi/hed with external organs.
' . ' - < ' • - ' ’i, ' •. ■ '' . .
B. Body covered with a fhell, and ciliate at the tip.
V. Body naked, and ciliate at the tip.
T. Body hairy on one fide.
C. Body rounded and furnilhed wfith a tail.
L. Body everywhere ciliate.
ff Without external organs.
G. Body angular.
C. Body finuate.
P. Body oblong.
C. Body orbicular or ovate.
B. Body hollows
V. Body elongated.
E. Body cylindraceous.
B. Body compofed of ilraight ftraw-like filaments,
in pofition.
V. Body fpherical.
M. Body a mere point.
CHAP. II. CLASSIFICATION AND NATURAL HISTORY OF THE SPECIES,
SECT. I.
Order I. INTESTINA.
LINNAhUS gave, the name of intejlina to this order,
from the circundtances of their living in concealed fitu-
ations : while others have denominated thefe worms in-
tejiinal, from the ordinary habitation of many of them ;
viz. the intellines of other animals. As all of this or¬
der, however, do not live in thefe fituations, the term
is not driftly proper. It would perhaps be better to
follow7 the example of Goeze, and arrange all the pa-
rafitical worms in a feparate order.
The mod edeemed w'orks on the fubjefl of the intef¬
tina, are thofe of Pallas, De infejlis viveniibtis intra vi-
ventia; Muller, Hijforia vermium ; Bloch, a work in
German, afterwards tranflated into French •, Goeze,
who alfo publiihed in German } Werner, Lamarck, La-
treille; and two papers by our countrymen Mr Carliile
and Dr Hooper, which wdll be mentioned particularly
hereafter.
Anatomids have not examined a fufficient number of
thefe animals, to render an account of their general
drufture either accurate or intereding ; but we diall
take occafion to detail that of fome of the more impor¬
tant fpecies under their proper heads.1
1 here is nothing in the economy of animals more
obfeure, than the origin of thofe inteftinal wornjs which
inhabit within other animals. Were they found to live
out of thefe animals, it might ealily be fuppofed that
their ovula were taken with thfe ford and drink into the
body, and there gradually evolved into perfeft worms.
VOL. X. Part I.
This, however, is not the cafe •, mod of them do not.
feem capable of living for any length of time in any
other fituation than within a living animal body, which
appears to be the proper place for their growth and re-
fidence. We might hence be led to another fuppofi-
tion ; that thefe worms are really formed from the mat¬
ter within the intedines, which had previoufiy no re¬
gular organization, were not this idea widely different
from all analogy in the produdlion of animals, where
there has been any proper opportunity of examining
this produ&ion. The origin, therefore, of thefe ani¬
mals is a fubjeft of much obfeurity. Dr Baillie is of
opinion, that when the tvhole evidence in fupport of
both hypothefes is compared, the grounds for believing
that, in fome orders of animals, equivocal generation
takes place, appear dronger than thofe for a contrary * Morbid
opinion
I. Ascaris.
Body round, eladic, and tapering towards each extremi¬
ty ; head furnilhed with three veficles'; tail either
fubulate or obtufe j intedines fpiral, white, and pel¬
lucid.
This tribe is one of the mod numerous of thefe para-
fitical worms, late difleftions having difeovered fpecies
of it in a great variety of animals, quadrupeds, birds,
filhes, infeCts, and even worms themfelves. The mod
important are thofe which inhabit the human intelthies •
and to thefe we lhall chiefly confine our attention, avail¬
ing ourfelves of the excellent paper on thefe worms in-
ferted by Dr Hooper in the 5th volume of the Memoirs
ol the Medical Society of London.
U u A. Infejiing
Anatomy,
chap. viii.
15
Afcaris.
338
Species.
Irvtefhna.
lumbri-
coldes.
Plate
CCLI.
H E L M I N T
A. InfejUpg Man.
Head {lightly curved inwards, with a tranfverfe
contraction beneath it j mouth triangular. Fig. I.
and 2.
When full grown, they are from 12 to 15 inches in
length } and in circumference equal to that of a goofe
quill.
The head is to be diftlnguifhed from the tail by a
fmail contraction, very obvious when the worm is lying
down 5 it is trilobated, having three veficles and a
triangular aperture, between which is the mouth.
Thefe three globofe papillae are joined together at their
balls, and are of the fame colour as the reft of the
worm.
The tail may be known from the head by its very
acute termination, clofe to which is a large orifice, the
extremity of the inteftinal canal, which may betermed
the anus.
The body is that part between the two extremities,
forming nearly the whole of the w'orm 5 it puts on a
rugofe appearance, and has a line very apparent run¬
ning on each fide, and extending from one end to the
other. Between thefe tw'o lines are tw?o other lines
running parallel with the former, fcarcely vifible. Near
the middle of the body (rather towards the head) is a
circular depreflion of about one fourth of an inch in ex¬
tent, in which is a very fmall punCHform aperture.
This depreffed band is irregular in its appearance, when
the body of the worm is diftended, although it would
appear to be wanting when collapfed, in which ftate it
moftly efcapes from the inteftines.
They generally infeft the fmall inteftines, and of
thefe more frequently the courfe of the jejunum and
ileum. Sometimes they are knowm to alcend through the
duodenum into the ftomach, and are frequently feen to
creep out at the mouth and noftrils •, it happens but
rarely that they defeend into the large inteftines, and
only after the exhibition of worm medicines, or from o-
ther caufes, which increafe the periftaltic motion. They
have alfo been deteCled, after death, in the common
biliary duCf, and inftances are related where they have
remained a confiderable time in the gall bladder.
They are in general very numerous, and Dr Hooper
relates an inftance of above two hundred having been
voided in the courfe of a week. Thirty or forty is a
very common number, but now and then only one is
found.
When recently excluded they are tranfparent, and ap¬
pear as if they had been fucking water tinged with blood;
this colour, however, foon difappears, and they become
at length of a light and opaque yellow.
When voided they are in general very feeble and
foon die, but when fuddenly expelled, they fomeUmes
appear very lively. Their motion is ferpentine, but is
not produced by the diminution of the length of the
animal by contraction. The head is fent forward by
the worm curling itfelf into circles, and fuddenly ex¬
tending itfelf with confiderable force to fome diftance.
This fpecies does not, like moft of this order appear
to be hermaphrodite, but the male and female are faid
to be diltinCl w orms.
The covering or external membrane of the worm,
which may be confidered as the cuticle, is very ftrong,
elaftic, thin, fmooth, and tranfparent; and eafily fepa-
H O L Q G Y. Chap. II.
rates from the parts beneath, if the worm be macerated Sp> cies.
a few7 days after death in water. Inteftina.^
Under the cuticle lies the cutis, or true fkin, which v
is confiderably thicker than the former, and retains the
marks of the mufcles which it covers. It is alfo very
ftrong, elartic, and tranfparent.
When the cutis is removed, the mufcles, obfervable
through the {kin of the worm, prefent themfelves.
They do not entirely furround the worm, as from their
appearance one would be induced to believe j but are,
in faff, two diftindt orders aeling in oppofition to each
other } for the two longitudinal lines, w7hich extend
from one extremity of the worm to the other, are each
of them compofed of two diftinft tendons, feparable
from one another. Thefe tendons ferve for the attach¬
ment of the circular mufcles, which cover the worm
from the head to the tail.
Upon removing carefully the femilunar mufcles from
the head to the depreffed band, a number of minute
veficles are to be feen (by means of a glafs) filled with
a fubmucous fluid, which ifl'ues out upon puncturing
them.
This cellular or parenchymatous apparatus, clofely
embraces the inteftinal tube from the head to the de¬
preffed band j but from thence to the tail, there is
merely a fibrous connecting fubftance, fimilar to w7hat
is generally called cellular membrane.
When the mufcles are removed from the depreffed
band to the tail of the worm, an extremely delicate mem¬
brane prefents itfelf, analogous to the peritoneum, for it
embraces the abdominal vifeera, and lines the cavity of
the abdomen.
The cavity of the abdomen extends from the de¬
preffed .band near the middle of the worm to the
tail j it is moftly diilended with a tranfparent fluid, and
contains the inteftinal tube and an apparatus fuppofed
to be fubfervient to generation, w7hich conftitute the ab¬
dominal vifeera.
The inteftinal canal begins at the obtufe extremity
or head, from the external triangular mouth fituated
between the three globofe papillae, and is continued for
a fmall fpace downwards (nearly half an inch) in a pa¬
rallel form. Having attained the fize of a crow quill,
it paffes in a ftraight direction (and gradually enlarges
as it advances) through the whole length of the worm,
to within the eighth part of an inch, where it becomes
fuddenly narrower, and terminates in the anus.
This canal is generally filled with a greenifti-colour-
ed fluid, of the confiftence of mucus, and not very unlike
to the meconium of infants.
If a portion of this tube be macerated for a few days
in w7ater, it exhibits diitinCt coats, the external of
which is a production of the peritoneum •, it is external¬
ly covered w7ith filaments, which conneCt it to the ab¬
dominal parietes. The fecond vifeus is confidered by
fome as peculiar only to the female worm, but all agree,
that it is for the purpofe of generation. It begins near
the middle of the rvorm, where the cavity of the abdo¬
men commences, by a {lender tube, which is continued
from the punCHform aperture, fituated in the depreffed
band between the two longitudinal lines. This tube,
which is termed the vagina, foon becomes much larger,
when it commences uterus, and divaricates into two
large crura, which, for the fpace of four or five inches,
are" continued of an uniform diameter j they then on a
hidden,
Chap. II.
Species, fudden, become mucb diminifhed in fize, and appear
Inteftina. op^g threads, embracing in every direftion, the
" * inteftinal tube. Thefe are by Weruer confidered as
the fallopian tubes.
This convoluted apparatus is compofed of very fine
tranfparent membranes. It is never found empty, but
is always diflended with an opaque fluid, in which are
a number of globular bodies, or ovula, containing young
worms.
It has been fuppofed by fome that thefe worms are
viviparous ; an opinion which feems to have arifen
from miftaking the nature of an appeararice that not
unfrequently takes place; viz. a protrufion of the gy¬
rated apparatus above defcribed, the filaments of which
look very much like young worms. A convincing proof
of their being oviparous is afforded by the fafb, that
ovula, differing in no refpedl from thofe found in the
uterus of the worm, have been found in the mucus of the
inteftines by which they are furrounded.
This fpecies was long confidered as the fame with the
common earth worm, to be mentioned prefently. There
are, however, many ftriking differences, which will be
enumerated under that fpecies.
* vermicu- Head fubulate j Ikin at the fides of the body very
/arts. finely wrinkled. Vid. fig. 3. and 4.
When full grown, it is about half an inch long, and
in thicknefs refembles a fine piece of thread. The body
forms about a third part of the length of the animal, be¬
ginning immediately from the head, and terminating in
the tail, which is diftinguifhed by its gradually dimi-
nilhing. The worm is wrinkled, annular, and pellucid.
The tail terminates in a fine point , and when viewed
with a magnifying glafs, appears furniflied with wrinkles
or thick firm rings, and at its beginning there is a
fmall opening through which the excrements pafs.
They are moft commonly fituated in the redlum, and
are continually palling away. They are frequently met
with in the coecum and colon, and have been found
in the ftomach and fmall inteftines, lying hid between
their coats. They are generally in confiderable num¬
bers, efpecially in the redlum of children j when they
inhabit other parts, their numbers are lefs confiderable,
though above an hundred have been known to be vo¬
mited from the ftomach of a young woman in the courfe
i Med. Soc. of a day f.
Mem. vol. Their natural colour is a pale yellow, though they are
▼. p. 24S. often obferved of a pale green, or occafionally of a brown
colour.
When the animal wilhes to Ihift his place, he firft
moves his bead, which he turns in every direflion,
lometimes in a circle, at others fo as to form the figure
eight; moft commonly its tail appears fixed, while it
turns its body fometimes to one fide, and fometimes to
another. They are extremely lively, and have been
fcen to bury themfelves almoft inftantaneoufly in the
foft faeces of children, when they are expofed to the air.
By fome they are faid to jump from one place to ano¬
ther j and hence the name afcarides, or leaping worms,
from eca-xetf’ifyu, to leap.
Thefe animals are certainly male and female, and,
unlike the laft fpecies, they are viviparous.
The integuments of this fpecies referable thofe of the
laft, but there do not appear to be any longitudinal
bands on its furface. The cavity, in which the bowels
are fituated, begins at a very fmall diftance from the
339
head, and terminates at the commencement or the tail. Species.
The only vifcera in the male worm are the gullet, the /nieft'ria.J
ftomach, and the inteftine. The gullet begins at the
mouth, from which it gradually enlarges for a fmall
fpace, till it terminates in the ftomach. This is a round-
ilh bag, forming with the gullet, an organ ftiaped like
the peftle of a mortar. The inteftinal canal is conti¬
nued, more or lefs contracted or dilated, till it termi¬
nates in the anus. The contents of this canal are always
of a dark browm colour.
Befides thefe organs, the female has an apparatus ap¬
propriated to generation. It begins by a {lender tube
leading from a very fmall opening that is fituated near¬
ly in the middle of the body of the worm. It foon be¬
comes much larger, embraces the inteftinal tube in every
direction, and fills up the cavity of the worm. It is
nearly of an equal fize throughout, and when viewed
with a microfcope, it appears like a bladder diftended
with living worms.
Various mammalia are alfo infefted with afcarides, of
which the following fpecies are enumerated.
A. vefpertilionis, found in the long-eared bat; pho- mamtnalU
cm, found in feveral fpecies of feal; bifida, inhabiting um%
the phoca Greenlandica, or Greenland feal ; * canis,
in the inteftines of the dog j vifceralis, in the kidneys
of the fame animal j lupi, in the wolf •, vulpis, in the
fox j leonis, found under the ikin of the lion *, tigridis,
in the inteftines of the tiger } felis and cati, both found
in the cat; martis, in the inteftines of the martin j
bronchialis, in the lungs, and renalis, in the kidneys
of the fame animal j mephitidis, in the vifcera of
the Ikink 5 gulonis, in the glutton ; talpse, in the mole j
muris, in the moufe; hirci, in the goat *, vituli, in the
lungs of cattle $ * equi, in the horfe •, fuis, in the in¬
teftines of fwine, and apri, in the lungs of the boar.
The following fpecies are found in birds.
A. Aquike, in the eagle •, albicillae, in the inteflines ofdviuM*
the falco albicilla j buteonis, in the buzzard j milvi, in
the kite j fubbuteonis, in the hobby •, hermaphrodita,
in the pfittacus mftivus 5 cornicis, of the crowr $ coracis,
in the Ikin about the throat of the roller; cygni, in the
fwan ; anatis, in the wild duck ; fuligulae, in the tufted
duck ; * carbonis, in the corvorant ; * pelican!, in the
fliag •, lari, in the gull *, ciconim, in the ftork ; tardi,
and the papillofa, in the inteftines of the buzzard ; gal-
lopavium, in the turkey; galli, in young fowls; gallinae,
in the hen ; phafiani, in the phafianus pi£tus ; tetrao-
nis, in the groufe ; columbae, in the houfe pigeon ;
alaudas, in the lark ; fturni, in the ftarling, and turdi,
in the thrulh.
The following infeft reptiles.
A. teftudinis, the round tortoife ; lacertre, the newt; reptilium.
bufonis, the toad ; pulmonalis, the lungs of the toad ;
rubetrae, alio in the toad and natter jack ; trachealis, in
the lungs of the toad ; ranre and inteftinalis, found in
the inteftines of frogs ; dyfpneos, in the lungs ol frogs,
fo as to impede their refpiration ; and infons, alfo found
in the lungs of frogs, but without impeding their
breathing.
The following infeft fifti.
Anguillae, found in the eel; * marina, in herrings,
bleaks, and other fifti ; blennii, in the blenny ; rhom-
bi, in the pearl; perem, in the perch ; globicola, found
in the three-fpined ftickle-back ; * lacuftris, in the
ftickle-back and pike ; filuri, in the iilurus glanis ;
U u 2 farina.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
340
Species.
Inreltina
lumbrici.
H E L M I N T H O L O G Y.
f /Initnal
Biography t
vol. iii. p.
4<po.
17
Trichuris.
* homi-
ms.
faiionis, in the trout ; truttae, in the trout 5 mamente,
in the falmo maratjia ; acus, in the colninon pike j ha-
lecis, in the herring ; argentine?, in the argentine or
filver fith j gobionis, in the liver of the gudgeon j rajae,
in the tail-iay ; fqualae, in the flrark j and lophii, in
the gullet of the frog fiih.
One fpecies, viz. A. lumbrici, is found in lumbrici,
between the fkin and humours, though it is lo hnall, as
to be vlfible only by means of a microfcope, '
The fj'ecies of afcaris already known, amount to
about eighty.
“ We are not to fuppofe (fays Mr Bingley) that
thefe worms are created tor the purpofe of producing
difeafe in the animals they inhabit, but rather-, that na¬
ture has directed that no fituatjon lliould be vacant,
where the work of multiplying the fpecies of living
creatures could be carried on. By thus allowing them
to exift within each other, the fphere ol mcreaie is con-
fiderably enlarged. There is, however, little doubt that
worms, and more efpecialiy the tape worms [to be pre-
Jenthj e/ej^nbeil), do fqmetimes produce difeaies in the
body they inhabit; but we are at the lame time very
certain, that worms do exilt abundantly in many animals
without at all diilurbing their functions, or annoying
them in the flight,eft degree j and we oughtfi to coji-
fider all the creatures rather as the concomitants than
the caufes of difeafe f.”
2. TrIchuris. .
Body round, elafiic, and varioufly twilled j head much
thicker than the other part, and furnifhed with a
ilender, exfertile probofeis •, tail long, capillary, and
tapering to a fine point.
Body above (lightly cremate, fmooth beneath, and
very finely ftreaked on the fore part. Vid. fig. 5.
and 6.
The body, when full | rown, equals in breadth the
one-fixteenth of an inch. In length the whole worm
meafures nearly two inches, two-thirds of which are
tail, hence the French call it le ver a queue.
The large extremity of the trichuris is the head, out
of which proceeds a kind of probofeis, not always vi-
jible , for the animal has the power of ejecting and
drawing within itfelf this inftrument at plealure.
The body may be faid to begin at the bafis of the
probofeis 5 it is the thickeft part of the worm, and the
molt fo at the extremity, where the probofeis is receiv¬
ed. It gradually diminiihes in fize as it proceeds, and
forms about one-third of its length.
The tail commences where the body terminates. It
is twice as long as the body, and appears like a fine
hair, gradually becoming fmaller, and at length termi¬
nates in a very fine point.
Upwards of twenty have been feen in fome faeces of
a child fix years old, and according to the account of
Blumenbach, they are, in general, in confiderable num¬
ber. '■
Wrifberg, Blumenbach, and others, have found
thefe worms in the inteftinum redlum, in the inferior
part of the ileum, and alfo in the jejunum, mixed with
their pultaceous contents. They have feldom, if ever,
been feen after death, but in the coecum. In colour it
refembles the afcaris vermicularis.
Goeze has given a drawing of a female trichuris, and
Chap. II.
fays it has no probofeis, which he fuppofes to be the Specks,
male organ of generation ; but as there is no material Iflteltl'‘a.
difference in the vifeera of particular individuals, Dr
Hooper is inclined to doubt the fa£f.
This curious and lingular animal is fupplied, I ke
the foregoing genus, with annular mufcles, cutis, and
cuticle.
The probofeis, which is undoubtedly the head of the
worm, appears to be formed of a tranlparent fubitance,
and contains a canal which is continued through the
pulpy or funnel-like portion to the Ifomach and intef-
tine.
The ftomach and intelfine are formed by'a long ca¬
nal, which proceeds in a direbt line from the head to
the very extremity of the worm. It is largelt at its
beginning, and continues of the lame fize throughout
the body of the animal j and when arrived at the place
where the tail commences, it fuddenly becomes con -
fiderably lefs in diameter, and terminates in the
anus.
The remaining vifeus, or ovarium, is a convoluted
canal, fimifar to that of the female vermicular afcaris,
but is feldom found embracing the inteftinal tube.
The contents of this canal are ovula and a limpid
fluid. There have feldom been feen any
*-
young
‘ Mem.
worms
Befides the above fpecies
feribed ; viz. T. equi, found in the inteltim
horfe ; apri, in the boar \ muris, in the moufe
Med. Son.
five others have been ile.- mammalia
of the um.
vulpis,
18
Filaria.
in the fox ; and lacerta, in the lacerta apus.
3. Filaria.
Body round, filiform, equal, and quite fmooth 5 mouth
dilated, with a roundilh concave lip.
The moll important fpecies of this genus is the Y.medinen-
medinencis, or guinea worm. Gmelin has arrangedyfr or gui-
the animal as a filaria, though Linnaeus makes it a ipc- nea worm.
cies of gordius, in which he is followed by Bruigiere
and Barbut. Mr Bingley, in his Animal Biography,
choofes to coniider it as the fame with the firia infer-
nalis of Linmeus, a fpecies to be mentioned by and
bye. The French call it dragonneau, and the older
medical waiters, draciiticulus. It is charafterifed by-
having the body entirely of a pale yellow colour. It
inhabits both the Indies and the coal! of Guinea, and
is faid commonly to make its appearance in the morning
dew. It enters the feet and other expofed parts of the
llaves, and occafions very troublefome fymptoms.
It attacks molt parts of the body 5 but is generally
confined to the lower extremities, particularly to the
feet and ancles. The difeafe is more painful and dan¬
gerous when feated in parts thinly covered with flelh,
fuch as near the joints, tendons, and ligaments, and
lefs fo in mufcular parts. It is always difficult to ex¬
tract the worm from the ancles, tarfus, and metatarfus,
and fometimes impoffible from the toes. I he confe-
quences frequently are, tedious fuppurations, contrac¬
tions of the tendons, difeafed joints, and _ gangrene.
When pulled, the worm often excites a pain which it
is not eafy to deferibe, and which, in thefe parts, is
extremely exquilite. It feems to attach itfelf to the
nerves, ligaments, and tendons, and when pulled even
with the llighteft force, excites excruciating pain. The
track of the animal appears to be for the moll part con¬
fined
Chap. II.
Species, fined to the cellular membrane, and probably feldom
lIcte‘hpa^ . extends deeper, or penetrates into the interftiees of the
mufcles.
, The difeafe produced by this animal is a fpecies of
Mtd. "ylinL ^ar;1 m 11 ti°n, which fometimes is very troublefome, and
vol. i. p. rjOW an^ then is faid to terminate in mortification. The
145. worm fometimes appears at firft like a hair, and be¬
comes thicker as it is drawn from below the fkin. It
generally has a fharp point, and is otherwife all of the
fame thicknefs. It may fometimes be felt below the
Ikin, like the ft ring of a violin. Various caufes are
affigned for the generation of this worm, but in the
countries where it is ufually found, it is thought to be
generated by drinking impure water. It is more pro^
bable that it infmuates itfelf from without.
The method commonly employed for extrafling this
animal is, to fearch for its extremity in the inflamed
part, where there is ufually an ulcer, and this is to-be
drawn out gently, and wrapt round a piece of linen
rag, when the pulling is continued very gently till the
worm makes fo much refiftance that there is great dan¬
ger of breaking it, an accident which is faid to be at¬
tended with very bad coniequences, as the remaining
part of the worm becomes more irritating, and produces
a more violent degree of inflammation. When no more
will eafily come away, the part already extracted, rol¬
led round the rag, is left to dry, the part covered from
the air, and the operation is repeated occanonally till
the whole worm is withdrawn.
tnammah- Four fpecies of filaria are found in fome of the mam-
umi malia, viz. F. equi. in the cellular membrane of the
horfe 5 leonis, in the lion ; fnartis in the martin 5 and
leporis, in the hare.
avium. Five infeft birds, viz. F. falconis, the hawk \ ftrigis,
the owl ; cornicis, the crow ; ciconise, the ilork ; and
gallinae, the inteftines of poultry.
The following infeft: perfect infeffs, viz.
infe&o- F. fcarabaei, the fcarabaeus femitarcus • filphae, in
rum. the filpha obfeura ; carabi, in the carabus ; grylli, in
the cricket, and monoculi, in the monoculus apus.
Thirteen are found in the larvae of various fpecies of
infers.
There are about 28 fpecies of this genus dlftinguilhed
in the Syjlema Na turn.
Uncinaria. 4- UnCIN^RIA.
Body filiform, elaftic, the fore part obfeurely tubercu-
late, with membranaceous angular lips ; tail of the
femare ending in a fine point, of the male armed
with two cufpidate hooks enclofed in a pellucid ve-
ficle.
Of this genus there are only two fpecies; viz. metisy
found in the inteftines of the badgers ; and vulbis. in
thofe of the fox.
20
Scolex. 5. SCOLEX.
Body gelatinous, varioufly fliaped, broadifti on the fore
part and pointed behind } fometimes linear and long,
fometimes wrinkled and Ihort, round, flexuous, or
deprefled 5 the head protrulile and retra£tile.
IJfls genus alfo contains two fpecies 5 viz. pleuro-
nc (Slidis, and lophii, both found in feveral'fpecies of
fifti.
34*
^ _ Species.
, BlGULA. Inteftina.
Body linear, equal, long ^ the fore part obtufe', the 21
hind part acute, with an impreffed dorfal future. kiguia.
There are two fpecies of this genus, viz. intsfti-
iialis and abdominalis, infefting feveral varieties of
fifti. m
22
7. Li NGUATULA. Lnguatula,
Body depreffed, oblong •, mouth placed before, fur-
rounded with four paffages.
Of this genus there is only one fpecies, viz. ferrata,
found in the lungs of the hare.
8. SxRONGYLUS. Strongylus;
Body round, long, pellucid, glabrous ; the fore part
globular, truncate, with a circular aperture fringed
at the margin •, the hind part of the female entire
and pointed, of the male dilated into loofe, diftant,
pellucid membranes.
i'here are two fpecies, viz. equinus, found in great
numbers in the inteftines of the horfe, and ovinus in
thofe of ftieep.
9. ECHINORYNCHUS. Ecliinoryn-
T> 1 1 r • chuS.
Body round ; probofcis cylindrical, retra£tile, and
crowned with hooked prickles.
This is a very numerous genus, and is found in a
great variety of animals, generally in their inteftines,
to which they are found very firmly fixed, often re¬
maining on the fame fpot during the whole life of the
animal. They are commonly gregarious, and are to
be diftinguiflied from the tamia, to be prefently deferib-
ed, by their having the body round, and deftitute of
joints.
Four fpecies infeft the mammalia, viz. E. phocee, mamma-
found in great numbers in the inteftines of the harp and Hum.
rough feal, fo as fometimes nearly to devour them ; tu-
bifer, in the ftomach of the harp feal ; gigas, in fwine,
efpecially thofe kept in ftyesj and balenae, in the intef-
tine» of the whale.
14 infeft birds, viz. E. buteonis, the buzzard 5 fcopis, avlUm.
in the llrix fcopo ; aluconis, in the ftrix aluco •, ftrigis,
in the tawny oud j pici, in various fpecies of picus;
borealis, in the eider duck ; bofehadis, in the common
duck ; anatis, in the velvet duck ; mergi, in the mer-
gus minutus ; alcse, in the auk; ardete, and gazse, in
the ardea alba, or white heron; vanillae, in the lap-
w-ing, and merulus, in the blackbird and tree fpar-
row.
Two infeft reptiles, viz. E. ranee, the frog ; and fal- reptilium.
catus, the falamander.
28 infeft fifti; viz. E. anguillae, the eel; xiphia, the y •
fword-fifti ; candidus, found in feveral fpecies of fiih .r!-JClum'
lineolatus, in the cod ; longicolli, in the torlk ; pleuro-
neftis, in the turbot; attenuatus, in the flounder; an-
nulatus, in the father-laflier, torlk, and bream ; platef-
foidae, in the pleurone&es plateffoides; percse, in the
perch ; cernuse, in the ruffe ; cobites, in the bearded
loach ; falmonis, in the falmon ; fublobatus, and qua-
driroftris, found alfo in falmon 3 truttae, in the trout j
murense..
H E L M I N T H O L O G Y.
342
Species.
Inteltina.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Chap. II.
25
Hasruca.
7.6
Cucullanus.
mamma-
liutn.
ranee.
pifeium.
27
Caryophyl-
laeus.
28
Fafciola.
muraense, in the falmo muraenas j lucii, in the pike; ar-
gentinae, in the argentine j alofa, in the ihad j barbi, in
the barbel j carpionis, in the carp $ idbari, in the cypri-
nus idbarus ; affinis, in the roach j rutili, alfo found in
the roach, but feldom $ branue, in the bream 5 lophii,
in the frog-fifh, and fturionis, in the fturgeon. There
are in all about 48 fpecies.
10. H/eruca.
Body round, the fore part two-necked, and furround-
ed with a fingle row of prickles *, probofeis none.
There is only one fpecies, viz. H. muris, found in
the inteftines of the moufe.
11. Cucullanus.
Body fliarp, pointed behind, and obtufe before j mouth
orbicular, with a ftriate hood.
There are eight fpecies, three of which are found in
various mammalia, viz. C. talpae, and ocreatus in the
mole} and muris in the moufe.
One infefts birds, viz.
C. buteonis, commonly found in the buzzard.
One, viz.
C. range, is found in the inteftines of the frog.
Several varieties under the common name of lacuf-
tris, and two others, called afearoides, and murinus, are
found in various fpecies of fifti.
12. Caryophylljeus.
Body round j mouth dilated and fringed.
There is only one fpecies, called caryophyllgeus pifei¬
um, found in various fpecies of fifties.
13. Fasciola.
tap
Species.
Inteftir.a:
femblance to the feed of the common gourd, whence it
is often called the gourd worm.
The opinion of flukes being the caufe of the rot, has
been ably controverted by feveral writers, efpecially by
Dr Harrifon. On this fubjeft, fee the article Far¬
riery, N° 526. This opinion is fuppofed to be cor¬
roborated by a circumftance related in the firft volume
of the Monthly Magazine, page 101. of a jelly-like
fubilance being found among the grafs, in a pafture
that was notorious for rotting flieep. This fubftance
bore a ftriking refemblance to the flukes found in the
liver of rotten flieep ; but we are afterwards told, that
having been waftied into a ditch, and attended to daily,
it wras, in procefs of time transformed into a fmall fnail,
with an afti-coloured fpiral ftiell. It is therefore pro¬
bable that it w'as not flukes } and indeed there is no
well authenticated inftance of thefe animals having
been found out of the bodies of ftieep, except when
it could be proved, that they had been vomited by thofe
animals.
Nine fpecies of fafciola are found in birds, viz.
F. bilis, in the gall du£I of the eagle 5 buteonis, in
the buzzard ; milvi and ftrigis, in the inteftines of the
kite *, pufilla, found in the thorax of the ftrix alba j anatis,
in the duck •, anferis, in the goofe 5 gruis in the crane,
and ardeae, in the bittern.
Three fpecies infeft reptiles, viz. 1
F. falamandri, the falamander 5 ranae, the tommon
frog, and uncinulata, the efculent frog.
21 inhabit various kinds of fifti, viz.
F. Binodis, difticha, anguillae, fcabra, eglefini, \Atn-pifeimtt.
nii, fcorpii, platefiae, luciopercae, percae, lugama, clava-
ta, varica, eriocis, farionis, trutta, umblae, lucii, halecis,
* bramae, jefis.
One, viz.
F. loliginis, inhabits the fepia loligo, or cuttle fifli. loliginh.
29
14. TiENIA. Ttema.
avium.
•eptiliutn.
Body flattifti, with an aperture or pore at the head, and
generally another at a diftance beneath, feldom a
fingle one.
Cuvier remarks, that the body of the fafciola is ex¬
tremely flat. They appear to be hermaphrodite, and
are oviparous. They are found in almoft every fpecies
of animals.
hominis. One is found in man, though rarely, viz. fafciola ho-
minis.
mamma- Twelve in various fpecies of the mammalia, viz. vul-
lium. pis, in the inteftines of the fox *, putorii, in thofe of the
polecat} melis, in thofe of the badger •, vefpertilionis, in
the inteftines of the long-eared bat 5 * hepatica, in the
livers of ftieep \ bourn, in thofe of cattle ; porcorum, in
the liver of fwine j apri, in that of the boar *, cervi, in
that of deer ; equi, in the liver of horfes $ and elaphi,
in the ftomach of the ftag.
hepatica ox Of thefe, the moft important is the fafciola hepatica,
fiuhe. or fluke, which is fo common in the liver of flieep, in
which it is fuppofed to be the principal caufe of the rot.
—This fpecies is about an inch long, broadeft on the
fore-part, wdiich is furniftied with a large mouth. It
terminates in a tube ; the back is marked with a row of
about eight longitudinal furrows. It is generally found
fixed by two points, one at one extremity, and another
at about the middle of the abdomen. It bears fome re-
Body ufually flat, and compofed of numerous articula
tions ; head with four orifices for fuflion, which are
feated a little below the mouth ; mouth terminal,
continued by a fliort tube into two ventral canals,
and generally crowned with a double feries of retrac¬
tile hooks.
The fpecies of this genus, which are very numerous,
are diftributed into three feftions, according to the fitua-
tion which they inhabit in various animals, &c.
A. Found in other parts hejides the intejhnes, andfur-
nifhed with a vejicle behind.
The fpecies of this fetftion are commonly known to
medical writers by the name of hydatids, from the
bladders, of which they are chiefly compofed, being fil¬
led wdth a watery fluid.
The following inhabit various fpecies of mammalia 5 vifceraiii
T. vifceralis, pifiform, inclofed in a veficle, broad on or hyda-
the fore part, and pointed behind.—Found in the liver, tids.
placenta, kidneys, facs containing dropfical fluids, and
other morbid tumours in man.
There is no gland in the human body in which hy¬
datids are fo frequently found as the liver, except the
kidneys, where they are ftill more common. Hydatids
of the liver are ufually found in a cyft, which is fre¬
quently of confiderable fize, and is formed of very firm
materials.
V
Chap. II.
H E L M I N T H O L O G Y.
Species.
luteftina
* Baillies
Morbid
Anatomy,
chap. ix.
cellulofa.
mainma-
lium.
reptilium.
truttce.
materials, /o as to give to the touch almoft the feeling
ot cartilage. This cyft, when cut into, is obvioufly la¬
minated, and is much thicker in one liver than ano¬
ther. In fome livers, it is not thicker than a (hilling,
and in others, it is near a quarter of an inch in thick-
r.efs. 1 he laminae which compofe it are formed of a
white matter, and on the infide there is a lining of a
pulpy fubftance, like the coagulable lymph. In a cyit
may be found one hydatid, or a greater number of
them. J. hey lie loofe in the cavity, fwimming in a
lluid } or fome of them are attached to the lide of the
cyft. They confift of a round bag, which is compofed
of a white, femi-opaque, pulpy matter, and contain a
fluid capable of coagulation. Although the common
colour of hydatids be white, yet they are feen occafton-
ally of a light amber. The bag of the hydatid conlifts
of two laminae, and pofiefles a good deal of contra&ile
power. In one hydatid, this coat or bag is much
thicker and more opaque than in another, and even in
the fame hydatid different parts of it will often differ in
thicknefs. On thd inftdeof'an hydatid, fmaller ones
are fometimes found, which are commonly not larger
than the heads of pins, but fometimes they are even lar¬
ger than a goofeberry. Thefe are attached to the lar¬
ger hydatid, either at fcattered irregular diftances, or
fo as to form fmall clufters ; and they are alfo found
floating loofe in the liquor of the larger hydatids. Hy¬
datids of the liver are often found unconnetfted with
each other j but fometimes they have been faid to in-
clofe each other in n feries, like pill-boxes. The moft
common fituation of hydatids of the liver, is in its fub-
ftance, and incloled in a cyft j but they are occafionally
attached to the outer furface of the liver, hanging from
it, and occupying more or leis of the general cavity of
the abdomen.*
Another fpecies called cellulofa, is found in the cel¬
lular membrane of man.
The following infeft others of the mammalia, vi'z.
T. (imiae, found in the diaphragm of the ape ; vefper-
tiiionis, in the liver of the bat ; vulpis in the fox ; pu-
torii, in the pole-cat j urfl, in the bear j gulonis, in
the glutton j hydatigena, in various fpecies of rat *, mu-
rina, in the liver of the moufe ; cordata, in mice and
hares 5 pififormis, in the liver of hares j utricularis, in
the gravid uterus of the fame animal; ferarum, in deers
and antelopes j caprina, in the goat *, ovilla, in the li¬
ver and omentum of fneep 5 cerebralis, within the Ikull
of (beep, conftituting the difeafe called (lurdij ox turn-
fick ; (fee Farriery, N° 521.J vervecina, in the pe¬
ritoneum^ of fat iheep 5 granulofa, in the liver of fheep
bovina, in cattle ; apri, in the boar j globofa, chiefly
found in the bowels of fwinej and pinna, in the cellular
fubftance of fwine.
Two infeft: reptiles, viz,
T . ialamandri, the falamander 5 and ferpentum, in va¬
rious ferpents.
One viz.
I. truttae, is found in the liver of the trout.
^ I he origin and real nature of hydatids are not fully
afcertained. I here is no doubt at all, that the hydatids
in the livers of fheep are animalcules ; they have been
oken feen to move when taken out of the liver, and put
into v\arm water j and they retain this power of motion
for a good many hours after a ffeep has been killed.
x he analogy is great between hydatids in the liverof a
343
fheep, and in that of a human fubjetft. In both they Species,
are contained in ftrong cyfts, and in both they confift Iftefiina.
of the fame white pulpy matter. There is undoubtedly ' 'r~~J
fome difference between them in fimplicity of organiza¬
tion j the hydatid in the human liver being a Ample,
uniform bag, and the hydatid in that of the fheep hav¬
ing a neck and mouth appended to the bag. This dif¬
ference need be no confiderable objeftion to the opinion
above dated. Life may be conceived to be attached
to the moft Ample form of organization. In proof of
this, hydatids have been found in the brains of fheep,
refembling almoft exadfly thofe in the human liver, and
which have been feen to move, and therefore are cer¬
tainly known to be animalcules. The hydatids of the
human liver indeed, have not, as far as we know, been
found to move when taken out of the body and put into
warm water j were this to have happened, no uncertain¬
ty would remain.
An excellent paper on the fubjeft of hydatids, by Dr
John Hunter, is contained in the Medical and Chirur-
gical Tran(a<ftions.
B. Having no terminal vejiclc, and found only in the in-
tejlines of other animals.
This feiftion comprehends the taeniae properly fo cal-Tape3°orrm
led, or tape-worms, which are the moft troublefome of
all the fpecies that inhabit the inteftinal canal. Of
thefe, the. following two fpecies that are conflned to
man, merit our particular attention.
Articulations long and narrow, with marginal mouths, folium
one on each joint, and generally alternate j ovaries ar-
borefcent. Vide Ag. 7. and 8.
1 his fpecies is frequently bred in the inteftines of the
inhabitants of Germany, and occaAonally, but rarely,
in thofe of the inhabitants of Great Britain. It confiits
ef a great many diftin<ft portions, which are conne&ed
together fo as to affume a jointed appearance j thefe
joints are commonly of a very white colour, but are oc¬
caAonally brownifh, -which depends on a fluid of this
colour that is found in their veffels. The worm is ufu-
ally very .long, extending often many yards, and feldom
paffes entire from the bowels. This circumftance has
prevented the extremities of the taenia from being often
feen.
Boerhaave mentions his having met with a taenia 30
ells in length, and Pliny fays he has feen them upwards
of 30 feet long. According to Dr Hooper, the exa<5t
length, depends upon the manner in which the death of
the animal has been occaAoned. If expelled by irrita¬
ting medicines, it will not be fo long by nearly one-
half as if its death had been occaAoned by emollients •
as in the former inftance it would be very much con-
tradled, but in the latter very much relaxed.
I he head of this taenia is fomewhat of a Iquare form
with a narrowed projection forwards 5 in the middle of
this proje&ng part, there is a diitina circular aperture
around the edge of which grow curved-ftiaped proceffes.
Near the angles of the fquare edge of the head, are
Atuated four round projefting apertures at equal diitan-
ce.s from each other ; this head is placed upon a narrow-
jointed portion of the worm, of conftderable length, and
which, gradually fpreads itfelf into the broader joints,
of which the body of the worm is compofed.
I he body of the tiema conAfls of thin, flat, pretty
long joints, on one edge of which there is a projection,
with;
344
H E L M I N T H O L O G Y,
Species.
Inteftina.
fata'*
with a very obvious aperture. In the fame worm feme
of thefe ioints appear confiderably longer than others
this probably depends on one joint being contra died,
while another is relaxed. The apertures which we have
juft mentioned are generally placed on the edge o*- the
contiguous joints 5 but this is not uniformly the cale *,
they are iometimes placed on the lame edges of txvo, 01
even feveral contiguous joints. When thefe joints are
examined attentively, there are frequently feen, m each
of them, veffels filled with a brownilh fluid, and ditpoted
in an arborefeent form. Around the edges of each
joint, there is alfo a diftinft ferpentine canal, i he kft
joint of a trenia refembles very much a coVnmon joint
rounded off at its extremity, and without any aper-
ture. nr a
The joints of this fpecies are. very eafily^ leparated
from each other whilft the animal is alive. This fepa-
ration is effeded either by the periftaltic motion of the
inteftines, or perhaps fpontaneoufly. Each joint thus
detached from the mother worm, has the power of retanw
ing, for a confiderable time, its living principle, and is
catled, from its refetnblance to the feed of the gourd,
dermis cucurbitinus. This phenomenon has given rile
to many warm difputes •, feveral authors have denied
their being portions of taenia, and have affirmed that
they were diftind worms. The feparated joints do not
aupear capable of retaining their fituation for any length
of time, but are foon forced down the inteftinal tube,
and at’ length creep out, or_ are expelled per anum.
There are feveral cafes faithfully recorded, where the
perfons, if their veracity can be depended upon, (and
they had no intereft in deceiving) have voided, during
the time they were troubled with the worm, upwards
of fifteen thoufand.
This worm is not in general folitary, as is common¬
ly fuppofed, for feveral of them have been feen coming
away at the fame time.
They are always found in the fmall intefhnes, com-
monly occupying their whole extent.
The motion of thefe worms is undulatory. I he
firfl joint towards the head contrads } the fucceeding
ones follow fucceffively, and the worm is at length
drawn confiderably forwards, exadly in the fame manner
in wbicli the earth-worm is leen to move, only confider¬
ably flower. By this means the food taken in at the
, mouth of the worm is very foon conveyed all along the
-alimentary canal, and mar fometimes be feen moving
along with confiderable rapidity. . .
There can be very little doubt, that the tamia is
hermaphrodite. The ofcula are oblerved to be vilcera,
fubfervient to the propagation of the ipecies, as it cun
be proved, that they give exit to the ovula.
Articulations fliort and broader than thofe ot the
laft, with a mouth in the centre of each joint •, ovaries
ftillate round the mouth. _ ...
It is compofed of a head, a chain of art dilations,
and a tail formed of a round joint, as in the laft fpecies.
The head is fimilar to that oi the other fpecies.
The joints are more uniform in their appearance
than thofe of the taenia folium. I hey are confider¬
ably more broad than long, and their ofcula are hot
placed on the margin, but in the middle ol the flat¬
tened furface, and only on one fide. We have never
feen them change their fide, but have always obferved
Chap. IL
them on the fame fide throughout the whole extent of
the worm. _ _ .    «
In every other refpeft the defeription of this fpecies
agrees with that above given of the other, except that
the ovana are in the form of a rofe or ftar, hence they
are called by fome writers, ovaria rofacea, and others,
Jligmates rofacea: ; and that the tranfverfe canals by
which there is in the other fpecies a communication
between the longitudinal canals are in this wanting.
The number ol this fpecies is uncertain, but there
are feldom more than three or four.
Its length is commonly lefs than that of the laft
fpecies, leldom exceeding five yards.
It is always lituated in the Imall inteflines, and it
appears that it feeds on no other food than pure chyle.
It is for the molt part of a darker hue than the
former fpecies, though they have been fee„n as white as
milk. .
This fpecies is very feldom met with m this country,
but is endemic in Switzerland and Rutfia, and very
common in Germany and fome other parts of Europe.
For a more particular account of the anatomical
ft rupture of tteniee, we refer our readers to a paper by
Mr Carlifle, in the fecond volume of the Lin. Trani. and
Dr Hooper’s paper in the fifth volume of the Memoirs
of the Medical Society of London. For an account of
the fymptoms produced by thefe worms and the alca-
rides, and the method of treatment, fee WORMS, ME¬
DICINE Index : and for the remedies employed m theie
cafes, fee Anthelmintics, Materia Medica Index.
The following fpecies inhabit various mammalia, viz.
Catemeformis,1 of which there are feven varieties mammd*
found in the dog, the wolf, the fox, the cat, the fquir- Hum.
rel, and the dormotife •, cucurbitina, in the dog j ferra-
ta in the dog and cat} maniliformis, in the cat •, li-
neata, in the wild cat 5 muftelte, in the weazel, martin,
and polecat ; filamentofa, in the inteftmes of the mole-,
erinacei, in the hedge-hog •, ftraminea, in the mus cri-
cetus •, magna and quadriloba, in the hone •, and capn- .
na, in the goat.
The following infeft birds, viz. . . avium.
Pfittaci, in the pfittachus brachyurpus •, cormcis,
in the crow •, ferpentiformis, in crows, rooks, and mag¬
pies ; caryocafttis, in the nut-cracker •, craterftormis,
in the fpotted wood-pecker^ torqueta, in the duck-, ico-
lopacis and filum, in the woodcock mfundibuhformis,
in the buzzard, ducks, and poultry, fturm, m the Hur¬
ling ; pafferis, in the fparrow; and hirundims, in the
martin fwallow7.
One, viz. „ .
T. Nodulofa, infefts various fpecies ol htii.
C Head unarmed with hooks.
Of this feclion the following infeft the mammalia,
viz • um'
1 Dentata, fometimes faid to be found in mankind-,
phocse, in the great feal 5 baffilaris, in the mole-, pec-
tinata, in the hare and rabbit; ovma, in Iheep ) equina
in the horfe ; and fuis, in the Ethiopian hog.
The following are found m birds, V1Z-
Globifera, in the buzzard, lantier, and thruih > per-avium.
lata, in the buzzard -, flagellum, in the kite ; candela-
braria, in the Aluco owl > crenata, in the Ipotted wood¬
pecker ; lanceolata, in the mergamer and imew ; leti-
t 7 gera»
2
Chap. II.
H E L M I N T
345
Species.
Inteftina.
bufonis.
pifcium.
3i
Furia.
gent, and anfens, in die goofe \ anatis, in various fpecies
of duck ; loevis, in the duck, &c. j cuneata, in various
fpecies; alcre, in the auk •, tordse, in the razor-bill ;
tardaa, in the buftard 5 lines in partridges j and ma-
culata, in the red-wing.
One, viz. •,
Bufonis, is found in the toad and falamander.
The following infefl: fifli, viz.
Anguillae, in the eel; rugofa, in the cod; fcorpii,
in the armed bullhead j pcrcae, in the fea perch •, erythri-
nse, in the Norway pei'ch cernuse, in the ruffe; foli-
da and gaflerodei in the ftickle-back ; Cluri, in the filu-
rus glanis •, falmenis, in the falmon •, froelichii, in the
falmo weftmanni •, reftangulum, in the barbel; torru-
lofa, in the cyprinus jefes, and laticeps, in the bream.
Gmelin, in his edition of the Syjlctr.a Nature?, enu¬
merates 86 fpecies of the taenia.
15. Furia.
Body linear, equal, filiform, and ciliate on each fide,
with a fingle row of reflefted prickles preffed clofe to
the body.
infernalis. There is only one fpecies, viz. infernalis.
From the account given of this animal in the SijJl.
Nat. it appears to be a very formidable creature. • It
inhabits the extenfive marfhy plains of Bothnia ; is
about an inch long, and of a pale red or brown colour,
generally with a black tip. It mounts up the fedges
and fhrubs, and being driven by the wind through the
air, enters through the fkin of men and horfes in fuch
parts as are expofed and fituated obliquely •, leaving a
black mark where it had entered. It firft excites a
fenlation like the prick of a needle, which is followed
by violent itching and acute pain. An inflammation
and commonly gangrene is the confequence, attended
with fever, faintings and delirium, and frequently ter¬
minating in a ihort time in death, unlefs the worm is
fpeedily extracted, which is a work of confiderable dif¬
ficulty. The part where the worm entered is to be
fcarified, and anointed with oil of birch, or covered
with a poultice of curds or cheefe.
32
Gordius.
16. Gordius.
Body round, equal, filiform, and fmooth. Body pale
brown (or yellowifh) with dark extremities. Water
hair-worm.
aquaticus. ^is worm is about the thicknefs of a horfe’s hair,
and when full grown, is ten or twelve inches in length.
Its fkin is fomewhat glofly, and of a pale yellowifh
white, except the head and tail, which are black. It
is common in our frefh waters, and particularly in fuch
where the bottom is compofed of foft clay, through
which it pafles as a fifh does through water.
Its popular name arofe from the idea that it was
produced from the hair of horfes and other animals
that were accidentally dropped into the wTater *, an idea
that is yet prevalent among the lower clafs of people.
Its Linnsean name of gordius originated in the habit
that it has of twilling itfelf into fuch peculiar contor¬
tions as to refemble a complicated gordian knot. In
this Hate it often continues for a confiderable time, and
then flowly difengaging itfelf, extends its body to the
r»il length. Sometimes it moves in the water wdth a
Vol. X. Part I.
..33
Hirudo:
HOLD G Y.
tolerable quick undulative motion like that of a leech j
and at other times its motions are the moll flow and
and languid imaginable. When the water in which
it fwims happens to be dried up, it foon lofes every ap¬
pearance of life; the flender body Ihrivels, and it may
be kept in this Hate a confiderable time. But when¬
ever it is put into water its body foon reafl'umes its
former appearance; in lefs than half an hour it begins
to move, and in a few' minutes more it is as a£Hve and
lively as ever. Howr long it may be preferved in this
dried ftate without lofing its life, or how often it
might admit of being revived, has not been afeertained.
When kept in a veflel of w'ater, it will fometimes ap¬
pear motionlefs and as if dead for feveral hours, and
afterwards will refume its vigour, and feem as healthy
as before.
It is a very remarkable circumftance, that its bite,
which it fometimes inflifts on being taken out of the
wrater, has been known to produce the complaint call¬
ed a whitlow. This is mentioned by Linnaeus as a po¬
pular opinion in Sweden, and it has fince his time been
confirmed by various other perfons.
This gordius is fometimes found in the earth as wrell
as in w’ater, and particularly in gardens of a clayey
foil, aft£r rain.
Befides this fpecies four others are enumerated, viz.
Argillaceus, filum, la&eus, and arenarius ; but it is
probable that the firft of theie, which is faid to pierce
through clay, to give pafiage to water, is merely a va¬
riety of the aquaticus.
17. Hirudo.
Body oblong, truncate at both ends, unarmed and carti¬
laginous, moving by dilating the head and tail, and
contracting itfelf into an arch.
Elongated, of an olive black colour, with fix yellow medicina
ferruginous lines above, and yellow fpots below'. Medici- (is.
tial leech.—This fpecies is generally two or three inches
long, w'hen lying in its natural ftate, though it is capable
of very great dilatation. The body is compofed of nu¬
merous annular wrinkles, which may be feen projecting,
and by which the animal can expand or contract its
body at pleafure. The head is Imaller than the tail.
This latter terminates in a circular mufcle or fucker,
which, when applied to any fubftance eafily adheres ;
probably by the animal’s drawing up the middle, and
thereby exhaufting the air below'. By means of the
tail it faftens itfelf with eafe and fecuvity, while it ex¬
tends the other parts of its body in any diredtion •, and
it is fo firmly fixed, that it can move about without any
danger of being carried away by the current. When
the animal is defirous of changing its place, it extends
its body forwards, fixes its head in the fame manner
as it did its tail, which latter it then loofens, draws up,
and then faftens near its head, fo as to form a frelh
point from which to continue its movements.
Its head is furniflied with three teeth, of a fubftance
refembling cartilage, w'hich are fo fituated as to con¬
verge when the animal bites, and to leave a triangular
mark on the fkin. Thefe teeth are fo ftrong that by
means of them the animal can pierce the fkin of an ox
or a horfe, as w'ell as that of man •, and through the
holes which it forms, it fucks the blood. This appears
to be done by contrafting the mufcles of its threat, fo
X x as
"r
346 H E L M I N T
Species. as to make the blool rulli through the vacuum formed
Inteltina. ^ aj50ve t|ls Wound, into the ftomach of the leech. This
ftomach is a kind of membranaceous Ikin, divided into
24 fmall cells. If fuffered to retain the blood which
it has fucked, this i-s laid to remain in the ftomach of
the animal, for months together, almoft without coagu¬
lating, and to afford fupport to the animal during the
whole of that time. It appears to pals off through the
pores of the fkin by tranfpiraticn, the matter fixing on
the furface of the body, and afterwards coming off in
fmall filaments. Mr Bingley affirms in proof of this,
that if a leech be immerled in oil (where it will keep
alive for feveral days), and afterwards put into water,
a Hough will be feen to lool’en from its tkin, exactly of
the Ihape of the animal.
It is viviparous, and produces only one at a tima,
which is commonly in the month of July. It inhabits
clear running waters, but may be kept for a confiderable
time in veffels partly filled with water, which ihould be
changed occafionally, when it becomes putrid. In ge¬
neral, if the number of leeches kept together is not
great, the water need not be changed oftener than once
a month in winter, and once every fortnight in fum-
mer; and we have known inftances where feveral leeches
have, when negle<5fed, lived for feveral months in the
fame water. If, however, the number be large, they
frequently die, which is thought to be owing to their
fighting and killing each other.
Method of When leeches are to be applied for the purpofe of
applying extrafting blood from any part of the body, the moft
leeches. lively, and thofe of a moderate fize, Ihould be felefted
for that purpofe } and they Ihould be fuffered to remain
out of the water in a covered veffel for fome time be¬
fore they are applied. The beft method of applying
them is, to put them within a hollow glafs tube,
ground fmooth at one end, open at both extremities,
and bended fo as to admit of its being applied to any
part occafionally. The leech will commonly foon fix,
but the Ikin to which it is to be applied ihould always
be wafiied thoroughly clean, and Ihould be freed irom
hair. If the animal is averfe to fix, it may often be en¬
ticed to do fo by rubbing the part of the Ikin with a
little freth cream, or new milk. When the leech has
gorged itfelf with blood, it commonly drops off fpon-
t,aneoufiy •, but if it ihould be too long in quitting its
hold, it may be fpeedily made to do fo by inferting a
little fait, pepper, vinegar, or other acrid fubftance, be¬
tween the margin of its head and the ikin. As a leech,
after it has been ufed for drawing blood, will not, for a
long time, fuck again, if fuffered to retain the blood it
has drawn, various methods have been contrived to
evacuate the blood. The common method is, to
fprinkle a little fait upon its mouth, which commonly
makes it difgorge a great quantity of blood ; but we are
not certain whether more animals are not killed in this
way than 'by fuffering the blood to remain. The moft
effeftual, and we believe the fafeft method of making
them difgorge the blood .is, to lay hold of them by the
tail, and ftrip them between the fingers, after which
they ihould be put into clean water.
The beft method of conveying leeches to a didance
is, to put them into a ftrong, wide-mouthed glafs bottle,
and to put with them a piece of fponge thoroughly wet¬
ted with water, tying a piece of bladder pricked with,
hides over the mouth of the bottle.
H O L O G Y. Chap. II,
It is faid that leeches, when kept in bottles, will be- Species,
come very reftlefs juft before a change of weather is Imeitina.
about to take place. This may be the cafe, but from ' v ' J
many obfervations which we have made, we believe
that they afford very uncertain prefages of the ftate of
the atmofphere.
Elongated, of an olive brown colour, with an oc\\xc-fanguifu*
yellow marginal band. Horfe-leech. ga.
Tins is larger than the former ; its Ikin is fmooth
and gloffy •, its back of a duiky colour, and the belly
of a yellowiih green j its body is depreffed. It inhabits
ftagnant waters. It is to be carefully diftinguilhed
from the former fpecies, as it will not anfwer the pur-
pofes o# furgery.
Bolides thefe two fpecies, the following are deferibed
in the Sy/iema Nature, viz. j indica, lineata, *octocula-
ta, * ftagnalis, complanata, * viridis, * heteroclyta,
* geometra, teffelata, marginata, groffa, hippoglofti,
* crenata, '* muricata, and branchiata. In all 17 fpecies.
18. LUMBRICUS. Lurubricus.
Body round, annulate 3 generally with an elevated,
fleffiy belt near the head, and commonly rough,
with minute concealed prickles, placed longitudinal¬
ly, and furniffied with a lateral aperture.
There are 16 fpecies of this genus, viz.; * terreftris,
* marinus, vermicularis, variegatus, tubifex, lineatus,
ciliatus, tubicola, echeicruS) thallallima, edulis, * oxy-
arus, fragilis, armiger, corretus, iabellaris.
Of thefe, the only one of which we Ihall make par- * terre-
ticular mention, is the terreftris, common earlli-wor/n,flriSm
or dew-worm. Body red, with eight rows of prickles.
This worm has neither bones, brains, eyes, nor feet.
It has a number of breathing holes fituated along its
back, near each ring. Its heart is placed near the
head, and may be obferved to beat with a very diftinkt
motion. The body is formed of fmall rings, furniffied
with a fet of mufcles that enable it to act in a fort of
fpiral direction ; and by this means it is capable, in the
moft complete manner, of creeping on the earth, or pe¬
netrating into its fubftance. Mr Bingley explains the
motion of thefe animals by that of a wire wound about
a cylinder, where, when one end is drawn on and held
fall, the other, upon being loofed, will immediately fol-
low. Thefe mufcles enable the worm to contract or
dilate its body with great force. The rings are each
armed with fmall, ftiff, fharp prickles, which the animal
is able to open out or clofe upon its body ; and from
beneath the ikin there is fecreted a llimy matter, which,
by lubricating the body, greatly facilitates its paffage
through the earth. _ ^
It is of confequence to point out the difference be- Differences
tween this worm and the afearis lumbricoides, or long between
round worm of the human inteftines, deferibed at page
338, as they have been fuppofed to be merely varieties
ol the fame animal. The common earth-worm has its iumbri-
extremities much blunter than thofe of the intejlinal; coides.
its mouth confifts of a fmall, longitudinal fiffure, fitua¬
ted on the under furface of a fmall rounded head, there
being no appearance of the three veiicles fo evident in
the afearis. On the under furface of the earth-worm
there is a large femilunar fold of Ikin, into which the
head retreats; but this is entirely wanting in the afea¬
ris ; the anus of the earth-worm opens at the very ex¬
tremity..
Cliap.
Species.
Inteftina.
* Bailin's
Morbid
Anatomy,
f Bing ley's
Animal Bio¬
graphy, vol.
lli. p. 50c.
37
Sipunculus.
IT. H E L M I N T
tremity of the tall, and £not as in the afcaris, at a con-
fiderable diftance from the tail. The afcaris alfo wants
the tranfverfe ruga; which are fo ftrongly marked in
the earth-worm, as well as the broad yellovvilh band by
which the body of the latter is furrounded.
The internal ftrufture of thefe two fpecies of worms
is alfo extremely different. In the earth-worm, there
is a large and complete flomach, confifting of two ca¬
vities ; and the inteflinal canal in the latter is likewife
larger, and more formed into facculi than the afearis.
The parts fuhvervient to generation in thefe two fpecies
of worms dift'er very much from each other ; in the
afcaris there is a diftindf ion of fex, the parts of genera¬
tion being different in the male and in the female 5 in
the common earth-worm the organs of generation are
the fame in each individual, as this worm is herma¬
phrodite. The appearance, too, of the organs of gene¬
ration, is extremely different at firff fight in the one
fpecies of animal and the other. There is an oval
mafs fituated at the anterior extremity of the earth¬
worm, refembling a good deal the medullary matter of
the brain *.
Dew-worms, though in appearance a fmall and def-
picable link in the chain of nature, yet, if loft, might
make a lamentable chafm. For, to fay nothing of half
the birds and fome quadrupeds which are almoft en¬
tirely fupported by them, worms feem to be the great
promoters of vegetation (which would proceed but ill
without them) by boiing, perforating, and loofening
the foil, and rendering it pervious to rains and the fibres
of plants, by drawing ftraws and ftalks of leaves and
twigs into it 5 and molt of all, by throwing up fuch in¬
finite numbers of lumps called worm-cafts, which form
a fine manure for grain and grafs. Worms probably
provide new foil for hills and Hopes when the rain wafties
the earth awTay •, and they affedt Hopes, probably to
avoid being Hooded.
Gardeners and farmers exprefs their deteftation of
worms 5 the former, fcecaufe they render their w^alks
unfightly, and make them much work; and the lat¬
ter, becaufe they think worms eat their green corn.
But thefe men would find, that the earth, without
worms, would foon become cold, hard-bound, and void
of fermentation, and confequently fterile ; and befides,
in favour of worms, it fliould be hinted that green
corn, plants and flowrers, are not fo much injured by
them as by many fpecies of infedls in their larva or
grub-ftate, and by unnoticed myriads of thofe fmall
Hiell-lefs fnails called Hugs, which filently and impercep¬
tibly make amazing havock in the field and garden, f
Species.
Intellina.
w midus.
19,
SlPUNCULUS.
Body round and elongated; mouth cylindrical at the
end, and narrower than the body; aperture at the
fide of the body w'arty.
There are two fpecies; viz. S. * nudus and facca-
tus.
Body covered with a clofe Ikin, and globular at the
lowrer end. Naked tube worm.—This animal is about
eight inches long, and nearly of a conical figure from
head to tail, having the bafe ufually about nine lines,
and the other extremity about four lines in diameter.
The broader part of the body is the head, and is fur-
niffied with a mouth, in which there is a tube made of
H O L O G Y.
a ftrong membrane, and aimed with three ffelhy-point¬
ed papillae, about the fize of a grain of millet. This 
trunk is at one end every where connected with the
rim of the mouth, but is loofe at the other end. It may
be extended to the length of an inch, or entirely with¬
drawn at the pleafure of the animal, probably for the
purpofe of feizing its food, and carrying it to its mouth.
When the tube is out of the mouth, the papillae are on
the outfide, but they occupy the infide of the mouth
when the tube is within. Hence the food laid hold of
by the difengaged part of the trunk cannot efcape ; as
the further the trunk is drawn back into the mouth, it is
arrefted by fo many more papillae, which like prongs are
ready to detain it. At the diftance of an inch and a
half from the mouth there is an oblong aperture, fur-
rounded with a prominent .lip, and fituated tranf¬
verfe ly.
The whole body of this animal is of a fallow white,
inclining to a clay colour, and is adorned with deep
ftreaks; fome of which are longitudinal, and others
circular. Sometimes this animal wall extend itfelf to
almoft the length of a foot, wdiile at other times it
contracts into a very fmall volume, by enlarging the
narrower portion of its body near the point, which is
fpherical.
It inhabits deepTeas, from which it is never caft on
the ihore, but it fometimes enters the filhermen’s nets
along with their fifti.
Body covered with a loofe fldn, and rounded at the baccatus,
lower end. Vid. fig. 9.
This animal differs little from the former, except
in the loofe Ikin in which the animal is enclofed
as in a bag. It inhabits the American and Indian
feas.
20. PlaNARIA. Planaria,
Body gelatinous, flattifli, with a double ventral pore;
mouth terminal.
The animals comprehended under this genus nearly
referable the leeches, and like them live in freffr wa¬
ter. They are very numerous, but, as nothing remark¬
able is known refpecling them, wre lhall merely enume¬
rate their names.
A. Without eyes.
Stagnatus, nigra, brunea, ciliata, gulo, punclata,
flaccida, rofea, angulata, rubra, viridis, operculata,
fubulata, quadrangularis, bicornis, grifea, fulva, viri- .
data.
B. Having a Jingle eye.
Glauca, lineata, nidfitans,
C. Having two eyes.
Fufca, ladlea, tonica, tentaculata, crenata, helluo,
obfeura, roftrata, atomata, cornuta, radiata, ftrigata,
groffa, linearis, terreftris, tetragona, capitata, caudata,
auriculata, filaris, lingua.
D. Having three eyes.
Geflerenfis.
E. Having four eyes.
Marmorata, Candida, truncata.
Xx2
347
Having
348
Species.
Mollufca.
39
AcUnia*
40
Clava.
F. Having more than four eyes
Tremellaris.
H E L MINT H O L O G Y. Chap. II.
There are three fpecies ^ viz. M. mammilla, varia, Species,
and globulus. Found alfo in the North feas and on the ,M()11"fca-,
fhores of Greenland.
41
Pedicel-
Uria.
42
Mammaria.
There are In all forty-two fpecies.
This Order comprehends twenty genera, and about
406 fpccies.
SECT. II.
Order II. MOLLUSCA.
We have already, in the fecond part of the article^
Anatomy, chap. viii. given a lufficient. account of
the general itrucfure of the animals of this order, and
of the feVerjd fubdivilions of it, as given by Cuvier,
to whofe wmings and thofe of La March, the loveis
of natural hillory are chiefly indebted for the prefent
date of our knowledge refpefting thofe animals. _ Cu¬
vier includes under the mollufca all thofe animals
which inhabit (hells, as well as thofe which are naked.
The latter only can be conhdered here, and we (hall
chiefly confine ourfelves to fome of the more remark¬
able fpecies.
21. Actinia.
Body oblong, cylindrical, flefliy, and contraaile, fixed
"by the bafe •, mouth terminal, expanfile, furrounded
with numerous tentacula, and without any other
aperture.
This genus comprehends mod of thofe extraordinary
animals which have been defcribed dnder the title
of animal fiovoers, fea-marygolds, &c. an account of
• which has been already given under the article Hsimal-
Tlower. We (hall here therefore only enumerate the
fpecies, which are 23 in number -, viz. rufa, * crafli-
cornis, * plumofa, *anemonoides, judaica, *effteta, coc-
cinea, undata, viduata, * truncata, nodofa, fpeffabilis,
digitata, gigantea, alba, viridis, priapus, Candida, bi-
comis, vulva, * caryophyllus, iris, fifcella, pufilla, ce-
reus, * bellis, * gemmacea, * mefembryanthemum, fo-
ciata, ader, anemone, helianthus, * dianthus, calen¬
dula, doliolum, * maculata.
22. Clava.
Body flefhy, gregarious, club-fhaped,. and fixed by a
round peduncle, having a (ingle vertical aperture.
There is but one fpecies viz. parafitica -, charac-
terifed by its having a whitiflr, pellucid peduncle, and
an opaque red club that is covered with eredt, conical,
pellucid fpines. It is found in the Baltic fea, upon
fea weeds, (hell- fifh, and floating timber. It poffefles
the power of dilating and contradfing the mouth.
23. Pedicelaria.
Body foft, and feated on a rigid fixed peduncle, having
a (ingle aperture.
There are three fpecies -, viz. P. globifera, triphylla,
and tridens, all which are found in the North feas,
chiefly among the fpines of echini.
24. Mammaria.
Body fmooth, and without rays, having a Angle aper¬
ture.
43
Afcidia-
25. Ascidia.
Body fixed, roundifh, and appearing to iffue from a
(heath, having two apertures, generally placed near
the upper extremity, one below the other.
There are about 35 fpecies of Afcidia-, viz. pa-
pillofa, gelatinofa, * inteftinalis, quadridentata, * rufti-
ca, echinata, mentula, venofa, prunum, conchilega, pa-
rallelogramma, virginea, canina, patula, afpera, icabra,
orbicularis, corrugata, lepadiformis, complanata, tuoer-
culum, villofa, clavata, pedunculata, * mammillaris,
globularis, fufca, gelatina, cryftallina,. odfodentata, pa-
telliformis, pyura, aurantium, globularis, fafciculata.
Of thefe we (hall defcribe only two, the papillofa,
and the inteftinalis.
Body rough, and covered with fcarlet tubercles, papillofa.
This animal is generally about three inches long, and
fomething lefs than two broad } its fliape is oval. On.
the upper part it is furnKhed with two mammillary pro¬
tuberances, one of which is feated on the top of the
body, and has an orifice in the form of a crofs. ^ Fne
other is placed a little below the former, and has a.
triangular orifice opening traniverfely. I ne lips of ei¬
ther orifice are encompaffed with feveral fetaceous^ hairs,
of a clay colour, and one line in length, but obferving
no regular order. The whole furface of the body i.?
rough, being covered over with fmall knoos or oblong
nipples of a fcarlet colour. The extremity oppofite to
the organs, or the balls, is furnKhed with peduncles of
various forms, by means of which this animal firmly
adheres to rocks or other bodies, fo that it cannot
be forced from its fituation without injuring the pe¬
duncles. f
The (kin, which is thick and hard like the hide ol
a quadruoed, conftitutes by far the greater part of the
animal’s bulk ; and there is fcarcely any thing diftm-
guifliable within, except a fmall part that commences
a little below the orifice of the upper papilia, from
which it proceeds downwards, and is inferted^ into tne
lower orifice, having the appearance of an inteftme.
From the appearance of this organ, it is fuppoied that
the upper orifice is the mouth, and the lover die anus.
This fpecies is not ufed for food, though fome of them
are faid to be eatable.
Body elongated, membranaceous, fmooth, and whit-inteJ}t\
ifh, appearing like the inteftines of a quadiuped. Uriahs,
the membrane of which nearly the whole of this ani¬
mal’s body confifts, be divided longitudinally, there
appears another membranaceous canal defcending from
the upper organ, almoft to the bafe, where it bends
back, and proceeds towards the low-er organ, into whicn
k is inferted. This canal is commonly filled with a
blackilh fluid. Thefe organs are fometimes ftrongly
contraaed, and at others as much relaxed, i hey do
not appear like thofe of the former fpecies, to be able
to draw in and throw- out the water.
The animals belonging to this genus have the power
of fquirting out the water they receive, as if from a
fountain 5 and it is probable that they derive their
nourifliment from the animalcula which the water con¬
tains, , „
26. Saepa,.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Chap. II.
349
Species.
Mol'lufca.
45
Dagyfia.
4«
Pterotra-
chia.
47
Derns.
26. Salpa.
29.
Derris.
3°'
Limax.
Species.
Mollufca.
Body long, floating, gelatinous, tubular, and open at
each extremity, with an inteflinal tube placed ob¬
liquely.
The outer covering of thefe animals has two open¬
ings, one very large, ferving for the introduftion of the
water in which they live between their branchiae, and
the other fmaller, which appears to be the anus. I hey
have no head or feet. They are found in all our feas.
Many of the fpecies are remarkable for the regularity
which they obferve in their mode of fwimming. I hey
are gregarious, and one always follows at the tail of
another, in fuch a manner as to touch each other, and
to form two lines, one above the other, each indivi¬
dual of the upper line being fupported by two of the
lower.
The fpecies are arranged under two fubdivifions.
A. Furnijhed with an appendage.
This feftion contains four fpecies j viz. maxima, pin-
nata, democratica, and mucronata.
B. Having no terminal appendage.
This fedlion contains feven fpecies •, viz. pun&ata,
confoederata, fafeiata, fipho, africana, folitaria, and po-
lycratica.
27. Dagysia.
Bodyloofe, floating, angular, tubular, and open at each
extremity.
There is only one fpecies of this genus ; viz. notata,
charafterifed as having the body marked at one end
with a brown fpot. It is about three inches long, and
one thick, and is found in the fea on the coafts of
Spain. Thefe animals adhere to each other by their
fldes, and in other refpe&s very nearly refemble thofe
of the laft genus.
28. Pterotrachia.
Body detached, gelatinous, with a moveable fin at the
abdomen or tail 5 eyes twTo, placed within the head.
There are four fpecies j viz. coronata, hyalina, pul-
monata, and aculeata.
Body cylindrical, compofed of articulations; mouth
terminal, feelers two.
There is only one fpecies ^ viz. * fanguinea, which
is found on the coaft of Pembrokefliire.—This animal
has a tapering body to a point behind, and is capable
of great flexibility ; it is covered with a tranfparent
membranous coat, through which the internal parts
are vifible. The head is extended beyond the outer
Ikin, and is lefs than the reft of the fore part of the bo¬
dy. The tentacula tire white, and feated at the top of
the head. The mouth confitls of two lips, the upper
one hooked and moveable, the lower one ftraight and
fixed. It moves by an undulating motion of the whole
body.
Body oblong, creeping, with a flefliy kind ot ihield 43
above, and a longitudinal flat dilk beneath; aperture bunax.
placed on the right fide within the fhield 5 feelers
four, fituated above the mouth, with an eye at the
tip of each of the larger ones.
This genus comprehends thofe animals which are
commonly called Jlngs, or naked inails, which are well
known to commit fuch ravages in our fields and gar¬
dens, efpecially in wet weather.
There are 15 fpecies j viz. laevis, * ater, albus, * ru-
fus, * flavus, * maximus, hyalinus, * agreftis, cindlus,
marginatus, reticulatus, aureus, fufeus, tenellus, and
* lanceolatus.
The moft curious fpecies of this genus feems to be agrejlis.
what has been called the /pinning /ug, which is a va¬
riety of the Umax agre/is.—This animal is of a grayifh
white colour with a yellowifti fliield, and is commonly
about three-fourths of an inch long. It inhabits wmods
and other lhady places. The following account of it
has been given by Mr Hoy, in the firft volume of the
Linnaean Tranfadtions.
About the year 1789, Mr Hoy obferved, in a planta¬
tion of Scotch firs, fomething hanging from one of the
branches, which, as it feemed uncommon, he approach¬
ed, and found it to be this animal. It was hanging by
a Angle line or thread attached to its tail. This was,
upwrards, very fine j but near vthe animal it became
thicker and broader, till at length it exaftly correfpond-
ed with the tail. The flug was about four feet below
the branch, and nearly at the fame diftance from the
ground 5 which it gradually approached at the rate ot
an inch in about three minutes. This rate, though
flow, is not fo much fo as might be expedled, confider-
ing that the animal is not furniftied with any particular
receptacle, as in fome infedts, fpr the gelatinous liquid
from which its filken lines are formed. The line by
which it defeended wTas drawn from the flimy exuda¬
tion gradually fecreted from the pores that covered its
whole body. A great degree of exertion feemed ne-
ceflary to produce a fufficient fupply of the liquid, and
to force this towards the tail. It alternately drew back
its head, and turned it as far as poffible, firft to one fide
and then to the other, as if thereby to prefs its fides,
and thus promote fecretion. This motion of the head
in an horizontal direftion made the whole body turn
round 5 by which the line that would have otherwife
remained fomewhat flat became round. This motion
alfo, in addition to the weight of the animal, tended,
no doubt, materially to lengthen the line.
In addition to Mr Hoy’s account, Dr Latham ob-
ferves, that the fecretion from which the thread is
formed, does not come from the back or fides of the
animal, but from its under part. That it did not pro¬
ceed from any orifice in the tail was evident, for in
fome inftances the animal was fufpended by the tip, and
in others from the fide full one eighth of an inch from
the tip. The flow of the vifeous fecretion towards the
tail appeared to be excited by an undulating motion
of the belly, fimilar to that of crawling.
After thefe animals have fpun for fome time, their
fpinning power feems to be for a while loft, but in
all
35o H E L M I N T
Species, all tljofe cn wind) experiments have been made, it has
IVlolhifca. ijecn recovered again by keeping them for a few boins
among, wet mofs.
49 T
Laplyiia. 31. LaflySIA.
Body creeping, covered with refleclcd membranes, with
a membranaceous fhield on the back covering tee
lungs j aperture placed on the right fidej vent above
the extremity oi the back j feelers four, refembling
ears. Vid. fig. 10.
An animal of this genus has been called the fea-hare,
a name which is -derived from the ancients 5 and the
animal to which it is given appears to have been known
at a very early period, and perhaps on that account its
hiflory is obfeured with many fabulous narrations.
Filhermen feem in all ages to have attributed fome
noxious properties to thofe marine animals which do
not ferve for the nourifhment of man } and the writings
of naturalifts are hill filled with the reports ot thefe ig¬
norant men refpefting feveral productions ot the fea, as
the fea-nettle, itar-fiih, and in particular the fea-hare.
Thefe relations have been multiplied and pfodigioufly
mcreafed with refpeft to the marvellous, whenever the
figure, the colour, or knell of tne animal have any
thing extraordinary or forbidding in them, as is the
cafe with the fea-hare. Hence we find a long lift of
noxious and aftoniftnng properties attributed to this
animal. Not only are its tleih, and the water in which
it has been fteeped, of a poifonous nature, but even its
very afped is deadly. A woman who would wifti to
conceal her pregnancy, cannot refill; the light of a fe¬
male fea-hare, which produces naufea and vomiting,
and finally mifearriage, unlefs a male of the fame fpe-
cies, dried and falted, is given her to eat •, for it is one
of the fuperftitious ideas entertained by the common
people in moft countries, that every noxious fpecies
animal carries within itfelf a remedy for the ill effefts
which it may occalion. It happens, indeed, unfortu¬
nately for the prefent ftory, that in the fea-haie theie
is no diftinaion of fex. If thefe animals in Italy (for
the above dories are taken from Pliny) are fo deadly
to mankind, it is quite otlierwife in the Indian fe^s ■>
lor there it is man who is fuch a deadly foe to the lea-
hare, that he cannot take it alive, fince it is deftroyed
by his very touch ! . . .
Thefe ridiculous fables refpeaing an innocent ani¬
mal, are ftill believed by many people, and others as
ridiculous have been added to them. Mr Barbut re¬
lates that a failor happening to take a laphjfia in the
Mediterranean, it gave him fuch mftantaneous and ex¬
cruciating pain as to caufe an inflammation, ana the
' poor man loft his arm ! and fo fenfible are the filher¬
men of the poifonous quality of the mucus which oozes
from its body, that they will not on any account touch
it.
In an excellent memoir on the laplyfia, contained in
the 2d vol. of Annales de Mufeum National, Cuvier
oives the following general defeription of the animals
compofing the genus.
They bear a confiderable refemblance to the (lugs;
their body is oval, flattened below, lo as to form a long
and ftraight foot, and fwelling out above ; more or lefs
pointed behind, and diminilhing a little before, fo as to
form a fort of neck, that is fufceptible of various de-
3
H O L O G Y.
Chap. II.
prees of elongation, and at vvhofe extremity Is fituated Species,
idle head. _ ^ .Mol'ufca;
The head is the only fuperior part that advances be*
vend the borders of the c'ifc that forms the foot. The
other borders of this dife are contrafted, fo as to form
a kind of pallifade, furrounding the fides and back part
of the body. This flefhy wall is contradled and raifed
more or lefs, and is folded into numerous undulations
at the pleafure of the animal, who can fold the one
part over the other, or can caufe them to feparate, fo
as to give them all manner of ftiapes. Between the
borders we perceive a part almoft femicircular, attach¬
ed only by the right fide, entirely moveable like a
flefhy cover, the border of which is flexible, and fome-
times forms a fort of gutter, to condudl the water to
the organs of breathing, which are in faft under this
cover. At the poflerior extremity of its attachment is
the anus, and between the anterior extremity of the
fame attachment, and that which correfponds to the
membranaceous border of the body on the right fide,
is a hole, through which are palled the eggs of the ani¬
mal, and that peculiar liquor which has been regarded
as poifonous. But befides this liquor, which is whit*
ifh, and is rarely voided, the animal produces another
kind much, more abundant, and of a very deep purple
red.
The mouth is fituated below the head lengthwife,
and the anterior border of the head forms on each fide
a membranous production that is conical, comprelfed,
capable of being more or lefs prolonged, and forms a
tentaculum. Behind the head, further back, there is
on each fide another conical tentaculum, which the
animal can elongate or fhorten at pleafure, but which he
cannot withdraw within the body, like the fnail. ft he
extremity of this is a little folded longitudinally into two
parts, fo as to referable the external ear of a quadru¬
ped. Before the bafe of this organ is the eye, which
feems nothing but a little black point.
The parts above deferibed are compaon to all the
laplyfise, but differ in the feveral fpecies in proportion
and colour.
In the laft edition of the Systerna Naturce, only
two fpecies of laplyfia are mentioned j viz. depilans,
which appears to be the original fea-hare mentioned by
Pliny, and which owes its trivial name to the belief
that the fetid liquor which it exudes is capable of tak¬
ing off the hair from any part which it touches •, and
fafeiata. Befides thefe, Cuvier enumerates and figures
three others, viz. camelus, punClata, and alba.
32. Doris.
Body creeping, oblong and flat beneath; placed below,
on the fore-part } vent behind on the back, and fur-
rounded by a fringe 5 feelers 2—4» fea^e<^ on
upper part of the body in front, and retradlile with¬
in their proper receptacles.
This genus is divided by Gmeiin into two ieftions.
A. Having four tentacula.
Of this there are feven fpecies viz. fafcicmata, mi¬
nima, radiata, pennata, peregrma, admis, ana * argo.
B. Having two tenlacula.
Of this feaion there are 17 fpecies j viz. * verruco-
fa,
5°
Doris,
i
Chap. IT. H E L M I N T
Species, fa, clavigera, quadrilineata, papillofa, auriculata, la-
Mollufca. cinulata, cervina, coronata, tetraquetra, * bilamellata,
olivelata, muricata, pzlofa, loevis, arborefcens, frondofa,
and itellata.
In a long and interefling memoir by Cuvier on the
genus doris, printed in the 4th vol. of Annales de Mu-
feum National, 'that celebrated naturalift Ihews that
only feven of the fpecies enumerated by Gmelin (viz.
argo, ftellata, bilamellata, laevis, olivelata, muricata,
and pilofa*), really belong to this genus, and that the
refl fhould be arranged under other genera.
Cuvier admits thirteen fpecies, fix of them new j and
diftributes them into two fe£Hons.
a. Flat doris,
Comprehending ten fpecies ; viz. folea, fcabra, ma-
culofa, verrucofa, limbata, tuberculata, ftellata, pilofa,
tomentofa, and loevis.
b. Prifmatic doris,
Three fpecies; viz. lacera, atro-marginata, and puf-
tulofa.
We regret that our limits will not permit us to tranf-
late the valuable obfervations contained in this memoir,
to which we refer the reader for the defcription of the
above fpecies, and of their general anatomical ftruc-
ture.
argo. One of the moft remarkable of the fpecies is the
argo, or fea argus, which we (hall here defcribe. The
whole body of the argus is obliquely flat, or perpendi¬
cularly compreflfed ; its thicknefs in the middle is fix
lines, whence growing gradually thinner, at the edge
it is no more than half a line thick. It is three inches
and five lines in length, and two inches broad. The
back ftiines wuth a fcarlet dye, and the belly is of an
agreeable clay colour, and both are curiouily marked
with white and black fpots. The whole fubftance of
the body is Coriaceous and folid, and if cut through the
middle, appears every where tinged with a faffron co¬
lour. Round the circumference of the body it is pliant,
whence, at the animal’s pleafure, it is formed into va¬
rious folds and plaits. The head, which in all other
animals is eafily known by the peculiarity of its ftruc-
ture, in the argus is not determinable when its back is
turned to the fpectator, for the oval (hape of the body,
of nearly the fame diameter throughout the circumfe¬
rence, makes no diftindlion of head. The tentacula
too, which appear toward each extremity, are fo much
alike in this fituation, as not to ferve for diftinguifhing
the head •, but if the animal be turned, it will appear
that the head is fituated in that part from which the
tapered tentacula rife. One half of thefe tentacula is
white, and funk into fmall round cavities, formed to
the depth of two lines in the fubitance of the head.
Their apex is prominent from the cavity, and is every
where marked with black dots, which are fuppofed to
be fo many eyes, and afforded the reafon for denomina¬
ting this animal argus.
It the tentacula are touched, they are immediately
withdrawn entirely within their cavities. On the up¬
per part of thp head is a mamillary prominence, fitua¬
ted near the belly, at about half an inch from the edge,
and in the middle is feen a fmall oval aperture, which
is the mouth of the argus.
One of the moft remarkable parts of the animal,
H O L G G Y. 351
and that which diftinguifhes it from all others, remains Species,
to be deferibed. Mollllfca-,
On that part of the back which is oppofite to the
head, four lines diftant from the border, is an oval a-
perture eight lines in length, and five broad. From the
middle of this hole arifes a flelhy trunk of a whitifti
colour, four lines long, one and a half broad, which
divides into two larger branches, the right hand one
fubdivided into eight, the left into fix lelfer branches,
which at length end in fmall flender twigs. Befides
thefe, another large branch arifing from the middle of
the firft trunk, runs off towards the head. On every
one of the branches and twigs there are many black
fpots difcernible by the naked eye, w'hich contribute
not a little to the beauty of this blooming part ; but.
whether thofe pundtures were hollow7, has not been aft
certained, even with the afliftance of the microfcope ;
though they are probably fo many open mouths of vef-
fels and breathing points. While the argus remains in
the fea-water, it keeps this wonderful affemblage of
lungs expanded j when out of the water, and touched
with the finger, it contradls it into the form of a crown ;
and if the handling and irritation be continued for any
time, it conceals the lungs entirely within the oval a-
perture, which is alfo then contradled into a narrower
compafs. Being put again into fait water, the aper¬
ture foon enlarges, and the branches of the lungs con¬
cealed within gradually pufh out again, lengthen, and
expand.
33. Tethis. Tethi!
Body detached, rather oblong, fleftry, and without pe¬
duncles ; mouth with a terminal cylindrical probof-
cis, under an expanded membrane or lip ; apertures
two, on the left fide of the neck.
There are only two fpecies ; viz. leporina, and fim¬
bria, the latter of which is a very elegant looking ani¬
mal, about fix inches long, with a white body, having
a fringed border, variegated with black and clay co¬
lour, and in fome places glittering with gold coloured
fpots. It is found in the Adriatic.
34. Holothuria. Holothuria,
Body detached, cylindrical, thick, and open at the ex¬
tremity ; mouth furrounded by flefliy branched ten¬
tacula.
There are 23 fpecies of this genus, viz. elegans, fron¬
dofa, phantapus, tremula, phyfalis, thalia, caudata, de-
nudata, * pentaclis, papillofa, fpallanzani, priapus,
fquamata, penicillus, fufus, inhaerens, laevis, minuta,
forcipata, zonaria, vittata, maxima, and impatiens.
Of thefe we (hall defcribe the holothuria tremula,
which has the following fpecific charadler.
Upper furface covered with numerous conical papil-
lae j lower with cylindrical ones ; tentacula fafciculate.
(Vid. fig. 11.)—This fpecies commonly meafures eight
inches in length when dead ; but alive it extends itfelf
to more than a foot, or contra61s its body into a ball.
Its figure is cylindrical, the diameter of which is every
way equal to an inch and a few lines. The back of a
dark brown, proudly bears a variety of flefliy pyramid¬
like nipples, of a dark colour likewife at their bafis,
but white at their apex. They are obferved to be of
two -
in
H E L M I N T H O L O G Y
Species-
Mollufca.
* Bar hit's
Genera
Vermium*
53
Terebella
two different fizes the larger occupy the length of the
back, in number 14 on each fide, at the difiance of
fix lines from each other, when the _ holothuria is con-
trafted •, but the intervening fpace is fully eight hues
when the animal is extended. Others, like taeie, are
placed here and there promifeuoufiy. 'dhe lefs are icat-
tered in like manner, without order, in every part ot
ll e back. Out of them all exfude a whitifn muci-
laoe ferving to lubricate the body. Hence all taeie
nipples feem to be fo many glands funuihed with an
excretory daft, the aperture of which is fo minute as
not to be difcoverable by the help of a common glais.
That they are, moreover, provided with various muicles,
follows from hence, that the holothuria can raiie and
obliterate them at pleafure. While the larger papillae
are quite ereft, their axis, and the diameter of their
bafe, meafures three lines. The belly, or part oppofite
to the back, in the holothuria, is of a pale brown, and
fet all over with cylindrical tentacula, in fuch numbers,
that the head of a pin could fcarcely find room between
them. Their diameter is not much above a line, and
their length is that of four lines. They are of a iliuung
whitenefs, except the extremity, which is of a dulky
dark colour, and draped like a focket. By the 1Cl? ot
thefe tentacula, the holothuria fixes its body at the bot¬
tom of the fea, fo as not to be eafily removed by tem-
pefts, which would otherwife happen very frequent¬
ly, as this animal dwells near the fiiores, where the
water fcarcely rifes to the height of a fathom. Now, it
it adheres to other bodies by means of its ventral tenta¬
cula, their point mult neceffarily have the form ot a
focket, as the cuttle-fifh, fea-urchins, and ftar-fiih have
theirs fliaped, by w'hich they lay hold of any other
From this fituation of the holothuria at the bottom of
the fea, which it alfo retains when kept in a veffel till¬
ed with fea water, it mult be evident to any one, that
we have not groundlefsly determined which was its
back, and which its belly, which otherwife in a cylin¬
drical body would have been a difficult talk. But as ail
animals uniformly walk or reft upon their bellies, and
the holothuria has likewife that part of its body turned
to the earth on which the cylindrical tentacula are to be
teen, it is clear that part is the abdomen or belly
of. this animal. However, both the abdominal and
dorfal tentacula are raifed and obliterated at the ani¬
mal’s pleafure, from which it is reafonable to conclude,
that they are furnilhed with elevating and depredmg
mufcles, and particularly becaufe all the forefaid tenta¬
cula difappear after the animal’s death*, and _ hence it
farther appears, that many uaturalifts have given a le
prefentation of a dead holothuria, fince they have al-
figned it no tentacula *.
__ Chap. If.
led by the French Pinceau de Mer, the fea pencil, is
thus deferibed by Barbut. Frcm the midft of the
hairs iffues the head of this fmall animal, fupported by a
long neck, and putting forth two fmall branching horns..
The mouth, which is round, is armed vyith fmall teeth,
like thofe of the echini marini, with which it mafticates
its food. The hairs are very fine, foft as.fiik, and form
a tuft, from the middle of which iffues tne neck, ana
then its head. The body is draped like that of a worm,
is very long, and terminates at one end rn a point,
which very much refembles the ftick end of a painting
bruftr. The fmall head of our terebella appears under¬
neath, drawn back as in tbe fnail. It walks or crawls
by the help of five fmall feet, placed on each fiue of
the large part of its body, at the riling of the tuft ot
hairs, and clofe to each other.”
54
Triton.
55
Sepia.
35. Terebeli.a.
Body oblong, creeping, nak^d, often mclofed in a tube,
furniftred "with lateral fafcicles or tufts and branchite ;
mouth placed before, furniffied with lips, without
teeth, and protruding aclavate probofeis ; feelers nu¬
merous, ciliate, capillary, feated round the rnoutn.
There are 11 fpecies, viz. cirrata, lapidaria, * con-
cjiilega, complanata, carunculata, roftrata, fiava, ru¬
bra, aphroditois, bicoinis, and ftellata. _ ^
lapidaria. Of thefe the terebelia lapidaria, or ftone-piercer ) cai-
36. Triton.
Body oblong } mouth with an involute fpiral probofeis,
having 1 2 tentacula, 6 on each fide, divided neany
to the bafe, the hind ones being cheliferous.
There is only one fpecies. viz. littoreus, found on
the (hoies of Italy.
37. Sepia.
Body flelhy, receiving the breaft in a {heath, having a
tubular aperture at its bafe 5 arms S, befet with nu¬
merous warts or tuckers *, and befides, in moft pe-
cies, 2 pedunculated tentacula *, bead ihort *, eyes
large *, mouth refembling a parrot’s beak. Cuttle-
jijl.
Cuvier divides the genus fepia into two, which he
calls feiche, comprehending moft of the fpecies enume¬
rated by Linnaeus under fepia, and poulpe, comprifing
two fpecies. The former have a fac, with a kind ot
fin on each fide, and they contain towards the back a
peculiar body of a friable or cartilaginous fubftance,
tranfparent in the living animal, which is placed with¬
in the fleffi, without adhering to it j and proceeding
Prom one fide to the other without any articulation. I he
head is round, and provided with two large moveable
eyes, the organisation of which is almoft as perfect as
that of the eyes of warm-blooded animals. The mouth
is fituated at the top of the head, and has two fimilar
laws, in form and fubftance refembling tbe beak of a
parrot, and furrounded with eight conical tentacu a,
furniftred with fuckers, by means of which the animal
fixes itfelf to the rocks or other fubftances, fo firmly,
that it is often eafier to tear away one of thefe arms
than to induce the animal to quit its hold. re wo
others are very long, and have no fuckers except at
their extremity. Thefe laft feem to ferve the animal
for anchors to hold by. . , • 1
Juft before the neck there is a fort of funnel which
clofes up the entrance of a fac, and feems to be the
anus. Thefe animals have internally a liver, a mu c*-
lar gizard, a ccecum, and a ffiort mteftinal canal. I he
circulation in thefe animals Is earned on by very lingu¬
lar organs *, there is a heart placed at ttie bottom oi a
fac by which the blood is diftributed to every part oi
the’ body, by means of arteries, and to which it is re¬
turned by veins, through a large vena cava which di¬
vides itfelf for the purpofe of conveying the blood to
Chap.
Species.
Mollufca
II. H E L M I N T
two other hearts, one on each fide, which diftribute
it to the gids, from whence it is paffed to the firtl
^ heart. •*
The female produces eggs that are affembled together
in the form of a bunch of grapes.
Thefe animals, \when they perceive the approach of
danger, emit a quantity of inky fluid, furnilhed by a
particular veiTel, and by thus obfeuring the water, ren¬
der their efcape more eafy, while from the bitternels of
this liquid their foe is induced to give over the purfuit.
There feems little doubt that the opinion of Swammer¬
dam, that this liquor furnifhes the Indian or China
ink, is juft ; for if this ink be diflblved in water, in any
confiderable quantity, it very foon acquires a very high
degree of putridity, which feems to prove that it is
formed of fome animal fubftance 5 and none feems bet¬
ter calculated for the purpofe than this black liquor.
The fecond genus of Cuvier differs from the fepia,
properly fo called, in wanting the folid bony fubftance
in the back, and the two long arms ; but the eight ten-
tacula are much longer in the individuals of this genus
than in thofe of the fepia.
The male cuttle-fifti always accompanies the female ;
and when fhe is attacked, he braves every danger, and
will attempt her refeue at the hazard of his own life ;
but as foon as the female obferves her partner to be
wounded, die immediately makes off. When dragged
out of the water, thefe animals are faid to utter a found
like the grunting of a hog.
The hard fubftance, or bone as it is called, in the
back of the cuttle-filh, when dried and powdered, is
employed to form moulds, in which filverfmiths caft
their fmall articles, fuch as fpoons, rings, &c. 5 and it
alfo forms that ufeful article of ftationary called
pounce.
In the Systerna Naturae there are deferibed eight fpe-
ctes of fepia, viz. * oftopus, * officinalis, unguiculata,
hexapus, * media, * loligo, * fepiola, and tunicata.
ejficinalis. Of thefe, the officinalis was in great efteem among
the ancients as an article of food, and is ftill ufed as
fuch by the Italians.
«Elopus. The fepia odlopus, or eight-armed cuttle-fifh, which
inhabits the feas of warm climates, is a moft formidable
animal, being fometimes of fuch a fize as to meafure 12
feet acrofs its centre, and to have each of its arms be¬
tween 40 and 50 feet long. It is faid that he will
fometimes throw thefe arms over a boat or canoe, which
he would infallibly drag to the bottom, with thofe who
are in it, did not the Indians, who are aware of this
danger, carry with them a hatchet to cut off the
5*
Clio.
H O L O G Y. 353
Species.
39. ONCHIDIUM. Moliufca. ^
Body oblong, creeping, flat beneath*, mouth placed 57
before j feelers two, fituated above the mouth •, arms Onchidiura.
two, at the fides of th® head j vent behind, and pla¬
ced beneath.
There are two fpecies, viz. typhm, wffich is deferibed
by Dr Buchanan in the 5th vol. of the Linnaean Tranf-
adtions *, and peronii, deferibed by Cuvier in a late
number of the slnn. de Aluf. Aat.
40. Lobaria.
Body lobate, convex above, flat below.
There is only one fpecies, viz. quadriloba, charaifte-
rifed as having a tail with four lobes. It is found in
the north feas.
58
Lobaria.
41*
Lernjea.
59
Lernaea.
38. Clio.
Body naked, free, and floating, furnifhed with a fin on
each fide *, head diftin&, and having gills at the fur-
face of the fins.
The above chara&er of clio is that of Cuvier, who
has written an able account of this and- two other ge¬
nera of his new order of mollufca, which he calls ptero-
poda, or mollufca pinnata, in the 4th vol. of Ann. de
Muf. Nat.
Gmelin enumerates fix fpecies of clio, viz. caudata,
pyramidata, retufa, borealis, helicina, and limacina.
Vol. X. Part I.
Body oblong, fomewhat cylindrical, naked*, tcntaculaor
arms, two or three on each fide and round, by which
it affixes itfelf j ovaries two, projedling like tails
from the lower extremity.
There are 1 c fpecies, viz. branchialis, * cyprinacea,
* falmonea, * afellina, * huchonis, clavata, unciata, go-
bina, radiata, nodofa, cornuta, pedloralis, lotm, cyclop-
terina, and pinnarum.
60
42. Aphrodita. Aphrodita,
Body creeping, oblong, covered with feales, and fur¬
nifhed with numerous briftly fafciculate feet, on each
fide j mouth terminal, cylindrical, retradlile j feelers
two, fetaceous, annulate $ eyes four.
There are 9 fpecies, viz. * aculeata, * fcabra, * fqua-
mata, imbricata, plana, * lepidota,' cirrofa, violacea,
and longa.
Of thefe we fliall deferibe the firft, the aculeate nculeata.
aphrodite, by fome called the fea moufe. It is of an
oval form, grows to the length of between four and
five inches \ the belly is covered wffth a naked Ikin and
fomewhat prominent in the middle : its fubftance is
fomewhat firm. It is clothed with hairy filaments,
which are ftiort on the middle of the back, but longer
at the fides *, they are all fomewhat rigid and firm $
thofe on the back ftand ereft, like the quills of a por¬
cupine 5 thofe on the fides lie flat, and are of a great
variety of colours j a beautiful blue and lively green
are very diftindt in them, but a golden yellow feems
the moft predominant colour : on the back they are of
a darker colour, and in many places of a grayifh brown.
It dwells in the European ocean, and lives upon fhell-
filh. It has 3 2 fafciculated projectors, refembling feet,
on each fide.
43. Amphitrite.
Body projecting from a tube and annulate; peduncles
or feet fmall, numerous 5 feelers two, approximate,
feathered; eyes none.
There are feven fpecies, viz. reniformis, penicillus,
Y y ventilabrum,
61
Amphitrite*
354 helminthology.
Species, ventilabrum, auncoma, criftata, chryfocephala, ai^d
plm^ofa.
44. Stio.
Chap. II.
6t
Spio.
Nereis.
Body projeftmg from a tube, jointed, and furmfhed
with dorfal fibres *, peduncles rough, with briftles,
and placed towards the back ; feelers two, long,
fimple , eyes two, oblong.
There are two fpecies, viz. feticornis and filicornis.
46. Nereis.
Body loner, creeping, with numerous lateral peduncles
on each fide ; feelers fimple, rarely none j eyes two
or four, rarely none.
The fpecies are 29 in number, and are divided into
three fecliohs.
A. Mouth furnifhed with a claw ;
Containing verficolor, * nodtiluca, fimbriata, armil-
laris, mollis, * delagica, tubicola, norwegica, pinnata,
corniculata, pufilla, incifa, and aphroditoides.
B. Mouth furnijhed with a probofcis ;
Containing * cserulea, * viridis, maculata,. craffa,
ftellifera, pundlata, alba, flava, longa, prifmatica, bi-
frons, caeca, ebranchiata, lamelligera, and ciliata.
C. Mouth furnifloed with a tube}
Containing one fpecies, viz. prolifera.
One of the mofi: remarkable of thefe fpecies is the
nodtiluca, of which we fliall here give a ihort ac-
eount.
jBoSliluca, Body blue g*een, with 23 fegments, fo Imall as to
be fcarcely vifible to the naked eye.—This is one of
thofe phofphorefcent animals that illuminate the ocean
in the dark. Their numbers and wonderful agility,
added to their Ihining quality, do not a little contribute
to thefe illuminations of the fea ; for myriads of thofe
animalcula are contained in a fmall cup of fea water.
Innumerable quantities of them lodge in the cavities
of the feales of fifties; and to them, probably, the
fifties owe their noailucous quality. “ I have obferved
with great attention (fays Barbut) a fifti juft caught out
of the fea, whofe body was almoft covered with them ;
and have examined them in the dark : they twift and
curl themfelves with amazing agility, but foon retire
out of our contraaed fight; probably their glittering
dazzling the eye, and their extreme minutenefs eluding
our refearches. It is to be obferved, that when the
unauous moifture which covers the feales of fifties is
exhaufted by the air, thefe animals are not to be ieen,
nor are the filhes then noailucous, that matter being
perhaps their nouriftiment when living, as they them¬
felves afford food to many marine animals. They do
not ftiine in the day-time, becaufe the folar rays are too
powerful for their light, however aggregate, or immenfe
their number.” _
There are 10 fpecies, viz. vermicularis, * ferpentina,
* probofeidea, elinguis, * digitata, barbata, caeca, fit-, M‘)^ulca-|
toralis, marina, and quadricufpidata. 65
Pliyffo-
48. Physsophora. phora.
Body gelatinous, pendent from an aerial veficle, with
gelatinous feflile members at the fides; numerous ten-
tacula beneath.
There are three fpecies, viz. hydroftatica, rofacea,
and filiformis.
'«4'
Naif.
47. Nais.
Body creeping, long, linear, depreffed, and pellucid •,
peduncles, with fmall briftles on each fide 5 no teiu
tafulp) eyes two or none.
49. Medusa.
Body gelatinous, orbicular, and generally flat under-,
neath j mouth central, beneath.
Thefe animals have been denominated fea nettles,
from the opinion that the larger fpecies, when touched,
excite a tingling fenfation, and flight rednefs of the
fkin. They are fuppofed to form the chief food of the
cetaceous fifti-, and many of them ftiine with great.bril-
liancy in the water. The form of their body, while at
reft, is that of the fegment of a fphere, of which the
convex furface is fmooth, and the fiat part provided
with feveral tentacula. The body is tranfparent, and
fo gelatinous, that it is reduced almoft to nothing, by
evaporation, when left dry upon the ftiore. Several
coloured lines may be feen wuthin j but there is nothing
which gives marks of a circulation going on. T he
fines, indeed, towards the borders are more numerous,
but they feem to be appendages of the alimentary ca¬
vity. Thefe animals fwim very well, and appear to
perform that motion by rendering their body alternate¬
ly more or lefs convex ; and thus ftriking the water.
When left upon the ftiore, they lie motionlefs, and look
like large flat cakes of jeby.
The fpecies are diftributed into twTo fe£lions.
A. Body with ciliated ribs.
This contains four fpecies, viz. infundibulum, pileus^
cucumis, and ovum.
B. Body fmooth.
This contains 40 fpecies, viz. porpita, * cruciata,
hyfocella, * tequorea, * aurita,_ capillata, * pileans,
marfupialis, hemifpherica, pelagica, no&iluca, * ru.ca,
* purpura, * tuberculata, * undulata, * lunulata, nuda,
velelia, fpirans, pulmo, tyrrhena, tubercularis, utricu-
lus, caravella, umbclla, dimorpha, campanula, digitata,
frondofa, tetraftyla, oaoftyla, andromeda, corona, per-
fea, cephea, probofcidalis, mollicina, pileata, crucige-
ra, and unguiculata.
50. LucerNaria.
Body gelatinous, wrinkled, branched j mouth placed
beneath.
There are three fpecies, viz. quadricornis, phrygia,
and auricula.
51. Asterias.
Body deprefled, covered with a coriaceous cruft -, muri-
cate, with tentacula, and grooved below j mouth
central, afcd five-rayed.
66
Medufa?.
67
Lucernarfa.
68
Afterias.
Chap. II. H E L M I N T
Species. Thefe animals, which are ufually caWe&Jlar-JiJh, or
Mollufca. fea-Jlars, conftitute one of the moft numerous genera
0f the tnollufca. They are very curious in their forms,
but are almoft all radiated, as ftars are ufually painted ;
and fome of them, from the minutenefs of their rays,
make a very beautiful appearance.
By the coriaceous cruft, with which they are cover¬
ed, they are defended from the attacks of the fmaller
animals, that inhabit the feas in which they refide.
Each of the rays has a great number of Ihort, foft, and
fleihy tubes, that ferve for tentacula, and feem not only
defigned for taking prey, and aiding the motion of the
animal ; but alfo for enabling it to cling to the rocks,
and thus refift the force of the waters. Ihefe tentacula
have been found to exceed 15^® a hngle animal 5
they are fituated on the lower furface, and when the
animal is laid on its back, they may be feen to be pufh-
ed out and withdrawn like the horns of fnails. I he
rays enable them to fwim, but they move very flowly.
Thefe rays are very brittle, and are eafily broken off 5
but when this happens, their power of reprodu6iion is
fo great, that they are fpeedily renewed. The mouth
is armed with bony teeth, for breaking the (hells of the
fmall filh on which they feed j and from the mouth a
canal proceeds through each of the rays, becoming nar¬
rower as it approaches the tip.
For preferving thefe animals, Mr Barbut advifes that
they be drowned in brandy or other fpirits, taking care
to keep the rays all the time extended. Then it is eafy
to draw out the entrails by the mouth with a pair of
forceps j and after this is done, the animal may be
dried.
There are 45 fpecies diftinguiflied, according as their
circumference is more or lefs divided.
A. Lunate,
Comprehending four fpecies, viz. nobilis, pulvillus,
militaris, and luna.
B. Stellate,
Comprifing 20 fpecies, viz. pappofa, fpongiofa, * ru-
bens, * fepofita, endeca, minuta, * glacialis, * clathra-'
ta, echinitis, re&iculata, phrygiana, nodofa, * violacea,
fanguinolenta, perforata, araneica, * equeftris, keviga-
ta, * membranea, granularis.
C. Radiate,
Comprifmg 20 fpecies, viz. rofea, pertufa, * ophiura,
aculeata, ciliaris, * fphserulata, * pentaphylla, * varia,
* aculearis, * haftata, * fiffa, * nigra, tenella, * pe£li-
nata, multiradiata, * caput medufae, euryali, aligaetes,
nigrita, tricolor, and fragilis.
Many of thefe are extremely beautiful j but one of
the moft (howy is the caput medufcc, or arborefcent Jlar-
fijh. /
caput me- Having five rays, each fubdivided, dichotomous ;
dufce. rays and dilk granulate j mouth deprelfed (Vid. fig. 12.).
—This extremely Angular fpecies is occafionally met
with in moft feas •, but it is not very common. It has
five equidiftant, thick, jointed rays, proceeding from
the centre } and each of them is divided into two other
fmaller, and each of thefe is again fubdiv’ded in a fimi-
lar manner 5 and this fubdivifion is carried, in the moft;
beautiful and regular gradation, to a vaft extent, fo
H O L O G Y.
355
that the extreme ramifications fometimes amount to le-
veral thoufands. Mr Bingley fpeaks of a fpecimen that
was three feet acrofs, and had 51 2 extremities to each
ray, making in all 2560. By this curious ftru6lure,
the animal becomes, as it were, a living net, and is ca¬
pable of entangling fuch creatures as are defigned for
its prey, by the hidden contra&ion of thefe numerous
ramifications, by the intricacy ol w?hich they are pre¬
vented from efcaping.
The colour of the living animal is a reddifti or deep
carnation j but when dead it is more of a gray colour.
To preferve this curious animal whole and undamaged
for cabinets, it ftiould be taken far out at fea, and the
fiftiermen ftiould be careful not to break off any of the
limbs, and to keep it as ftill as poflible. It ftiould be
dried in the lhade in fome open place, as in the fun it
is apt to melt away, and if too much in the (hade, to
become putrid.
This fpecies is fo valuable, that the fiftiermen at the
Cape get from fix to ten rix-dollars for a fpecimen.
51. Echinus.
Species.
MoUufca-
<J9
Echinus,
Body roundifli, covered with a bony cruft, and ge¬
nerally fumiftied with moveable fpines j mouth placed
beneath, and commonly five-valved.
The animals of this genus are called fea urchins or
fea hedgehogs, from the fpines which grow on their ex¬
ternal covering 5 they are alfo called fea eggs, probably
from many of them being eatable. 1 hey are all inha¬
bitants of the feas ; and are fo nearly alike in character,
that a defcription of one fpecies will ferve to illuftrate
the whole family.
There are no lefs than 109 fpecies, which are fubdi¬
vided as follows.
A. Vent vertical, and all the tentacula fwiple.
a. Globular or hemifpherical.
Containing 37 fpecies, viz. *efculentus, fphasra, droe-
bachienfis, *miliaris, bafteri, hsemifphericus, angulb-
fus, excavatus, globulus, fphaeroides, gratilla, lixula,
faxatilis, feneftratus, fubangularis, * ovarius, diadema,
calamaris, araneiformis, ftellatus, radiatus, circinaftus,
cidaris, mamillatus, lucuntis, atratus, * coronatis, afte-
rizans, affulatus, fardicus, lammeus, variegatus, puftula-
tus, granulatus, teffelatus, botryoides, and torcumaticus.
b. Shapedfomewhat like aJhield;
Four fpecies, viz. * finuatus, femiglobofus, quinquila-
biatus, and conoideus.
B. Having the vent beneath and no tentacula at the
mouth.
a. Bafe circular, with the vent in the circumference.
Containing five fpecies, viz. alba-gabrus, depreffus,
* vulgaris, quadrifafciatus, and fexfaciatus.
b. Bafe exactly circular ;
One fpecies, viz. fubuculus.
c. Bafe oval;
Three fpecies, viz. cycloftomus, femilunaris, and fen-
tiformis.
Y y 2 <3- Bafe
35<5
H E L M 1 N T
Species.
Mollufca.
d. Bnfe oval and acute ; vent oppojhe the mouth ;
Six fpecies, viz. * feutatus, ovatus, * puftulofus, qua-
driradiatus, minor, and dubius.
e. Bafe irregular, with Jive expanded petalJhaped marks
on the furface.
i. Margin with angular Jinuojities ;
Two fpecies, viz. rofaceus and attus.
2. Ovate; margin entire;
Two fpecies, viz. oviformis and orbiculatus.
f. Flat on both Jides, with petaljhaped avenues ; mouth
central, Jiat, and toothed; crown with four pores.
i. Having a Jinuated margin and perforated furface;
Seven fpecies, viz. biforis, pentaporus, hexaporus,
emarginatus, auritus, inauritus, and tetraporus.
2. Having a finuated margin and entire furface;
Five fpecies, viz. *laganum, fubrotundus, reticula-
tus, orbicularis, and gorallatus.
3. Having a toothed margin ;
Three fpecies, viz. decadaftylus, oftadaftylus, orbi-
culus.
g. With ten avenues on the crown ; rays Jlraight, bipo-
rous, andJlellate ; mouth and vent near each other in
the middle of the bafe;
13 fpecies, viz. nucleus, centralis, ervum, craniola-
ris, turcicus, vicia, ovulum, lathyrus, equinus, minu-
tus, falca, insequalis, raninus, and bufonius.
C. Vent lateral, with pencilled tentacula at the mouth.
a. Circular; mouth central, ventfquare;
One fpecies, viz. placenta.
b. Heart-fhaped, with the crown grooved;
Two fpecies, viz. cor anguinum and lacunofus.
c. Heart-fhaped, with the crown not grooved;
F.ight fpecies, viz. radiatus, purpureus, pufillus, com-
planatus, * fubglobulus, ananchitis, bicordatus, and ea-
rinatus.
c. Ovate, with grooved avenues ; .
One fpecies, viz. fpatagus.
d. Ovate, with the avenues not grooved;
Eight fpecies, viz. briffoides, teres, oliva, amygdala,
ovalis, pyriformis, lapifeaneri, and patellaris.
Many of the above have hitherto been found only in
a foffile Hate.
* efculen- Subglobular, with 10 avenues of pores 5 and the inter-
tus. mediate fpines covered with fmall tubercles, fupporting
the fpines. fig. 13.—This animal, which lodges in cavi¬
ties of rocks, juft within low water mark, on moft of the
Britilh coafts, is nearly of a globular ftiape, having its ftiell
marked into ten partitions or divifions, not much unlike
thofe of an orange. The mouth is fituated in the lower
part, and armed with five ftrong and lharpened teeth.
The ftomach and intdlines which are of confrderable
H O L O G Y. Chap. ir.
length, are difpofed in a fomewhat circular form j and Species,
the whole body is fupported entirely by a let of upright Zoopnyta.^
bones or columns.
On the right fide of the fliell is a prodigious num¬
ber of iharp moveable fpines, of a dull white and
greenilh colour, curioufly articulated, like ball and
locket, with tubercles on the furface, and connected by
ftrong filaments to the Ikin or epidermis, with which
the ftiell is covered. The fpines are the inftruments by
which the animal conveys itlelf at plealure from one
place to another 5 and by means of thele it is enabled
to move at the bottom of the water with great Iwift-
nefs. It generally employs thofe about the mouth for
this purpofe, keeping that opening downwards j but it
is alfo afferted to have the power of moving forwards,
by turning on itfelf like a wheel. When any thing
alarms thefe animals, they immediately move all their
fpines towards it, and wait an attack, as an army of
pikemen would with their weapons. The number of
mufcles, fibres, and other apparatus neceflary to the
proper management of thefe muft be very great, and
are exceedingly wonderful. So tenacious are the lea-
urchins of the vital principle, that on opening one of
them, it is no uncommon circumftance to obferve the
fcveral parts of the broken Ihell, move oft’ in different
directions.
Between the fpines, and difpofed in a continued lon¬
gitudinal feries on the feveral divilions or regions of the
Ihell, are an infinite number of very fmall knobs, com¬
municating with an equal number of tentacula placed
above them. Thefe are the inftruments by which the
creature fixes itfelf to any objeft, and flops its motion.
They are poflelfed of a very high degree of contraCtile
power, and are furniftied at the extremities with an ex¬
panfile part, which may be fuppofed to operate as a
fphinCter, or as the tail of a leech, in faftening the
animal fecurely to rocks and other fubftances to which
they choofe to adhere.
The ftiell of this animal, when deprived of the fpines,
which ealily fall off in dying, is of a pale reddilh tinge,
and the tubercles on which the fpines are fixed, appear
like fo many pearly protuberances on the furface.
At Marfeilles, and in fome other towms on the conti¬
nent, this fpecies is expofed for fale in the markets, as
oyfters are with us, and is eaten boiled like an egg.
It forms an article of food among the lower clafs on the
fea coafts of many parts of this country, but does not
feem to have made its way to the tables of the great.
This order of Mollufca contains 32 genera, and
about 433 fpecies.
Order IV. ZOOPHYTA.
The creatures ranked under this order feem to hold
a middle rank between animals and vegetables. Moft
of them are, like the latter, fixed by a root to a cer¬
tain fpot, from which they never move, and where they
fprout and grow •, many of them propagate, like plants,
by buds, or flips j and fome of them appear only to be
entitled to rank as animal bodies by their poffefling a
degree of irritability a little fuperior to the fenjitive
plant. Few of them enjoy the faculty of locomotion,
though the agility wfith which they feize their prey and
the inftinfl which direfts them in fearch of it, fhew
them to be really auimal bodies.
The
chap. n. helmint
Species. The coral reefs that furround many lilands, parti-
Zoophyta. cularly thofe in the Indian Archipelago, and round
' ^ New Holland, are formed by various tribes of theie
animals, efpecially by thofe of the five firft genera.
M. Peron obferved, that the animals form thefe corals
with fuch rapidity, that enormous maffes of them very
fpeedily appear, where there was fcarcely any mark ot
fuch reefs before.
The principal works that treat of the Zoophyta are
thofe of Ellis, Solander, Pallas, and Dr Shaw’s “ Na-
turaliit’s Mifcellany”.
70
Tubipora.
53. Tubipora.
Animal probably a nereis 5 coral, confiding of ereft,
hollow, cylindrical, parallel, aggregate tubes.
There are 10 fpecies, viz. mufica, catenulata, * fer-
pens, fafcicularis, ramofa, pennata, penicillata, flabellans,
ftellata. and ftrues.
H O L O G Y.
55. Millepora.
Animal an hydra or polype-, coral moftly branched, and
covered with cylindrical, turbinate pores.
There are 34 fpecies, viz. alcicornis, caerulea, afpera,
folida, truncata, miniacea, * cervicornis, *fkenei, pumi-
la, compreifa, * lichenoides, violacea, tubulifera, * faf-
cialis, * foliacea, zeylanica, forniculofa, cruftulenta,
erofa, reticulata, * cellulofa, clathrata, reticulum, Ipon-
gitis, coriacea, calcarea, * polymorpha, decuffata, * al¬
ga, * pumicola, * tubulofa, pinnata, * hliacea, and car-
dunculus.
56. Cellefora.
Animal an hydra or polype ; coral fomewhat membra¬
naceous, and compofed of round cells.
There are eight fpecies viz. ramulofa, fpengites, ,* pu-
micofa. verrucofa, ciliata, hyalina, nitida, and annulata.
v 357
Species.
Zoophyta.
.
Millepora.
73
Cellepora.
Madrepora. 54- MaDREPORA.
Animal refembiing a medufa; coral with lamellate
liar-draped cavities.
There are 118 fpecies, which are didributed into five
fubdivifions, viz.
A. Compofed of a fingle far,
Containing fix fpecies, viz. * verrucaria, turbinata,
* porpita, fungitis, patella, and cyathus.
B. With numerous feparate fars, and continued nume¬
rous gills.
14 fpecies, viz. pileus, criftata, laftuca, ficoides, ace-
rofa, lichen, agaricites, elephantatus, crutlacea, incruf-
tans, exefa, filograna, natans, and anthophyllum.
57. Isis. ICs*
Animal growing in the form of a plant; flem ffony
and jointed ; the joints longitudinally ftreaked,
united by horny junfiures, and covered with a foft,
porous cellular fledi or bark; the mouths of which are
befet with oviparous polypes.
There are fix fpecies, viz. hippuris, dichotoma, ochra-
cea, * entrocha, *afteria, and coccinea.
IS
58. AntIPATHES. AntipatheSc
Animal growing in the form of a plant; fi:em expand¬
ed at the bafe, horny within, and befet with fmall
fpines ; externally covered with a gelatinous dedr,
befet with numerous polypes bearing tubercles.
C. With numerous united fars.
There are 15 fpecies, viz. labyrinthica, finuofa, _ me-
andrites, areola, abdita, phrygia, repanda, ambigua,
dsedalia, gyrofa, clxvofa, cerebrum, involuta, implicata,
and cochlea.
D. Aggregate undivided, having difinEifars, andporu-
lous, tuberculous, prominent undulations.
There are 3^ fpecies, viz. favofa, cavata, builins, ana¬
nas, hvades, fiderea, galaxea, pleiades,papillofa, radiata,
latebrofa, polygonia, arenofa, interllinaa, fpongiofa, fo-
Jiofa, porculata, ftellulata, altroites, ftellata, nodulofa,
acropora, cavernofa, puwftata, calyculans, truncata,
ftellans, organum, divergens, * muficalis, denticulata,
faveolata, retepora, rotulofa, cefpitofa, fiexuofa, fafcicu¬
laris, pedlinata, rotularis, tubularis, mamillaris, patelloi-
des,’globularis, telum, perforata, vermicularis, * arach-
noides, undulata, lulida, monile, dsedalia, monoftriata,
contignatio, criilata, rus, and cufpidata.
E. Branched, having difinEifars, and porulous tuber¬
culous undulations.
There are 27 fpecies, viz. porites, digitata, damicor-
nis, verrucofa, muricata, fadigiata, ramea, oculata, vir-
ginea, rofea, hirtella, linulata, botryoides, granofa, pro-
lifera, feriata, caftus, corymbofa, gammafcens, proble-
matica, fpuria, infundibuliformis, angulofa, difcoides,
chalcidicum, concamerata, and rolacea.
There are 13 fpecies, viz. fpiralis, ulex, fubpinnata,
myriophylla, allopecuroides, cupreffus, oricV.cea, dicho¬
toma, clathrata, fiabellum, pennacea, ericoides, and
fueniculacea.
59. GORGONIA. Gorgoma,
Animal growing in the form of a plant; leathery,
corky," woody, homy, or bony ; compofed of glafly
or dony fibres; dreaked, tapering, dilated at the
bafe, covered with a cellular dedr or bark, and be¬
coming fpongy and friable when dry ; mouths cover¬
ing the furface of the dem and polype-bearing.
There are 41 fpecies, viz. lepadifera, verticillaris,
* placomus, mollis, fuccinia, americana, exferta, patula,
ceratophyta, juncea, fiammea, umbraculum, purpurea,
fafappo, palma, radicata, fuberofa, coralloides, elongata,
fcirpea, fetacea, viminalis, muricata, * verrucofa, anti-
pathes, * anceps, nobilis, crada, pinnata, fanguinolenta,
violacea, letofa, petechizans, peddinata, abietina, calycu-
lata, briareus, ventalina, reticulum, clathrus, and # lla-
bellum.
77;
60. AlcYONIUM. Alcyonmm
Animal generally growing in the form of a plant ; dem
fixed, dediy, gelatinous, fpongy or leathery, and be¬
fet with deflate cells bearing polypes.
There /
HELMINTHOLOGY. Chap. II.
Species. Tliere are 28 fpecies, viz. arboreum, exos, * digita-
Zouphyta. tumj fchlofleri, lyncurium, * burfa, cydonium, * ficus,
' ' _ v gelatinofum, manus diaboli, * arenolum, botryoides, maf¬
ia, cranium, rubrum, mammillofum, ocellatum, tubero-
fum, gorgonoides, aibeftinum, alburnum, papillofum,
* conglomeratum, * afcidioides, fynovium, vermiculare,
ilellatum, and corniculatum.
78
^Ipongia. gj. SPONGIA.
Animal fixed, flexile, torpid, of various forms, fcom-
pofed either of reticulate fibres, or mafies ol fmall
fpines interwoven together, and clothed with a gela¬
tinous fleih, full of fmall mouths on its furface by which
it abforbs and rejefts water.
There are 49 fpecies, viz. ventilabrum, flabelliformis,
infundibuliformis, fiftularis, aculeata, tubulofa, * corna-
ta, ciliata, cancellata, rubra, nigra, officinalis, * ocula-
ta, muricata, nodofa, * tomentofa, bacillaris, dichotoma,
* ftupofa, * criflata, * palmata, prolifera, * botryoides,
* panicea, fulva, tubularia, fibrilloja, fafciculata, bafta,
lichenoides, papillaris, cavernofa, finuofa, frondofa, aga-
ricina, tupha, membranofa, comprefla, pencillum, coali-
ta, plana, cruciata, ofliformis, mauda, ficiformis, * lacuf-
tris, fluviatilis, friabilis, and canalium.
The fponges confift of a ramified mafs of capillary
tubes, that were long fuppofed to be the produftion of
a fpecies of worms, tvhich are often found within thefe
cavities •, an idea, however, which is now nearly explod¬
ed. Others have imagined them to be only vegetables ;
but that they are poffeffed of animality, appears evident
from the circumftance of their pores alternately con¬
trafling and dilating, and from their even Ihrinking in
fome degree from the touch, when examined in their
native fituations. Their ftruflure probably enables
them to abforb nouriffiment from the furrounding
fluid.
Thefe animals are certainly the moft torpid of all the
zooph^fes. The individuals differ very much from
each other, both in form and ftruflure. Some of them,
as the common fponge, are of no determinate figure j
but others are cup-fhaped, tubular, &c.
officinalis. Irregularly formed, porous, rough, lobed, and woolly.
 The officinal fponge is elaftic, and very full of holes;
it grows into irregular lobes of a woolly confiftence,
and generally adheres, by a very broad bafe, to the
rocks. It is chiefly found about the iflands in the Me¬
diterranean, where it forms a confiderable article of
commerce. A variety of fmall marine animals pierce
and gnaw into its irregular winding cavities. Thefe
appear on the outfide, by large holes raifed higher than
the reft. When it is cut perpendicularly,^ the interior
parts are feen to confift of fmall tubes, which divide in¬
to branches as they appear on the furface. Thefe tubes,
which are compofed of reticulated fibres, extend them-
felves every way, by this means increafing the furface
of the fponge, and ending at the outfide in an infinite
number of fmall circular holes, which are the proper
mouths of the animal. Each of thefe holes is furrounded
by a few ereft pointed fibres, that appear as if woven
in the form of little fpines. Thefe tubes, with their
ramifications, in the living ftate of the fponge, are
clothed with a gelatinous fubftance, properly called the
fleih of the animal. When the fponge is firft taken it
has a ftrong fiihy fmell, and the fiftiermen take great
1
care in making it perfedtly clean, in order to prevent Species,
its growing putrid. Zoopl.^tcw
79
62. Flustra, Sea Mat-Weed, or Horn-lVrach. Fluftra.
Animal a polype, proceeding from porous cells 5 ftem
fixed, foliaceous, membranaceous, compofed of nu¬
merous rows of cells, united together, and woven
like a mat.
There are about 18 fpecies, viz. * foliacea, * trunca-
ta, * pilofa, * chartacea, * carbacea, bombycina, ver-
ticillata, * dentata, * bullata, tomentofa, denticulata,
tubulofa, hifpida, frondiculofa, papyracea, hirta, * mem-
branacea, and lineata.
, _ 80
63. Ti UBULARIA. Tubulariai
Stem tubular, fimple or branched, fixed by the bafe j
animal proceeding from the end of the tube, and
having its head hrefted with tentacula.
There are 26 fpecies, viz. magnifica, cornucopiae,
* indivifa, * ramofa, ramea, * fiftulofa, fragilis, * muf-
coides, papyracea, penicillus, acetabulum, fplachnea,
* coryna, * affinis, fabricia, longicornis, multicomis, re¬
pens, * campanulata, * reptans, fultana, ftellaris, limplex,
fpallanzani, membranacea, * and flabelliformis.
Of thefe, by far the large!!, and probably the moft;
beautiful fpecies, is the magnifica, which is thus cha-
rafterifed by Dr Shaw.
With a fimple whitifti tube, and very numerous ten- magnified^
tacula, variegated with red and white. (Vide fig. 14.).
It is found in various parts of the coaft of Jamaica,
adhering to the rocks. It is very (hy, and on being
approached, inftantly recedes within its elaftic tube,
which on a farther alarm alfo retires into the rock, and
fpecimens can be procured only by breaking off fuch
parts of the ftone as contained them. Thefe being put
into tubs of fea-water, may be kept for months in per-
fe£t prefervation. Sr
64. CORALLINA. Corallina.
Animal growing in the form of a plant j ftem fixed,
with calcareous fubdivided branches, moftly jointed.
There are 38 fpecies, viz. tridens, opuntia, monile,
incraffata, tuna, nodulola, * fquamata, loricata, palmata,
* elongata, fubulata, granifera, * officinalis, pennata,
* rubens, * cruftata, * fpermopheros, * corniculata,
fragiliflima, fruticulofa, indurata, lichenoides, rugofa,
marginata, cylindrica, oblongata, obtuiata, lapidefcens,
barbata, rofarium, cufpidata, tribulus, flabellum, con-
glutinata, phoenix, peniculum, penicillum, and terrei-
tris.
8*
65. SERTULARIA. Sertularia>
Animal growing in the form of a plant , ftem branch¬
ed, producing polypes from cup-lhaped denticles or
minute cells.
There are 77 fpecies, which are diftributed into two
fections.
A. Stem horny, tubular, fixed by the bafe, befiet with
cub-Jhaped denticles, and furnifhed with veficles or
ovaries containing polypes, eggs, or the living young.
* Rofacea, * pumlla, * operculata, * tamarifea, * abi-
etina,
Chsp. If.
Species, etina, * nigra, * fufcefcens, obfoleta, pinus, cupreuoides,
Zoophyta, * CupreiTma, * argentea, * rugofa, * halecina, * theja,
v’■^, * myriophyllum, hypoides, fpeciofa, * falcata, * pluma,
echinata, ' antennjna, * verticillata, * gclatinofa, * vo-
lubilis, * fyringa, * cufcuta, * pUiEuloia, * frutefcens, pi-
nafter, pennatula, * fihcula, quad:identata, fpicata,
* evanfii, *inuricata, fecundaria, miliaenfis, racemofa,
* uva, lindigera, * geniculata, dichotoma, * Ipinofa,
* pinnata, * fetacea, polygomas, pennana, * lichenaf-
tram, cedrina, * imbricata, purpurea, articulata, filicina,
and fruticans.
B. Steffi crujlaceous, refembhng /tone, and cotnpofed of
rows of cells; no vefcles, but infead of themfnwllglo¬
bules. Cellularia.
* Burfaria, * loriculata, * faftigiata, * ovicularia, * ne-
retina, * ferupofa, pilofa, crifpa, placeofa, * reptans, pa-
rafitica, ciliata, * eburnea, * cornuta, * boricata, * an-
guina, coreoides, tulipifera, tabulunr, * ternata, cirrata,
and opuntioides.
term a tula. 66. PEKNATULA, tbe Sea-pen.
Animal not fixed, of various fltapes \ fupported by a •
bony part within ; naked at the bafe \ the upper
part having generally lateral ramifications furnilhed
with rows of tubular denticles, with radiate polypes
from each tube.
There are 18 fpecies, viz. coccinea, grifea, phof-
phorea, pilofa, rubra, mirabilis, fagitta, antennina, ftelli-
fera, phalloides, arundinacea, fciopia, juncea, grandis,
argentea, encrinus, cynomorium, and reniformis.
84
Hydra. 67. HyDRA, the Pohjpe.
Animal fixing itfelf by the bafe ; linear, gelatinous, na¬
ked, contractile, and furnithed with fetaceous tenta¬
cular inhabiting frefh waters, and producing its de¬
ciduous offspring from its fides. (Vid. fig. 15.).
Thefe animals are among the molt curious produc¬
tions of nature, chiefly as exhibiting the molt furprifing
example of diffufed vitality. Though not fo formidable
as the hydra deftroyed by Hercules, they are rendered
equally prolific by being cut in pieces.
There are about five fpecies, viz. viridis, *fufca,
* grifea, gelatinofa, and pallens.
The three firlt fpecies are tbofe on which the greateft
number of experiments have been made*, and their
flrapes are fo various, that it is by no means eafy to de-
fcribe them. They are generally found in ditches.
Whoever has carefully examined thefe when the fun is
very powerful, will find many little tranfparent lumps
of the appearance of jelly, and fize of a pea, and flatted
upon one fide. The fame kind of fubftances are like-
wife to be met with on the under fide of the leaves of
plants that grow in fuch places.* Thefe are the polypes
in a quiefcent ftate, and apparently inanimate. They
are generally fixed by one end to fome folid fubftance,
with a large opening, which is the mouth, at the
other, having feveral arms fixed round it, projecting as
rays from the centre. They are flender, pellucid, and
capable of contracting themfelves into very fmall com-
pafs, or of extending to a confiderable length. The
arms are capable of the fame contraction and expanfian
357
as the body, and with thefe they lay hold of minute Species,
worms and infeCts, bringing them to the mouth, and Zo(,^hyta-|
fwallowing them. The indigeftible parts are again
thrown out by the mouth.
The green polype was that fir ft difcovered by M. Trem- viridis.
bley ; and the firft appearances of fpontaneous motion
were perceived in its arms, which it can contraCl, ex¬
pand, and twill about in various direClions. On the firft
appearance of danger they contraCl to fuch a degree,
that they appear little longer than a grain of fand, of a
fine green colour, the arms difappearing entirely. Soon
afterwards, he found the grifea, and afterwards the fuf-
ca. The bodies of the viridis and grifea diminifh almoft
infenfibly from the anterior to the pofterior extremity *,
but the fufca is for the moft part of an equal fize for
two thirds of its length from the anterior to the pofterior
extremities, from which it becomes abruptly fmaller,
and then continues of a regular fize to the end. Thefe
three kinds have at leaft fix, and at moft twelve or thir¬
teen arms. They can contraCf themfelves till their bo¬
dies do not exceed one fourth of an inch in length, and
they can ftop at any intermediate degree of expanfion
or contraction. They are of various fizes, from an inch to
an inch and a half long. Their arms are feldom long¬
er than their bodies, though fome have them an inch,,
and fome even eight inches long. The thicknefs of
their bodies decreafes as they extend themfelves, and
vice verfa ; and they may be made to contraCl them¬
felves either by agitating the water in which they are
contained, or by touching the animals themfelves.
When taken out of the water they all contraCt fo much,
that they appear only like a little lump of jelly. They
can contraCl or expand one arm, or any number of arms,
independent of the reft j and they can likewife bend
their bodies or arms in all poffible direClions. They
can alfo dilate or contraCl their bodies in various places,
and fometimes appear thick fet with folds, w*liich, wherv
carelefsly viewed, appear like rings. Their progreflive
motion is performed by that power, which they have of
contracting and dilating their bodies. When about to
move, they bend dowm their heads dnd arms, lay hold
by means of them on fome other fubftance to which
they defign to fallen themlelves ; then they loofen their
tail, and draw it towards the head j then either fix it
in that place, or ftretching forward their head as be¬
fore, repeat the fame operation. They afcend or de-
fcend at pleafure in this manner upon aquatic plants,
or upon the fidcs of the veffel in which they are kept j.
they fometiraes hang by the tail from the furface of the
water, or fometimes by one of the arms 5 and they can
walk with eafe upon the furface of the water. On ex¬
amining the tail with a microfcope, a fmall part of it
will be found to be dry above the furface of the water j
and, as it were in a little concave fpacc, of wdfich the
tail forms the bottom j fo that it feems to be fufpended
on the furface of the water on the fame principle that
a fmall pin or needle is made to fwipa. When a po¬
lype, therefore, means to pafs from the fides of the glafs
to the furface of the water, it has only to put that part
out of the water by which it is to be fupported, and to
give it time to dry, which it always does upon thefe oc-
cafions *, and they attach themfelves fo firmly by the
tail to aquatic plants. Hones, &c. that they cannot be
eafily di fen gaged: they often further ftrengthen thefe
attachments
HELMINTHOLOGY.
H E L MINT
36 o
Species, attachments by means ot one or two of their arm ,
Zoophyta which ferve as a kind of anchors for fixing them to the
' v adjacent fubftances.
The Itomach of the polype is a kind of bag or gut
into which the mouth opens, and goes from the head
to the tail. This, in a ftrong light, is vifible to the
naked eye, efpecially if the animal be placed between
the eye and a candle 5 for thefe animals are quite tiani-
parent whatever their colour may be : the tlomach,
however, appears to more advantage through a power¬
ful magnifier. M, Trembley, by cutting one of thefe
animals tranfverfely into three parts, fatisfied himfelf
that they were perforated throughout. Each piece
immediately contraded itfelf, and the perforation was
very vifible through a microfcope. The Ikin which
enclofes the ftomach is that of the polype itfelf j fo that
the whole animal, properly fpeaking, confifts only of
one {kin, in the form of a tube, and open at both ends.
No veffels of any kind are to be diftinguilhed.
The mouth is fituated at the anterior end in the
‘ middle between the {hooting forth of the arms, and
aifumes different appearances according to circumftan-
ces, being fometimes lengthened out in the form of
a nipple, at others appearing truncated $ fometimes the
aperture is quite clofed, at others there is a, hollow ;
though at all times a fmall aperture may be difcovered
by a powerful magnifier.
The ikin of a polype, when examined with a micro¬
fcope, appears like {hagreen, or as if covered with little
grains, more or leh feparated from each other, accoid-
xng to the degree of contra&ion of the body. If the
lips of a polype be cut tranfverfely, and placed fo that
the cut part of the Ikin may be diredly before the mi¬
crofcope, the {kin throughout its whole thicknefs will
be found to confift of an infinite number of grains,
and the interior part is found to be more {hagreened
than the exterior one ; but they are not ftrongly uni-
ted to each other, and may be feparated without much
trouble. They even feparate of themfelves, though in
no great numbers, in the moll healthy animals of this
kind •, for where they are obferved to feparate in large
quantities, it is a fymptom of a very dangerous diforder.
In the progrefs of this diforder, the furface of the po-
Ivpe becomes gradually more and more rough and un¬
equal, and no longer well defined or terminated as be¬
fore. The grains fall off on all fides, the. body, and
arms contradl and dilate, and affume a white Ihining
colour *, and at laft the whole diffolves into a heap of
grains, which is more particularly obferved in the green
polype. By a careful examination w'e find, that the
{kin of the polype is entirely compofed of grains, ce¬
mented by means of a kind of gummy fubftance; but
it is to the grains entirely that the polype owes its co¬
lour. The ilrudure of the arms is analogous to that
of the body } and they appear {hagreened, when exami¬
ned by the microfcope, whether they be in a ftate of
contraftion or expanfion; but, if very much contraft-
ed, they appear more {hagreened than the body, though
almoft quite fmooth when in their utmoft ftate of ex-
tenfion. In the green polype the appearance of the
arms is continually varying-, and thefe variations are
more fenfible towards the extremity of the arm than at
its origin, but more fcattered in the parts further on.
The extremity is often terminated by a knob, the hairs
H O L O G Y. ^ Chap. II.
of which cannot be obferved without a powerful mag- ®Pjc’e'-
nifier. They have a remarkable inclination. for , ) ta,)
turning towards the light, fo that il that part of the
glafs, on which they are, be turned from the light, they
wall quickly remove to the other.
That fpecies named the frfca has the longeft zrms,fufea.
and makes ufe of the moft curious manoeuvres to feize
its prey. They are beft viewed in a glafs feven or eight
inches deep, when their arms commonly hang down to
the bottom. When this or any other Kind is hungry, it
fpreads its arms in a kind of circle to a confiderabie ex¬
tent, in doling in this, as in a net, every infedt which has
the misfortune to come within the circumference. W die
the animal is contracted by ieizing its prey, the arms
are obferved to fwell like the mufcles of the human
body wken in aCtion. Though no appearance of eyes
can be obferved in the polype, they certainly have iome
knowdedge of the approach ot their prey, and ihewT the
greateft attention to it as foon as it comes near them.
It feizes a w7orm the moment it is touched by one of
the arms } and in conveying it to the mouth, it fre¬
quently twifts the arm into a fpiral like a cork-fcrew,
by which means the infedl is brought to the mouth in
a much ftiorter time than otherwife it would be •, and
fo foon are the infedls on which.the polypes feed killed
by them, that M. Fontana thinks they niuft contain
the moft pow'erful kind of poifon •, for the lips fcarce
touch the animal when it expires, though there cannot
be any wound perceived on it when dead, ihe wmrm,
when fwallowed, appears fometimes fingle, fometimes
double, according to circumftances. When full, the
polype contracts itfelf, hangs dowm as in a kind of ira-
por, but extends again in proportion as the food is di-
gefted, and the excrementitious part is difeharged.
The bodies of the infefts, wdien fwallow'ed, are firit ma¬
cerated in the ftomach, then reduced into fragments,,
and driven backwards and forwards from one end. ot
the ftomach to the other, and even into the arms, which,
as well as the other parts of this remarkable creature, are
a kind of hollow guts or ftomachs. In order to obferve
this motion, it is beft to feed the polypes with fuch
food as will give a lively colour ; .fuch, for in.ftance, as
thofe wrorms which are furnifhed with a red juice. Some
bits of a fmall black fnail being given to a polype, the
fubftance of the fkin was foon diffolved into a pulp con-
Ming of fmall black fragments and on examining the
polype with a microfcope, it was found that the par¬
ticles were driven about in the ftomach, and that they
paffed into the arms, from thence back into the fto¬
mach ; then to the tail, from whence they paffed again
into the arms, and fo on. The grains oi which the
body of the polype conftfts, take their colour from the
food with which it is nourhhed, and become red or
black as the food happens to afford the one or the
other. They are likewife more 'or lefs tinged with
thefe colours in proportion to the ftrengtb of the nutri¬
tive juices ; and it is obfervable that they lofe their co¬
lour if fed with aliments of a colour different, from
themfelves. They feed on moft infers, and fiih or
fteth, if cut into fmall bits. Sometimes two polypes lay
hold’ of the fame worm, and each begins to fwallow its
own end till their mouths meet and the worm breaks.
But fhould this happen not to be the cafe, the one polype
will fometimes devour the other along with its portion.
2
Chap. II.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Specie-. It appears, however, that the fcamach of one polype is
i , n°t htted for diilolving the fubilance of another : for
the one which is fw all owed always gets clear again af¬
ter being imprifoned an hour or two.
I he manner in which the polypes generate is moft
perceptible in the grifea and fufea, as being cOnhder-
ably larger thin the viridis. If we examine one of
them in fummer, when the animals are moft aftive, and
prepared for propagation, fotnc fmall tubercles will be
found proceeding from its Tides, which conftantly in-
creafe in bulk, until at laft in two or three days they
affume the figure of fmall polypes. When they firft
begin to {hoot, the excrefcence becomes pointed, affum-
ing a conical figure, and deeper colour than the reft
ot the body. In a (hort time it becomes truncated, and
then cylindrical, after which the arms begin to ftioot
from the anterior end. The tail adheres to the body
of the parent animal, but gradually grows fmaller, un-
til at laft it adheres only by a point, and is then ready
to be feparated. When this is the cafe, both the mo¬
ther and young ones fix themfelves to the fides of the
gials, anu are feparated from each other by a hidden
jerk. 1 he time requiftte for the formation of the
young ones is very different, according to the warmth
oi the weather and the nature of the food eaten by the
mother. Sometimes they are fully formed, and ready
to drop oft in 24 hours 5 in other cafes, when the wea-
tnei is cold, ij days have been requifite for bringing
them to perfection.
It is remarkable, that there is a reciprocal commu¬
nication of food betwixt the young and old, before
they be feparated. The ymung ones, as foon as they
are furniflied with arms, catch prey for themfelves, and
communicate the digefted food to the old ones, who on
the other hand do the Time to the young ones. This
was fully verified by the following experiment. One
ot the large polypes of the fufea kind being placed on
a thp of paper in a little water, the middle of the body
of a young one growing out from it w7as cut open 5
'when tne Juperio^* part ot that end which remained fix-
ed to the parent was found to be open alfo. But cut¬
ting over the parent polype on each fide of the flioot,
a fhort cylinder was obtained, open at both ends; which
being viewed through a microfcope, the light was ob-
ferved to come through the young one into "the ftomach
of Tie old one. On cutting open the portion of the
cylindrical portion lengthv ife, not only the hole of
communication was obferved, but one might fee through
the end of the young one alfo. On changing the fitua-
tion of the two pieces, the light was feen through the
hole of communication. This may be feen between the
parent polype and its young ones after feeding them ;
for after the parents have eaten, the bodies of the
young ones fwell as if they themfelves had been eat-
ing.
1 he polypes produce young ones indiferiminately
from all parts of their bodies, and five or fix youno-
ones have frequently been produced at once ; nay, M.
rembley has obferved nine or ten produced at the
lame time.
Nothing like copulation among thefe creatures w7as
ever obferved by ?vl. Trembley, though for two years
he had thoufands of them under his iafpedion. To be
more certain on this fubjetf, he took two young ones
VOL. X. Part I. 6
the moment they came from their parent, and placed
them in feparate glalTes. Both of them multiplied, not
only themfelves, but alfo their offspring, which were
feparated and watched in the fame manner to the fe-
venth generation. They have even the fame power of
generation while adhering to their parent. In this ftute
the parent, with its children and grandchildren, exhi¬
bits a fingular appearance, looking like a Ihrub thick
let with branches. Thus feveral generations fometimes
are attached to one another, and all of them to one pa¬
rent. Mr Adams gives a figure of one polype with 19
young ones hanging at it ; the whole group being
about one inch broad, and one inch and a half in length;
the old polype ate about 12 monoculi per day, and
the young ones about 20 among them.
When a polype is cut tranfverfely or longitudinally
into two or three parts, each part in a fiiort time be¬
comes a perfect animal ; and fo great is this prolific
power, that a new animal will be produced even from
a fmall portion of the fkin of the old one. If the young
ones be mutilated while they grow upon the parent
the parts fo cut off will be reproduced ; and the fame
property belongs to the parent. A truncated portion
_,will fend forth young ones before it has acquired a
newT head and tail of its own, and fometimes the head
of the young one fupplies the place of that which ihould
have grown out of the old one. If we Hit a polype
longitudinally through the head to the middle of the
body, vve (hall have one formed with two heads; and by
again Hitting thefe in the fame manner, wre may form
one with as many heads as w'e pleafe.
A ftill more furprifing property of thefe animals is
that, they may be grafted together. If the truncated
portions of a polype be placed end to end, and gently
puftied together, they will unite into a fingle one.J The
two portions are firft joined together by a flender neck,
which gradually fills up and disappears, the food palling’
from one part into the other ; and thus we may form
polypes, not only from different portions of the fame
animal, but from thofe of different animals. We may
fix the head of one to the body of another, and the
compound animal will grow7, eat and multiply, as if it
had never been divided. By pulhing the body of brie
into the mouth of another, fo far that their heads may
be brought into contact, and kept in that fituation for
Tome time, they w7ill at laft unite into one animal, only
having double the uTual number of arms. The hydra
fufea may be turned infide out like a glove, at the fame
time that it continues to eat and live as before. The
lining of the ftomach now7 forms the outer Ik in, and
the former epidermis conftitutes the lining of the fio-
mach. If previous to this operation the "polype have
young ones attached to it, fuch as are newly beginnW •
to vegetate turn themfelves infide out, while the lamer
ones continue to increafe in fize till they reach beyo"nd
the mouth of the parent, and are then feparated in the
uiual manner from the body. When thus tiyned the
polype combines itfelf in many different ways. ’The
lore part frequently clofes and becomes a fupernumer-
I he animal, which was at firft ftraight, now
bends itfelf, fo that the two tails referable the lens of
a pair of compaffes, which it can open and (hut. The
old mouth is placed as it were at the joint of the com-
pailes, but lofes its power of a&ion ; to fupply which,
Zz " ‘ ’
361
Species.
Zoophyta.
362
HELMINTHOLOGY.
Chap. II.
a new one is formed in its neighbourhood, and in a
little time there is a new fpecies of hydra found with
feveral mouths.
The fides of a polype which has been cut through in
a longitudinal diredlion, begin to roll themfelves up,
ufually from one of the extremities, with the outfide of
the Ikin inwards •, but in a little time they unroll them¬
felves, and the two cut edges join together, fometimes
beginning at one extremity, and fometimes approaching
throughout their whole length. As foon as the edges
join, they unite fo clofely that no fear can be perceiv¬
ed. If a polype be partly turned back, the open part
clofes, and new mouths are formed in different places.
Every portion of a polype is capable of devouring in¬
fects, almoft as foon as it is cut off, and the voracity of
the whole tribe is aftonifhing j for Mr Adams obferves,
that moft of the infe&s on which they feed bear the
fame proportion to the mouth of a polype, that an apple
the fize of a man’s head bears to the mouth of a
fmall teeth on the edge of it, 1 2 longitudinal ftreaks Species.
down the back, the bafe obtufe and fmooth. The hifufona.
teeth are occafionally protruded or retraced ; and there
are two fmall fpines or horns on the other fide of the
flielL The animal itfelf is of a yellow colour, cryftal-
line, and mufcular} now and then putting out from
the apex two or three little bundles of playing hairs,
the two lateral ones fhorter than that in the middle j
on the outer fide we may obferve a forked degludatory
mufcle, and two rigid points when the apex is drawn
in. It is found in fea water.
69. VORTICELLA.
26
Vorticelia.
Body contraftile, naked, and furnifhed with ciliate, ro¬
tatory organs.
There are about 57 fpecies, which are arranged un¬
der three fe&ions.
A. Seated on a pedicle or Jlem.
The hydra pallens is very rarely met with, and is
deferibed by Mr Roifelle. It is of a pale yellow co¬
lour, growing gradually fmaller from the bottom ; the
tail is round or knobbed *, the arms are about the length
of the body, of a rvhite colour, generally feven in num¬
ber, and are apparently cofnpofed of a chain of glo¬
bules. The young are brought forth from all parts of
its body.
The order Zoophyla contains 15 genera and 489 fpe¬
cies.
Order V. INFUSORIA.
29 fpecies, viz. * racemofa, * polypina, * anaftatica,
conglomerata, * pyraria, * opercularia, * tuberofa, hians,
bellis, * umbellaria, * berberina, digitalis, fafciculata,
annularis, nutans, gemella, * nebulifera, * convallaria,
* lunaris, * globularia, inclinans, ringens, * pyriformis,
ftellata, vaginata, * citrina, cyathina, putrida, arid pa-
tellina.
B. Furnifhed with a tail.
14 fpecies, viz. * flofculofa, * focialis, * ftentorea,
* hyacinthina, auriculata, * furcata, fenta, * catulus, fe-
Us, vermicularis, * macroura, * rotatoria, * lacinalata,
and facculata.
We have already, under the article ANIMALCULE,
treated of the general charafler and habits of the ani¬
mals compofing this order, and we can add little here
to what has been faid in, that article. We (hall there¬
fore merely give the claffification of the genera and fpe¬
cies, and briefly notice a few of the more remarkable
individuals.
Few writers have written exprefsly on this order j
but the principal are Muller, Bruigiere, in the Ency¬
clopedic Methodique, and Baker and Adams on the
Microfcope.
85
Brachionus. 68. BraCHIONUS.
Body contraflile, covered with a (hell, and furnifhed
with rotatory cilia.
There are about 1 2 fpecies, viz. urceolaris, patella,
cirratus, tripus, uncinatus, mucronatus, cernuus, calyci-
florus, tubifex, quadridentatus, patina, and ftriatus.
patina. qqie patjna is extremely bright and fplendid, has a
large body, a cryftalline and nearly circular (hell, with¬
out either incifion or teeth, only towards the apex it
falls in fo as to form a fmooth notch. A double glit¬
tering organ, with ciliated edges, proje&s from the
apex j both of them of a conical figure, and Handing
as it were upon a pellucid fubflance, which is divided
into two lobes, between which and the rotatory organ
there is a filver-coloured crenulated membrane. Two
fmall claws may likewife be difeovered near the
mouth.
Jlriatus. The ftriatus has an oblong, pellucid {hell, capable
of altering its figure. The apex is truncated, with fix
C. Without tail or Jlem.
14 fpecies, viz. * ampulla, * crataegaria, caniculata,
* nafuta, * crateriformis, * truncatella, * limacina, * dif-
cina, cornuta, * cinif a, * polymorpha, * viridis, * burfa-
ta, and * nigra.
The polypina, when viewed through a fmall magni-polypi^
fier, appear like fo many little trees ; the upper part,
or heads, are egg-fhaped, the top truncated, the lower
part filled with inteftines; the branches thick fet with
little knobs. Vide fig. 16.
The fafciculata has a rotatory organ,, which mayfaJcicula,
fometimes be feen projefting beyond the aperture; there [a>
is a little head at the apex, and the pedicle is twifted
and very {lender. A congealed green rnafs which is
often found fwinaming about in ditches is compofed of
myriads of thefe animals, which are not vifible to the
naked eye, and when magnified appear like a bundle
of green flowers.
The focialis, when confiderably magnified, appears roc;afot
like a circle furrounded with crowns or ciliated heads/
tied by fmall thin tails to a common centre, from
whence they advance towards the circumference, where
they turn very brifkly, occafioning a kind of whirl¬
pool, which brings its food. When one of them has
been in motion for fome time, it Hops, and another be¬
gins ; fometimes two or three may be perceived in mo¬
tion at once ; they are frequently to be met with fe-
parate, with the tail flicking in the mud. The body
contrafts and dilates very much, fo as fometimes to
have the .appearance of a cudgel, at others to affume
almoft a globular form.
The
Chap. II. H E L M I N
Species. The flofculofa appears to the naked eye like a yel-
Infuforia. low globule adhering to the ceratophyllon like a little
flower or a heap of yellow eggs. When magnified,
jmfculofa. t^ey are fggpj to con{ift 0f a congeries of animalcula
conflituting a fphere from a mouldy centre. They
contra£l and extend their bodies either alone or in fo-
ciety, and excite a vortex in the water by means of a
dilk. When they quit the fociety and aft fingly, they
may be obferved to confift of a head, abdomen and
tail; the head being frequently drawn back into the
abdomen fo far that it cannot be feen, only exhibiting
a broad kidney-fliaped dilk Handing out. The abdomen
is oblong, oval, and tranfparent j the tail idiarp, twice
as long as the abdomen, fometimes rough and annula-
lated, or altogether fmooth.
Trichoda. 7°- TriCHODA.
Animal invifible to the naked eye, pellucid, hairy, or
homed. *
There are about 60 fpecies, which are divided into
three feftions.
A. Hairy.
47 fpecies, viz, grandinella, *cometa) * granata,
* fol, * bamba, orbis, urnula, urinarium, * trigona, ti¬
nea, * pubes, * proteus, * gibba, * patens, * uvula, ful-
cata, * anas, * farcimen, * linter, * vermicularis, * me-
litsea, * fimbriata, camelus, * rattus, inquilinus, * inna-
ta, transfuga, ciliata, *cyclidium, * pulex, *lynceus,
* charon, * cimex, pellionella, angulus, urfula, femilu-
na, pupa, * pocillum, clavus, * mufculus, *delphinus,
clava, cuniculus, * pifcis, larus, and * longicauda.
B. Furnijhed with cirri.
Four fpecies, viz. * aearus, * ludis, fanaio, and volu-
tator.
C. Horned.
Nine fpecies, viz. lyncafter, * hiftrio, * cypris, * pa¬
tella, * pullafter, * mytilus, lepus, iilurus, and calvi-
tium.
grandinel- The grandinella is a very fmall pellucid globule,
la. with the inteftines fcarcely vifible •, the top of the furface
furnilhed with feveral fmall bridles not eafily difcover-
able, as the creature has a power of extending or draw¬
ing them back in an inftant. It is found in pure wa¬
ter as wrell as in infufions of vegetables.
fol. The fol is finall, globular, and cryftalline; befet
everywhere wirh diverging rays longer than the diame¬
ter of the body $ the infide full of molecules. The
body contrafts and dilates, but the creature remains
confined to the fame fpot. It was found with other
animalcules in wTater which had been kept three
weeks.
proteus. The proteus is that which Mr Baker diftinguilhes by
the fame name, and of which an account is given under
the article Animalcule. It is found in the flimy
matter adhering to the fides of the veffel in which ve¬
getables have been infufed, or animai fubftances pre-
ferved. That defcribed by Mr Adams was difcovered
in the flime produced from the water where fmali filhes,
water fnails, &c. had been kept. The body reiembled
that of a fnail, the fhane being fomewhat elliptical, but
pointed at one end, while from the other proceeded a
r H o L o g v.
long, flender, and finely proportioned neck, of a
fuitable to the reft of the animal.
71. Cercaria.
fize
353
Species.
Infuforia.
Cercaria.
Animal invifible to the naked eye, pellucid, and furnifli-
ed with a tail.
There are 13 fpecies 5 viz. * cyrinus, * inquieta,
* lemna, * turbo, * podura, * mutabilis, catellus, * lu¬
pus, * vermicularis, pleuroneftis, * tripus, cyclidium,
and tenax.
The lemna varies its form fo much, that it might
be miftaken for the proteus of Baker, defcribed under
the article Animalcule : though in faft it is totally
different. The body fometimes appears of an oblong,
fometimes of a triangular, and fometimes of a kidney-
fhape. The tail is generally fhort, thick, and annota¬
ted *, but fometimes long, flexible, cylindric, and with¬
out rings ; vibrating, when ftretched out, with fo much
velocity, that it appears double. A fmall pellucid glo¬
bule, which Muller fuppofes to be its month, is ob-
fervable at the apex ; and two black points not eafily
difcovered, he thinks, are its eyes. It walks flowly
after taking three or four fteps, and extends the tail,
erefting it perpendicularly, {baking and bending it, in
W'hich ftate it very much refembles a leaf of the lemna.
89
72. LeucOPHRA. Leucophra.
Animal invifible to the naked eye, and every where
ciliate.
There are eight fpecies ; viz. * confliftor, * veficuli-
fera, acuta, fluxa, armilla, * cornuta, * heteroclita, and
nodulata. * *
90
73. GONIUM. Gonium.
Animal very fimple, flat, angular, but invifible to the
naked eye.
There are five fpecies •, viz. * peftorale, pulvina-
tum, polydphericum, truncatum, and reftangulum.
The peBornle is found in pure water, and moves &\-pe£iorale.
ternately towards the right and left. It is quadrangu¬
lar and pellucid, with 16 fpherical molecules, of a
greenifti colour, fet in a quadrangular membrane, like
the jewels in the breaft-plate of the high prieft, refle£l-
ing light on both fides.
74- Colpoda. Colpoda.
Animal invifible to the rfaked eye, very fimple, pellu¬
cid, linuate.
There are feven fpecies •, viz. lamella, roftrum,«rt7////cr.
* meleagris, * cucullus, ren, * pyrum, and hypocrepis.
The cucullus is found in vegetable infufions, and in
foetid hay, moving in all direftions, and commonly
with great velocity. It is very pellucid, and has a
well defined margin, filled with little bright veficles
differing in fize, and of no cretain number. Its figure
is commonly oval, with the top bent into a kind of
beak, fometimes oblong, but moft commonly obtufe.
It has in the infide from 8 to 24 bright little veficles
not difcernible in fuch as are young. Some have fup-
Z z 2 pofed
S penes.
Ipfuforia.
HE L M I N T
pofed thefe to be animalcules which this creature has
(wallowed ; but Mr Muller is of opinion that they are
its offspring. When this creature is near death by
reafon of the evaporation of the water, it protrudes its
offspring with violence. From fome circumftances. it
would feem probable that this animalcule caffs its (kin,
as is the cafe with (ome iniecfs.
9*
Parame-
lium.
aurelia.
94
Burfaria.
95
Vibrio.
(infer.
75. ParamEsium.
the naked eye, ffmple, pellucid, ffat-
93
Cyclidium.
Enchelis.
Worm invifible to
tened, oblong.
There are feven fpecies 5 viz. * aurelia, * chryfalis,
* oviferum, * marginatum, caudatum, anceps, and acu-
tum.
The aurelia is membranaceous, pellucid, and (our
times longer than it is broad } the fore part obtufe and
tranfparent •, the hind part filled with molecules. It
has fomewhat the appearance of a gimlet, by reafon of
a fold which goes from the middle to the apex, and is
of a triangular figure. It moves in a rectilinear and
vacillatory manner. It is found in ditches where tuere
is plenty of duckweed j and wnl live many months in
the fame water without any renewal of it.
76. Cyclidium.
Worm invifible to the naked eye, very fimple, pellucid,
fiat, orbicular or oval.
There are feven fpecies ; viz. * bulla, milium,
glaucoma, * radians, roffratum, * nucleus, and pedi-
culus.
77. BuRSARIA.
Worm very fimple, membranaceous, hollow.
There are three fpecies j viz. truncatella, * hirundi-
nella, and * duplella.
7S. Vibrio.
Worm invifible to the naked eye j very fimple, round,
elongated.
There are 20 fpecies •, viz. lineola, bacillus, undula,
vermiculus, inteftinum, * lunula, malleus, * ferpentulus,
* aceti, * glutinis, * anguilula, utriculus, fafciola, co-
lymbus, cygnus, * anfer, * olor, falx, duffuens, and
* proteus.
The anfer is found in water where duckweed grows.
The trunk is elliptic, round, and without any inequali¬
ty on- the (ides. It is full of molecules } tne hind part
(harp and bright ; the fore part produced into a bend¬
ing neck, longer than the body •, the apex whole and
even, with blue canals paffing between the marginal
edges, occupying the whole length of the neck •, ana in
one of them a violent defcent of water to the beginning
of the trunk is obfervable. It moves the body (low,
but the neck more brifkiy.
79. Enchelis.
Worm invifible to the naked eye j very fimple, cylin¬
drical.
98
Volvox.
H O L O G Y. Chap. II.
There are 15 fpecies-, viz. viridis, * punclifeva, no- Speaes.
dulofa, farcimen, femilunum, ovulum, pyrum, fufus, fri- ,
tillus, * caudata, epiffomium, * retrograda, * truncus,
(patula, and papula.
.
80. BaC-ILLARIA. Bacillaiia.
Body confiding of cylindrical ftraw-like filaments, pla¬
ced parallel to each other, and frequently changing
their polition.
There is only one Ipecies 5 viz. paradoxa.
81. Volvox.
Worm invifible to the naked eye 5 fimpie, peffucid,
fpherical.
There are nine fpecies j viz. globulus, puma, * fphae-
rula, uva, * lunula, dimidiatus, * globatcr, pileus, and
bulla.
The g/obat'or, or fpherical membranaceous volvox, ^globator.
found in great numbers in the infufions of hemp and
tremella, and in fiagnant w-aters in fpring and fummer.
It was fir ft ebferved and difeaed by Leeuvvenhoeck 5 but
the defcriptions o( it given by authors differ confiderably
from each other. The following is that of Mr Lakei.
“ There is no appearance of either head, tail, or fins.
It moves in every direflion, backwards, forwards, up
or down, rolling over and over like a bowl, fpinning
horizontally like a top, or gliding along fmoothly v.m-
out turning itfelf at all : fometimes its motions are very
(low, at other times very fwift -, and when it pleafes it
can turn round as upon an axis very nimbly, without
moving out of its place. The body is tranfparent,
except w-here the circular fpots are placed, which are
probably its young. The furface of the body in fome
is as if all dotted over with little points, and in others
as if granulated like (hagreen. In general it appears
as if let round with (hort moveable hairs.” Another
author informs us, that “ they are firft very fmall, but
grpw fo large that they can be difcerned with the
naked eye ) they are of a yellowifh green colour, glo¬
bular figure, and in fubftance membranaceous and
tranfparent ; and in the midft of this fubftance feveral
fmall globes may be perceived. Each of thefe are
fmaller animalcula, which have alfo the diaphanous
membrane, and contain within themielves ft ill fmailer
generations, which may be diftinguifhed by means of
very powerful glaffes. The larger globules may be
feen to efcape from the parent, and then increafe in
This little animal appears like a tranfparent globule
of a greenifli colour, the foetus being compofed of (mail¬
er greenifti globules. In proportion to its age it be¬
comes whiter and brighter, and moves (lowly round its
axis j but to the microfcope its furface appears as it
granulated 5 the rounded molecules fixed in the centie
being larged in thofe that are young. The exterior
molecules may be wiped off, leaving the membrane
naked. When the young ones are of a proper fize, the
membrane opens, and they pafs through the Mure, after
which the mother melts way. Sometimes they change
their fpherical figure, and become flat in feveral places.
—     —  — —-• *      
.
-4  
HELMINTIIOL OG Y
PlAtO C C Li 11 .
HE X. MrNTTH OX. O GY.
Tlat< CC U
Chap. II. • • i
Specie^. They contain from 8 to 30 and 40 globules within the
Infuforia. membrane.
HELMINTHOLOGY.
99
Monas.
82. Monas.
Worm inviuble to the naked eye ; moft fimple, pellu¬
cid, refembling a point.
There are five fpeciesj viz. * atomus, punAum, * mi¬
ca, * lens, and termo.
This order contains 15 genus and 229 fpecies.
How many kinds of thefe invifibles there may be
(fays Mr Adams), is yet unknown; as they are dis¬
cerned of all fizes, from thofe which are barely invih-
ble to the naked eye, to fuch as refill the force of the
mifcrofcope as the fixed liars do that of the telelcope,
and with the greateft powers hitherto invented, appear
only as fo many moving points. I he Imallell living
creatures our inliruments can Ihew, are thofe which in¬
habit the waters; and though animalcula equally
minute may fiy in the air, or creep upon the earth, it is^
Icarce poffible to get a view of them ; but as water is
tranfparent, by -confining the creatures within it we
can more eafiiy obferve them by applying a drop ot it
to the glaffes.
Animalcules in general are obferved to move in all
direddions with equal eafe and rapidity ; iometimes ob¬
liquely, fometimes ftraight forward ; fometimes moving
in a circular direftion, or rolling upon one another, re¬
moving backwards and forwards through the whole ex¬
tent of the drop, as if diverting themfelves ; at other
times greedily attacking the little parcels of matter
they meet with. Not with Handing their extreme mi- sP«ie.';
nutenefs, they know how to avoid obftacles, or to pre- ,
vent any interference with one another in their mo¬
tions : iometimes .they will fuddenly change the direc¬
tion in which they move, and take an oppoute one ;
and by inclining the glafs on which the drop of water
is, as it can be made to move in any direction, lo the
animalcules appear to move as eaiily againlt the llream
as with it. When the water begins to evaporate, they
flock towards the place where the fluid is, and ihew a
great anxiety and uncommon agitation of the organs
with which they draw in the water. Thefe motions
grow languid as the water fails, and at laft ceafe alto-
gether? without a poflibility of renewal if they be left
dry for a Ihort time. They fuftain a great degree of
cold as well as iniefts, and will perilh in much the lame
degree of heat that deilroys infects. Some animalcules
are produced in water at the freezing point, and fome
infebts live in fnow. By mixing the leaft drop of urine
with the water in which they Iwim, they inilantly fall
into convuliions and die.
The fame rule feems to hold good in thefe minute
creatures, which is obfervable in the larger animals,
viz. that the larger kinds are lefs numerous than Inch
as are fmaller ; while the fmalleft of all are found in
fuch multitudes, that there feem to be myriads for one
of the others. They inefeafe in lize, like other animals,
from their birth until they have attained their full
growth ; and when deprived of proper nounthinenty.
they in like manner grow thin and perilh.”
EXPLANATION OF FIGURES.
Fig. 1. Afcaris Lumbricoides, entire, and nearly of
its natural fize ; a, the head ; b, the tail; c, the de-
preffed band ; d, the punctiform _ aperture ; <?, the line
extending from the head to tire tail; J, the gyrated ap¬
paratus as it appears through the Ikin of the worm.
Fig. 2. Reprefents the vifeera ot the worm in their
natural lituation ; a, the head ; b, the gullet; c, the
inteftinal canal; d, the lines of the body of the worm ;
<?, the uterus, and its convoluted apparatus.
Fig. 3. Afcaris Vermicularis of its natural fize.
Fig. 4. The fame viewed by the microfcope ; a, the
headt b, the tail ; c, the piftillifonn ftomach ; d, a
convoluted apparatus furrounding the inteftinal canal;
an orifice which is probably the anus ; f, the ex¬
ternal part of the organs of generation.
Fig. 5. Trichuris Hominis, of its natural fize.
Fig. 6. The fame confiderably magnified ; a a, the
head ; b, the tail; c, the prohofeis ; d d, the inteftinal
canal ; \a hollow tube ; X the ovaria.
Fig. *7. A portion of the Ficnm Sohutn^ of its na¬
tural fize, and ufual appearance; a a, the marginal of-
cula.
ERR A
The Genus Scyllrea is inadvertently omitted in the
arrangement of the fpecies. It ihould have been placed
next Lernaea, with the following charabfer.
£cyll;ea. Body comprelTed and grooved on the
Fig. 8. the head enlarged by tne nucroicope;
b, a full view of the head when yery much magnified ;
a, the ofcula at the bafe ; c, the mouth.
Fig. 9. Sipunulus Saccatus, of its natural appear¬
ance.
Fig. 10. Laplyjia Depilans, or Sea-hare.
Fig. 11. Holothuria Tremula.
Fig. 12. AJlerias Caput Medufce, or Arborefcent
Sea-ftar.
Fig. 13. Echinus Efculentus, or common Sea-urchin.
Frg. 14. Tubularia Magnijica, as it proceeds from
its native rocks; a, the animal with its tentacula
fully expanded from the tube ; b, another with the ten¬
tacula collapfed; c, one with the tentacula nearly
withdrawn into the tube ; d, the animal with the
tentacula entirely withdrawn ; <?, e, e, probably af?i-
nice.
Fig. 15. Hydra Grifea, or Frefh-water Polype, mag¬
nified : fl, the mouth ; b, the attached part; c,c,c, &c.
the arms ; e, the tranfparent body.
Fig. 16. Vorticella Polypina, magnified.
T UM.
back ; mouth confifting of a terminal toothlefs aper¬
ture ; tentacula 3 on each fide, placed beneath.
There are two fpecies, viz. pelagica and gompho-
denfis.
INDEX-
co
Index
166
HELMINTHOLOG Y.
INDEX.
Actinu,
Alcyonium,
AmphitritCy
ylntipath.es,
jNphrodita,
aculeata,
j4rgus, fea,
/Cfioridesy
Afcaris,
lumbricoides,
vermicularis,
mammalium,
avium,
reptilium,
pilcium,
lumbrici,
Jlfcidicy
papillofa,
inteftinalis,
AJieriaSy
caput medufse,
B.
Bacillaria,
BrachionuSy
Burfariay
ftriatus,
patina,
P-335 N* 39
336 77
ib. 61
ib. 75
ib, 6o
353
351
337
334
338
339
ib.
ib.
ib.
ib.
340
335
348
ib.
336
355
337
337
362
ib
337
CaryophylLeus,
Cel/eporoy
Cercariay
lemna,
Clava,
diOy
Colpada,
cucullus,
Corallinay
CucullanuSy
mammalium,
buteonb,
avium,
pifcium,
Ciittle-fifh,
CiiV’eCs claffification of worms,
334
ib.
Cydidiumy
glaucoma,
337
363
335
336
337
363
336
334
342
w.
ib.
ib.
35*
337
364
D.
Dagflisia,
Derrisy
Dew- worm,
Doris,
argo,
Dracunculus,
335
lb.
346
335
351
340
15
43
68
85
94
27
73
88
40
56
91
81
26
E.
EarUi-wontty p
how different
from afcaris
lumbricoides.
Echinorynchus,
mammalium,
avium,
reptilium,
pifcium,
Echinus,
efculentus,
Eggs, lea,
Enchelis,
346
N° 36
334 24
34i
ib,
ib.
ib.
336
356
ib.
337
Fafciola,
Tilaria,
F/uke,
Fhijira,
Faria,
F.
hominis,
mammalium,
hepatica,
avium,
reptilium,
pifcium,
loliginis,
medinenfis,
infernalis,
334
34*
tb.
ib.
ib.
ib.
ib.
ib.
334
340
342
336
335
345
G.
Generic characters,
of the inteftina,
mollufca,
zoophyta,
infuforia,
Gonium,
pe&orale,
Gordius,
aquatic us,
Gorgoma,
Gourd worm,
Guinea worm.
337
363
335
345
336
34*
340
H.
11
93
45
47
5°
Heruca, 334
Hair-worm, 345
Hare, fea, 35°
Hedgehogs, fea, 35^
Helminthology, definition of,
divifion of,
inteftina,
mollufca,
teftacea,
zoophyta,
infuforia,
69
96
28
Helminthology the moft imper-
feCt part of na¬
tural hiftory,
difficulties attend¬
ing the ft udy of,
advantages of,
Hirundo,
medicinalis,
fanguifuga,
Holothuria,
tremula,
Horn-wrack,
Horfe hair, animated,
leech,
• Hydatids,
Hydi a,
viridis,
fufca,
P- 335
345
346
335
351
358
345
346
P- 342, 343
P- 336
359
36°
Dfuforia,
Inteftina,
iflS,
l.
337. 362
P- 334> 337
336
18
79
31
12
*3
14
15
16
90
3*
76
*5
L.
Laplyfia,
Leech, medicinal,
mode of applying,
horfe,
Le^neea,
Leucophra,
Ligula,
Liniax,
agreftis,
Linguattda,
Lob aria,
Lvcernaria,
Lumbricus,
terreftris,
335
345
346
336
337
334
335
349
334
336
ib.
33 ?
346
M.
Madrepora,
Mammalia,
Mat-weed, fea,
Medufa,
Milkpora,
Moilufca,
Monas,
Nais,
Nereis,
noCliluca,
Nettles, fea,
N.
N° 8
9
10
33
52
84
356
335
Si8
3j6
ib.
P- 335> 348
Onchidium,
O.
336
lb.
354
ib.
336
74
49
34
59
89
21
48
44
58
67
45
71
42
66
72
337 99
64
57
P.
1
367
Index.
P.
Varamejiuin,
aurtlia,
Pedicellana,
Pen, lea,
Pennatuln,
Phyffophora,
Planana,
Polypus,
Pterotrachea,
S.
Salpa,
Scolex,
Scyllcea,
Sepia,
officinalis,
oftopus,
Sertularia,
Sipunculus,
nudus,
faccatus,
Slug, fpinning,
Sbio,
337 N'
364
335
359
336
ib.
335
359
335
335
334
336
ib.
353
ib.
336
335
347
ib.
349
336
H E L M IN T
Spongia,
officinalis,
Star-fifh, fea,
41 Strongy lus,
38
46
44
20
55
82
37
H O L O G
p. 336 N° 78
358
355
334
T.
83 ^ •
65 Tama,
vifceralis,
cellulofa,
mamnaalmm,
avium,
reptilium,
truttw,
folium,
lata,
nodulofa,
Tape-worm,
Terebella,-
lapidaria,
Tethis,
Trichoda,
grandinella,
fol,
6 2 Trichuris,
335
342
343
P* 343* 334
344
P- 343> 345
343
ib.
344
ib.
335
35 2
335
337
363
ib.
334
23
29
30
53
51
87
17
Y.
Trichuris hominis^
mammalium,
Triton,
Tube-worm,
Tubipora,
Tubularia,
magnifica,
P* 34°
ib.
335 n°-54
347
336 70
ib. 80
358
V.
Vibrio,
anfer,
Uncinaria,
Volvox,
globator,
Vonicel/a,
polypina,
fafciculata,
focialis,'
flofculofa,
Urchin, fea,
337
364
334
337
364
337
362
ib.
363
356
95
98
86
Z.
Zoophyta, P- 336> 356
H E L
Helmont. HELMONT, John-Baptist Van, a leader of
^ v ' diftinction in the chemical fchool of medicine, was
born at Bruffels in the year 1577, and defcended o, a
noble family. He ftudied medicine at Louvain and
fome other places with lb much avidity, that he had
perufed Hippocrates, Galen, and the Greek and Ara¬
bian phyficians at a very early period of hie. hen
not moie than 17 years of age, he read public ledlures,
at Louvain, and was created M. D. in the year 1599
when only 22. Having, in 1609, married a wile who
was both rich and noble, he retired with her to Vil-
forde, where he pra&ifed as a phyfician without taking
any fees, and was accuftomed to boaft ol the thoufands
whom he cured every year, although his luccels >n his
own family was by no means great *, lor his eldeit
daughter died of a leprofy, and he loll two fons by the
plague. He published a variety of works, by which
he acquired very great reputation. He was invited to
the court of Vienna bv the emperor Rodolph, which he
declined to accept. He died in the year 1644, in the
68th year of his age. . , „
He was a man of acute genus, clear-fighted in detect¬
ing the mhtakes of others, and extremely fond ol form¬
ing hvpothefes of his own, which were not always lup-
ported by conclufive arguments. He affirmed with
boldnefs, was extremely credulous, and fond ol Inch
extravagant narrations as feerned to favour his own pre¬
conceived opinions. Perhaps his greateft foible was
the liberal manner in wThich he praifed him e , ie*
ference to his own noftrums and pretended fpecihcs.
His ideas were far from being perfpicuous, chiehy ow¬
ing to his making ufe of terms and phrafes which he
never properly defined. He added much, however
to the dock of chemical facts at that time known, and
paved the way to more interefting difcoveries. lie
H E L
contributed more than any of his predeceflbrs-, to fub- Helmorlf
vert the Galenical theory of humours and qualities, He»s<
which he certainly combated with many forcible argu-1   
ments. His theory of ferments was in a great mealure
efpoufed by Sylvius. His fon Jrancis-Mercurius firft
publilhed his works collectively in 1648 *, and although
it cannot be denied that they abound with error, and
even jargon, they contain many pertinent remarks, and
much curious and intereding fpeculation.
Helmont, a fmall town in the Netherlands, in
Dutch Brabant, and capital of the diilriCt of Peeland,
with a good cadle. It is feated on the river Aa, in
E. Long. 5. 37. N. Lat. 51. 31. -iii
HELM3TADT, a town of Germany, m the duchy
of Brunfwick, built by Charlemagne, in E. Long. 11.
10. N. Lat. 52. 20. _ > r c 1
Helmstadt, a drong maritime town ot bw’ecien,
and capital of the province of Halland, feated near the
Baltic fea j in E. Long. 21. 5' N* Lat. 56. 44.
HE LON I AS, a genus of plants belonging to the
hexandria clafs •, and in the natural method ranking
under the 10th order, Coronaria. See Botany Index.
HELOISE, celebrated on account of her unfortu¬
nate affeftion for her tutor Abelard, and for her Latin
letters to him after they had retired from the world.
She died abbefs of Paraclet in 1163. See Abelard.
HE LOS, in Ancient Geography, a maritime town of
Laconia, fituated between Trina-us and Acriae, m
Paufanias’s time in ruins. Tbedidrict w7as called Helo-
tea, and the people Helotes, Helota, Helei, and Hcleatay
by Stephanus ; and llotce, by Livy. Being lubdued
by the Lacedaemonians, they were all reduced to. a
date of public flavery, or made the flaves of the public,
on thefe conditions, viz. that they neither could recover
their liberty nor be ^old out of the territory of Sparta..
Hence.
H E L [3
5Llols Hence the term in Harpocration, for being
Helvetius m a ^ate ol flavery 5 and hence alio the Laceda^moni-
illiS called the flaves of all nations whatever helotes.
lieloticus is the epithet.
HELOIS, in Grecian antiquity, the {laves of the
Spartans. See Hei.os.—The fieetnen of Sparta were
forbidden the exercife of any mean or mechanical em¬
ployment, and therefore the whole care of fupplying
the city with neceffaries devolved upon the Helots.
KilLSINiT RG. See Elsimburg.
HELSING1A, a province of Sweden, bounded on
the north by Jempterland and Medelpadia, on the ealf
by the Bothmc gulf, and on the fouth and weft by
Ealecarlia and Gellncia. It is full of mountains and
foreits, and the inhabitants are almolt conftantly em¬
ployed in hunting and fiihlng. It has no cities : the
principal towns are, Hudwickvald, Alta, and Ddfho.
HELSINGIC character, a peculiar kind of
character found infcribed on Hones in the province of
Helfingia. I he Runic and Helfingic characters may
be eafily transformed into each other.
HELSTON, a town of Cornwall in England, feat-
ed on the river Cober, near its influx into the fea, one
of the towms appointed for the coinage of tin, and the
place of affembly for the weft divifton of the county. It
had formerly a priory and a caftle, and fent members
to parliament in the reign of Edward !. but was not
incorporated till the time of Queen Elizabeth. It was
3e-incorporated in I774- A little below the town there
is a tolerable good harbour, where feveral of the tin-
fhips take in their lading. King John exempted this
place from paying toll any where but in the city of
London. It contains about 400 houfes, and fends two
members to parliament.
_ HELVELLA, a genus of the natural order of fun¬
gi, belonging to the cryptogamia clafs of plants. See
Botany Index.
HELVE 1 IC, fomething that h as a relation to the
inhabitants of the Swifs cantons, who were anciently
called Helvetii.~—I he Helvetic body comprehends the
republic of Switzerland, confting of 13 cantons, which
make fo many particular commonwealths. By the
laws and cuftoms of the Helvetic body, all differences
between the feveral ftates and republics are to be de-
cided within themfelves, without the intervention of
any foreign power. The government of this body,
before its fubjugation to France, w as chiefly democratic,
with feme mixture of the ariftocratic.
HELVE I II, a«people of Belgica, in the neighbour¬
hood of the Allobroges and the Provincia Romana ;
famed for bravery and a turn for war. Called Civitas
Helvetia, and divided into four pagi or cantons 5 fitu-
ated to the fouth and weft of the Rhine, by which they
were divided fi'om the Germans ; and extending to¬
wards Gaul, from which they were feparated by Mount
Jura on the weft, and by the Rhodanus and Lacus Le-
manus on the fouth, and therefore called a Gallic na¬
tion (Tacitus, Caefar, Strabo, Ptolemy, Pliny). For¬
merly a part oi Celtic Gaul, but by Auguftus afligned
to Belgica.
HELVETIUS, Claud-Adrian, a man of letters,
and celebrated French philofopher, was born at Paris
in the year 1715' After receiving the rudiments of his
education in his father’s houfe, he was fent to the col¬
lege of Louis the Great, where he difeovered greater
58 ] H E L
indications of genius than any of his fellow fludents, Helvetius.
and thus gaine the efteem of the profeflor of rhetoric, —y-—
by whom particular attention was paid to his education.
By hL ciegant and graceful exterior heN endeavoured to
ingratiate InmieH with the fair fex, but he was foon con¬
vinced, that although external accomplifnments may
dazzle lor the moment, nothing fliort of intelledlual ao
coinphfhmeiits can fecure the conqueft. The circum-
• fiance which led him to perceive the abfolute neceflity of
mental improvement m order to be truly efteemed and
admired, is worthy of notice. When walking alone in
one of the public gardens, he difeovered a moft extrava¬
gant figure amidft a circle of young and amiable ladies.
1 his was M. Maupertuis, who engroffed all the care and
attention of this charming group, notwithftanding the ri¬
diculous and grotefque Angularity ofhisdrefs. Tliiscon¬
vinced Helvetius that if he wiftied to be fincerely ad¬
mired or efteemed, dancing, tennft, and all other bodily
exercifes mult give place to the decoration of his mind.
He therefore immediately became a folitary, filent Un¬
dent, and the mathematics in particular firft attrafted
his notice j and in a fhort time he was deemed a fit
compapion for fome of the firft and moft diftinguilhed
literary r iiaracters of the period in which he tlourifhed.
V oltaire and Montefquieu were among his early inti¬
mates ; with the latter of whom be contracted a cordial
and lading friendlhip.
The firft literary performance of M. Helvetius was
of the poetical kind, confifting of epiftles on happinefs,
but thefe were not communicated to the public till
' after his deceafe. When read in private however, they
were very much admired, and Voltaire conlidered them
as a ftrong proof of the didaCtic and philofophical
powers of their author. When the DEfprit des Loix of
Montefquieu appeared in public, it was Itudied by Hel-
vetius with the utmoft care and attention, and his only
fault to it was, that it did not contain the firft ideas of
the things of which it profeffed to treat. Inftead of
examining fvftems of legillation, and comparing them
with each other, Helvetius was of opinion, that the
nature of man Ihould be firft fludied, and the laws for
governing him founded on his own nature. This was
true philofophy, and fuch ideas determined him to un¬
dertake a work which might iupply what he conceived
to be defeCls in the publication of Montefquieu. In
the year 1738 this work made its appearance, under
the title of De I'Efprit, &c. which was condemned by
the parliament of Paris, becaufe it was confidered as
degrading the nature of man ; but this impolitic me¬
thod of fuppreffing his labours made them fought for
with avidity all over France, as well as other European
countries, and gave them more importance than per¬
haps they would have otherwife acquired.
To avoid the malice of his enemies, he came over to
England in the year 1762, and in the following year
he went to Pruflia, where he was received by the king
with every mark of refpeCt, who gave him lodgings in
the palace, and admitted him into his familiar parties.
He was uncommonly liberal to the indigent, fome of
whom but ill requited him, on which occalions he was 4
wont to fay to his friends, “ If I were a king, I would
corrtci them ; but as I am only rich, and they are poor,
I did my duty in relieving them.” Notwithftanding
his conllitution was excellent, from which his friends
concluded that they would long enjoy the happinefs of
HEM [ ■ 369 ] H E M
Helvidianshis fociety, he fell a viftim to the gout lu his head and
Hemero- fiomach in the month of December 1771, in the 56th
baptifts. r , •
1 1 year or nis age.
Befides his work De PEffirit, he was the author of
a “ Treatife on Man, his Intelleftual Faculties and his
Education,” in 2 vols. 8vo. publifned after his death.
In both it mull be confeffed that he has difplayed very
great ingenuity and tafte, an extenfive knowledge of
human nature, and a turn for ridiculing the follies of
mankind ; but fome of his hypothefes appear rather pa¬
radoxical, and perhaps his ironical obfervations on cre¬
dulity and falfe religion can hardly be reconciled with
a belief of genuine Chriftianity, which he openly pro-
felfes.
HELVIDIANS, a fed! of ancient heretics, deno¬
minated from their leader Helvidius, a difciple of Aux-
entius the Arian, whofe dillinguilhing principle was,
that Mary, the mother of Jefus, did not continue a vir¬
gin, but had other children by Jofeph.
HELVOE F-sluys, a fea-port town of the United
Netherlands, feated on the idand of Voorn, in the
province of Holland, and where the Englilh packet-
boat always goes. It is but a fmall place, confiding
only of a handfome quay, and two or three little
ftreets. But it is very well fortified, and efteemed the
fafeft harbour in the country. The largeft men of
war may come up to the middle of the town ; and yet
it has but very little trade, becaufe the merchants choofe
to live higher up the country. It furrendered to the
French in 1795. E. Long. 4. 23. N. Lat. 51. 44.
HEMATH, or Hamath, in Ancient Geography,
the name of a city (whofe king was David’s friend.
2 Sam. ix.) to the fouth of Lebanon, from which a
territory wras called Hemath, on the north of Canaan
and fouth of Syria, as appears by the fpies, Numb. xiii.
1 Kings viii. Ezek. xlvii. Whether one or more cities
and diftrifls of this name lay in this trad!, neither in¬
terpreters nor geographers are agreed. The eaftern
part wTas called ¥Lemath-%oha, 2 Chron. viii. unlefs we
fuppofe that there wras a city in Xoba of this name, for¬
tified by Solomon. In defining the boundary of Pale-
itine, it is often faid, from the entering of Hamath ; as
a province to be entered into through a flrait or defile.
And if there was fuch, the next queition is, From what
metropolis it wras called Hemath ? Antioch, capital of
Syria, is fuppofed to be called Hemath or Amatha,
(Jonathan, Targum, &c.) ; and again, Epiphania,
(Jofephus). Both were to the north of Lebanon ; con-
fequently not the Hemath of Scripture, the immediate
boundary of Palelline to the north, and lying to the
Fouth of Lebanon.
HEMATITES. See Haematites, Mineralogy
Index.
HEMEROBAPTISTS, a fed! among the ancient
Jews, thus called from their wafiiing and bathing every
day, in all feafons ; and performing this culfom with
the greatefl folemnity, as a religious rite necefl'ary to
falvation.
Epiphanius, who mentions this as the fourth herefy
among the Jews, obferves, that in other points thefe
heretics had much the fame opinions as the Scribes and
Pharifees ; only that they denied the refurredlion of the
dead, in common with the Sadducees, and retained a
few other of the improprieties of thefe lafl.
The fed! who pafs in the Eaft under the denomina-
Vol. X. Part I.
tion of Sabians, calling themfelves Mendai liahi, or //^Hemerobiils
difcip/es of John, and whom the Europeans entitle the, _ ^
Chrijlians of St John, becaufe they yet retain fome ——?
knowledge of the goFpel, is probably of Jewiih origin,
and feems to have been derived from the ancient He-
merobaptifts *, at leal! it is certain, that that John, whom
they coniider as the founder oi their led!, bears ho iort
of fimilitude to John the Baptill, but rather refembles
the perfon of that name whom the ancient writers
reprefent as the chief of the Jewiih Hemerobaptills.
Thele ambiguous Chriftians dwell in Perlia and Ara¬
bia, and principally at Baffora 5 and their religion con-
lifts in bodily walkings, performed frequently, and with
great folemnity, and attended with certain ceremonies,
which the priefts mingle with this fuperftitious fer-
vice. '
HEMEROBIUS, a genus of infedls belonging to
the neuroptera order. See Entomology Index.
HEMEROCALLIS, DAY-LILY, or lily afphodeli
a genus of plants belonging to the hexandria clafs, and
in the natural method ranking under the 10th order,
Coronarnv. See Botany Inaex.
HEMERODRQMI, (compounded of “day,”
and Sgoyos, “ courfe,” &c.) among the ancients, w'ere
fentinels or guards, appointed for the fecurity and pre-
fervation of cities and other places. They wrent out of
the city every morning, as foon as the gates were open¬
ed, and kept all day patrolling round the place j fome-
times alfo making excurfions farther into the country,
to fee that there were no enemies lying in wait to fur-
prife them.
Hemerodromi wTere alfo a fort of couriers among
the ancients, who only travelled one day, and then de¬
livered their packets or difpatches to a frelh man, who
run his day, and fo on to the end of the journey. The
Greeks had couriers of this 'kind, which they derived
from the Perfians, wTho were the inventors thereof, as
appears from Herodotus. Auguftus had the fame j at
leal! he eftablithed couriers, who, if they did not re¬
lieve each other from day to day, yet did it from fpace
to fpace, and that fpace was not very great.
HEMEROTROPHIS, in antiquity, a meafure of
capacity, the fame with the chcenix. It w^as fo called
from its holding one day’s food. The wrord is com¬
pounded of tiyieci, a day, and food.
HEMI, a word ufed in the compofition of divers
terms. It fignifies the fame with fci?ii or dsmi, viz.
“ half j” being an abbreviate of tiiiarv;, hemifyx, which
fignifies “ the fame.” The Greeks retrenched the lall
fyllable of the word tiytrvs in the compofition of words j
and after their example, we have done fo too in moft
of the compounds borrowed from them.
HEMICRANIA, in Medicine, a fpecifes of cepha¬
lalgia, or head-ach ; wherein only one fide of the head
is affedled ; and owing to a congeftion of blood in the
veflels of that half.
HEMICYCLE, Hemicyclium, compounded of
vtturvs, half, and xvkO.os, circle, a femicircle.
Hemicycle is particularly applied, in Archite&ure,
to vaults in the cradle form •, and arches or fweeps of
vaults, conftituting a perfed! femicircle. To conftrudt
an arch of hewn ftone, they divide the hemicycle into
fo many vouflbirs; taking care to make them an un¬
even number, that there be no joint in the middle,
W’here the key-ftone fliould be. See Key and Bridge.
3 A Hemicyclium
Hemicy-
ciium
HEM [37
Hemicyclium was alfo a part of tlie orclreftra in the
ancient theatre. Scaliger, however, obferves, it was
no (landing part of the orcheltra •, being only ufed in
dramatic pieces, where fome perfon was fuppofed to be
arrived from fea, as in Plautus’s Rudens.
The ancients had alfo a fort of fun-dial, called Jicmi-
ci/clium. It was a concave femicircle, the upper end
or cufp whereof looked to the north. Ihere was a ftyle,
or gnomon, iflfuing from the middle of the hemicycle,
whereof that point correfponding to the centre or the
hemicycle reprefented the centre of the earth } and its
(hadow projedled on the concavity of the hemicycle,
which reprefented the fpace between one tropic and
another, the fun’s declination, the day of the month,
hour of the day, &c.
HEMIMERIS, a genus of plants belonging to the
didynamia clafs. See Botany Index.
PIEMiNA, in Roman antiquity, a liquid meafure,
which, according to Arbuthnot, was equal to hall a
wine pint Englilh meafure j its contents being 2.818 fo¬
lk! inches.
HEMIOBOLON, a weight often mentioned by
the ancient writers in medicine, and expreding the half
of their obolus, or the twelfth part of a drachm, that is,
five grains.
HEMIONITIS, a genus of plants of the order of
filices, belonging to the cryptogamia clafs. See Bo¬
tany Index.
HEMIPLEGIA, or Hemiplexia, among phyfi-
cians, a palfy of one half of the body. See Medici>.e
Index.
HEMIPTERA, derived from tifurvs, half, and
vflit'ty, wing, in the Linnsean fyftem, the fecond order
of infedls, comprehending the blatta, mantis, gryllus,
&.G. See Entomology Index.
HEMISPHERE, (Htemisfhterium, compounded
of YifUTVf, half, and <r(pott^x, fphere), in Geometry, is
one half of a globe or fphere, when divided into two
by a plane palling through its centre.
Hemisphere, in Afronomy, is particularly ufed for
one-half of the mundane fphere.
The equator divides the fphere into two equal
parts, called the northern and fouthern hemifpheres.
The horizon alfo divides the fphere into two parts, cal¬
led the upper and the lower hemfpheres.
Hemisphere is alfo ufed for a map, or projection,
of half the terreilrial globe, or half the celeftial fphere,
on a plane. Hemifpheres are frequently called plam-
fpheres.
HEMISTICH, in 'Poetry, denotes half a verfe, or
a verfe not completed.
Of this there are frequent examples in Virgil’s Ai.-
neid ; but whether they were left unfinilhed by dehgn
or not is difputed among the learned : fuch are, Terra
accindla vocal, Al.n. ii. 614- And, Jtaliam nonfponte
fequor, iEn. iv. 361.
In reading common Englidi verfes, a (hort paufe is
required at the end of each hemiltich or half verfe.
HEMITONE, in the ancient mufic, was what we
now call a half note or femitone.
HEMITRiTAIUS. in Medicine, a kind of fever,
denoting the fame as femi-tertian, returning twice every
day. The word is Greek, and compounded of *[u<rv{,
44 half,” and Tg(T«<«f, “ third or tertian.”
Hemlock
tl
Hemp.
o ’] HE M
.HEMLOCK. See Cicuta and CoNIUM, BoTANY
and Materia Medica Index.
HEMOIPTOTON. See Oratory, N° 77. ^ 
HEMP. See Cannabis, Botany Index.—It does
not appear that the ancients were acquainted with the
ufe of hemp, in refpeft of the thread it affords. Pliny,
who fpeaks of the plant in his natural hiftory, lib. xx.
cap. 23. fays not a word of this j contenting himfelf
with extolling the virtues of its Hem, leaves, and root.
In effeft, what fome waiters of the Roman antiquities
remark, viz. that the hemp neceffary for the ufe of war
was all ftored up in two cities of the weftern empire,
viz. at Ravenna and Vienne, under the direction of two
procurators, called procuratores Unified, mull be under-
(lood of linum or tlax.
The ufe of hemp is fo extenfive and important, that
vail quantities of it are annually imported into thk and
other kingdoms from thole countries where it grows in
greatell plenty, of which Ruiha is one. In the year
1763, the quantity imported into England alone a-
mounted to 1 i,coo tons. Sir John Sinclair informs us,
that in the year 1785, the quantity exported from Pc- Agriculture,
terlburg in Britilh (hips was as follows.
Poods.
1,038,791
37,382
vol. xui.
p. 508.
Clean hemp
Outlhot
Half-clean
Hemp-codille
18,374
i,i‘3,798
Now, allowing 63 poods to a ton, the quantity juft
mentioned will amount to 17,695 t°ns j an<f (uppoung
it to take five acres to produce a ton of hemp, the
whole quantity of ground requifite for this purpofe
would amount to 88,475 acres.
By other accounts, the annual export of hemp to Annals of
England is valued at 400,000k ; but by a computation turt-
of the whole imported into Britain and Ireland in
1788, it would leem that a confiderably greater quan¬
tity muft fall to the (hare of England. In that year
the quantity amounted to no lefs than 38,464 tons 5
which at 20I. per ton amounted to 1,269,280!. We
cannot vronder at this vaft confumpt, when it is confi-
dered that the fails and cordage of a firft-rate man of
war require 180,000 lb. of rough hemp for tneir con-
ftrudlion •, but even this will fcarce account for the
enormous conlumpt in France, w'hich in the year 1783^
is faid to have amounted to upwards of 490 millions of
pounds, or 200,006 tons j of which moie tnan one-
third was imported.
Only the coarfer kinds of hemp are employed in
making cordage, the better forts being med for linen,
which, though it can never be made fo fine as that froni
(lax, is yet incomparably (tronger, and equally fufeep-
tible of bleaching both in the old and new way. Cloths
made of hemp have alfo this property, that their co¬
lour improves by wearing, while that of linen decays.
The prices of hemp linen are various; from led. fo
4s 6d. per yard. The lowr-priced kinds are very ge¬
nerally worn in Suffolk, where hemp is cultivated, by
hufbandmen, farmers, &c. ; thofe from is. 6d. to 2s.
by farmers and tradefmen ; and thofe from 2S. 6d. to
4s. 6d. are frequently preferred by gentlemen to fiax-
linen.
1
HEM [3
Hemp, linen, on account of their flrength and warmth. The
—NT-—' Engliih hemp is much fuperior in ftrength to that
which grows in any other country. Next to it is the
Ruffian, from which facking is ufually made, as it is
fometimes alfo from the offal of the Engliffi kind ; but
none of the Suffolk hemp is ever made into cordage,
on account of its finenefs. A confiderable quantity of
Ruffia ffieeting is imported into England merely on
account of its ftrength, and is much coarfer at the
price than any other foreign linen.
Befides thefe ufes of hemp, it is faid to poffefs a
property as a plant which renders it almoft invaluable ;
viz. that of driving away almoft all infeffs that feed
upon other vegetables. Hence in fome places of the
continent they fecure their crops from thefe mifcbie-
vous attacks, by fowing a belt of hemp round their
gardens, or any particular fpot which they wiffi to
preferve.
The important ufes of hemp, and the fuperiority of
. that produced in Britain to other kinds, have rendered
the culture of it an objeft of attention to government.
Accordingly, in the year 1787, a bounty of threepence
per ftone was allowed on all the hemp raifed in Eng¬
land 5 and probably with a view to encourage the
growth of Engliffi hemp, duties have been laid on
that which comes from abroad. Hrefled hemp in a
Britiih ftiip pays 2l. 4s. per cwt. import duty j in a fo¬
reign one 2I. 6s. 9.5 and in both cafes a drawback of
ll. 19s. is allowed. Undreffed hemp in a Britiffi fhip
pays 3s. 8d. ; and in a foreign one 3s. lid. In both
cafes the drawback is 3s. 4d. The export of Britifh
hemp is free.
The ufual height of the plant when growing is from
five to fix feet, but this varies very confiderably ac¬
cording to circumftances. That which is cultivated
near Bifchwiller in Alface is fometimes more than 12
feet high, and upwards of three inches in circumfe¬
rence, the ftalks being fo deeply rooted that a very
ftrong man can fcarce pull them up. Mr Arthur
Young, in a tour through Catalonia in Spain, fays, that
where the country is well watered, the crops of hemp
are extraordinary ; and that the plants generally rife to
the height of feven feet. In Italy hemp is generally
Cultivated, though the Bolognefe only can pretend to
•any fuperiority in the management of it. It is there
fown upon their beft lands, which are rich ftrong loams j
and on which they are at all poffible pains to procure
a fine friable furface. For manure they ufe dung,
pieces of rotten cloth, feathers, and horns brought from
Dalmatia. The plant, however, may be cultivated
upon ground of every kind •, the poorer land produ¬
cing that which is finer in quality though in fmaller
quantity; whereas ftrong and rich land produces a
great quantity, but coarfer. It does not exhauft the
land on which it grows like flax *, whence it is pro¬
bable, that if properly managed, and care taken in the
cultivation, it might be found to fuperfede flax en¬
tirely. A Suffex manufadlurer, who writes on this
fubjeft in the Annals of Agriculture, informs us, that
it may be raifed for many years fucceffively on the
fame ground, provided it be well manured. An acre
requires from nine to twelve pecks, according to the
nature of the foil •, the latter being the moft ufual,
though a variation in the quality of the foil makes an
alteration both in the quantity and quality of the
1 ] H E M
hemp. An acre produces on an average 3(3 or 38
ftone. The abbe Brulle, in a treatife upon the Culti-
vation and Management of Hemp, printed by order of
the lords of the committee of council for trade and fo¬
reign plantations, informs us, that the feafon for fow¬
ing it extends from the 23th of March to the x 5th of
June. The feed ought always to be fown thin, not ex¬
ceeding twTo buftiels to an acre j and if you have the
advantage of a drill plough, ftill lels will anfwer. As
there are two kinds of hemp, the male and female, of
which the former only produces feed, fome regard muft
be had to this circumilance. In Suffex the male and
female are pulled together about 13 weeks after the
fowing, but in the fens they are frequently ieparated.
This laft method is recommended by the abbe Brulle,
who, for the more eafy accompliftiment of it, direfts
that little paths thould be made lengthwife through the
field at about feven feet diftance from each other, to
allow a paffage for the perfon who pulls up the female
hemp from among the other} the latter requiring to
Hand more than a month after for the purpoie of ripen¬
ing the feeds. The female hemp is known to be ripe
by the fading of the flowers, the falling of the farina
fecundans, and fome of the ftalks turning yellow. Af¬
ter the whole of this kind is pulled, it n uft be manu-
fadlured according to the diredlions to be afterwards
given, and ought to be worked if poffible while green j
the hemp thus produced being much finer than that
which is previoufly dried. The reafon of this is, that
the plant contains a great quantity of glutinous matter ;
which being once dried, agglutinates the fibres in fuch
a manner that they can never be afterwards perfectly
feparated. The female hemp, however, is always in
fmaller quantity than the male •, and there tore where
the crop is large, it will be impoffible to work the
whole as faft as it is pulled or cut. It is known to be
ripe by the ftems becoming pale 5 but it muft be re¬
membered, that hemp of any kind will be much lefs
injured by pulling the plants before they are ripe than
by letting them Hand too long.
The male hemp being ftripped of its leaves, &c. as
afterwards directed, will foon be dry for ftoring by the
heat of the atmofphere, though fometimes it may be ne-
ceffary to ufe artificial means j but where thefe are ufed,
the utmoft care muft be taken, hemp, when dry, being
exceedingly inflammable. The ftored or dried hemp
muft be fteeped and treated in every other refpedf as
though it had been green j whence it is evident that
this operation ought never to be uled but in cafes of ne-
ceffity. It is likewife-impoffible to make hemp which
has been dried previous to its being fteeped fo white as
that which has been -worked green.
With regard to the perfedting of hemp-feed for a Milt’s Haf*
fubfequent feafon, it would feem proper to fet apart alandry,
piece of ground for this purpofe : for M. Amien, fromv0^ v‘
40 plants raifed in the common way, had on’y a pound
and a half of feed, though the plants from which 1; was
taken might be deemed fine *, whereas, from a lingle
plant which grew7 by itfelf, he had feven pounds and a
half. So:) e are of opinion, that by putting the cluiters
which contain the hemp-feed to heat and fw7eat, the
quality is improved •, as many of thofe feeds which
would otherwife wither and die may thus arrive at per¬
fection. This, however, feems to be very problemati¬
cal , as there are no experiments which ftiow that feeds,
3 A 2 when
Hemp.
H E M [ 37
when feparated from the vegetable producing them,
have any power of meliorating themielves.
After the hemp is pulled, it mud be taken in large
handfuls, cutting >fT the roots (though this is not abfo-
lutely neceilary), the eaves, feeds, and lateral branch¬
es, being dretfed off with a wooden fword or ripple.
It is then to be made up into bundles of twelve hand¬
fuls each, in order to be fteeped, like ilax, in water.
This, or fomething limilar, is abfolutely neceffary, in
order to feparate the bark j which is properly the hemp,
from the reed or woody part. In Suffolk this opera¬
tion is called water-retting ; but fometimes a mere ex-
pofure to the air is fubftituted in its place, turning the
hemp frequently during the time it is expofed. This is
called dew-retting; but the former method is umver-
fally deemed preferable. Such hemp as is defigned for
feed is feldom water-retted, though in the opinion of
the manufadlurer already quoted, it would be better if
it were fo. Dew-retted hemp is generally Hacked and
covered during the winter 5 in January and February it
is fpread upon meadow land, and whitens wdth the froft
and fnow ; though it is always much inferior to the
other, and proper for coarier yarns only.
The length of time required for fteeping hemp is
various, and a complete knowdedge of it can only be
attained by praftice. In Suffolk it is ufual to continue
the immeriion four, five, or fix days \ Handing wTater
is preferred, and the fame wTater will ffeep hemp three
times during the feafon, but the firH lias always the
beff colour. The abbe Brulle prefers clear and running
water, efpecially if overhung with trees. The bundles
are to be laid crofswife upon each other, taking parti¬
cular notice of the manner in which they lie when put
in that they may be taken out without difficulty. His
time of Heeping is from fix to 11 days ; and hem we
muff obferve, that it is much better to let it remain too
long in the water than too Hiort a time. The flender-
eff hemp requires the moff foaking. The operation is
known to be firiiftied by the reed feparating eafily from
the bark.
After the hemp is thoroughly fleeped, ^he next ope¬
ration is to feparate the bark from the reed or woody
part} and this may be done in two ways, viz. either
pulling out the reed from every ffalk with the hand, or
drying and breaking it like flax. The abbe Brulle is
very particular in his direffions for this laff operation,
which he calls reeding, and which may be performed
either in a trough under w7ater or upon a table. The
whole, however, may be reduced to the following, viz.
prefling down the bundles either in the trough or on a
table by proper weights, to keep the hemp Heady m
the middle and top end. Then beginning at the upper
part of the bundle, pull out the reeds one by one. As
you proceed, the rind which remains will prefs. clofely
upon the remaining unreeded hemp, and keep it more
Heady } fo that you may take two, four, or even fix
flalks, at a time. The weight is then to be removed
from the top, and all the pieces of reed which remain
there having broken off in the former operation, are to
be taken out. Laffly, the middle weight is to be ta¬
ken off, and any fmall pieces which remain there taken
out. If the reeding is performed on a table, the bundle
muff be weeded frequently, though flightly } a continual
dropping of water would perhaps be the beff method.
2 ] H E M
After the hemp is reeded, it muff next be freed from
the mucilaginous matter with which it Hill abounds.
This is done by .pouring water through it, Iqueezing out
the liquid after every affufion, but taking care not to
let the threads twiff or entangle each "other, which they
will be very apt to do. The abbe is of opinion, that
foft foap Ihould be diffolved in the laff water, in the
proportion of an ounce to three pounds of dry hemp •,
which though not abfolutely neceffary, contributes
much to the foftening and rendering the hemp eafy and
pleafant to drefs.
Hemp is broken by machinery, after being Heeped,
in a manner fimilar to flax 5 but the inflruments ufed
for this purpofe in Suffolk are all worked by the hand.
That which breaks in the operation is called Jhorts, and
is about half the value of tne long hemp. I he beff
water-retted hemp fells for about 8s. 6d. per ftone} the
other kind from one to two (hillings lower.
Beating of hemp is the next operation, which for¬
merly wras performed entirely by hand, but now in moil
places by a water-mill, which raifes three heavy beat¬
ers that fall upon it alternately •, the hemp being turn¬
ed all the while by a boy in order to receive the ffrokes
equally. The finer it is required to make the tow, the
more beating is neceffary. It is then dreffed or combed
by drawing it through heckles formed like the combs ot
wmol-manufacturers, only fixed. Sometimes it is divid¬
ed into two or three forts of tow7, and lometimes the
whole is worked together into one fort} the prices va-
rying from 6d. to is. per pound.
The hemp thus manufadured is fold to fpinners, who
reel their yarn as follows.
Hemp.
2 yards make
40 threads
20 leas
3 fkains
1 thread.
I lea.
1 (kain.
1 clue of 4800 yards.
It is next delivered to the bleachers, who return it
bleached on receiving 20 or 21 clues for every 120
bleached. The prices of the hemp-yarn are as follow :
1 clue from a pound
1 ~ from do.
2 from do.
2^ from do.
3 from do.
yd. or 6^d.
8|d. or 8d.
9^d. or qd.
io-|d. or lod.
X2d.
Chinefe Hemp, a fpecies of cannabis, of which _ an
account is given in the 7 2d volume of the Philofophical
Tranfaftions, p. 46. In that paper Mr Fitzgerald, vice-
prefident of the fociety for encouraging arts, mentions
his having received the feeds from the late Mr Elliot j
which being fown, according to his direftions, produ¬
ced plants 14 feet high, and nearly feven inches in cir¬
cumference. Thefe being pulled up in November, and
fteeped for a fortnight in water, were placed againft a
fouthern wall to dry. After this the hemp was found
to feparate eafily from the woody part} and fo great
was the produce, that 32 plants yielded three pounds
and a quarter. In conference of this fuccefs Mr
Fitzgerald applied to the direflors ot the India Com¬
pany to procure feme of the feeds ^rom China } which
beina complied with, the fociety were furniffied m
178? with feme more of the feeds, which were diftn-
• butea
H E M [ 3
Hemp,
Hempftead.
\
buted to feveral of the members 5 but, notwlthftanding
their endeavours, few of the plants appear to have
ripened their feeds in this country. Two of the fpecies
of hemp, tried by the duke of Northumberland, role
to the height of 14 feet feven inches, and would have
been much larger, had they not been hurt by a high
wind : another kind arofe only to that of three feet
and a half, the ftem about the fize of a common
wheat draw •, but though it flowered well, did not pro¬
duce any feed. Thefe kinds were fown in a hotbed
■where the heat was very flrong, on the 14th of April.
They appeared above ground in four days, and were
tranfplanted into pots on the 25th. They wTere then
put under a hot-bed frame where the heat had been
gone off, to harden them for the natural ground, in
which they were planted on the 30th, by turning them
whole out of the pots ; letting them, three together, be
planted at two feet diflance every way ; covering them
at times for about ten days, until they wrere fuppofed to
be rooted. Only a few feeds were preferved from plants
which had been kept conflantly in a dove.
Other trials were attended vvith little better fuccefs;
but, in 1786, the Rev. Dr Hinton of Northwold near
Brandon, made a fuccefsful experiment with fome feeds
he received from the fecretary of the fociety. They
were fowm on the 17th of May, and appeared on the
6th of June. The plants were few and fickly; and
notwithdanding fome fine fliowers, they continued to
languiln fo much that the experiment was entirely aban¬
doned, and buckwheat was harrowed into the ground
for a fallow^ crop. In the beginning of October, how¬
ever, the perfons employed in cutting the buckwheat
difcovered fome feed in the heads of a few draggling
hemp plants which had been differed to grow in the
crop ; which being carefully threfhed, afforded three
pints of feed tolerably bright and heavy. Thefe feeds
ivere fown on the 10th of May 1787. On the 19th
they appeared above the ground numerous and healthy.
The male hemp was drawn on the 13th of Augud, but
the female not till the 9th of October 5 the fpot on
which the plants w’ere fown meafured only 322 fquare
yards, and produced of marketable hemp no lefs than
95 done 7 pounds 12 ounces; being upwards of one-
third more than the bed crops of Englith hemp are ever
known to produce. Thus it appeared, that the feeds of
the Chinefe hemp had retained their fuperiority over
thofe of the Englifli; though how long they vcould
continue to do fo cannot be determined bilt by expe¬
rience. For this experiment Dr Hinton received a fil-
ver medal from the fociety. Few of the feeds either of
Chinefe, or any other hemp, will vegetate if two years
old at the time of fowing ; and to this circumflance the
doftor attributes the failure of other trials of Chinefe
hemp.
Hemp-Agrimony, a fpecies of eupatorium. See Eu-
patorium, Botany Index.
HEMPSTEAD, a town of Hartfordfliire in Eng¬
land, in a hilly country, upon a fmall river called the
Gade, and 20 miles north-wed of London. It wTas, in
the time of the Saxons, called by the name of Henam-
ded, or Hean-Hemded, i. e. High-Hemflead. In
William the Conqueror’s time, by the name of Heme-
lamflede. Henry VIII. incorporated this village by
the name of a bailiff; and he empowered the inhabi¬
tants to have a common feal, and a pye-powder court
Henault.
73 ] HEN
during its market and fairs. It has been reckoned one Hemfkerck
of the greated markets for wheat in this county, if not
in England, 20,000!. a-wTeek being often returned in it,
only for meal. Eleven pair of mills dand within four
miles of the place, which produce a great trade.
HEMSKERCK, Egbert, called the 0/</, a cele¬
brated Flemilh painter of humorous converfations, of
whom, though lo univerfallv known, we have no infor¬
mation as to the time in which he flourilhed, or the
fchool in which he was taught. Though the tade of
his compofitions is but low, yet it ought to be confider-
ed that he took his fubje&s from nature ; from perfons
in the meaned occupations, whofe drefs, actions, and
manners, could not furnifh the imagination with any
ideas of elegance : and to exprefs their paflions and un-
difguifed humours, feems to have been the utmod of his
ambition. By frequenting fairs, merry-meetings, gam-
ing-houfes, and inns, he acquired a furprifing power of
connedfling humorous circumdances. He defigned and
drew correftly, and his pidlures have a drong effect
from his accurate management of the chiaro obfeuro.
Some of his piftures have differed from unfkilful clean¬
ers, and many things are fold as his which diflionour
him; but his genuine works, well preferved, have a
clearnefs and force equal to any of the Flemilh ar-
tids.
HEN. See Phasianus, Ornithology Index.
Guinea-Hen. See Numida, Ornithology Index.
Hen-Bane. See Hyosciamus, Botany and Ma¬
teria Medica Index.
HEN-Harrier. See Falco, Ornithology Index.
Hen-Mould Soil, in Agriculture, a term uied by the
huibandmen in Northamptonlhire, and other counties,
to exprefs a black, hollow, fpongy, and mouldering
earth, ufually found at the bottoms of hills. Tt is an
earth much fitter for grazing than for corn, becaufe it
will never fettle clofe enough to the grain to keep it
fufliciently deady while it is growing up, without which,
the farmers obferve, it either does not grow well; or,
if it feem to thrive, as it wall in fome years, the growth
is rank, and yields much draw, but little ear. It is too
mold, and to that is principally to be attributed this
ranknefs of the crop in fome years ; and the occafion of
its retaining fo much moidure is, that it ufually has a
bed of diff clay, which will'not let the water run off
into the under drata.
In fome places they alfo give this name to a black,
rich, and denfe earth, with dreaks of a whitifh mould
in many parts. This fort of hen-mould is ufually found
very rich and fertile.
HENAULT, Charles John Francis, an inge¬
nious French writer, was the fon of John Remi Henault
lord of Mouffy, and was born at Paris in 1685. He early
difcovered a fprightly benevolent difpofition, and his pe¬
netration and aptnefs foon didinguiflied itfelf by the fuc¬
cefs of his dudies. Claude de Lifie, father of the cele¬
brated geographer, gave him the fame leffons in geo¬
graphy and hidory which he had before given to the
duke of Orleans, afterwards regent; and which have
been printed in feven volumes, under the title of “ A-
bridgement of Univerfal Hidory.” On quitting col¬
lege, Henault entered the Oratory, where he foon at¬
tached himfelf to. the dudy of eloquence : and, on the
death of the abbe Rene, reformer of La Trappe, he
undertook to pronounce his panegyric; which not meet¬
ing.
H £ N r 374 1 HEN
Henault. Ing tlie approbation of Father Maffilon, he quitted the
 ^— Oratory alter two years, and his father bought for him,
of Marefchal Villeroi, the “ lieutenance des chafie's,”
and the government of Corbeil. At the marihal’s he
formed connexions, and even intimate friendlhips, with
many of the nobility, and paffed the early part of his
life in agreeable amufements, and in the hveiieft com¬
pany, without having his religious fentiments tainted.
He affociated with the wits till the difpute between
Rouffeau and de la Motte fobn gave him a difguft for
thefe trifling focieties. In 1707, he gained the prize
of eloquence at the French academy j and another next
year at the academy des Jeux Floraux. About this
time M. Reaumur, who w?as his relation, came to Paris,
and took leflbns in geometry under the fame mailer,
Guinee. Henault introduced him to the abbe Bignon,
and this was the firlt ftep of his illullricus coune. In
1713 he brought a tragedy on the flage, under the dif-
guifed name of Fufelier. As he wyas known to the pub¬
lic only by fome flighter pieces, “ Cornelia tne \ eilal
met with no better fuccefs. He therefore locked it up
without printing. In his old age his patnon for theie
fubjedls reviving, and Mr Horace Walpole being at
Paris in 1768, and having formed a friendlhip with him
as one of the moll amiable men of his nation, obtained
this piece, and had it printed at his owm prefs. In 175*
M. Henault, under a borrowed name, brought out a
fecond tragedy, intitled, ‘‘ Marius,” which was wTell
received and printed. He had been admitted counfel-
lor in parliament in 1706, with a difpenfation on ac¬
count of age *, and in 1710 prefident of the firlt cham¬
ber of inquefls. Thefe important places, wdiich he de¬
termined to fill in a becoming manner, engaged him in
the moft folid fludies. The excellent work of M. Do-
mat charmed him, and made him eager to go back, to
the fountain head. He fpent feveral years in making
himfelf mafter of the Roman law, the ordonnances of
the French kings, their cuftoms, and public law. M.
de Morville, procureur-general of the great council,
being appointed ambaffador to the Hague in.1718, en¬
gaged M. Henault to accompany him.. His perfonal
merit foon introduced him to the acquaintance of the
moft eminent perfonages at that time there. The grand
penfionary, Heinfius, who, under the exterior of Lace¬
demonian fimplicity, kept up all the haughtinefs of that
people, loft with him all that hauteur which France it-
felf had experienced from him in the negociations of
the treaty of Utrecht. The agitation which all France
felt by Law’s fyftem. and the confequent fending of the
parliament into exile, was a trial to. the wife policy of
the prefident Henault. His friendfhip for the firft pre¬
fident, De Mefmes, led him to fecond all the views.of
that great magiftrate : he took part in all the .negocia¬
tions, and was animated purely by the public good,
without any private advantage. On the. death of the
cardinal du Bois, in 1732, he fucceeded in his place at
the French academy. Cardinal Fleury recommended
him to fucceed himfelf as direclor, and he pronounced
the eloge of M. de Malezieux.
Hillory was M. Henault’s favourite ftudy : not a
bare colle£lion of dates, but a knowledge of the laws
and manners of nations; to obtain which he drew m-
ftru6lion from private converfations, a me’hod ue. fo
ftrongly recommends in bis preface. After having 'has
difcuffed the moft important points of our public law,
1
he undertook to colleft and publifti the refult of his in- Henault.
quiries, and he is delervedly accounted the firft; framer ' m~'*
of chronological abridgments : in w’hich, without flop¬
ping at detached facls, he attends only to thofe which
form a chain of events that perteft or alter the govern¬
ment and charafter of a nation, and traces only the
fprings which exalt or humble a nation, extending or
contra&ing the fpace it occupies in the wmrld. His
work has had the fortune of thofe literary phenomena,
where novelty and merit united excite minds eager af¬
ter glory, and fire the ardour of young writers to prefs
after a guide whom few' can overtake. The firft edi¬
tion of the work, the refult of 40 years reading, ap¬
peared in 1744, under the aufpices of the chancellor
Daguefieau, with the modeft title of an E(Jaij. The
fuccefs it met with furprifed him. Fie made continual
improvements in it, and it has gone through nine edi¬
tions, and been tranllated into Italian, Englifti, and
German, and even into Chinefe. As the heft writings
are not fecure from criticifm, and are indeed the only
ones that deferve it, the author read to the academy of
Belles Lettres a defence of his abridgment. All the
ages and events of the French monarchy being prelent
to his mind, and his imagination and memory being a
vaft theatre whereon he beheld the different movements
and parts of the aftors in the feveral revolutions, he de¬
termined to give a fpecimen of w'hat paffed in his own
mind, and to reduce into the form of a icgular drama
one of the periods of French hiilory, the reign of Fran¬
cis II. which, though happy only by being Ihort, ap¬
peared to him one of the moft important by its confe-
quences, and moft eafy to be confined within the ft age
bounds. His friend the chancellor highly approved the
plan, and wiftied it to be printed. It accordingly went
through five editions ; the harmony of dates and facfts
is exaflly obferved in it, and the paflions interefted
without offence to hiftoric truth.
In 1755, he was chofen an honorary member of the
academy of Belles Lettres, being then a member of the
academies of Nanci, Berlin, and Stockholm. The
queen appointed him fuperintendant of her houfe. His
natural fprightlinefs relieved her from the ferious attend¬
ance on his private morning lectures. . The company of
perfons moft diftinguiftied by their wit and birth, a ta¬
ble more celebrated for the choice of the gueLs than its
delicacies, the little comedies fuggeiled by v. it, and
executed by refleftions, united at his houfe all the piea-
fures of an agre eable and innocent life. All the mem¬
bers of this ingenious fociety contributed to render it
agreeable, and the prefideut was not behind any. He
compofed three comedies : L.a Petite Maifon, La Ja-
loux de Soi-meme, and Le Revei/ d"1 F.pimemde. ihe
fubjecl of the laft w'as the Cretan philosopher, who is
pretended to have ilept 27 years. He is introduced
fancying that he had Ilept but one night, and adonifh-
ed at the change in the age of all around him : he mif-
takes his miftrefs for his mother; but difcovering his
miftake, offers to marry her, which ftie refules, though
he (till continues to love her. The queen was particu¬
larly pleafed with this piece. She ordered the prefident
to reftore the philofopher’s xniftrefs to her former youth :
he introduced Hebe, and this epifode produced an. a-
greeable entertainment. He was now in iuch favour
with her maiefty, that on the place of fuperintendant
becoming vacant by the death of M. Bernard de Con-
bert
Henley
H E N [ 3
Hendeca- belt mafter of requefts, and tbe fum lie had paid for it
gon being loft to his family, Renault folicited it in favour
of feveral perfons, till at laft the queen beftowed it on
i himfelf, and confented that he fhould divide the profits
with his predeceffor’s widow. On the queen’s death he
held the fame place under the dauphinefs.
A delicate conftitution made him liable to much ill-
nefs} which, however, did not interrupt the ferenity of
his mind. He made feveral journeys to the waters of
Plombieres : in one of thefe he vifited the depofed king
Staniilaus at Luneville •, and in another accompanied
his friend the marquis de Pauliny, ambaiTador to Swit¬
zerland. In 1763 he drew near his end. One morn¬
ing, after a quiet night, he felt an oppreftion, which
the faculty pronounced a fufFocating cough. His con-
feftbr being fent to him, he formed his refolution with¬
out alarm. Pie has fince faid, that he recollected hav¬
ing then faid to himfelf, “ What do I regret ?” and
called to mind that faying of Madame de Scvigne, “ I
leave here only dying creatures.” He received the fa-
craments. It was believed the next night would be his
laft; but by noon next day he was out of danger.
“ Now (faid he) I know what death is. It will not
be new to me any more.” He never forgot it during
the following feven years of his life, which, like all the
reft, were gentle and calm. Full of gratitude for the
favours of providence, refigned to its decrees, offering
-*to the Author of his being a pure and fincere devotion ;
he felt his infirmities without complaining, and per¬
ceived a gradual decay with unabated firmnefs. He
died Dec. 24. 177*, in his 86th year. He married in
1714 a daughter of M. le Bas de Montargis keeper of
the royal treafure, &c. who died in 1728 without lea¬
ving any iffue.
HENDECAGON, in Geometry, a figure having
eleven fides and as many angles.
HENED-PEXNYj in our old writers, a cuftomary
payment of money inftead of hens at Chriftmas. It is
mentioned in a charter of King Edward III. Mon.
Angl. tom. ii. p. 327. Du Cange is of opinion it may
be hen penny, gal/inagiutn, or a compofition for eggs •,
but Cowel thinks it is mifprinted hened-penny for hcved-
penny, or head-penny.
HENIOCHAS, or Heniochus, a northern con-
ftellation, the fame as Auriga.
HENLEY, a town of Oxfordfhire in England,
leated on the river Thames, over which there is a hand-
fome bridge. It fends malt, corn, and other things,
to London in barges. W. Long. o. 40. N. Lat. 51.
34-
, Hexley, a town of Warwicklhire in England, feat-
ed on the river Alne, in W. Long. o. 40. N. Lat. 52.
18.
Henley, John, better known by the appellation
of Orator Henley, a very lingular character, was born at
Melton-Moubray, Leicefterlhire, in 1691. His father,
the Rev. Simon Henley, and his grandfather by his
mother’s fide (John Dowel, M. A.), were both vicars
of that parilh. Having palf#d his exercifes at Cam¬
bridge, and his examination for the degree of B. A.
with the particular approbation of Mr Field, Mr Smales,
and the mafter of the college, he returned to his native
place, where he wras firft defired by the truftees of the
fchool in Melton to aflift in, and then to take the di-
re&ion of, that fchool j which he increafed and raifed
75 1 HE N
from a declining to a ftouriihing condition. He efta- Henley*
blilhed here a pradtice of improving elocution by the ‘"“"V'—
public fpeaking of paffages in the claflics, morning and
afternoon, as well as orations, &c. Here he was invited
by a letter from the Rev. Mr Newcombe to be a can¬
didate for a fellowfhip in St John’s; but as he had long
been abfent, and therefore leffened his perfonal intereft,
he declined appearing for it. Here likewife he began
his “ Univerfal Grammar,” and finilhed ten languages,
with differtations prefixed, as the moft ready introduction,
to any tongue whatever. ' In the beginning of this in¬
terval he wrote his poem on “ Either,” which was ap¬
proved by the town, and well received. He was ordain¬
ed a deacon by Dr Wake, then bilhop of Lincoln ; and
after having taken his degree of M. A. was admitted to
prielt’s orders by Dr Gibfon, his fucceffor in that fee.
He formed an early refolution to improve himfelf in
ail the advantages of books and converfation the moft
effectually, on the firlt opportunity, at London. But he
laid the balls of future proficiency in aflifling at the cu¬
racy of his native town; where he preached many occa-
fional fermons,- particularly one at the affizes at Leicef-
ter: he then gave a voluntary warning for the choice
of a new mafter and curate, and came to town recom¬
mended by above 30 letters from the moft conliderable
men in the country, both of the clergy and laity ; but
againft the inclination of his neighbours and his fchool,
which w'as now, as from his firft entrance upon it, ftill
advancing : and his method being eftablilhed and ap¬
proved, one of his owm fcholars was appointed to fuc-
ceed him.—In town he publithed feveral pieces, as a
tranllation of Pliny’s Epiftles, of feveral wmiks of Abbe
Vertot, of Pdontfaucon’s Italian Travels in folio, and
many other lucubrations. His moft generous patron
was the earl of Macclesfield, who gave him a benefice
in the country, the value of which to a refident-would'
have been above Sol. a year; he had likewife a ledlure
in the city ; and preached more charity fermons about
town, was more numeroufly followed, and raifed more
for the poor children, than any other preacher, however
dignified or diftinguiftied. But when he preffed his
defire and promife from a great man of being fixed in
towm, it pafled in the negative. He took the people
(it feems) too much from their parilh-churches ; and as
he wras not fo proper for a London divine, he wTas very
welcome, notwithftanding all difficulties, to be a rural
paftor. But it was not for a fecond ruftication, as he
informs us J, that he left the fields and the fwains oft Oratory,
Arcadia to vifit the great city : and as he knew it was^'W^H
as lawdul to take a licence from the king and parlia-P 12>&-c’
ment at Hicks’s-hall as at Dodtors Commons (fince
the minifterial powers of this kingdom are and ought
to be parliamentary only), he freely, without compul-
fion, or being defired or capable of being compelled to
refide in the country, gave up his benefice and ledfture,
certainties for an uncertainty ; believing the public
wrould be a more hofpitable protedlor of learning and
fcience, than fome of the upper world in his own
order.
Mr Henley, in anfwer to a cavil (that he borrowed
from books), propofed, “ that if any perfon would fin-
gie out any celebrated difcourfe of an approved writer,
dead or living, and point out what he thought excel¬
lent in it, and the reafons ; he would fubmit it to the
world, whether the moft famed compolition might not
be
Henley
li
Henneberg
H E N [ 376
be furpaffed in their own excellency, eitliei on tbat 01 i>.
any difFerent fubjedl.”
Henley preached on Sundays upon theological mat¬
ters, and on Wednefdays upon all other fciences. He
declaimed fome years againft the greateft per Tons, and
occafionally, fays Warburton, did Pope that honour.
The poet in return thus blazons him to imatny :
But where each fcience lifts its modern type,
Hiftory her pot, Divinity his pipe,
While proud Philofophy repines to fliow,
D’fhoneft fight! his breeches rent below 5
Imbrown’d with native bronze, lo Henley hands,
Tuning his voice, and balancing his hands.
How fluent nonfenfe trickles from his tongue !
How fweet the periods, neither faid nor lung !
Still break the benches, Henley! with thy drain,
While Kennet, Hare, and Gibfon preach in vain.
O great reftorer of the good old ftage,
Preacher at once and zany of thy age !
O worthy thou of ./Egypt’s wife abodes, ^
A decent prieft where monkeys were the gods!
But Fate with butchers plac’d thy prieftly hall,
Meek modern faith to murder, hack, mid maul:
And bade thee live, to crown Britannia’s praife,
In Toland’s, Tindal’s, and in Woolfton’s days.”
This extraordinary perfon (who died October 14.
5756) ftruck medals, which he difperfed as tickets to
his fubferibers : a ftar rifing to the meridian, with this
motto, Adfumma ; and below, Invetiiam viam, aut fa-
ciam. Each auditor paid is. He w?as author of a
weekly paper called The Hyp Doftor, for which he
had look a-year. Henley ufed every Saturday to
print an advertifement in the Daily Advertifer,. con¬
taining an account of the fubjefts he intended to dii-
courfe on the enfuing evening at his oratory near Lin-
coln’s-inn-fields, with a fort of motto before it, which
was generally a fneer at fome public tranfaftion of the
preceding week. Dr Cobden, one of Geo. Ik’s chap¬
lains, having, in 1748, preached afermon at St James’s
from thefe words, “Take away the wicked from be¬
fore the king, and his throne fhall be eftabhihed m
righteoufnefs j” it gave fo much difpleafure, that the
Doctor was ftruck out of the lift of chaplains*, and the
next Saturday the following parody of his text appear¬
ed as a motto to Henley’s advertilement:
Away with the wicked before the king,
And away with the wicked behind him }
His throne it will blefs
With righteoufnefs,
And we (hall know where to find him.”
] HEN
is populous, and pretty fertile. Mainingen is theBenncbcrg
capital town. , . . ' Henry.
Hexneberg, a town of Germany, in the circle of ... *
Franconia, wdiich gives title to a county of the fame
name, with a cattle. E. Long. 9. 17. N. Lat. 50.4°*
His audience was generally compofed of the loweft
ranks *, and it is well-known that he even collefted an
infinite number of Ihoe-makers, by announcing^ that he
could teach them a fpeedy mode of operation in their
bufinefs, which proved only to be, the making o: fhoes
by cutting off the tops of ready-made boots.
HENNA, or Alhenna. See Lawsonia.
HENNEBERG, a county of Germany, in the
circle of Franconia. It is bounded on the nortn by
Thuringia, on the weft by Heffe, on the fouth by trie
biftioprick of Wertfburg, and on the eaft by that of
Bamberg. It abounds in mountains and woods *, and
HENNEBON, a town of France, in Bretagne, in
the diocefe of Vannes. It is inhabited by rich mer¬
chants, and is feated on the river Blavet, in W. Long.
2. 1 a. N. Lat. 47. 48.
HENOiTCUM, (‘Hvotimv, q. d. “ reconcilative j”
of ma “ I unite”), in church hiftory, a famous edift of
the emperor Zeno, publiftied A. D. 48 2, and intended
to reconcile and reunite the Eutychians with the Ca¬
tholics. It was procured of the emperor by means or
Acacius, patriarch of Conftantinople, with the affiil-
ance of the friends of Peter Mongus and Peter Irullo.
The fling of this edift lies here 5 that it repeats and
confirms all that had been enaefed in the councils^ o:,
Nice, Conftantinople, Ephefus, and Chalcedon, againft
the Arlans, Neftorians, and Eutychians, without ma¬
king any particular mention of the council of Chalce¬
don. It is in form of a letter, addrelfed by Zeno to the
biihops, priefts, monks, and people of Egypt and Li¬
bya. It wras oppofed by the Catholics, and condemned
in form by Pope Felix II.
HENRICANS, in ecclefiaftical hiftory, a fe& 10
called from Henry its founder, wdio, though a monk
and hermit, undertook to reform the fuperftition and
vices of the clergy. For this purpofe he left Laufanne
in Switzerland, and removing from different places, at
length fettled at Tholoufe in the year 1147* ant^ there
exercifed his minifterial funftion, till being overcome by
the oppofition of Bernard abbot of Clairval, and con¬
demned by Pope Eugenius III. at a council affembled
at Rheims, he wras committed to a clofe prifon in ltd®?
w here he loon ended his days. I his ^reformer rejected
the baptifm of infants ^ feverely ceniured the corrupt
manners of the clergy •, treated the ieftivals and ceremo¬
nies of the church with the utmoft contempt, and held
clandeftine aflemblies for inculcating his peculiar doc-
trines.
HENRY, or Cape-Henry, the fouth cape oi Vir¬
ginia, at the entrance of Chefapeak bay. W. Long,
74. 50. N. Lat. 37. o. \ ,
Henry, the name of feveral emperors of Germany,
and kings of England and France. See England,
France, and Germany.
Henry IV. emperor of Germany in 1056, ftyied
the Great, wras memorable for his quarrels with Pope
Gregory II. whom at one time he depofed, for ha¬
ving prefumed to judge his fovereign j but at anothei,
dreading the effefts of ttie papal anathemas,. he had
the weaknefs to fubmit to the moft humiliating per-
fonal felicitations and penances to obtain abfolution j
wkicli impolitic meafure increafed the power of the
pope, and alienated the affedions of his fubjefts :
thus circumftanced, he reaflumed the hero, but too
late j marched with an army to Rome, expelled Gre¬
gory, depofed him, and fet up another pope. Gre¬
gory died foon after : but Urban II. and Pafcal IL
fucceflively, excited his ambitious fons, Conrad and
Henry, to rebel againft him, and the latter was crowned
emperor by the title of Henry V. in 1106; and he
had the inhumanity to arreft his father, and to de¬
prive
3
HEN [ 377 ] HEN
Henry, prive him, not only of all his dignities, but even of
-J the neceffaries of life. The unfortunate Henry IV.
was reduced to fuch extremities (after liavig fought
62 battles in defence of the German empire), that he
lolicited the bilhop of Spire to grant him an under-
chaunter’s place in his cathedral, but was refufed. He
died the fame year at Liege, aged 55, a martyr to the
ignorance and iuperftition of the age, and to his own blind
confidence in favourites and miftrefles.
Henry IV. king of France (in 1589) and Navarre,
jultly ftyled the Great, was the fon of Anthony de
Bourbon, chief of the branch of Bourbon (fo called
from a fief of that name which fcdl to them by mar¬
riage with the heirefs of the eftate). His mother was
the daughter of Henry d’Albert, king of Navarre j
a woman of a mafculine genius ; intrepid, fimple, and
rufiic -in her manners, but deeply verfed in politics,
and a zealous Proteftant. Forefeeing that her party
would w ant fuch a proteftor (for her hufband was a
weak indolent prince), fhe undertook the care of the
education of the young hero : his diet was coarfe $ his
clothes neat, but plain j he always went bare-headed ;
Ihe fent him to fchool with the other children of the
fame age, and accuftomed him to climb the rocks and
neighbouring mountains, according to the cullom of
the country. He was born in 1553 j and in 1569, the
16th year of his age, he wTas declared the Defender
and Chief of the Protellants at Rochelle. The peace
of St Germain, concluded in 1570, recalled the lords
in the Proteftant intereft to court ; and in 1572 Henry
wTas married to Margaret de Valois, fitter to Charles IX.
king of France. It was in the midft of the rejoicings
for thefe nuptials that the horrid maftacre of Paris
took place. Henry was reduced, by this infernal
ftroke of falfe policy, to the alternative of changing
his religion or being put to death : he chofe the for¬
mer, and was detained prifoner of ftate three years.
In 1587 he made his efcape j put himfelf at the head
of the Huguenot party, expofing himfelf to all the
rilks and fatigues of a religious war, often in w-ant of
the neceflaries of life, and enduring all the hardfhips
of the common foldiers 5 but he gained a viflory this
year at Courtras, which eftablifhed his reputation in
arms, and endeared him to the Proteftants. On the
death of Henry III, religion was urged as a pretext
for one half of the officers of the French army to re- .
jedf him, and for the leaguers not to acknowdedge
him. A phantom, the cardinal de Bourbon, was fet
up again ft him j but his moft formidable rival was the
duke de Mayenne : however, Henry, with few friends,
fewer important places, no money, and a very fmall
army, fupplied every want by his adlivity and valour.
He gained feveral vidlories over the duke $ particularly
that of Ivri in 1590, memorable for his heroic admo¬
nition to his foldiers : “ If you love your enfigns,
rally by my white plume j you will always find it in
the road to honour and glory.” Paris held out againrt
him, notwithftanding his iucceffes : he took all the
fuburbs in one day ; and might have reduced the city
by famine, if he had not humanely buffered his own
army to relieve the befieged ; yet the bigotted friars
and priefts in Paris all turned foldiers, except four of
the Mendicant order ; and made daily military reviews
and proceffions, the fword in one hand and the cru¬
cifix in the other, on which they made the citizens
Vol. X. Part I.
fwear rather to die with famine than to admit Henry.
The fcarcity of provifions in Paris at laft: degenerated
to an univerfal famine ; bread had been fold, whilft
any remained, for a crown the pound, and at laft; it
was made from the bones of the charnel-houfe of St
Innocents •, human flefh became the food of the ob-
ftinate Pariiians, and mothers ate the dead bodies of
their children. In fine, the duke of Mayenne, feeing
that neither Spain nor the league would ever grant
him the crown, determined to affift in giving it to the
lawfful heir. He engaged the ftates to hold a confe¬
rence with the chiefs of both parties 5 wffiich ended
in Henry’s abjuration of the Proteftant religion at St
Dennis, and his confecration at Chartres in 1593.
The following year Paris opened its gates to him j in
1596, the duke of Mayenne was pardoned; and in
1598, peace was concluded with Spain. Henry now
fhowed himfelf doubly worthy of the throne, by his
encouragement of commerce, the fine arts, and ma-
nufadtures, and by his patronage of men of ingenuity
and found learning of every country : but though the
fermentations of Romiffi bigotry w7ere calmed, the
leaven was not deftroyed ; fcarce a year palled with¬
out feme attempt being made on this real father of his
people ; and at laft the monfter Ravaillac ftabbed him
to the heart in his coach, in the ftreets of Paris, on
the 14th of May 1610, in the 57th year of his age
and 22d of his reign.
Henry VIII. king of England, was the fecond
fon of Henry VII. by Elizabeth the eldeft daughter
of Edward IV. He was born at Greenwich, on the
28th of June 1491. On the death of his brother
Arthur, in 1502, he was created prince of Wales ;
and the following year betrothed to Catherine of Ar-
ragon, Prince Arthur’s widow, the pope having
granted a difpenfation for that purpofe. Henry VIII.
acceded to the throne, on the death of his father,
the 22d of April 1509, and his marriage w~ith Ca¬
tharine was folemnried about two months after. In
the beginning of his reign he left the government of
his kingdom entirely to his minifters ; and fpent his
time chiefly in tournaments, balls, concerts, and other
expenfive amufements. We are told that he was fo
extravagant in his pleafures, that, in a very Ihort
time, he entirely diffipated i,8oo,oool. which his fa¬
ther had hoarded. This will feem lefs wonderful,
when the reader is informed, that gaming was one of
his favourite diverfions. Neverthelefs he was not fo
totally abforbed in pleafure, but he found leifure to
facrifice to the refentment of the people two of his
father’s minifters, Empfon and Dudley. A houfe in
London, which had belonged to the former of thefe,
was in 1310 given to Thomas Wolfey, who was now
the king’s almoner, and who from this period began
to infinuate himfelf into Henry’s favour. In 1513,
he became prime minifter, and from that moment
governed the king and kingdom with abfolute power.
In this year Henry declared war againft France, gained
the battle of Spurs, and took the towns of Terouenne
and Tournay ; but before he embarked his troops, he
beheaded the earl of Suffolk, who had been long con¬
fined in the tower. In 1521, he facrificed the duke of
Buckingham to the refentment of his prime minifter
Wolfey. and the fame year obtained from the pope the
title of Defender of the Faith.
SB
Henry,
H E N t 378
Henry. Henry, having been 18 years married, grew tired
of his wife, and in the year 1527 refolved to obtain a
divorce •, brut after many fruitlefs felicitations, find¬
ing it impoflible to perfuade the’ pope to annul his
marriage with Catharine, he efpoufed Anne toleyn in
the year 1531* During this interval his favourite
Wolfey was difgraced, and died-, Henry threw off
the papal yoke, and burnt three Protefiants for hereiy.
In 1 ^3 he put to death Sir 1 homas More, Fiiher, and
others, for denying his fupremacy, and fuppreffed all the
leffer monafteries. * rr rr j u-
His mod facred majefty, having now pcffeffed his
fecond queen about five years, fell violently m love
With Lady Jane Seymour. Anne Boleyn was accufed
of adultery with her own brother, and with three
other perfons : ihe was beheaded the 19th of May
1
II E N
536. He married Jane Seymour the day following.^
In 1537, he put to death five of the noble family of
Kildare, as a terror to the Irilh, c>f whofe difloyalty
he had fome apprehenfion? -, and in the year follow-
ing he executed the marquis of Exeter, with four
other perfons of diftindlion, for the foie crime of cor-
refponding with Cardinal Pole.. In 1538 and 1539,
he fuppreffed all the monafteries in England, and
feized their revenues for his own ufe. Ihe queen ha¬
ving died in childbed, he this year married the prm-
cefs Ann of Cleves : but difliking her perfon, imme¬
diately determined to be divorced -, and ins obfequious
parliament and convocation unanimeufiy pionounced
the marriage void, for reafons too ridiculous to be
recited : but this was not all -, Henry vras fo incenled
with his minifter and quondam favourite, Cromwell,
for ne^ociating this match, that he revenged himfelf
by the hand iff the executioner. Yet this was not the
only public murder of the year 154°* *ew ^ays
ter Cromwell’s death, feveral perfons were burnt for
denying the king’s fupremacy, and other articles of
herefy.
His majefty being once move at liberty to indu.ge
himfelf with another wife, fixed upon Catharine How¬
ard, niece to the duke of Norfolk. She was declared
queen in Auguff 1540 ; but they had been privately
married fome time before. Henry, it feems, was fo
entirely fatisfied with this lady, that he daily bleffed
God for his prefent felicity -, but that felicity was of
ftiort duration : he had not been married above a y ear,
before the queen was accufed of frequent prolbtution,
both before and fince her marriage : the confeffed her
guilt, and was beheaded in February 1542. In Ju¬
ly 1543, he married his fixth wife, the lady Catha-
vine Parr, the widow of John Nevil lord Latimer, and
lived to the year 1547 without committing any more
flagrant enormities : but finding himfelf now approach
towards diffolution, he made his will j and that the
lafl; feene of his life might refemble the reft, he deter¬
mined to end the tragedy with the murder of two of
his beft friends and moft faithful fubje&s, the duke
of Norfolk and his fon the earl of Surrey. The earl
was beheaded on the 19th of January j and the duke
was ordered for execution on the 29th -, but iortunate-
ly efcaped by the king’s death on the 28th. ^ e7
were condemned without the fhadow of a came , but
Henry’s political reafon for putting them to death,
was his apprehenflon that, if they were fuffered to
furvive him, they would countevad feme 01 his regu¬
lations in religion, and might be troublefome to his
fon. Henry died on the 28th of January 1547, in'"
the 56th year of his age, and was buried at Windfor.
As to his character, it is pretty obvious from the
faifts above related. Lord Herbert palliates his crimes,
and exaggerates what he calls his virtues. Biihop
Burnet fays, “ he w-as rather to be reckoned among
the great than the good princes.” He afterwards ac¬
knowledges, that “ he is to be numbered among the
ill princes j but adds, “ I cannot rank him with the
worft.” Sir Walter Raleigh, with infinitely more
juftice, fays, “ If all the pi&ures and patterns of a
mercilefs prince were loft to the world, they might
again be painted to the life out of the hiftory of this
king.” He was indeed a mercilefs tyrant, a feurvy
politician, a fooliftr bigot, a horrible affahin. See
England, N0 253—292.
Henry of Huntingdon, an Englifti hiftorian, of
the 12th century, w'as canon of Lincoln, and after¬
wards archdeacon of Huntingdon. He wrote, 1. A
luftory of England, which ends wuth tne year 1154*
2. A continuation of that of Bede. 3- Chronological
tables of the kings of England. 4. A fmall treatife
on the contempt of the world. 5. Several books of
epigrams and love-verfes. 6. A poem on heibs 5 ail.
which are written in Latin. His invocation of
Henry.
Apollo and the goddefs of Tempe, in the exordium
of his poem on herbs, may not be unacceptable as a
fpecimen of his poetry.
‘ Vatum magne parens, herbarum Phoebe repertor,
‘ Vofque, quibus refonant Tempe jocofa, Dess !
‘ Si mihi ferta prius hedera florente paraltis,
‘ Ecce meos ftores, ferte parata ferq.’
Hf.nry of Sufa, in Latin de Sugujio, a famous ci¬
vilian and canonift of the 13th century, acquired fuch
reputation by his learning, that he was called the fource
and fplendour of the law. He w-as archbiftiop. of Em-
brun about the year 1258, and cardinal bifhop of
Oftia in 1 262. He wrote Afummary of the canon and
civil law ; and a commentary on the book oj the decretals,
compofed by order of Alexander IV.
Henry the Minfrel, commonly called Blind Harry,
an ancient Scottiih author, diftinguiftied by no particu¬
lar furname, but well known as the compofer of an hifto-
rlcal poem reciting the atchievements of Sir William
Wallace. This poem continued for feveral centuries
to be in great repute ; but afterwards funk into negleft,
until very lately that it has been again rekafed from
its obfeurity by a very neat and correct edition pub-
litked at Perth under the infpeftion and patronage of
the earl of Buchan. . . , .
It is difficult to afeertain the precife time m wnlch
this poet lived, or when he . wrote his hiftorv, as the
two authors who mention him fpeak fomewhat diffe¬
rently. Dempfter, who wrote in the beginning of the
17th century, fays that he lived in the year 1361 : but
Major, who was born in the year.i 446, fays that he
compofed this book during the time of his infancy,
which we muft therefore fuppofe to have been a few
years polUrior to 1446; for if it had been compoled
that very year, the circumftance would probably have
been mentioned. As little can we fuppofe, from Mr
Dempller’s words, that Henry was born m 1361 : tor
though he fays that he lived in that year, we muft na-
HEN t 3^
Henry, turally imagine rather that he was then come to the
—' years of maturity, or began to diftinguiih himfelf in
the world, than that he was only born at that time.
The author of the differtation on his life, prefixed to
the new edition of the poem, endeavours to reconcile
matters in the following manner : “ It is not indeed
impoffible that he might be born in or about that year
(1361). In the time of Major’s infancy he might be
about 83 years of age. In that cale, it may be fup-
pofed that it was the work of his old age to colledl and
put in order the detached pieces of his hi dory of
Wallace, which he had probably compofed in thole
parts of the country wdiere the incidents were faid to
have happened.”
We are entirely ignorant of the family from which
Henry was defcended •, though, from his writings, we
fhould be led to fuppofe that he had received a liberal
education. In them he difcovers fome knowledge in
divinity, clafhcal hiftory, and aftronomy, as well as of
the languages. In one place he boafts of his celibacy,
which feems to indicate his having engaged himfelf in
fome of the religious orders of that age. From what
Major fays further of him, we may fuppofe his profelfion
to have been that of a travelling bard j though it does
not appear that he was fkilled in mufic, or had no other
profeffion than that juft mentioned. His being blind
from his birth, indeed, makes this not improbable •,
though even this circumftance is not inconfiftent with
the fuppofition of his being a religious rilendicant.
“ The particulars £fays Major) which he heard related
by the vulgar, he wrote in the vulgar verfe, in which
he excelled. By reciting his hiftories before princes
or great men, he gained his food and raiment, of
which he was worthy.” It is thus probable that he
would be a frequent vifttor at the Scottith court } and
would be made welcome by thofe great families who
could boaft of any alliance with the hero himielf, or
took pleafure in hearing his exploits or thofe of his
companions.
With regard to the authenticity of his hiftories,
Major informs us only that he “ does not believe every
thing that he finds in fuch writings j” but from other
teftimonies it appears, that he confulted the very beft
authorities which could at that time be had. i hough,
according to the moft early account of Henry, it ap¬
pears to have been at leaf! 56 years after the death of
Wallace that Henry was born j yet he is faid to have
confulted with feveral of the defeendants of thofe who
had been the companions of that hero while he atchie-
ved his moft celebrated exploits, and who w’ere ftill
capable of afeertaining the veracity of what he publilh-
ed. The principal of thel'e were Wallace of Craigie
-and Liddle of that Ilk } who, he fays, perfuaded him
to omit in his hiftory a circumftance which he ought
to have inferred. Befides thefe, he confulted with the
principal people of the kingdom j and he utterly dif-
claims the idea of having adhered entirely to any un¬
written tradition, or having been promifed any rew-ard
for what he wrote. His chief authority, according to
his own account, was a Latin hiftory of the exploits
of Sir William, written partly by Mr John Blair and
partly by Mr Thomas Gray, who had been the com¬
panions of the hero himfelf. Henry’s account of thefe
two authors, is to the following purpofe : “ They be¬
came acquainted with Wallace when the latter was
ret] HEN
only about 16 years of age, and at that time a ftudent ^ Henry.
at the fchool of Dundee; and their acquaintance with 'f~~
'him continued till his death, which happened in his
29th year. Mr John Blair went from the fchools in
Scotland to Paris, where he ftudied fome time, and
received priefts orders, He returned to Scotland in
1296, where he joined Wallace, wrho was bravely af-
ferting the liberties of his country. Mr Thomas Gray,
who was parfon of Libberton, joined W allace at the
fame time. They were men of great wifdom and in¬
tegrity, zealous for the freedom of Scotland j and were
prefent with Whllace, and affifting to him, in moft of
his military enterprifes. They were alio his fpiritual
couniellors, and adminiftered to him godly comiort»
The hiftory written by thefe two clergymen was at-
tefted by Wftlliam Sinclair biibop of Dunkeld, who had
himfelf been witnefs to many of Wallace’s adlions.
The biihop, if he had lived longer, was to have fent
their book to Rome, for the purpofe of obtaining the
fan&ion of the pope’s authority.”
The book which Henry thus appeals to as his prin¬
cipal authority is nowr loft, fo that we have no oppor¬
tunity of comparing it with what he has written. Ihe
charaffer given by Dempfter of Henry, however, is
more favourable than that by Major. He tells us, that
“ he was blind from his birth ; a man of lingular happy
genius 5 he was indeed another Homer. He did great
honour to his native country, and raifed it above what
wras common to it in his age. He wrote, in the ver¬
nacular verfe, an elaborate and grand work, in ten
books, of the deeds of Whlliam Wallace.” In this
account there is a miftake \ for the poem contains
eleven or twelve books \ but Dempfter, who wrote in
a foreign country, and bad not a printed copy of
Henry’s work by him when he wrote his eulogium, is
excufable in a miftake of this kind.
With regard to his poetical merit, it muft undoubt¬
edly rank very far below that of Homer, whom indeed
he fcarcely refembles in any other refpeits than that he
went about, as Homer is faid to have done, reciting
the exploits of the heroes of his country, and that he
was blind. In this laft circumftance, however, he was
ftill worfe than Homer •, for Henry was born blind,
but Homer became blind after he had been advanced
in years. Hence Henry, even fuppofing his genius to
have been equal to that of Homer, muft have lain un¬
der great difadvantages; and thefe are very evident in
his works. The deferiptive parts are evidently defi¬
cient, and the allufions taken principally from the way
in which nature affedls thofe lenfes of which he wTas
poffeffed. Thus, fpeaking df the month of March, he
calls it the month of right digefion, from the fuppofed
fermentation then begun in the earth. Of April he fays
that the earth is then able, or has obtained a power of
producing its different vegetables j and of this produc¬
tive power he appears to have been more fenfible than
of the effefts which commonly ftrike us moft fenfibly.
“ By the working of nature (fays be), the fields are
again clothed, and the woods acquire their worthy-
weed of green. May brings along with it great cele.1-
tial gl^nefs. The heavenly hues appear upon the
tender green.” In another place he deferibes the
deity of fotne river, whom he calls Nymphcrus, “ build¬
ing his bower with oil and balm, fulfilled of fvveet odour.” ;
By reafon of thefe difadyantages, he feldom makes u(©
3 B 2 ©f
HEN [ 380 ] HEN
Henry, of finjJlies with which Homer abounds To much j and
few' miraculous interpofitions are to be found in his
poem, though the prophecies of Thomas Lermont
commonly called The Rhymer, and a prophetic dream
of Wallace himfelf, are introduced, as well as the ghoit
of Fawdon, a traitor who had joined Wallace, and
whom the latter in a fit of paflion had killed. In
other refpe&s, the fame inextinguilhable thirft of blood
which Homer afcribes to his hero Achilles is afcribed
to Wallace, though in all probability the mind of
Wallace was too much enlightened to admit of fuch
fentiments. A vaft degree of courage and perfonal
strength are afcribed to him, by means of which the
exploits of the whole army are in effect transferred to
a fingle perfon. As long as he is inverted with the
command, the Scots are victorious and irrefiftible ;
when deprived of it, they are enflaved and undone.
After rtruggling for fome time againft an inveterate
and powerful faction, difdaining to feign fubmiflion,
he is taken by treachery, and died a martyr to tl;e
freedom of his country. The poem, on the whole, is
valuable, on account of our being able to trace, by its
means, the progrefs which the Englirti language had
made at that time in Scotland : the manners of the
Scots in that age : as the favourite drefs of green
which at that time was the tafte of the inhabitants of
Scotland, &c. With regard to the authenticity of his
relations, it is impofiible to fuppofe any other thing
than that they are partly true and partly falfe. The
general thread of the ftory may undoubtedly be looked
upon to be genuine, though embellifhed with poetical
fiflions and exaggerations •, and his conllant appeals to
the book already mentioned, though it is now loft,
muft be looked upon as a itrong teftimony in his favour :
for we cannot fuppofe that at the time he lived, when
we may fay that the tranfaftions which he relates were
recent, he would have had the confidence to appeal to
a book which had not been generally known to have
an exiflence ; and its being now7 loft can never be any
argument againft it, when we confider the difficulty
there was of preferving books before the invention of
printing 5 the confufions in which Scotland w7as fre¬
quently involved } and that the exploits of Wallace,
who muft be fuppofed to have been a kind of rival to
the great Bruce, could not be fo agreeable to the
court as thofe of the more fuccefsful hero } and there¬
fore the hiftory of them might be fuffered to fall into
oblivion, though written in elegant Latin, while a
moft ridiculous poem in that language on the battle of
Bannockburn has been preferved to his day.
Henry Prince of Wales, eldeft fon of King JamesVI.
of Scotland by his queen Anne filler of the king of
1 / Denmark, and one of the moft accomplilhed princes
of the age in which he lived, was born on the 19th of
February 1594. The birth of the prince was announ¬
ced by embafties to many foreign powTers, with invi¬
tations to be prefent at the ceremony of his baptifm,
which was thus delayed for a confiderable time. Mr
Peter Young, wTho, along with the celebrated George
Buchanan, had been preceptor to his majefty, w7as
lent to the courts of Denmark, Brunfwic, and- Meck¬
lenburg, the duke of Mecklenburgh being great-grand¬
father to the prince by the mother’s fide ; the laird of
Fall Weems to France and England •, and Sir Robert
Keith, and Captain Murray provoft of St Andrew’s,
to. the States General, who at that time were ftrug- Hei
gling againft the Spanilh tyranny, and not yet declared '
a free Hate. All thefe ambaffadors w7ere cordially re¬
ceived, and others appointed in return except by the
courts of France and England. Henry IV. at that
time king of France, though the Scots ambaflador had
formerly been one of his owm fervants, neither made
any prefent, nor appointed an ambaffador. Queen
Elizabeth had defigned to a6t in the fame manner till
the heard of the behaviour of Henry 5 after which (he
honoured James by appointing an ambaffador of very
high rank, Robert earl of Suffex. This ambaffador,
however, was fo long of making his appearance, that
the queen imagined the ceremony would be over before
his arrival ; for which reafon fhe fent a meffage to the
earl, commanding him in that cafe not to enter Scot¬
land nor deliver her prefent. But James had been
more obfequious ; and not only delayed the ceremony
till the Engliih ambaffador arrived, but diftinguidted
him from the reft by having a canopy carried over his
head at the proceflion, fupported by the lairds of Cels-
ford, Buccleugh, Duddope, and Traquair. The ce¬
remony was performed with great magnificence ; after
which the ambafladors preiented their gifts. That
from the United States was the moft valuable. it
confifted of two gold cups worth 1 2,400 crowns, with
a box of the fame metal, weighing in all about 400
ounces, containing befides the grant of a penfion of
5000 florins annually to the prince for life. The Eng-
lifti ambaffador gave a cupboard .of plate curioufly
wrought, and valued at 3C00I. fterling ; and the Danifti
ambaffador two gold chains, one for the queen and
another for the prince. The baptifm was celebrated
on the 6th of September 1594, and the child named
Frederick-Henry and Henry-Frederick.
The young prince was now committed to the care
of the earl of Mar, who was aflifted in this important
charge by Annabella countefs-dowager of Mar, daugh¬
ter of William Murray of Tullibardine, and paternal
anceftor of the prefent duke of Athol. This lady was
remarkable for the feverity of her temper, fo that the
prince met with little indulgence while under her tui¬
tion •, notwithftanding which, he ftiowed great affeftion
for his governefs all the time Ihe had the care of him.
Next year, however (1595), the queen engaged the
chancellor, Lord Thirleitane, in a fcheme to get the
prince into her own power ; but the king having found
means to diffuade her majefty from the attempt, fliowed
afterwards fuch marks of difpleafure to the chancellor,
that the latter fell into a languifhing diforder and died
of grief.
In his fixthyear Prince Henry was committed to the
care of Mr Adam Newton a Scotfman, eminently fkill-
ed in moft branches of literature, but particularly di-
ftinguifhed for his knowledge of the Latin language.
Under his tutorage the prince foon made great progrefs
in that language, as well as in other branches of know7-
ledge 5 infomuch that before he had completed his fixth
year, his father wrote for his ufe the treatife entitled
Bajilicon Doron, thought to be the heft of all his works.
In his feventh year, Prince Henry began his corre-
fpondence with foreign powers. His firft letter was
to the States of Holland ; in which he expreffed his
regard and gratitude for the good opinion they had
conceived of him, and of which he had been informed
HEN [ 38
Henry, by feveral perfons who had vilited that country 5 con-
—> ' eluding with a requeft that they would make ufe of
his intered with his father in whatever he could ferve
them, promiiing alfo his fervice in every other refpedt in
which he could be ufeful, until he Ihould be able to give
farther inttances of his good-will and affeftion.
At this early period the prince began to add to his
literary accomplithments fome of the more martial kind,
fuch as riding, the exercife of the bow, pike, &c. as
well as the ufe of fire-arms j and indeed fuch was the
attachment he (liowed throughout his whole lifetime to
military exercifes, that had he attained the years of
maturity, there can fcarce be a doubt that he would
have diftinguilhed himfelf in a mod eminent manner.
In all his exercifes he made furprifmg progrefs •, and
not only in thole of the military kind, but in Imging,
dancing, &c. On his ninth birth-day he fent a letter
in Latin to the king, informing him that he had read
over ference’s Hecyra, the third book of Phaedrus s
Fables, and two books of Cicero’s Epitlles 5 and tnat
now he thought himfelf capable of performing fome-
thing in the commendatory kind of epidles. His ac-
complilhments were foon fpoken of in foreign countries j
and thefe, along with the general fufpicion that James
favoured the Catholic party, probably induced Pope
Clement VIII. to make an attempt to get him into
his hands. With this view he propofed, that if James
would entrud him with the education of the young
prince, he would advance fuch fums of money as would
eife£fually edablilh him on the throne of England.
This happened a little before the death of Elizabeth j
but James, notwithdanding his ambition to poiTefs the
crown of England, of which he was not yet altogether
certain, withdood the temptation. He alleged, that it
would be unnatural for him, as a father, to allow his
fon to be brought up in the belief of a doctrine which
he himfelf did not believe : and even though he fhould
ait in his private capacity in luch an unnatural manner,
he could not anfwer for it to the nation, he being
heir-apparent to the crown, and the kingdom at large
much intereded in whatever concerned him. On the
death of the queen of England, James was obliged to
leave Scotland in luch hade, that he had not time to
take a perfonal leave of his fon, and therefore did fo
by letter, which wras anfwered by the prince in Latin.
The queen, however, who had been delired to follow
the king to London in three wueks, but to leave the
prince in Scotland, thought proper to make another
attempt to get her fon into her own power. With
this view (lie took a journey to Stirling, where the
prince relided, but was oppofed in her deiigns by the
friends of the houfe of Mar ; and this affe£ted her fo
much, that die mifearried of a child of which die was
then pregnant. The king, hearing of this misfortune,
ordered the prince to be delivered to his mother •, but
refufed to infiitd any puniihment on the earl of Mar,
which the queen indded upon, that nobleman having
been with the king at London, and entirely innocent
of the whole affair. Indead of punir'beJ*ig him, there¬
fore, he caufed him to be acquitted by an aft of the
public council at Stirling j inveded him with the order
of the garter 5 made him a grant of feveral aboey and
other church.lands *, and raifed him to the pod of lord
high treafurer after the difgrace of the earl of Somer-
fet} in which employment he continued till he could
! ] HEN
no longer perform the duties of his office through age
and infirmity. N •
In the month of July this year (1603) Prince
Henry was inveded with the order of the garter *, after
which he was prefented to the queen in his robes, and
greatly commended by all who faw him on account of
his majedic carriage and religious behaviour at the
altar, as well as the quicknefs of his underdanding and
ready anfwers. Being obliged to leave London on
account of the plague, he retired to Otelands, a
royal palace near Whybridge in Surrey, wheie a lepa-
rate houfehold was appointed for him and his fider
Elizabeth. The appointment confided at fod of 70
fervants, of whom 22 were to be above Itairs and 48
below. In fome weeks the number was augmented to
104, of whom 51 were above dairs and 53 below •, but
before the end of the year they were augmented to
141, of whom 56 w’ere above dairs and 85 below.
From Otelands he removed the fame year to Nonfuch
in Surrey, and from thence to Hampton Court, where
he refided till Michaelmas 1604*, after which he re¬
turned to his houfe at Otelands, his fervants having all
this time been kept on board-wages.
In the tenth year of his age, Henry began to
fhow a wonderful defire of becoming mader of ad thole
accomplidiments which are neceflary to conditute a
great prince. Without defining from his attention to
polite literature, he applied himlelf in the mod afiidu-
ous manner to the knowledge of naval and mihtaiy
affairs. To give him the firit rudiments of the former,
a final! veffel wascondrufted 28 feet long and x 2 broad,,
curioudy painted and carved *, on board of which he
embarked with feveral of the principal nobility, and
failed down as far as Paul’s Wharf, where, with the
ufual ceremonies, he baptized it by the name of the Dif-
dain. Mr Pett, the builder of this drip, was recom¬
mended to the prince by the high admiral in fuch
drong terms, that his highnefs took him immediately
into his fervice, and continued his favour to him as long
as he lived.
Prince Henry now began to fiiorv himfelf equally a
patron of military men and of learning. His martial
difpodtion induced him to take notice of Colonel Ed-
mondes, a brave Scots officer in the Dutch fervice^
who had raifed himfelf folely by his merit. To him
he applied for a fuit of armour to be fent over from
Holland : but though the colonel executed his com-
miffion, he reaped no benefit from his highnefs s fa¬
vour, dying in a ffiort time after the armour was pur-
chafed, before he had any opportunity of fending it
over. In matters of literature the prince appears to
have been a very good judge. He pationifed divines,
and appears to have been naturally of a religious turn
of mind. His attachment to the Protedant religion ap¬
pears to have been excedive j as it never was in the
power of the queen, who favoured the Catholic party,
to make the lead impredion upon him. Her machina¬
tions for this purpofe were difeovered by the French
ambaffador j who, in a letter dated June 7* 1.604,
informed his mader of them, and that the Spaniards
were in hopes of being able by her means to alter the
religion in England, as well as to prejudice the prince
againd France, which the queen faid die hoped that
her fon would one day be able to conquer like another
Henry V. By another letter, of date 22d Oftober the
fame
Henry.
HEN [ 3
Henry, fame year, tlie ambaffador, after taking notice of the
v queen’s immoderate ambition, adds, that ike ufed all
her efforts to corrupt the mind of the prince, by tlat-
tering his pafiions, diverting him from his iludies, and
reprefenting to him, out of contempt to his father, that
learning was inconfiflent with the charafter of a great
general and conqueror; propofing at the fame time a
marriage with the infanta of Spain. Notwithftanding
thefe remonftrances, however, the prince continued to
behave as ufual, and to patronife the learned no lefs
than before. He prefented John Johnfton, one of the
king’s profeffors at St Andrew’s with a diamond, for
having dedicated to him an Hiilorical Defcription of
the kings of Scotland frona the foundation of the mo¬
narchy to that time ; after which the profeffor added
a carmen encomiajlicum, which was tranfmitted to his
highnefs in November 1605. Many other authors alfo
fought and obtained his countenance. In 1606 Mr
John Bond ufliered his edition of Horace into the
world with a polite dedication to the prince, whom
he highly compliments on account of the progrefs he
had made in learning. In 1609 a book was fent over
to him from France by Sir George Carew, the Bri-
tilh ambaffador there, tending to difprove the do<5!rine
of the Catholics concerning the church of Rome being
the firil of the Chriitian churches. The fame year the
learned Thomas Lydyat publifhed his Emendatio Tem-
porurn, which appeared under the patronage of the
prince *, and with this performance his highnefs was
fo well pleafed, that he took the author into his family
to read to him, and made him his chronographer and
cofmographer. Paul Buys or Bufius alfo fent him a
letter with a dedication of the fecond part of his Pan¬
ders •, in which he bellows upon him the higheft com¬
pliments on the great expe£fations which were formed
of him, and of the hopes entertained by the reformed
Chriilian churches that he would prove a powerful fup-
port to their caufe, and antagonift to the errors of
Rome. In 16x1 Dr Tooker, in his dedication of an
Anfwer to Becanus a Jefuit, who had written again!! a
piece done by his majelty himfelf, flyles his highnefs
A the Maecenas of all the learned.” Another treatife
againfl the fame Becanus was alfo printed this year,
and dedicated to the prince.
Many other authors, whom our limits will not allow
us to take notice of, were fond of dedicating their per¬
formances to his highnefs ; nor w^as his correfpondence
lefs extenfive than his erudition. We have already
taken notice of his having written his firft public letter
to the Hates of Holland. He was congratulated by
the eledlor palatine, afterwards married to the princefs
Elizabeth, on the difeovery of the gunpowder-plot.
On the fame occafxon alio Lord Spenfer wrote him a
letter, accompanying it with the prefent of a fword and
target; “ inftruments (fays he) fit to be about you in
thofe treacherous times j from the which, I trull, God
will ever protefl your moft royal father, &c.” Previous
to this he had correfponded in Latin with the doge of
Venice, the landgrave of Heffe, and the king of Den¬
mark •, in French wdth the duke of Savoy, and in La¬
tin with the duke of Brunfwic and Uladiflaus king of
Poland •, befides a number of other eminent perfons too
tedious to enumerate.
The great accomplifhments ef Henry foon caufed
him to be taken notice of by the moil eminent princes
82 ] HEN
in Europe. In 1606 Henry IV. of France ordered Henry,
his ambaffador to pay him !pecial regard on all occa- ' 1 "
fions. He defired him likewife to falute the prince
in the name of the dauphin, afterwards Louis XIII. and
to inform him of the regard the latter had for him. A
meffage was abb fent by the fame arabaffador to M. de St
Anthoine, appointed to be riding-malter to his highnefs,
enjoining him to do his duty in that office: and alluring
him that his majeity would be as much pleafed with it
as if the fervice had been done to himfelf. To thefe
meffages the prince returned very proper anfwers •, and
afterwards performed his exercife in the ridtng-fchoel be¬
fore the ambaffador himfelf, that the latter might fend
an account thereof to his mailer. On this occafion he
mounted two horfes, and acquitted himfelf fo well that
the ambafiador in a letter to M. de Villeroy, the
French fecretary, gave him the character of “ a
prince who promifed very much, and whole friendffiip
could not but be one day of advantage.” Having then
fet forth the propriety of cultivating a good under-
Handing with him, he tells the ieerctary, that the dau¬
phin might make a return for Ipme dogs which the
prince had fent him, by a fuit or armour well gilt
and enamelled, together with piltols and a fword of the
iame kind 5 alfo two hories, one of them a barb.—-
This year alfo the prince waited on his uncle the king
of Denmark, wlio had come to England ’on a vilit to
King James j and this monarch was fo much pleafed
with his company, that he prefented him at parting
with his vice-admiral and belt fighting Hup, valued at
no lefs than 2500I. alfo with a rapier and hanger, va¬
lued at 2000 marks. The Hates of Holland were equally
ready to ffiow their attachment. On the 25th of Au-
guH this year they fent a letter to the prince in French,
accompanied with the preient of a let of table linen,
which they thought, as being the produce of their
own country, wrould be agreeable to him \ and they
requefled his love and favour towards their flab : in
return for which they promifed to be always ready to
ffiow their regard for him, and to do him all poilible
fervice *, as the ambaffador himielf was ordered more
particularly to declare. About this time the prince
himfelf wrote a letter to Henry IV. acknowledging
the kindnefs which his maiefty had ffiown him for fe-
veral years, and confirmed of late by the latter offering
him under his own royal hand his friendffiip and that
of the dauphin.
While James wras this year employed in hunting,
the French ambaffador, who had been obliged to quit
London on account of the plague, took frequent op¬
portunities of waiting upon his highhefs, as did alfo
the Spaniffi ambaffador, wliofe offenfible reafon was
to inform him about fcme horfes which were to be
fent him from Spain. The prince’s partiality towards
France, however, was fo evident, that the French am¬
baffador, in a letter dated 3 1H 0£lober 1606, mentions,
that “ as far as he could difeover, his highnefs’s inclina¬
tion was entirely towards France, and that it would be
wrong to neg,LS^ a prince who promifed fuch great
things. None of his pleafures (continued he) favour
the kail of a child. He is a particular lover of horfes
and whatever belongs to them : but is not fond of hunt¬
ing ) and when he goes to it, it is rathe» for the plea-
fure of galloping than that which the dogs give him.
He plays willingly enough at tennis, and another Scottifh
diverltoa
HEN [ 3B3 ] HEN
Henry, diverfion very like mall ; but this always with perlbns
—  ‘ elder than himfelf, as it' he defpifed tliofe of his own
age. He ftudxes two hours a-day, and employs-the
reit of his time in tolling the pike, or leaping, or
Ihooting with the bow, or throwing the bar, or vault¬
ing, or fome other exercife of the kind, and he is ne¬
ver idle. He thows himfelf likewife very good-natu¬
red to his dependents, fupports their intereifs againft
any perfons whatever, and pufhes whatever he under¬
takes for them or others with fuch zeal as gives fuc-
cefs to it. For betides his exerting his whole tirengfh
to compals what he delires, he is already feared by
thofe who have the management of aifairs, and efpe-
ciallyby the earl of Salithury, rvho appears to be greatly
apprehenlive of the prince’s afcendant j as the prince,
cn the other hand, (hows little efteem for his lordlhip.”
In this letter the arnbailador further goes on to re¬
mark, that fome of the prince’s attendants had for¬
merly been made to expebt peniions from France ; and
he was of opinion that they ought to be gratified on
account of the intereft they had with the prince. He
adds, that the queen had lefs affeblion for Prince Henry
than for his brother the duke of York, afterwards
Charles I. •, which the prince feemed to have difcovered,
and fometimes ufed expreffions to that purpofe : that
the king alfo feemed to be jealous of his Ton’s accorn-
plilhments, and to be difpleafcd with the quick pro-
grefs he made.
In 1607 the prince received the arms and armour
which Henry IV. fent him as a prefent j and thefe be¬
ing accompanied with a letter, the prince returned an
anfwer by a Mr Douglas, who was introduced to the
king of France by the ambaiTador Sir George Carew.
His majeity, contrary to cuftom, opened the prince’s
letter immediately j and was fo much furprifed at the
beauty of the character, that he could not. be fatisfied
that it was the prince’s hand until he compared the
fignature with the relf of the writing. In his letter
to the Britilh court on this occafion, the ambaiTador
lets forth in Orong terms the affeblion expreffed by
the French monarch for the prince ; “ accounting of
him as of his own Ton, as he hoped that his good brother
of Great Britain wrould do the like of the dauphin.”
The French ambaffador alfo gave a character of his
highnefs fnnilar to that already mentioned ; remarking,
*f that the prince had great accompliihments and courage;
would foon make himfelf talked of, and poffibly give
jealoufy to his father, and apprehenfions to thofe who
had the greateft afcendant at court.” With regard to
the penfions to his attendants, he was at firft of opinion
that they ought to be granted •, but afterwards altered
his mind, perceiving that there was little probability
of the prince being influenced by any of his attend¬
ants, as he was much more inclined to be guided by
his own judgment than by the fuggeftions of others.
-.—In the month of July this year the Dutch ambaffa-
dors came recommended to Prince Henry by the States,
who wrote to him that they had ordered their ambaf-
fadors to kifs his highnefs’s hands on their part, and
defired him to continue his friendfhip to their republic,
and to allow their ambaffadors a favourable audience,
and the fame credit as to themfelves.
All this attention paid him by foreign powers, all
his attention to his own improvements in learning and
the military art, and all the temptations which, we
cannot but fuppofe a youth in his exalted flation to Hent^.
have been expoled to, ieem never to have fliaken the '
mind of this magnanimous prince in the leaf!, or to
have at any time made him deviate from the ftrhld: line
of propriety. We have already mentioned his attach¬
ment to the Proteftant religion 5 and this appears net
to have been grounded upon any prejudice or opinion
inculcated upon his infant mind by thofe wTho had the
care of him, but from a thorough convxflion of the truth
of the principles which he profeffed. On the difeovery
of the gunpowder-plot, he was fo impreffed wdth grati¬
tude towards the Supreme Being, that he never after¬
wards omitted being prefent at the fermon preached
on the occafxon. In his 14th year the prince (bowed
himfelf capable of diftinguilhing the merit of religious
diiccurfes, and paid particular regard to fuch divines
as were moft remarkable for their learning and abili¬
ties. Am®ng others, he honoured with his attention
the learned and eloquent Mr Jofeph Hall, then re&oi-
of Halilead in Suffolk, afterwards dean ofWorceller,
and fucceffxvely biflxop of Exeter and Norwich. His
highnefs was fo much pleafed with a book of Medita¬
tions publiihed by that divine, that he preffed him to
preach before him 5 and having heard two of his fer-
mons, he engaged him as one of his chaplains j invi¬
ting him afterwards to itay coniiantly at bis court,
while the other chaplains waited only in their turns ;
promifing, moreover, to obtain from the king fuch
preferments as (hould fully latisfy him. Mr Hall, how¬
ever, from a reludlance to leave his nexv patron Lord
Denny afterwards earl of Norwich, did not accept of
thefe honourable and advantageous propofals.
In h is family the prir.ee took the utmoli care to pre-
ferve decency and regularity. He ordered boxes to be
kept at his three houfes of St James’s, Richmond, and
Nonfuch, for the money required of thole who were
heard to fwear; the fines levied on fuch offenders
being given to the poor. He had, indeed, a particu¬
lar averfion to the vice of fwearing and profanation of
the name of God. When at play, he never was heard
to do fo ; and on being alked why he did not fwear at
play as well as others ; he anfwered, that he knexv no
game worthy of an oath. The fame anfwer he is faid to
have given at a hunting-match. The flag, almoff quito
fpent, crofled a road where a butcher was palling with
his dog. The flag was inffantly killed by the dogj
at which the huntfmen were greatly offended, and en¬
deavoured to irritate the prince again!! the butcher :
but his highnefs anfwered coolly, “ WTat if the
butcher’s dog killed the flag, what could the butcher
help it ? They replied, that if his father had been fo
ferved, he would have fworn fo that no man could
have endured. “ Away,” cried the prince, “ all the'
pleafure in the world is not worth an oath.”
The regard which Prince Henry had for religion
was manifell from his attachment to thofe who be¬
haved themfelves in a religious and virtuous manner.
Among thefe was Sir John Harrington, whofe father
had been knighted by Queen Elizabeth, and created
by King James a baron of England in 1603 by the
title of Lord Harrington of Exton in Rutland. He
was entruiled with the care of the prxncefs Elizabeth
after her marriage with the eleftor palatine, whom he-
attended to Heydelberg in 1613, and died at Worms
on the 24th of Auguft following. His fon, who in.
the
HEN [ 384 J
Henry, the year 1604 had been created knight of the Bath, then agitated
•“'"'v was as foon as he came to the years of diferetion re¬
markable for his piety j infomuch that he is faid to
have kept an exaft diary of his life, and to have exa*
mined himfelf every week as to the progrefs he had
made in piety and virtue, and what faults he had com¬
mitted during that time. lie was affable and cour¬
teous to all, and remarkable for his humanity to thofe
in diftrefs ; all which good qualities fo endeared^ him
to the prince, that he entered into as ftridl a fnend-
fhip with him as the difproportion between their fla-
tions would allow. J. here are Hill feveral letteis ex¬
tant which palled between them, chiefly upon clafli-^
cal fubje&s. This worthy and accomplilhed nobleman
died in February 16x4.
In his friendfliip Prince Henry appears to have been
very fincere, and inviolably attached to thofe whom he
once patronifed. He had a great regard for the un¬
fortunate Lady Arabella Stewart, filler of Henry Lord
Darnley, the king’s father j and there is Hill extant a
letter from this lady to the prince in return for fome
kmdnefs he had bellowed on a kinfman of hers at her
recommendation. He expreffed much compaflion for
her misfortunes j Ihe having excited the king’s jea-
loufy on account of her marriage with Mr William
Seymour, afterwards earl and marquis of Hertford,
and rellored in 1660 to the dukedom of Somerfet.
But on her attempting to efcape from the houfe in
Highgate where Ihe was confined, and to go abroad
with her hulband, his highnefs expreffed fome refent-
ment againll her j though in all probability his ap-
prehenfions, as well as thofe of the king, were ill-
founded.
As early as the year 1605, the prince, though then
only in his nth year, manifelted his gratitude and at¬
tachment to thofe who had ferved him, in the mllance
of his tutor Mr Newton already mentioned. That
gentleman had been promifed by his majeliy. the
deanery of Durham upon the demife of the archbilhop
of York. On this promife Mr Newton had relied for
two years •, and as foon as the prelate died, his high¬
nefs took care to put the king in mind of his promife j
in confequence of which, Mr Newton w’as inltalled in
his office on the 17th of September x6c6;
Mr Pett, the gentleman who firll inllrufted the
prince in naval affairs, having been involved with many
others in an enquiry concerning their condudl in their
refpeftive employments in the royal navy, the prince
ffiowed a laudable defire of protecting their innocence.
The inquiry was fet on foot by the earl of Northamp¬
ton, lord privy feal and wrarden of the cinque ports,
who had received a commiflion from the king for the
purpofe. It was carried on by his agents, however,
with fuch violence and malice, as not only occafioned
great trouble and expence to the parties concerned,
but almoft ruined the navy, befides augmenting his
majefty’s expences much more than formerly. Mr Pett’s
trial began on the 28th of April 16095 at which time
the reports being very favourable to him, the king de¬
termined to examine into the flate of the matter him¬
felf. For this purpofe he w'ent to Woolwich on the
8th of May, attended by the prince 5 and appointed
Sir Thomas Chaloner, his highnefs’s governor, and
Sir Henry Briggs then profeffor of geometry in
Greffiam college, to decide the controverfy which was
2
HEN
about the proportion of the ffiips. The Henry,
mcafurers declared in favour of Mr Pett 5 on which
the prince exclaimed, “ Where be now thofe perjured
fellows, that dare thus to abide his majefty with falfe
informations ? Do they not worthily deferve hanging ?”
During the whole time he flood near Mr Pett to en¬
courage him 5 and when the king declared himfelf la-
tisfied of his innocence, the prince took him up from
his knees, expreffing his own joy for the fatisfaflion
which his father had received that day 5 protefling
that he wmuld not only countenance Mr Pett for the
future, but provide for him and his family as long as
he lived.
The courage, intrepid difpofition, and martial turn
of this prince, were manifeft from his infancy. It is
related of Alexander the Great, that at a very early
period of his life he ffiowed more ikill than all his fa¬
ther’s grooms in the breaking of his favourite horie
Bucephalus. An anecdote fomewhat fimilar is re¬
corded of Prince Henry. He was hardly ten years
of age, when he mounted a very high-fpirited horfe,
in fpite of the remonftrances of his attendants ; fpurred
the animal to a full gallop 5 and having thoroughly
wearied him, brought him back at a gentle pace, alk-
ing his fervants at his return, “ How long^ ffiall I
continue in your opinion to be a child ?” from the
very firft time that he embarked on board the fmall
veffel formerly mentioned, he continued to pay the
utmoft: attention to naval affairs. In Auguff 1607,
he vifited the royal navy at Woolwich, where he was
received by Mx Pett, and conducted aboard the Royal
Anne, where he had 31 large pieces of ordnance ready
to be fired. I his was doi»e unexpecfedly as foon as
the prince reached the poop *, at which he exprefled
great fatisfadlion. After vifiting the dock-yard, and
furveying what was done of a ffiip then building for
himfelf, he went affiore, and having partaken of an en¬
tertainment prepared ior him by Mr Pett, he was by
him conduced to the mount, wrhere the ordnance were
again charged and ready to be placed for firing. 1 he
prince infilled upon an immediate difeharge, but fuf-
fered himfelf to be perfuaded againft it by Mr Pett s
reprefentation of the danger of firing fo many ord¬
nance loaded with fhot while his highnefs flood clofe
by : on a fignal given by him, however, by holding up
his handkerchief, alter he had removed to a proper di-
ftance with his barge,' the ordnance w’ere difeharged as
he had defired. In his 16th year he paid feveral vi-
fits to Woolwich, in order to fee the above-mentioned
ffiip which wras building for himfelf. When finiffied,
it was the large!! that had ever been feen in Lngland .
the keel being 1x4 feet in length, and the crofs-beam
44 feet 5 carrying 64 pieces of great ordnance ; the
burden about 1400 tons 5 and the whole curioufiy
ornamented with carving and gilding. His highneis
having received this fhip in a prefent from his majefty,
w’ent to fee it launched on the 24th of September
1609. The narrownefs of the dock, however, having
prevented its being done at that time, the prince, who
ffaid behind the reft of the company in order to pre¬
pare for the ceremony next morning, returned by three
©’clock through a ftorm of rain, thunder, and light¬
ning ; and Handing on the poop while the ffiip was
launched, gave it the name of the Prince Royal.
In 1611 his highnefs made a private viht to Cha¬
tham,
H E N
[ 385 ]
HEN
Henry, tliam, where lie firfl went on board the Prince Royal,
—-y——' and afterwards from (hip to drip ; informing himfelf
particularly of every thing of moment relating to the
date of all the different (Rips, and even pinnaces lying
there at that time. Next day he went by water up
to Stroud *, where, contrary to all the remonftrances
of his attendants, he caufed the ordnance to be (hot
over his barge. From Stroud he went to Gravefend,
where the magiftrates received him with a difeharge
of all their (mail arms and the ordnance of tne block-
houfes.
About the middle of January 1612, Prince Henry
ordered all his majefty’s mafter.-lhipwrights and buil¬
ders to attend him to confider of a proportion con¬
cerning the building of (hips in Ireland made by a
Mr Burrel. Some of his proportions were, that he
fhould build any (hip from 100 to 600 totis, with two
decks and an half, at the rate of Eve pounds per ton *,
that he would build any (hip from 600 to 1000 tons,
with three whole decks, at the rate of feven pounds
per ton ; that he (hould build a (hip of 600 tons with¬
in a certain time, &c. Mr Pett was employed to fee
that this contradl was fulfilled on the part of Mr Bur¬
rel. Among the prince’s papers, a lift of the royal
navy was found after his death, with an account of all
the expences of fitting out, manning, &c. which muft
now be accounted a valuable addition to the naval hi-
itorv of thofe times. His paflion for naval affairs na¬
turally led him to a defire of making geographical dif-
coveries; of which, however, only two inftances have
reached our times. One was in 1607, when he recei¬
ved from Mr Tindal his gunner, who had been em¬
ployed by the Virginia company, a draught of James’s
river in that country, with a letter dated 22d June the
fame year. In this letter Mr Tindal remaiks, that his
fellow-adventurers had difeovered that river ; and that
no Chriftian had ever been there before-, that they rvere
fafely arrived and fettled j that they found the coun¬
try very fruitful ; and that they had taken a real and
public pofieffion in the name and to the ufe of the
king his highnefs’s father. The other inftance was in
the year 1612, the fame in which he died, when he
employed Mr Thomas Button, an eminent mariner, to
go in queft of a north-weft paffage. Mr Button ac¬
cordingly fet fail with two (hips named the Refolution
and Difcoven/; the fame defignations with thofe in
which the late Captain Cook made his laft voyage.
Both of them were viftualled for 18 months: but
■wintering in thefe northern regions, they did not re¬
turn till after the prince’s deceafe, fo that Captain
Button was never fent on another voyage : neverthe-
lefs, he returned fully convinced of the exiftence of fuch
a paffage 5 and even told the celebrated profeffor Briggs
nf Grefham college, that he had convinced the king of
his opinion.
The martial difpofition of the prince, winch was
confpicuous on all occafions, eminently difplayed it-
felf on the occafion of his being invefted in the prin¬
cipality of Wales and duchy of Cornwall, which took
place in the year 1610. Previous to this ceremony,
he, under the name and charadler of Mahades lord of
the ides, caufed a challenge to be given, in the roman¬
tic ftyle of thofe times, to all the knights in Great
Britain. The challenge, according to cuftom, was
accepted and on the appointed day, the prince, af-
Vol. X. Part I.
fifted only by the duke of Lenox, the earls of Arun¬
del and Southampton, Lord Hay, Sir Thgmas Somer- '
fet, and Sir Richard Prefton who inftrudted his high-
nefs in arms, maintained the combat againft 56 earls,
barons, knights and efquires. Prince Henry himfelf
gave and received 32 pufhes of the pike, and about 360
ftrokes of fwords, performing his part very gracefully,
and to the admiration of all who faw him, he being
not yet 16 years of age. Prizes w-ere bellowed upon
the earl of Montgomery, Mr Thomas Harry, and Sir
Robert Gordon, for their behaviour at this combat.
The ceremony of inftallation Wras performed on the
4th of June 1610, at which time every kind of mag¬
nificence that could be devifed was difplayed. Among
other pageants ufed on this occafion was that of Nep¬
tune riding on a dolphin and making fpeeches to the
prince ; alfo of a fea-goddefs upon a whale. After
the ceremony the prince took his place on the left
hand of his majefty; fitting there in his royal robes,
with the crowm on his head, the rod in one hand, and
in the other the patent creating him prince of Wales
and duke of Cornwall. A public aft w'as then read,
teilifying that he had been declared prince of Great
Britain and Wales. He wras afterwards ferved at table
wnth a magnificence not unworthy of royalty itlelf;
the whole concluding with a grand mafquerade and
tournament.
In one inftance, the extreme defire which Prince
Henry had of being inftrufted in military affairs, car¬
ried him beyond thofe'bounds w-hich European nations
have preferibed to one another. In 1607 the prince
de Joinville, brother to the duke of Guife, came to
England, having been obliged to leave France in con-
fequence of his having made love to the countefs de
Moret the king’s miftrefs. After having been for a few
weeks magnificently entertained at court, he departed
for France in the beginning of June. The prince
took an opportunity of fending to Calais in the train
of the prince an engineer in his own fervice, who took
the opportunity of examining all the fortifications of
the town, particularly thofe of the Rix-Banc. This
was difeovered by the French ambaffador, who imme¬
diately gave notice of it to court, but excufed the
prince, as fuppofing that what he had done was more
out of curiofity than any thing elfe ; and the court
feemed to be of the fame opinion, as no notice was ever
taken of the affair, nor wras the friendfhip between King
Henry and the prince in the fmalleft degree interrupt¬
ed. The martial difpofition of his highnefs was great¬
ly encouraged by fome people in the military line, who
put into his hands a paper entitled Proportions for
War and Peace.” Notwithftanding this title, howr-
ever, the aim of the author was evidently to promote
war rather than peace j and for this the following ar¬
guments were ufed. 1. Neceffity for the preferva-
tion of our own peace, the venting of faftious fpirits,
and inftrufting the people in arms. 2. The benefits
to be derived from the fpoils of the enemy, an augmen¬
tation of revenue from the conquered countries, &c.
This wras anfwered by Sir Robert Cotton in the follow¬
ing manner. 1. That our wifeft princes had always
been inclined to peace. 2. That foreign expeditions
were the caufes of invafions from abroad, and rebel¬
lions at home, endlefs taxations, vaffalage, and dan¬
ger to the (late from the extent of territory, &c. It
3 C does
Hemy.
HEN
[ 3S6 ]
HEN
/leiiry. Joes not appear, however, that the prince was at all
-—^ moved by thef'e pacific arguments : on the contrary,
his favourite Jiverfions were tilting, charging on horfe-
back with piftols, &c. He delighted in converfing
with people of flcill and experience in war concerning
every part of their profeflion ; caufed new pieces of
ordnance to be made, with which he learned t^ {hoot
•at a mark j and was fo careful to furniih himfelf wuth
a breed of good horfes, that no prince in Europe could
boaft of a iuperiority in this refpedh He w'as Solici¬
ted by Sir Edward Conway to direfr his attention to
the affairs of the continent, where Sigifmund III. of
Poland threatened, in conjunction with the king of
Denmark, to attack Guflavus Adolphus the young
king of Sweden ; but the death of the prince, which hap¬
pened this year, prevented all interference of this kind.
To his other virtues Prince Henry added thofe of
frugality without avarice, and generofity without ex-
travagancei As early as the year 1605 he began to
Ihow an aitention to his intereft as duke of Cornwall,
and to take proper meafures for Securing his revenues
there. In 1610 he fettled and appointed the officers
of his houfehold, making his choice with the greateff
prudence, and giving orders for the management and
regulation of his affairs with all the wifdom and gra¬
vity of an old counfellor. Some lands were now al¬
lotted to him for his revenues } and inftead of dimi-
niffiing his income during the fliort time he was in pol-
feffion of them, they were found at his death to be
feme thoufands of pounds better than when he obtain¬
ed them. At this time he Ihowed much reluftance to
gratify any of his Servants except by promifes, as not
thinking himfelf yet authorifed to give any thing away :
but a fiiort time before his death, he conferred penfions
on fome of them ; and there is no reafon to doubt,
that had his life been prolonged he would have reward¬
ed them all according to their merit.
Though Prince Henry never interfered much in
public bufinefs, yet in any little tranfaclions he had of
this kind, he always difolayed great firmnefs and refo-
lution, as well as abfolute propriety of conduft. In a
letter from Sir Alexander Setor, eail of Dunfermhng,
he is commended for the firmnefs and refolution with
which he repelled the calumnies of fome who “ had
raffily, and with the higheit intemperance of tongue,
endeavoured to wound the Scottifh nation. ’ Ey this
Tie alluded to fome very grofs and fcurrilous invec¬
tives thrown out againft the whole body of the Scots
by Sir Chriflopher Pigot, in a debate in the houfe of
commons on an union between the two kingdoms.
This gentleman declared his aftoniffiment at the pro-
pofal of uniting a good and fertile country to one poor,
barren, and in a manner difgraced by nature •, and for
aiibciating rich, frank, and honeft men, with fuch as
were beggars, proud, and generally traitors and rebels
to their kings; with many other Ihameful expreffions
of the fame kind. His majelfy was highly offended
with the whole council 5 and Sir Chr.ftopher, after
being obliged in parliament to retraft his words, was
expelled the houfe and imprifoned •, in confequcnce of
which, the king was addreffed by the ftates of Scot¬
land, who thanked him for the zeal he had manifefted
for the honour of their country. In another inftance,
where the prince wiffied Mr Fulleiton, a Scotfman, to
jfuperfede Sir Robert Car, one of vhe attendants of hi?
brother the duke of York, contrary to the inclination Hear?.
of the king and earl of Salifbury, his highnefs carried v ,"I'‘V
his point, by perfuading Sir Robert of himfelf to give
up the place in queffion.
Under this year, 1611, the elegant Latin hiftorian of
Great Britain from 1572 to 1628, Robert Johnffon,
places a ffory, which, though unfupported by any au¬
thority but his own, and improbable in itfelf, muff
not be omitted here. The prince, according to this
wadter, requeffed the king that he might be appointed
to prefide in the council. This demand was feconded
by the king’s favourite, Car Vifcount Rochefter, who
urged his majefty to lay his fon’s requeft before the
council. But the earl of Saliffiury, jealous of the
growing power of Rochefter, and a thorough mailer
of artifice and diffimulation, ufed all his efforts to de¬
feat whatever meafures were propofed by his rival : and
being afked foon after his opinion upon this point,
whether it was fer the public intereft that the prince
fhould prefide in the council anfwered, that he thought
it dangerous to divide the government, and to inveft
the fon wdth the authority of the father. Many others
of the privy council having delivered their opinions orv
the fame queftion, that of the earl of Saliffiury was
adopted by the majority. But his lordfhip foon took
an opportunity, in a lecret conference wuth the prince,
to lament his own lituation, and to perfuade his high¬
nefs that Lord Rocheffer had the only inffuence in the
palace, and privately counteraaed all his defigns. The
prince, on his part, refented the denial of his requeft,
and his exclufion from public bufinefs. It was not.
long before Lord Rochefter difeovered the earl of Sa-
liffiury’s pradice againft him with the prince-, to whom
he therefore went to clear himfelf. But his high¬
nefs turned from him with great indignation, and
would not hear his juftification. The queen likewjfe,
highly difpleafed with the vifcount, refufed to fee him,
and fought all means of leflening his pow’er. . I his
forwardnefs imputed to the prince by the hiftorian, in
endeavouring to intrude himielf into the management
of public affairs, is not (as Dr Birch remarks) at all
fuitabie to the charader of his highnefs, or to any
other accounts which we have of him nor ought it
to be believed upon the credit of a writer who cites
no authority for it, nor indeed for fcarce any other
affertions in his hiftory, how extraordinary loever they
appear to be, and who frequently ventures to enlarge
upon fubjeds which it was impoffible for him to have
known. However, it is not much to be doubted, that
the prince had no great eileem for Lord Rochefter,
whofe rife to the power of a favourite and a minifter
he fo much diffiked, if we may believe a fatincal writ-
ter of Memoirsf, that he was reported either to havef Francis
ftruck his lord {hip on the back with a racket, or very Oftorne’s
hardly forborne it. And another hillorkn not much
dels fatirical, Arthur WilfonJ, mentions the bicker- KingyameS}
ings betwixt the prince and the vifcount; and that Sir fe(q. -8.
James Elphinfton obferving his highnefs one day to be p. 530.
difeontented with the vifcount, offered to kill him-, {ox\ Life and
which the prince reproved him, and faid that if t|ler^ K/Vates ft
were*caufe'he would doit himfelf. But to wave fuch
very fufpicious authorities, it will be lufficient, in order
to judge of his highnefs’s opinion of the vifcount, and
his adminiflration at the very height of it, to hear
whst himfelf fays is a letter to Sir Thomas Edraondes
ox
HEN
t
Hel>„. of the 10* of September 1612; “ As matters go now
here, I will deal in no bufineffes of importance foi fome
refpeds.” , . r
It is not to be fuppofed but that the marriage ot a
prince fo accomplilhed and fo much admired would en-
trage the attention of the public. This was lndeed the
cafe. The queen, who favoured the intereft of Spain
propofed a match with the infanta, and the ^ing °
Spain himfelf feemed to be inclined to the match. In
l6ii a propofal ivas made for a double marriage e
tvvixt the prince of Wales and the eldeft daughter ot
the houfe of Savoy, and between the prince of Savoy
and the lady Elizabeth 5 but thefe overtures were
very coolly received, being generally difagreeable to
the nation. Sir Walter Raleigh, at that time priloner
in the Tower, wrote two excellent treatifes againit
thefe matches •, in one of which he ftyles the prince
The mojl excellent and hopeful, as he does alfo in the m-
troduftion to his Obfervations on the royal navy and
fea-fervice. About the year 1612, his marriage be¬
came an objedt of general attention. In this affair t e
king feems to have inclined to match his fon with the
princefs who promifed to bring the largeft dowry ; t e
nation at large to have been influenced by motives ot
religion ; and the prince himfelf to have remained en¬
tirely paflive, and to have been willing to beftow his
perfon with the molt perfedt indifference on whatto-
ever princefs ffiould be chofen for him. This appears
from a letter to the king dated 5th Odlober 1612, m
which he confiders the match with the fecond prmcels
of France as in a manner concluded. Propolals had
indeed been made of fending her over to England for
her education, flie being only nine years of age at that
time j but Villeroy the French minifter was of opi¬
nion, that this ought to be delayed for a year longer.
The reafons afligned by the prince for wiilnng her
coming to England at that time were merely political:
1. Eeca jfe the French court, by having the princefs in
their power, might alter her mind as they pleafed :
2. That there would thus be a greater likelihood of
converting her to the Proteftant religion; and 3.
That his majefty’s credit would be better preferved
when both daughters (the eldeft being promifed to. the
prince of Spain) ftiould be delivered at the fame time,
though the conclufion of the one marriage might be
much later than of the other. With regard to the
exercife of her religion, the prince expreffed himfelf
rather in fevere terms, wiftiing his majefty only to al¬
low her to ufe it in “ her moft private and fecret
chamber.’1 He then argues with the moft philofophic
indifference of the propriety of a match with^ the
French princefs rather than with one of the houfe of
Savoy : concluding at laft in the following words;
“ If I have incurred in the fame error that I did laft
by the indifference of my opinion, I humbly crave par¬
don of your majefty, holding it fitter for your majefty
to refolve what courfe is moft convenient to be taken
by the rules of the ftate, than for me who am fo little
acquainted with fubjefts of that nature : and befides,
your majefty may think, that my part to play, which
is to be in love with any of them, is not yet at hand.”
On the whole, it appeared, that there never was any
real defign in the king or prince to bring this matter
to a conclufion ; and that the propofal had been made
only with a view' to break off the match of the eldeft
387 ] HEN
daughter with the prince of Spain, which could not
now be done. # .
Prince Henry, notwithftanding his indiixerence in
matrimonial matters, applied himfelf with the utmoft
afliduity to his former employments and exercifes, the
continual fatigue of which w’as thought to impair his
health. In the 19th year of his age his conftitution
feemed to undergo a remarkable change : he began to
appear pale and thin, and to be more retired and fe-
rious than ufual. He complained now and then of a
giddinefs and heavy pain in his forehead, which ob¬
liged him to ftroke up his brow before he put on hiS
hat: he frequently bled at the noie, which girve great
relief, though the difcharge ftopped fome time before
his death. Thefe forebodings of a dangerous malady
were totally neglected both by himfelf and his attend¬
ants, even after he began to be feized at intervals with
fainting fits. Notwithftanding thele alarming fymp-
toms, he continued his ufual employments. On the
arrival of Count de Naflau in England, he waited
upon him as though nothing had been the matter;
and wdien the fubjeCt of the princefs Elizabeth s mai-
riage came to be canvaffed, he interefted himfelf deeply
in the affair, and never defifted till the match wdth the
eleftor palatine was concluded. In the beginning of
June 1612, the prince went to Richmond, where he
continued till the progrefs: and notwithftanding the
complaints above mentioned, he nowr took the oppor¬
tunity of the neighbourhood of the 'lhames to learn
to fwim. This praftice in an evening, and after flip¬
per, w;as difcommended by feveral of his attendants;
and was fuppofed to have ftopped the breeding at the
nofe, from which he had experienced fuch filutary
effefts. He could not, however, be prevailed upon
to difcontinue the pra£!ice ; and took likewife great
pleafure in wralking by the river fide in moon-light to
hear the found and echo of the trumpets, by which he
was undoubtedly too much expofed to the evening
dew's. Through impatience to meet the king his fa¬
ther, he rode 60 miles in one day ; and having refted
himfelf during the night, he rode the next day 36
miles to Belvoir Caftle, wftiere he met the king at the
time appointed. During the heat of the feafon alfo
he made feveral other fatiguing journeys, which muft
undoubtedly have contributed to impair his health.
At the conclufion of the progrefs, he gave a grand
entertainment to the court from Wednefday till Sun¬
day evening, when the king and queen with the prin¬
cipal nobility attended at flipper. Next day he haften-
ed to his houfe at Richmond, where he expedled the
eleftor palatine, and began to give orders for his re¬
ception, alfo to take meafures for rewarding his fer-
vants. To fome of thefe he gave penfions, and pro¬
mifed to gratify the reft as foon as poflible. Irom
this time, howrever, his health daily declined. His
countenance became more pale, and his body more
emaciated : he complained now and then of drowfmefs;
which frequently made him alk. his attendants concern¬
ing the nature and cure of an epidemic fever, probably
of the putrid kind, which at that time prevailed in
England, and was fuppofed to have been brought
thither from Hungary. He nowT began frequently to
figh, as is ufual for perfons afflifted with diforders of
that kind. The malady increafed in the beginning of
Otftober, though he ufed his utmoft endeavours to
2 C 2 conceal
Henry.
HEN [ 388 ] HEN
Henry, conceal it, and occupied himfelf as ufual •, only that
v now, inftead of riling early in the morning as before,
he would commonly keep his bed till nine. On the
10th of that month he had two ilight fits of an ague,
which obliged him to keep his chamber and on the
13th his difteraper feemed to be augmented by a vio¬
lent diarrhoea, which, however, gave fo much relief
next day, that he infilled upon being removed from
Richmond to St James’s, in order to receive the elec¬
tor palatine. On his arrival there, fome of his attend¬
ants began to be alarmed by the figns of ficknefs
which appeared upon him, though he himfelf made no
complaint, and even allowed his phyfician to go to his
own houfe. The eledlor arrived on the 16th, and the
prince waited upon him at Whitehall j but his difeafe
had now gained fo much ground, that his temper un¬
derwent a very confiderable alteration, and he became
peevilh and difcontented with almoft every thing :
neverthelefs he Hill continued to give orders about v\hat
related to the ceremony of his filler’s marriage ; and
kept company as much as he could with the elector
and the. count de Nafl'au, with whofe converfation he
feemed to be particularly delighted. So great was his
aftivity even at this time, that he played a match at
tennis on the 24th of October. At this time he expo-
led himfelf in his Ihirt, feemingly without any inconve¬
nience 5 but at night he complained of a greater degree
of laffitude than ufual, and of a pain in his head. Next
day, being Sunday, he attended divine fervice, and heard
two fermons} after which he dined with hismajelly, feem¬
ingly with a good appetite, but the palenefs and ghailly
appearance of his countenance was much remarked.
About three in the afternoon he was obliged to yield to
the violence of his dillemper ; being feized with a great
faintnefs, Ihivering, and headach, with other fymptoms
.of a fever, which from that time never left him. Several
phyficians were called ; but they differed much in their
opinions, if indeed any agreement amongll them, confi-
dering the Hate of medicine at that time, could have been
of fervice. On the firff of November he was blooded ;
an operation which Dr Butler one of his phyficians had
hitherto oppofed, but now confented to in compliance
wnth his fellows. The impropriety of it was manifelt
by the thin and diffolved Hate of the blood which was
taken away, and Hill more by his becoming much
worfe next day. As at that time the Peruvian bark,
the great antidote in putrid difeafes, was unknown,
and no proper methods of treatment feern to have been
employed, it is not to be wondered that he funk under
the difeafe. Among other abfurd remedies ufed on
this occafion wras “ a cock cloven by the back, and
applied to the foies of his feet.” He expired on the
6th of November 1612, at the age of 18 years 8 months
and 17 days. On opening his body, the lungs w7ere
found black, fpotted, and full of corrupted matter j
the diaphragm was alfo thickened in many places } the
blood-veffels in the hinder part of the head w’ere di-
Hended with blood, and the ventricles full of water :
the liver was in fome places pale and lead-coloured;
the gall-bladder deflitute of bile, and difiended with
wind •, and the fpleen in many places unnaturally black.
His funeral was not folemnized till the 7th of Decem¬
ber following. Many funeral fermons were publiihed
in honour of him, and the two univerfities publiflied
colledtions of verfes on this occafion. The moff emi¬
nent poets of that age alfo exerted themfelves in ho- Henry,
nour of the deceafed prince *, particularly Donne, v~-—1
Brown, Chapman, Drummond of Hawthornden, Do¬
minic Baudius of Leyden, &c.
His highnefs’s family continued together at St
James’s till the end of December 1612, when it was
diffolved ; and upon the day of their diffolution, Mr
Jofeph Hall, his chaplain, preached to them a moff pa¬
thetic farewel fermon on Revel, xxi. 3. In this he
fpeaks of his deceafed mailer in the higheff terms of
commendation, as the glory of the nation, ornament of
mankind, hope of pofferity, &c. 5 and that he, who
w-as compounded of all lovelinefs, had infufed an har¬
mony into his whole family, which was “ the moff
loving and entire fellowship that ever met in the court
ot any prince.” The exhortation, with which the
preacher concludes, is : “ Go in peace, and live as
thofe that have loll fuch a mafter, and as thofe that
ferve a mafter whom they cannot lofe.”
Prince Henry was of a comely llature, about five feet
eight inches ; of a ffrong, ftraight, well made body,
with fomewhat broad Ihoulders and a fmall waift *, of
an amiable and majeitic countenance : his hair of an
auburn colour ; he was long-faced, and had a broad
forehead, a piercing eye, a moft gracious fmile, with
a terrible frown. He was courteous, loving, and af¬
fable ; naturally modeff, and even lhame-faced ; moff
patient, which he Ihowed both in life and death ; How
to anger, fo that even when he was offended he
would govern it and reftrain himfelf to lilence. He
was merciful to offenders, after a little punilhment to
make them fenfible of their faults. His fentiments of
piety were ffrong and habitual ; and his zeal for the
intereffs of religion was fuch, that he would, if he had li¬
ved, have ufed his endeavours for reconciling the divi-
fions among its profeffors. He ufually retired three
times a day for his private devotions, and was fcarce
once a month abfent from the public prayers, where
his behaviour was highly decent and exemplary, and
his attention to the preacher the moff fixed imaginable.
He had the greateft efteem for all divines whofe cha-
radters and condudl correfponded with their profeflion ;
but could not conceal his indignation againft fuch as
adled inconfiffently with it, and he above all things
abhorred flattery and vain-glory in them. He had a
thorough deteftation for popery, though he treated
thofe of that religion with great courtefy j fhowdng,
that his hatred was not levelled at their perfons, but
their opinions. And he was fo immoveable in his at¬
tachment to the Proteftant religion, that not long be¬
fore his death, as Sir Charles Conrwallis * allures us, * D}/c°urfe
he made a folemn proteftation that he would never0/1!'‘ moft
join in marriage with one of a different faith. Prince Hen-
The prince wras fo exadl in all the duties of^ hy Sir
filial piety, and bore fo true a reverence and re- Charles
fpeft for the king his father, that though fome- Cernivallif,
times, out of his own inclination, or by the excite-
ment of others, he moved his majefty in fome things
relating to the public, or his own particular interefts,^//^,
or thofe of others j yet upon the leaft word or lookvol. iv.
or fign given him of his majelly’s difapprobation, heP- 32°*
W'ould inftantly defift from purfuing the point, and
return either with fatisfadlion upon finding it difagree-
able to the king, or with fuch a refolved patience that
he neither in word nor aftion gave fo much as any ap¬
pearance
Henry.
HEN [3!
pearance of being difpleafed or difcontented. He ad¬
hered ftriaiy to juftice on all occafions ^ and never fuf-
fered himfelf to determine ralhly, or till after a due
examination of both parties. 1 his love of juftice
{howed itfelf very early by favouring and rewarding
thofe among his pages and other young gentlemen,
placed about him, who, by men of great judgment,
were thought to be of the beft behaviour and moft me'
rit. And when he was but a little above five years of
age, and a fon of the earl of Mar, fomewhat younger
than himfelf, falling out with fome of his highnefs’s
papes, did him fome wrong, the prince reproved him
for k, faying, “ I love you, becaufe you are my lord’s
fon, and my coufin : but if you be not better condi¬
tioned, I will love fuch a one better naming the
child who had complained of him. He wms of lingular
integrity, and hated flattery and diflimulation : the lat¬
ter of which he efteemed a bafe quality, efpecially in
a prince : nor could he ever conftrain himfelf to treat
thofe kindly who dicl not deferve his love. A noble¬
man in the higheft favour with the king, had written
to him, by fpecial command ot his majefty, a letter,
wherein he recommended to his highnefs a matter of
very great confequence, to be inftantly anfwered 5 and
in his fu'ofcription had ufed thefe words, “ Yours be¬
fore all the world.” His highnefs directed Sir Chanes
Cornwallis to draw up an anfwer, who, having writ¬
ten it, added fome wTords of favour to the nobleman to
precede the prince’s figning. His highneis having
read and confidered the letter, allow'ed it entirely with¬
out alteration : But with regard to the words of fub-
fcription, notwithllanding the great hafte which the
difpatch required, he ordered it to be new written, and
the words objected to by him to be left out •, alleging,
that he to whom he wrote, had dealt with him untruly
and unfaithfully, and that his hand fhould never allnm
what his heart did not think. His temperance, ex¬
cept in the article of fruit, wras as eminent as his ab¬
horrence of vanity and oftentation, which began to
fhow themfelves when he was very young. \\ hen he
was taught to handle the pike, and his mafter in-
ilrufled him both by word and example to ufe a kind
of ftatelinefs in marching and holding of his hand }
though he learned all other things, he would not con¬
form himfelf to that affefted fafhion : and if fome-
times, upon earneft intreaty, he oftered to ufe it, he
would laugh at himfelf, and prefently return to his
own more modeft and decent manner. And though
he was a perfed mafter of dancing, he never praftifed
it except when he was ftrongly prefled to it. I he
fame modefty appeared in whatever he faid or dH :
Bat it was no impediment to his generous.and heroic
difpofition, which made him perform all his exercifes
beft before much company and the greateft perfonages.
His clothes wrere ulually very plain, except on .oc¬
cafions of public ceremony, or upon receiving foreign
ambafifadors, wdien he would aifume a magnificence of
drefs, and an air of majefty, which immediately al¬
ter he laid aiide. Having once worn a luit of W elt.h
frize for a conftderable time, and being told that it
wTas too mean for him, and that he ought not to keep
even a rich fait fo long •, his anfwer wras, that he was
not alhamei of his country cloth, and wifhed that it
would laft for ever.
In quicknefs of apprehenfion and memory few of the
9 ] H E ,N
fame age ever went beyond this prince ; and fewer ftill ITenrr-
in a right judgment of what he was taught. . When he
began to have fome knowledge of the Latin tongue,
being defired to choofe a motto out of leveral fentences
colleded by his tutor for his ufe, after reading over
many good ones, he pitched upon that of Silius Itaa-
cus, ¥ax mentis honejlcv gloria. And being alked by
the king one day, which were the beft verfes that he
had learned in the firft book of Virgil’s /ttneid, he an¬
fwered thefe :
Rex erat JEneas nobis, quo jujhor alter
Nee pietate fuit, nec hello major 6" armis.
Reading likewife another verfe of the fame poet,
Tros Tyriufve ntihi nullo difcrimine agetur,
he faid he would make ufe of it with this alteration,
Anglus Scotufve mild nullo difcrimine agetur.
Befides his knowledge of the learned languages, he
fpoke the Italian and French } and had made a confi-
derable progrefs in philofophy, hiftory, fortification,
mathematics, and cofmography •, in the two laft.of v\ aich
he was inftru&ed by that excellent mathematician Mr
Edward Wright. He loved and endeavoured to do
fomewhat of every thing, and to be excellent in tne
moft excellent. He greatly delighted in all rare in¬
ventions and arts, and military engines both at land
and fea 5 in (hooting and levelling great pieces of ord¬
nance •, in the ordering and tnarflaalling of armies 5. in
building and gardening } in muftc, Iculpture, and paint¬
ing, m which laft art he brought over leveral works of
great mafters from all countries.
He had a juft opinion of the great abilities of Sir
Walter Raleigh-, and is reported to have faid, that,.“ no
king but his father would keep fuch a bird in a
cage.” And it is affirmed, that his highnefs, but a
few months before his death, obtained tne lands and
caftle of Sherburn in Dorfetftiire, the confifca.ted eftate
of Sir Walter, with an intention, of returning it to
him. That eminent writer, foldier, and itatefman,
had a reciprocal regard for the prince, to whom he
had defigned to addrefs a difcourie, 4 Oi tne Art of
War by Sea,” which his highnefs’s death prevented the
author from fiuiftung. He had written likewile to tn§
prince another “ Difcourfe of a Maritimal Voyage, with
the paffages and incidents therein But this has never
yet appeared in print. He had alfo intended, and, as
he expreffes it, hewn out a fecond and third volume of
his General Hiftory, which were to have been direcled
to his highnefs: “ but it has pleafed God (lays he)
to take that glorious prince out of this world, to whom
they were direfted; whofe unfpeakable and never-
enough lamented lots hath taught me to lay witn Job,
Verfa eft in luBum cithara men, & organum meum in
vocem ftentiuml'
In the government ot his houfehold and management
of his revenues, though he was fo very young, his ex¬
ample deferved to be imitated by all other princes.
He not only gave orders, but faw almoft every thing
done himfelf: Cfo that there were fcarce any of his do-
meftics whom he did not know by name. And among
thefe there was not one even fufpecfed papift ; his di¬
rections being very peremptory for fetting down tne.
names of all communicants, that he might know if
there
H E N
[ 39° ]
H E N
Henry, tlierc were any of his family who did abfent themfelves
v from the communion. His family was large, confift-
ing of few lefs than 500, many of them young gentle¬
men born to great fortunes, in the prime ot their
years, when their paflions and appetites were ftrong,
their reafon weak, and their experience little. But
his judgment, the gravity of his princely afpe£V, and
his own example, were fufhcient reftraints upon them ;
his very eye ferved inftead of a command } and his
looks alone had more effeft than the Iharpeft reprehen-
fions of other princes. If any difputes or contefts arofe
among his fervants, he would put a Hop to them at the
beginning, by referring them to fome of his principal
officers, whom he thought molt intelligent in points
of that nature, and to underhand beft what compen-
lation was due to the injured, and what reproof to the
offender; fo that in fo numerous a family there was
not fo much as a blow given, nor any quarrel carried to
the leaft height.
Though he loved plenty and magnificence in his
houfe, he reftrained them within the rules of frugality
and moderation, as we have already noticed. By this
economy he avoided the neceffity of being rigid to his
tenants, either by raifing their farms or fines, or feek-
ing or taking advantage of forfeitures. Nor was he
tempted to make the profit which both law and right
afforded him, of fuch who had in the time of former
princes purchafed lands belonging to his duchy of
Cornwall, which could not by law be alienated from
it for he gave them, upon refuming thefe lands, a
reafonable fatisfa&ion. Neither did his economy re-
ffrain him from being liberal wffiere merit or diffrefs
called for it j at the fame time he was never known to
give, or even promife, any thing, but upon mature deli¬
beration. Whatever abufes were reprefented to him,
he immediately redreffed, to the entire fatisfa&ion of
the perfons aggrieved. In his removal from one of his
houfes to another, and in his attendance on the king
on the fame occafions, or in progreffes, he would fuffer
no provifions or carriages to be taken up for his ufe,
without full contentment given to the parties. And
he was fo folicitous to prevent any perfon from being
prejudiced or annoyed by himfelf or any of his train,
that whenever he went out to hawk before harveft was
ended, he would take care that none fhculd pafs through
the corn j and, to fet them an example, would himfelf
ride rather a furlong about.
His fpeech was flow, and attended with fome impe¬
diment, rather, as it was conceived, by cuftom and a
long imitation of fome who firft inftru&ed him, than
by any defed! of nature, as appeared from his having
much corrected it by ufing at home amongft his fer¬
vants, firft fhort difeourfes, and then longer, as he
found himfelf enabled to do it. Yet he would often
fay of himfelf, that he had the moft unferviceable
tongue of any man living.
He had a certain height of mind, and knew well
how to keep his diftance ) which indeed he did to all,
admitting no near approach either to his power or his
fecrets. He expreffed himfelf, upon occafions offered,
to love and efteem moft fuch of the nobility as were
moft anciently defcended? and moft nobly and honeftly
difpofed. He had an entire affe&ion for his brother the
duke of York, and his filler Elizabeth •, though fome-
times, by a kind of rough plry with the former, and
I
an appearance of contradifling the latter in what he Henry,
difeerned her to defire, he took a pleafure in giving
them, in their tender years, fome exercife of their pa¬
tience. A writer * of lefs authority than Sir Charles * (^ranc*s
Cornwallis, from the latter of whom we have thefe q-rjdtt-i'n
particulars, adds, that the prince feemed to have more Memoirs
affection for his lifter than his brother, whom he would the Reign
often taunt till he made him weep, telling him that °f K-ing
he ftiould be a hilltop, a gown being fitteft to hide his 7ame>’
legs, which were fubjetl in his childhood to be crook-leCt‘45‘
ed.
With regard to any unlawful paflion for women, to
the temptations of which the prince’s youth and fitua-
tion peculiarlv expofed him, his hiftorian, who knew
him, and obferved him much, affures us, that having
been prefent at great feafts made in the prince’s houfe,
to which he invited the moft beautiful ladies of the
court and city, he could not difeover by his highnefs’s
behaviour, eyes, or countenance, the leaft appearance
of a particular inclination to any one of them j nor
was he at any other time witnefs of fuch words or ac¬
tions as could juftly be a ground of the leaft fufpicion
of his virtue; though he obferves, that fome perfons
of that time, meafuring the prince by themfelves, were
pleafed to conceive and report otherwife of him. It
is indeed afferted, by the writer of Aulicus Coquinarier,
believed upon good grounds to be William Saunder-
fon, Efq. author of the “ Complete Hiilory of Mary
Queen of Scotland, and her fon and fucceffor King
James,” that the prince made court to the countefs of
Effex (afterwards divorced from the earl, and married
to the vifeount Rochefter), before any other lady then
living. And Arthur Wilfon mentions the many amo¬
rous glances which the prince gave her, till difeover-
ing that ffie was captivated with the growing fortunes
of Lord Rochefter, and grounded more hope upon him
than the uncertain and hopelefs love of his highnefs,
he foon flighted her. The learned and pious antiqua¬
ry, Sir Simonds D’Ewes, in a manufeript life of him¬
felf written with his own hand, and brought dowm to
the year 1637, is pofitive, that “ notwithftanding the
ineftimable Prince Henry’s martial defires and initia¬
tion into the ways of godlinefs, the countefs, being
fet on by the earl of Northampton her father’s uncle,
firft caught his eye and heart, and afterwards profti-
tuted herfelf to him, who firft; reaped the fruits of her
virginity. But thofe fparks of grace which even then
began to fhow their luftre in him, with thofe more he¬
roic innate qualities derived from virtue, which gave
the law to his more advifed aftions, foon raifed him
out of the {lumber of that diftemper, and taught him
to rejeft her following temptations with indignation
and fupercilioufnefs.?’ But thefe authorities, Dr Birch
obferves, ought to have little weight to the prejudice
of the prince’s chara&er, againft the dire£t teftimony
in his favour from fo well informed a writer as Sir
Charles Cornwallis.
The immature death of the prince concurring with
the public apprehenfions of the power of the papifts,
and the ill opinion which the nation then had of the
court, gave immediate rife to fufpicions of its being
haftened by poifon. And thefe fufpicions were height¬
ened by the very little concern fhown by fome perfons
in great ftations. “ To tell you (fays Richard earl of
Dorfet in * letter to Sir Thomas Edmondes, of the
23d
i
Henry-
HEN [39
23d of November 1612) that our riling fun is fet ere
fcarcely he had (hone, and that with hirn all our glory
lies buried, you know and do lament as well as we, and
better than fome do, and more truly) or elfe you aie
not a man, and fenfible of this kingdom’s lofs.” And
it is certain, that this lofs made fo little itnpreffion up¬
on the king and his favourite, that the lord vifcount
Rochefter on the 9th of November, three days after
it, wrote to Sir Thomas Edmondes to begin a nego-
ciation for a marriage between Prince Charles and tne
lecond daughter of France. But the ambafiador, who
had more fenfe of decency, thought it improper to en¬
ter upon fuch an affair fo foon acter the late prince s
death. Mr Beaulieu, fecretary to Sir Thomas Ed-
jnondes, in a letter of the 12th of November 1612, to
Mr Trumbull, then refident at Bruffels, after ftyltng
the prince “ the tlower of his houfe, the glory of his
country, and the admiration of all ftrangers, which in
all places had imprinted a great hope on the minds of
the well affecled, as it had already Rricken terror into
the hearts of his enemies,” adds, “ who perhaps, (for
of this lamentable accident wre have yet no particular
relation) fearing the growing virtues of that young
prince, have ufed the traiterous venom of their abomi¬
nable praflices to cut him off in his youth. And this
I do not apprehend without caufe, confidering the feve-
ral advertifements which I fawT a month ago coming out
of England, Holland, and Calais, of llrange. rumours
■which were in thefe parts, of fome great and imminent
praftice in hand, for the fuccefs whereof it was written,
that in fome places our adverfaries had made fulemn
prayers : and out of Calais it was efpecially advertiled,
that in your parts they were in expeflation of the death
of fome great prince. But, alas ! we did little appre¬
hend, that fuch ominous prognoftications would have
lighted upon the perfon of that vigorous young prince,
whofe extraordinary great parts and virtues made many
men hope and believe, that God had reierved and def-
tined him, as a chofen inftrument, to be the ffandard-
bearer of his quarrel in thefe miferable times, to u ork
the reftoration of his church, and the deltruCtion of the
Romifh idolatry.
W ith the above notion his royal highnefs’s mother
the queen was peculiarly impreffed, according J^Dr
Welwood; who, in his Notes on Arthur Wilfon’s
Life of King James I. in the Complete Hiftory of
England, p. 714. informs us, though without giving
any authority, that w'hen the prince fell into his laft
illnefs, the queen fent to Sir Walter Raleigh for fome
of his cordials, which fhe herfelf had taken fome time
before in a fever with remarkable fuccefs. Raleigh
fent it, together with a letter to the queen, wherein
he expreffed a tender concern for the pnnce and,
boafling of his medicine, flumbled unluckily upon, an
expreffion to this purpofe, “ that it would, certainly
cure him or any other of a fever, except in cafe, of
poifon:'1 As the prince took this medicine, and died
notwith[landing its virtues, the queen, in the agony
of her cwief, Orowed Raleigh’s letter } and laid fo mucn
weight on the expreinon about poifon, that as long as
(lie lived fhe could never be perfuaded but that the
* Court and prince fad died by that means. Sir Anthony Weldon *
Charaditr o/f ^ that the prince was poifoned. The fame no-
’ tion is countenanced by Wilfon in his Hillory f ; and
f ?. 62. 63- was adopted by Dr Welwood, as already mentioned ,
x ] H I - N
Who like wife, in another work, his Memoirs, after Henry. ^
ftyling the prince “ the darling of mankind, and ^
youth of vaft hopes and wonderful virtues,” remarks,
that it was the general rumour at the time of his death,
that his highnefs wras poifoned j and that there, is in
print a fermon preached at St James’s upon the diffolu-
tion of his family, that boldly infinuated fome fuch
thing. By this fermon Dr Welwood muff mean that
of Mr Hall cited above ; in which, however, at lead as
it is reprinted in the London edition of his works in
1617, in folio, there is not to .be found any expref-
fion that carries the leafl infinuation of that.kind. Ihe
writer of the memoirs adds, that Sir Francis Bacon, in
his fpeech at the trial of the earl of Somerfet, had
fome reflexions upon the intimacy of that lord with
Sir Thomas Overbury, which feemed to point that
way •, there being feveral expreflions left out of the
printed copy that were in the fpeech. Biihop Burner
likewife tells us, that he was affured by Colonel Titus,
that he had heard King Charles I. declare, that the
prince his brother was poifoned by the means of the
vifcount Rochefter, afterwards earl of Somerfet. But
it will be perhaps fufficient to oppofe to all Tucii hig-
geftions the unanimous opinion of phyiicians who at¬
tended the prince during his ficknefs, and opened his
body after his death j from which, as Dr Welwood him-
felf obferves, there can be no inference drawn that he
was poifoned. To which may be added the authority
of Sir Charles Cornwallis t, who was well informed, W
and above all fufpicion in this point, and who pronoun-
ces the rumours fpread of his highnefs’s having been 8^’
poifoned vain j and was fully convinced that his death
was natural, and occafioned by a violent fever.
Henry, P/iilip, a pious and learned nonconformiit
minifter, was the fon of Mr John Henry, page of the
back-ftairs to James duke of York, and was born, at
Whitehall in 1631. He was admitted into Weftmin-
fter fchool at about I 2 years of age } became, the fa¬
vourite of Dr Buftiby, and was employed by him, wit a
fome others, in colleXing materials for the Greek
grammar he afterwards publithed. From thence he
removed to Chrift-church, Oxford j where, ha.dng.ob-
t«ined the degree of mailer of arts, he wras taken into
the family of Judge Pulefton, at Eroeral in Flmilhire,
as tutor to his fans, and to preach at Worthenbury.
He foon after married the only daughter and heirefs
of Mr Daniel Matthews of Broad-oak near Whit¬
church, by w’hom he became poffefted of a competent
eftate. When the king and epifcopacy were reftored,
he refufed to conform, was ejeXed, and retired with
his family to Broad-oak : here, and in the neighbour¬
hood, he fpent the remainder of his life, about 28
years, relieving the poor, employing the induftnous,
inftrufling the ignorant, and exercifing every opportu-
S2»
nity of doing good. His moderation in his nonconfor¬
mity was eminent and exemplary j and upon ail ccca^~
lions he bore teflimony againft uncharitable and fchil-
matical feparation. In church-government he wiihed
for Archbilhop Uther’s reduXion of epifcopacy. He
thought it lawful to join in the common prayer in pub¬
lic aiTemblies } which, during the time of .his.file.nce and
reftraint, he commonly attended- with his family with,
reverence and devotion. . .
Henry, Matthew, an eminent diffenting mini {lei
and author, was the fon of the former, and was born
HEN [ 392 ] HEN
in the year 1662. He continued under Ins father’s
care till he was 18 years of age; in w'hich time he
became well fidlled in the learned languages, efpecially
in the Hebrew, which his father had rendered familiar
to him from his childhood ; and from firft to laft the
fludy of the Scriptures was his moft delightful em¬
ployment. He completed his education in an academy
kept at Illington by Mr Doolittle and was afterwards
entered in Gray’s Inn for the ftudy of the law ; where
he became well acquainted with the civil and munici¬
pal law of his own country, and from his application
and great abilities it wTas thought he would have be¬
come very eminent in that profetTion. But at length,
tefolving to devote his life to the fludy of divinity, in
1685 he retired into the country, and was chofen pa¬
llor of a congregation at Cheiler, where he lived about
2$ years, gre tly efteemed and beloved by his people.
He had feveral calls from London, which he conftantly
declined •, but w^as at laft prevailed upon to accept an
unanimous invitation from a congregation at Hackney.
He wrote, 1. Expofitions of the Bible, in 5 vols. folio.
2. The life of Mr Philip Henry. 3. Dire&ions for
daily communion with God. 4. A method for prayer,
y. Four difeourfes againft vice and immorality. 6. Ihe
communicant’s companion. 7. Family hymns. 8. A
fcriptural catechifm. And 9. A difeourfe concerning
the nature of fchifm. He died of an apoplexy at
Nantwich, when upon a journey, in 1714 j and was
interred at Trinity church in Chefter.
Henry, Dr Robert, author of the “ Hiftory of
Great Britain, written on a new plan,” was the fon
of James Henry farmer at Muirtown in the parifh of
St Ninian’s, North Britain, and of Jean Galloway
daughter of Galloway of Burrowmeadow in
Stirlingfhire. He was born on the 18th of February
17185 and having early refolved to devote himfelf to
a literary profeflion, was educated firft under a Mr John
Nicolfon at the parifh-fehool of St Ninians, and for
fome time at the grammar-fehool of Stirling. He
completed his courfe of academical ftudy at the uni-
verfity of Edinburgh, and afterwards became mailer
of the grammar-fehool of Annan. He wras licenfed
to preach on the 27th of March 1746, and was the
firft licentiate of the prefbytery of Annan after its
credlion into a feparate prelhytery. Soon after, .he
received a call from a congregation of Prelbyterian
diftenters at Carlille, wdiere he was ordained in Novem¬
ber 1748. In this ftation he remained 1 2 years, and
on the 13th of Auguft 1760 became pallor of a dif-
fenting congregation in Berwick upon Tweed. Here
he married, in 17635 Ann Balderfton daughter oi
Thomas Balderfton furgeon in Berwick 5 by whom he
had no children, but with whom he enjoyed to the
end of his life a large lhare of domeftic happinefs. He
was removed from Berwick to be one of the minifters
of Edinburgh in November 1768 5 was miniller of the
church of the New Grey Friars from that time till
November 1776 5 and then became colleague-minifter
in the Old church, and remained in that ftation
till his death. The degree of Do£tor in Divinity
was conferred on him by the univerfity of Edinburgh
in 17705 and in 1774 he was unanimoufly chofen
moderator of the general affembly of the church of
■Scotland, and is the onlyperfon on record who obtained
that diftindlion the firft time he wTas a member of af- Henry,
fembly. —y—
From thefe fa£ts, which contain the outlines of Dr
Henry’s life, few events can be expefled to fuit the
purpofe of the biographer. Though he mull have
been always diftinguilhed among his private friends,
till he was tranfiated to Edinburgh he had few oppor¬
tunities of being known to the public. The compoli-
tion of fermons mull have occupied a chief part of his
time during his refidence at Carlifle, as his induftry in
that ftation is known to have rendered his labours in
this department eafy to him during the rfcft of his life.
But even there he found leifure for other ftudies 5 and
the knowledge of claflical literature, in wdiich he emi¬
nently excelled, foon enabled him to acquire an extent
of information which qualified him for fomething more
important than he had hitherto in his view.
Soon after his removal to Berwick, he publilhed a
fcheme for raifing a fund for the benefit of the widows
and orphans of Proteftant difientirig minifters in the
north of England. This idea was probably fuggefted by
the profperity of the fund which had almoft 30 years be¬
fore been eftablilhed for a proviixon to minifters widows,
&c. in Scotland. But the fituations of the clergy of
Scotland w^ere very different from the circumftances of
diffenting minifters in England. Annuities and provi-
fions wTere to be fecured to the families of difl'enters,
without fubje&ing the individuals (as in Scotland) to
a proportional annual contribution, and without fuch
means of creating a fund as could be the fubjedl of an
a£f of parliament to fecure the annual payments. Tl he
acutenefs and adlivity of Dr Henry furmounted thefe
difficulties 5 and, chiefly by his exertions, this uleful
and benevolent inftitution commenced about the year
1762. The management was entrufted to him for fe¬
veral years 5 and its fuccefs has exceeded the moft fan-
guine expeiftations which w7ere formed of it. The plan
itfelf, now fufficiently knowm, it is unneceffary to ex¬
plain minutely. But it is mentioned here, becaufe Dr
Henry was accuftomed in the laft years ol his life to
fpeak of this inftitution with peculiar affeiftion, and to
reflect on its progrefs and utility with that kind of la-
tisfaftion which a good man can only receive from
“ the labour of love and of good works.”
It was probably about the year 1763
conceived the idea of his Hiftory of Great Britain : a
work already eftablilhed in the public opinion 5 and
which will certainly be regarded by pofterity, not only
as a book which has greatly enlarged the fphere of hi¬
ftory, and gratifies our curiofity on a variety of fubjects
which fall not within the limits preferibed by prece¬
ding hiftorians, but as one of the moft accurate and
authentic repofitories of hiftorical information which
this country has produced, he plan adpoted by Dr
Flenry, which is indifputably his own, and its pecu¬
liar advantages, are fufficiently explained in his general
preface. In every period, it arranges, under .feparate
heads ©r chapters, the civil and military hiftory of
Great Britain 5 the hiftory of religion 5 the hiftory of
our conftitution, government, laws, and courts of ju-
ftice 5 the hiftory of learning, of learned men, and of
the chief feminaries of learning 5 the hiftory of arts 5
the hiftory of commerce, of ftiipping, of money or
coin, and of the price of commodities 5 and the hiftory^
2
HEN [ 393
Henry, of manners, virtues, vices, cuftoms, language, elrt fs, diet,
 v   and amufeinents. Under thefe feven heads, which ex¬
tend the province of an hiftorian greatly beyond its
uhial limits, every thing curious or interefring in the
hiftory of any country may be comprehended. But
it certainly required more than a common lhare of li¬
terary courage to attempt on fo large a fcale. a fubjecl
lo intricate and extenlive as the hiftory of Britain from
the invafion of Julius Csefar. That Dr Henry neither
over-rated his powers nor his induftry, could only
have been proved by the fuccefs and reputation of his
7 works.
But he foon found that his reftdence at Berwick was
an infuperable obftacle in the minute refearches which
the execution of his plan required. His fituation
there excluded him from the means of confulting the
original authorities; and though he . attempted to
find accefs to them by means of his literary friends,
and with thfcir afliftance made fome progrefs in his
work, his information was notwithftanding fo incom¬
plete, that he found it impoftible to profecute his plan
to his own fatisfaclion, and was at lait compelled to
relinquifti it.
By the friendftiip of Gilbert Laurie, Efq. lord
provoft of Edinburgh, and one of his majefty’s com-
miflioners of excife in Scotland, who had married the
fifter of Mrs Henry, he was removed to Edinburgh in
1768 5 and it is to this event that the public are in¬
debted for his profecution of the Hiftory of Great
Britain. His accefs to the public libraries, and the
means of fupplying the materials which thefe did not
afford him, wrere from that time ufed with fo much
diligence and perfeverance, that the fiift volume of his
Hiftory in quarto wms publifhed in 1771’ Second
in 1774, the third in I777> t^ie f°urth in 17^I> anc^
the fifth (which brings down the Hiftory to the accef-
fion of Henry VII.) in 1785. The fubjeH of thefe
volumes comprehends the moft intricate and obfcure
periods of our hiftory} and when we confider the
fcanty and fcattered materials which Dr Henry has
digefted, and the accurate and minute information
which he has given us under every chapter of his work,
wTe muft have a high opinion both of the learning and
induftry of the author, and of the vigour and a&ivity
of his mind : efpecially when it is added, that he em¬
ployed no amanuenfis, but completed the manulcript
with his own hand ; and that, excepting the firft vo¬
lume, the whole book, fuch as it is, was printed from
the original copy. Whatever corre£lions were made
on it, were inferted by interlineations, or in revifing the
proof fheets. He found it neceffary, indeed, to con¬
fine himfelf to a firft copy, from an unfortunate tre¬
mor in his hand, which made writing extremely in¬
convenient, which obliged him to w’rite with his paper
on a book placed on his knee inftead of a table, and
which unhappily increafed to fuch a degree that in
the laft years of his life he was often unable to take
his vidluals wuthout afliftance. An attempt which he
made after the publication of the fifth volume to em¬
ploy an amanuenfis did not fucceed. Never having
been accuftomed to didfate his compofitions, he found
it impoflible to acquire a new habit j and though he
perfevered but a few days in the attempt, it had a fen-
fible effeft on his health, which he never afterwards
recovered.—An author has no right to claim indul-
Vol. X. Part I.
]
HEN
gence, and is ftill lels intitled to credit, from the pub- ^
lie for any thing which can be aferibed to negligence
in committing his manuferipts to the prefs; but con-
fidering the difficulties which Dr Henry furmounted,
and the Accurate refearch and information which di-
ftinguifli his hiftory, the circumflances which have
been mentioned ar® far from being uninterefting, and
muft add confiderably to the opinion formed of his
merit among men who are judges of what he has done.
He did not profefs to ftudy the ornaments of language ;
but his arrangement is uniformly regular and natuial,
and his flyle Ample and perlpicuous. More than this
he lias not attempted, and this cannot be denied him.
He believed that the time which might be fpent in
polifhing or rounding a fentence, was more ufefuily enw
ployed in inveftigating and afeertaining a fa£t : And
as a book of faffs and folid information, fupported by
authentic documents, his hiftory will Hand a compaiifon
with any other hiftory of the fame period.
But Dr Henry had other difficulties to furmount
than thofe which related to the compofition of his
work. Not having been able to tranfact with the
bookfellers to his fatisfa&ion, the five volumes were
originally publifhed at the rifk of the author. V Iku
the firft volume appeared, it was cenfured with an un¬
exampled'acrimony and perfeverance. Magazines, re¬
views, and even newfpapers, were filled with abufive
remarks and invectives, in which both tne author, and
the book were treated with contempt and fcurnlit>.
When an author has once fubmitted his works to the
public, he has no right to complain of the jujl feverity
of criticifm. But Dr Henry had to contend with the
inveterate fcorn of malignity. In compliance with the
ufual cuftom, he had permitted a fermon to be pub¬
lifhed which he had preached before the fociety in
Scotland for propagating Chriftian knowledge in 1 / / 3 ?
a compofition containing plain good fenfe on a com¬
mon fubjecl, from which he expe£fed no reputation.
This was eagerly feized on by the adverlanes 01 hL
Hiftory, and torn to pieces with a virulence and afpe-
rity which no want of merit in the fermon could juftify
or explain. An anonymous letter had appeared in. a
newfpaper to vindicate the Hiftory. from fome of the
unjuft cenfures which had been publiflied, and aflerting
from the real merit and accuracy of the book the au¬
thor’s title to the approbation of the public. An an-
fwer appeared in the courfe of the following week,
charging him, in terms equally confident and indecent,
with having written this letter in his own praile. I he
efforts of malignity feldom fail to defeat their purpofe,
and to recoil on thofe who direct them. Dr Henij
had many friends, and till lately had not difeovered
that he had any enemies. But the author of the ano¬
nymous vindication was unknown to him, till the
learned and relpectable Dr Macqueen, irom the indig¬
nation excited by the confident petulance of the an-
fwer, informed him that the letter had been written
by him. Thefe anecdotes are ftill remembered. ^ The
abufe of the Hiftory, which began in Scotland, wTa.s
renewed in fome of the periodical publications in South
Britain ; though it is juftice to add (without meaning
to refer to the candid obfervations of Engliih critics),
that in bbth kingdoms the afperity originated in the
fame quarter, and that paragraphs and critic: fins wiit-
ten at Edinburgh were prinied in London. 1 he iame
3 D fpirit
Hem
HEN
[ 394- ']
HEN
Henry, {pint appeared in Strictures publithed on tlie fecond
' 1 all(J third volumes j but by this time it had in a great
meafure loft the attention of the public. Ihe male¬
volence was fufficiently underftood, and had long be¬
fore become fatal to the circulation of the periodical
paper from which it originally proceeded. Ihe
book, though printed for the author, had fold beyond
his moft fanguine expectations ; and had received both
praife and patronage from men of the firit literary
characters in the kingdom : and though, from the
alarm which had been raifed, the booklellers did not
venture to purchafe the property till after the publica¬
tion of the fifth volume, the work 'was eftablifhed in
the opinion of the public, and at laft rewarded the au¬
thor with a high degree of celebrity, which he happily
lived to enjoy.
In an article relating to Dr Henry’s life, not to have
mentioned the oppofition which his Hiftory encounter¬
ed, wrould have been both affeClation and injuftice.
The faCls are fufficiently remembered, and are unfor¬
tunately too recent to be more minutely explained.
That they contributed at firft to retard the fale of the
work is undeniable, and may be told without regret
now that its reputation is eftablifhed. The book has
raifed itfelf to eminence as a Hiftory of Great Britain
by its own merits } and the means employed to ob-
ftruCl its progrefs have only ferved to embelhffi its
fuccefs.
Dr Henry was no doubt encouraged from the firft;
by the decided approbation of fome of his literary
friends, who weie allowed to be the moft competent
judges of his fubjeCt; and in particular by one of the
moft eminent hiftorians of the prefent age, whoie hi¬
ftory of the fame periods juftly poffeffes the mgheft
reputation. The following charaaer of the firft and
fecond volumes was drawn up by that gentleman, and
is well intitled to be inferted in a narrative of Dr
Henry’s life. “ Thofe who profefs a high efteem tor
the firft volume of Dr Henry’s hiftory, I may venture
to fay, are almoft as numerous as thofe who have per-
ufed it, provided they be competent judges of a work
of that nature, and are acquainted with the difficulties
which attend fuch an undertaking. Many of thofe
who had been fo well pleafed with the firft were impa¬
tient to fee the fecond volume, which advances into a
field more delicate and interefting } but the DoClor
hath fhown the maturity of his judgment, as in all the
reft, fo particularly in giving no performance to the
public that might appear crude or hafty, or compofed
before he had fully collefted and digefted the materials.
I venture with great fincerity to recommend this vo¬
lume to the perufal of every curious reader who defires
to know the ftate of Great Britain m a period which
has hitherto been regarded as very obfeure, ill lupphed
with writers, and not poffeffed of a fingle pne that de-
ferves the appellation of a good one, _ It is wonderful
what an inftruaive, and even entertaining, book the
Doftor has been able to compoie from fuch unpttmu-
iing materials ; Tantumferies junEluraquepollet. When
we fee thofe barbarous ages delineated by io able a pen,
we admire the oddnefs and fmgularity of the manners,
cuftoms, and opinions, of the times, and feem to e
introduced into a new world ; but we are 1W1 more
furprifed, as well as interefted, when we reflecT that
thofe fuange perfonage*were the anceftors of the pre¬
fent inhabitants of this iftand.—The object of an anti- Henry,
quary hath been commonly diftinguifhed from that of " ~ v“—
an hiftorian j for though the latter fhould enter into
the province of the former, it is thought that it fhould
only be quanto bajla, that is, fo far as is neceffary,
without comprehending all the minute difquifitions
which give fuch fupreme pleaiure to the mere anti¬
quary. Our learned author hath fully reconciled thefe
two chara&ers. His hiftorical narrative is as full as
thofe remote times feem to demand, and at the fame
time his inquiries of the antiquarian kind omit nothing
which can be an obje£t of doubt or curiofity. 1 he
one as well as the other is delivered with great perfpi
cuity, and no lefs propriety, which are the true orna¬
ments of this kind of wwiting. All fupertluous embel-
liffiments are avoided ; and the reader will hardly find
in our language any performance that unites together
fo perfectly the two great points of entertainment anti
inftrudlion.”—The gentleman who wrote this charac¬
ter died before the publication of the third volume.—~
The progrefs of his work introduced Dr Henry to
more extenfive patronage, and in particular to the
notice and efteem of the earl of Mansfield. T hat ve¬
nerable nobleman, who is fo well intitled to the giati-
tude and admiration of his country, thought the merit
of Dr Henry’s hiftory fo confiderable, that, without
any felicitation, after the publication of the fourth
volume he applied perfonally to his majefty to beftow
on the author fome mark of his royal favour. In con-
fequence of this, Dr Henry was informed by a letter
from Lord Stormont, the fecretary of ftate, of his
Majefty’s intention to confer on him an annual penfion
for life of tool. “ confidering his diftinguiffied talents
and great literary merit, and the importance of the
very ufeful and laborious work in which he was fo fuc-
cefsfully engaged, as titles to his royal countenance
and favour.” "The warrant was iffued on the 28th of
May 1781 ; and his right to the penfion commenced
from the jth of April preceding. This penfion he en¬
joyed till his death, and always confidered it as infer¬
ring a new obligation to perfevere fteadily in the pro-
fecution of his work. From the eail of .Mansfield he
received many other teftimonies of efteem both as a
man and as an author, which he was often heard to
mention with the moft affeaionate gratitude. The
oftavo edition of his hiftory, publiffied in 177^? was
inferibed to his lordffiip. The quarto edition had been
dedicated to the king. .
The property of the work had hitherto remained
with himfelf. But in April 1786, when an-oftavo
edition was intended, he conveyed the property ta
Meffrs Cadell and Strachan ; referving to himfelf what
ftill remained unfold of the quarto edition, which did
not then exceed eighty-one complete fets. A few co¬
pies were afterwards printed of the volumes of which
the firft impreffion was exhaufted, to make up addi¬
tional fets : and before the end of 1786, he fold the
whole to Meffrs Cadell and Strachan. By the firft
tranfa&ion he was to receive 1000I. and by the ie-
cond betwixt 300I. and 400I. J about iqcol. in all.
Thefe fums may not be abfolutely exaci, as they
are fet down from memory} but there cannot be a
miftake of any confequence on the one fide or the other.
 Henry had kept very accurate accounts of the
fales from the time of the original publication 3 and af¬
ter
Henry
tt
Hepar Su!-
phuris
HEP [ 395
ter his laft tranfadtion with Meflrs Cade.ll and Strachan,
he found that his real profits had amounted in whole
to about 3300 pounds: a ftriking proof of the intrin-
fic merit of a work which had forced its way to the
public efteem unprotected by the intereft of the book-
fellers, and in fpite of the malignant oppofition with
which the firft volumes had to ftruggle.
The profecution of his hiftory had been Dr Henry’s
favourite objeCt for almoft 30 years of his life. He had
naturally a found conftitution, and a more equal and
larger portion of animal fpirits than is commonly pof-
fefled by literary men. But from the year 1785 his
bodily ftrength was fenfibly impaired. Nctwithftanding
this, he perfilled fteadily in preparing his fixth volume,
which brings down the hiftory to the acceffion of Ed¬
ward VI. .The materials of this volume were left in the
hands of his executors almoft completed. Scarcely any
thing remained unfinifhed but the two ftiort chapters on
arts and manners $ and even for thefe he had left mate¬
rials and authorities fo diftindly collected, that there
was no great difficulty in fupplying what was wanting.
This fixth volume was publiftied in the year 1793,
with a life of the author prefixed j and it was found
intitled to the fame favourable reception from the pub¬
lic which had been given to the former volumes. It
was written under the difadvantages of bad health and
great w’eaknefs of body. The tremulous motion of his
hand had increafed fo as to render writing much
more difficult to him than it had ever been ; but
the vigour of his mind and his ardour were unim¬
paired j and independent of the general charaCler of
his works, the pofthumous volume wall be a lafting
monument of the ftrength of his faculties, and of the
literary induftry and perfeverance which ended only
with his life.
Dr Henry’s original plan extended from the invafion
of Britain by the Romans to the prefent times. And
men of literary curiofity muft regret that he did not
live to complete his defign j but he has certainly finifh-
ed the moft difficult parts of his fubjeCI. The periods
after the acceffion of Edward VI. afford materials more
ample, better digefted, and much more within the reach
of common readers.
Till the fummer of 1790 he was able to purfue his
ftudies, though not wfithout fome interruptions. But
at that time his health greatly declined ; and, with a
conftitution quite worn out, he died on the 24th of No¬
vember of that year, in the 73d year of his age.
HENTINGS, in Agriculture, a term ufed by the
farmers for a particular method of fowing before the
plough. The corn being call in a ftraight line juft where
the plough is to come, is by this means prefently
ploughed in. By this w'ay of fowing they think they
fave a great deal of feed and other charge, a dexterous
boy being as capable of fowing this way out of his hat
as the moft fkilful feedfman.
Henting is alfo a term ufed by the ploughmen, and
others, to fignify the two furrow's that are turned from
one another at the bottom, in the ploughing of a ridge.
The word feems to be a corruption of ending, becaufe
thofe furrows made an end of ploughing the ridges.
The tops of the ridges they call veerings.
HEPAR sulphuris, or Liver of Sulphur, a combi¬
nation of alkaline fait and fulphur. See SuLPHURET,
Chemistry, N° 918 and 1029.
] HEP
HEPATIC, in Medicine and Anatomy, any thing
belonging to the liver.
Hepatic Air, or Sulphurated Hifdrogen Gas, a per¬
manently elaftic fiuid of a very difagreeable odour fome-
what like that of rotten eggs. See Chemistry, N°
442.
Hepatic Aloes, the infpiffated juice of a fpecies of
Aloe. See Materia Medica Index.
Hepatic Stone. See hr eh Stone.
Hepatic Water. See Sulphureous waters, Che¬
mistry, p. 706.
HEPATICA, a fpecies of Anemone. See Bo¬
tany Index-.
HEPATITIS, in Medicine, an inflammation of the
liver. See Medicine bidex.
HEPATOSCOPIA, (formed of liver, and
o-Ktireai, I con/ider), in antiquity, a fpecies of divination,
wherein predictions were made by infpeCting the livers
of animals.
Hepatoscopia is alfo ufed as a general name for di¬
vination by entrails.
HEPHAZ.STIA, in Grecian antiquity, an Athenian
feftival in honour of Vulcan, the chief ceremony 01
w'hich was a race with torches. It was performed in
this manner : The antagonifts wxre three young men,
one of whom, by lot, took a lighted torch in his hand,
and began his courfe ; if the torch wras extinguiftied be¬
fore he finiihed the race, he delivered it to the fecond •,
and he in like manner to the third : the viftory was his
who firft carried the torch lighted to the end of the
race 5 and to this fucceflive delivering of the torch we
find many allufions in ancient writers.
HEPHTHEMIMERIS (compofed of inret, /even,
vipio-vs, half and /xt^os, part), in the Greek and Latin
poetry, a fort of verfe confifting of three feet and a fyl-
lable 5 that is, of feven half feet.
Such are moft of the verfes in Anacreon :
©eAw
©sAijy
AsyeiV
At^i
(.toy x
ditv, &C.
Hepati'
ii
Hepta¬
chord.
And that of Ariftophanes, in his Plutus:
ETnrh priTgi %oigot.
They are alfo called trimetri cataleBici.
HEPHTHEMIMERIS, or Hephthemimeres, is alfo a cm
fura after the third foot ; that is, on the feventh half¬
foot. It is a rule, that this fyllable, though it be ftiort
in itfelf, muft be made long on account of the caffura,
or to make it an hephthemimeris. As in that verfe of
Virgil,
Kt furiis agitatus amor, et confcia virtus.
It may be added, that the caefura is not to be on the
fifth foot, as it is in the verfe which Dr Elarris gives
us for an example :
Hie latus mveum mollifultus Hyacintho.
This is not a hephthemimeris caefura, but a henneamime-
ris, i. e. of nine half feet.
HEPTACHORD, in the ancient poetry, fignified
verfes that were fung or played on feven chords, that
is, on feven different notes. In this fenfe it was ap¬
plied to the lyre when it had but feven firings. One
of the intervals is alfo called an heptachord, as con-
3 D 2 ‘ taining
HER
t 396 1
HER
Heraclea-
Heptagon taimng the fame number of degrees between the ex-
HEPTAGON, in Geometry, a figure confiding of
* feven fides and as many angles. In fortxncation, a
place is termed a heptagon, that has feven bathons for
its defence. . . 7 . f
HEPTAGONAL numbers, m Arithmetic, alort
of polygonal numbers, wherein the difference of the
terms of the correfponcKng arithmetica progrefhon is
c. One of the properties of thefe numbers is, that it
they be multiplied by 40, and 9 be added to the pro-
du&, the fum will be a fquare number
it fell into the hands of the Genoefe, but Mahomet II. He^tc^°*
took it from them ; fince which time it has been m the ^
poffeflion of the Turks. It is near the fea. E. Long. Herac[idae.
27. i;8. N. Lat. 40. ty.
HERACLEONITES, a feaof Chriftians, the fol¬
lowers of Heracleon, who refined upon the Gnoffic di¬
vinity, and maintained that the world ivas not the im¬
mediate produftion of the Son of God, but that he %\as
only the occafional caufe of its being created by the de-
miurgus. The Heracleonites denied the authority of
the prophecies of the Old Teftament, maintaining that
they were mere random founds in the air ", and that St
zy DC  y th were raere random founds in tne air , ana uiulol
61, the fum will be a fquare number. A i^iA tRf* Rantift was the only true voice that directed
HEPTANDRI A, in Botany, (from Hr**, fefetff, John the Baptiit was tae only true
and rtvng, « man) ; the feventh clafs in Linnaeus’s fexual to the Meffiah.
illlQ Ctv^py u f/iun, J , tii*- 1 i*
method, confifting of plants with hermaphrodite flowers,
which have feven ftamina or male organs. See uiam-
fication under Botany. .
HEPTANGULAR, in Geometry, an appellation
given to figures which have feven angles. t
° HEPTARCHY (compounded of the Gr'eek £*r*,
“ feven,” and imperium, “ government”), a go¬
vernment compcfed of feven persons, or a country go-
verned by feven perfons, or divided into feven kmg-
The Saxon heptarchy included all England, which
was cantoned out into feven independent petty king¬
doms, peopled and governed by different clans and co¬
lonies, viz. thofe of Kent, the South Saxons, Weft Sax-
ens, Eaft Saxons, Northumberland, the Eaft Angles,
and Mercia. The heptarchy was formed by degrees
from the year 4^5, when firft the kingdom of Kent
was erefted, and Hengift affumed the title of king o
Kent immediately after the battle of Eglesfbrd , an
it terminated in 827 or 828, when King Egber. re¬
united them into one, made the heptarchy into a mo¬
narchy, and affumed the title of king of England. It
muff be obferved, however, that though Egbert became
monarch of England, he was not perfedUy abfoiute.
The kingdom which he adually poffeffed confifted of
the ancient kingdoms of Weffex, Sufiex, Kent and
Effex, that had been peopled by Saxons and Jutes.
-\s for the other three kingdoms, whofe inhabitants
were Angles, he contented himfelf with preserving the
fovereignty over them, permitting them to be govern-
cd by kings who were bis vaffals and tributaries.
The government of the heptarchy,, reckoning from
the founding of the kingdom of Mercia, the laft of the
feven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, lafted .243 years- but
if the rime fpent by the Saxons in their conquefts from
ihe arrival of Hengift in 449 be added, the heptarchy
will be found to have lafted 378 years from its com¬
mencement to its diffolution. The caufes of the dff-
folution of the heptarchy were the great mequali >
among the feven kingdoms, three of which greatly
furpaffed the others in extent and power; the. default
of male heirs in the royaWamilies of all the kingdoms,
that of Weffex excepted j and the concurrence , of va¬
rious circumftances which combined in the time of
^HERACLEA, an ancient city of Turkey in Eu¬
rope and in Romania, with the fee of an archbifliop of
the Grecian church, and a fea-port. It was a very fa¬
mous place in former times, and there are fti.l W -
mains of its ancient fplendor. 1 heodore Lafcans to
ft from David Comnenus, emperor of Trebtfond ? when
HERACLEUM, MADNESS, or hogweed; a genus
of plants belonging to the pentandria clafs; and m the
natural method ranking under the 45 th order, Umbel la-
tee. See Botany Index.
HERACLIDiE, the defeendants of Hercule'-^
greatly celebrated in ancient hiftory. Hercules at his
death left to his fon Hyllus all the rights and demand^-
. . , < < 1 T5.A  n-rvrl nprimttpr!
which he had upon the Peloponnefus, and permitted
him to marry lole as foon as he came of age. I he po-
fterity of Hercules were not more kindly treated by
Euriftheus than their father had been, and they were,
obliged to retire for proteftion to the court of Ceyx,
king of Trachinia. Euriftheus purfued tnem thither 3
and Ceyx, afraid of his refentment, begged the Hera-
clidse to depart from his dominions. From Trachinia
they came to Athens, where.Thefeus the king of the
country, who had accompanied their father m iome of
his expeditions, received them with great humanity, and
a {lifted them againft their common enemy Euriftheus
Euriftheus was killed by the. hand of Hyllus himfelf,
and his children periftied with him, and all the cities of
the Peloponnefus became the undifputed property of
the Heraclidae. Their triumph, however, was ftiort j
their numbers were leffened by a peftilence J and the
oracle informed them, that they had taken pcffeilion of
the Peloponnefus before the gods permitted their re¬
turn. Upon this they abandoned Peloponnefus and
came to fettle in the territories of the Athenians., where
Hyllus, obedient to his father’s commands, married lole
the daughter of Eurytus. Soon after he confulted the
oracle, anxious to recover the Peloponnefus j and tne
ambiguity of the anfwer determined him to make a e-
cond attempt. He challenged to fingle combat A-
treus, the fucceffor of Euriftheus on the throne of My-
cense 5 and it was mutually agreed that the undifturbed
poffeftion of the Peloponnefus Ihoukl be ceded to u -
foever defeated his adverfary. Echemus accepted t e
challenge for Atreus, and Hyllus was killed, and the
Heraclidce a fecond time departed from Peloponne us.
Cleodseus the fon of Hyllus made a third attempt, and
was equally unfuccefsful •, and his fon Ariftomachus
fome time after met with the fame unfavourable recep¬
tion, and periftied in the field of battle. Ariftodemus,
Temenus, and Clirefphontes, the three fons ^ Arift°-
machus, encouraged by the more expreffive word of an
oracle, and defirous to revenge the death of their pro¬
genitors, affembled a numerous force, and with a fleet
invaded all Peloponnefus. Their expedition, was at-
tended with much fuccefs ; and after feme decifive bat-
,L. they became mailers of all the pemnfula rhe re¬
covery of *e Peloponnefus by the defeendants of Pier-
H .E R [ 597
Heracllties cules forms an interefting epoch in ancient hiftory,
11 which is univerfally believed to have happened 80 years
,Hetactius-, after the T roian war. or i too ycRTS uetore the Chriftian
^ Tills conqueft rvas totally atchieved about 120
years after the firlf attempt of Hyllus, who was killed
about 20 years before the irojan war. As it occalion-
ed a world of changes and revolutions in the aftairs of
Greece, infomuch that icarce a date or people but were
turned upfide down thereby, the return ot the He-
raclidae is the epocha of the beginning of profane
hillory : all the time that preceded it is reputed fa¬
bulous. Accordingly, Ephorus, Cumanus,. Calift-
lienes, and Theopompus, only begin their hillorres from
hence.
HERACLIDES o/Pontus, a Greek philofopher,
the difciple of Speufippus, and afterwards of Ariftotle,
flourifhed about 336 B. C. His vanity prompted him
to defire one of his friends to put a ferpent into his bed
juft as he was dead, in order to raife a belief that he
was afeended to the heavens among the gods: but the
cheat was difeovered. All his works are loft.
HERACLITUS, a famous Ephefian philofopher,
who .flourifhed about the 69th Olympiad, in the time
of Darius Hyftafpes. He is faid to have continually
bewailed the wicked lives of men, and, as often as he
came among them, to have fallen a-weeping $ contrary
to Democritus, who made the follies of mankind a fub-
jeft of laughter. He retired to the temple of Diana,
and played at dice with the boys there *, faying to the
Ephelians who gathered round him, “ Word of men,
what do you wonder at ! Is it not better to do thus than
to govern you ?” Darius wrote to this philofopher to
come and live with him j but he refufed the offer : at
laft, out of hatred to mankind, he retired to the moun¬
tains, where he contra&ed a dropfy by living on herbs,
which deftroyed him at 60 years of age. His writings
gained him fo great reputation, that his followers were
called Heraclitians. Laertius fpeaks of a treatife upon
nature, divided into three books, one concerning the
univerfe, the fecond political, the third theological.
This book he depofited in the temple of Diana •, and it
is faid, that he affedled to write oblcurely, left it Ihould
be read by the vulgar, and become contemptible. J he
fundamental doclrine of his philofophy w7as, that fire is
the principle of all things •, and the ancient philofophers
have collefled and preferved admirable apophthegms of
this philofopher.
HER AC LI US, an eaftern emperor, was defeended
from a Cappadocian family, who was fent to fubdue the
tyrant Phocas, whom he totally vanquifhed in 610.
In confequence of this victory, young Heraclius wTas
raifed to the throne by the fuffrages of the fenate «nd
people. He confined Crifpus, the fon-in-law of Phocas,
in a monaftery, whole defeflion had contributed to his
fuccefs. Having humbly requefted peace from the
Perfian monarch, who w*as extending his conquefts all
over the Afiatic part of the empire, his exorbitant and
unjuft conditions fo exafperated Heraclius, that at once
he ftarted from inglorious eafe to a confpicuous hero,
raifed a confiderable army by vaft exertions, conquered
the king of Perfia, and eftablifhed his winter-quarters
on the banks of the Halys. He next year penetrated
into the very heart of Perfia, and having refilled the at¬
tack of a threefold army of Perfians, he furprifed the
- town of Salban.
] HER
Another of his expeditions was againft the Tigris, ai-d Herald.
he fought a battle near the fite of the ancient Nineveh
in 627, about the end of the year, at which time he
gained a complete vi&ory over the Perfians, having
llain three of their chiefs with his own hand. He re¬
covered 300 Roman ftandards, and fet a vaft number
of captives at liberty. In 628, he made the Perlian
king put an end to the perfecution of the Chriftians,
renounce the conquefts of his father upon the Roman
empire, and reftore the true crofs taken from Jerufalem.
When at Emefa, he firft heard of the name of Mahomet,
who invited him to embrace his new faith, but without
fuccefs. He brought a reproach on his name by adhe¬
ring to the doftrine of the Monothelites, but chiefly by
efpouiing his niece Martina for his fecond wife, by
whofe influence he divided the fucceflion between Con-
ftantine and Heracleonas, his fon by Martina. He
fell into a dropftcal complaint, by which he was carried
off in the month of February 641, in the 31ft year of
his reign.
HERALD, fays Verftegan, is derived from the
Saxon word Herehault, and by abbreviation Her alt,
which in that language iignifies the champion of an
army j and, growing to be a name of office, it was gi¬
ven to him who, in the army, had the fpecial charge
to denounce war, to challenge to battle and combat, to
proclaim peace, and to execute martial meffages. But
the bufinefs of heralds with us is as follows, viz. to
marlhal, order, and condutt all royal cavalcades, cere¬
monies at coronations, royal marriages, inftallations,
creations of dukes, marquiles, earls, vifeounts, barons,
baronets, and dubbing of knights j embaflies, funeral
proceflions, declarations of war, proclamations of peace,
&c. To record and blazon the arms of the nobility
and gentry ; and to regulate any abufes therein through
the Englilh dominions, under the authority of the earl
marfhal, to whom they are fubfervient. The office of
Windfor, Chefter, Richmond, Somerfet, York, and
Lancafter heralds, is to be affiffants to the kings-at-
arms, in the different branches of their office : and they
are fuperior to each other, according to creation, in the
above order.
Heralds were formerly held in much greater efteem
than they are at prefent 5 and were created and chriften-
ed by the king, who, pouring a gold-cup of wine on
their head, gave them the herald-name : but this is now
done by the earl marfhal. They could not arrive at
the dignity of herald without having been (even years
purfuivant; nor could they quit the office of herald,
but to be made king at arms.
Richard III. was the firft who formed them, in this
kingdom, into a college j and afterwards great privile¬
ges uTere granted them by Edward VI. and Philip and
Mary.
The origin of heralds is very ancient. Stentor is
reprefented by Homer as herald of the Greeks, who had
a voice louder than 50 men together. The Greeks
called them xjjgaxs?, and iier.-itpvl.xy.ii 5 and the Romans,
fcciales. The Romans had a college of heralds, ap¬
pointed to decide whether a Avar were juft or unjuit;
and to prevent its coming to open hoftilities, till all
means had been attempted for deciding the difterence in
a pacific way.
HERALDRY,
[ 398 ]
HERALD R Y,
Definition,
origin, See.
of Heral¬
dry.
A SCIENCE which teaches how to blazon, or ex¬
plain in proper terms, all that belongs to coats-
of-arms; and how to marlhal, or difpofe regularly, di¬
vers arms on a field. It alfo teaches whatever relates
to the marflialling of folemn cavalcades, proceffions,
and other public ceremonies at coronations, inftallations,
creations of peers, nuptials, chriftening of princes, fu¬
nerals, &C.
Arms, or coats-of-arms, are hereditary marks of ho¬
nour, made up of fixed and determined colours and fi¬
gures, granted -by fovereign princes, as a reward fe%
military valour, a fliining virtue, or a fignal public fer-
vice 5 and which ferve to denote the defeent and alli¬
ance of the bearer, or to diftinguifh ftates, cities, focie-
ties, &c. civil, ecclefiaftical, and military.
Thus heraldry is the fcience, of which arms are the
proper objeft ; but yet they differ much both in their
origin and antiquity. Heraldry, according to Sir
George Mackenzie, “ as digefted into an art, and
fubje&ed to rules, mud be aferibed to Charlemagne
and Frederick Barbaroffa, for it did begin and grow
with the feudal law.” Sir John Feme is of opinion,
that we did borrow arms from the Egyptians 5 mean¬
ing, from their hieroglyphics. Sir William Dugdale
mentions, that arms, as marks of honour, were ufed by
great commanders in wrar, necefiity requiring that their
perfons (hould be notified to their friends and followers.
The learned Alexander Nifbet, in his excellent fyfiem
of heraldry, fays, that arms owe their rife and begin-
ning to the light of nature, and that figns and marks of
honour w7ere made ufe of in the firft ages of the world,
and by all nations, however fimple and illiterate, to di-
itinguilh the-noble from the ignoble. We find in Ho¬
mer, Virgil, and Ovid, that their heroes had divers fi¬
gures on their fliields, whereby their perfons w7ere di-
ffinflly known. Alexander the Great, defirous to ho¬
nour thofe of his captains and foldiers who had done any
glorious adlion, and alfo to excite an emulation among
the reft, did grant them certain badges to be borne on
their armour, pennons, and banners j ordering, at the
fame time, that no perfon or potentate, through his em¬
pire, ftiould attempt or prefume to give or tolerate the
bearing of thofe figns upon the armour of any man, but
it fhould be a powrer referved to himfelf 5 which prero¬
gative has been claimed ever fince by all other kings
and fovereign princes within their dominions.
After thefe and many other different opinions, all
that can be faid with any certainty is, that in all ages,
men have made ufe of figures of living creatures, or
Jymbolical figns, to denote the bravery and courage
either of their chief or nation, to render themfelves
the more terrible to their enemies, and even to diftin-
guith themfelves or families, as names do individuals.
The famous C. Agrippa, in his treatife of the vanity
of fciences, cap. 81. has collected many mftances of
thefe marks of diftinflion, anciently borne by king¬
doms and ftates that were any way civilized, viz.
The Egyptians'
The Athenians
The Goths
The Romans
The Franks
The Saxons
g 1
an ox,
an owl,
a bear,
an eagle,
a lion,
Hereditary
Arms, &c.
a horfe.
The laft is ftill borne in the arms of his prefent Britan¬
nic majefly. As to hereditary arms of. families, Wil¬
liam Camden, Sir Henry Spelman, and other judici¬
ous heralds, agree, that they began no fooner than to¬
wards the latter end of the nth century. According
to Father. Meneftrier’s opinion, a French writer whole
authority is of great wTeight in this matter, Henry I’Oi-
feleur (the Falconer) who was raifed to the imperial
throne of the Weft in 920, by regulating tournaments
in Germany gave occalion to the eftablilhment of fami¬
ly-arms, or hereditary marks of honour, w7hich unde¬
niably are more ancient and better obferved among the
Germans than in any other nation. Moreover, this
laft author afferts, that with tournaments firft came up
coats-of-arms *, which were a fort of livery, made up of
feveral lifts, fillets, or narrow pieces of fluff of divers
colours, from wdrence came the fefs, the bend, the
pale, &c. which were the original charges of family-
arms } for they who never had been at tournaments,
had not fuch marks of diftinftion. They wdio inlifted
themfelves in the Ctoifades, took up alfo feveral new
figures hitherto unknown in armorial enfigns ; fuch as
alerians, bezants, efcalop-fhells, martlets, &c. but more
particularly croffes, of different colours for diftinftion s
fake. From this it may be concluded, that heraldry,
like moft human inventions, was infenfibly introduced
and eftablilhed ; and that, after having been rude and
unfettled for many ages, it was at laft methodifed,
perfected, and fixed, by the Croifades and tourna¬
ments.
Thefe marks of honour are called arms, from their
being principally and firll worn by military men at war
and tournaments, who had them engraved, emboffed,
or depi£led on flrields, targets, banners, or other mar¬
tial inftruments. I hey are alfo called coats-of-arttis,
from the cuftom of the ancients embroidering them on
the coats they wore over their arms, as heralds do to
this day.
Arms are diftinguilhed by different names, to denote
the caufes of their bearing } fuch as,
Of Dominion,
Qf Pretenfion,
Of Conceflion,
Of Community,
ARMS
Of Patronage,
Of Family,
Of Alliance,
Of Succeffion.
Arms of dominion or fovereignty are thofe which em¬
perors, kings, and fovereign ftates, do conftantly bear ,
beinc as it were, annexed to the territories, kingdoms,
and
3
v_
HERA
Hereditary and provinces, they poffefs. Thus the three lions are
Arms, &tc. the arms of England, the ileurs-de-lis thofe of France,
Arms of pretenjion, are thofe of fuch kingdoms, pro¬
vinces, Or territories, to which a prince or lord has iome
claim, and which he adds to his own, although the faid
kingdoms or territories be poffeffed by a foreign prince
or other lord. Thus the kings of England have quar¬
tered the arms of France with their own, ever lince
Edward III. laid claim to the kingdom of France,
which happened in the year 1330, on account of his
being fon to Ifabella, lifter to Charles the Handfome,
who died without ifl'ue.
Arms of concejjion or augmentation of honour, are
either entire arms, or elfe one or more figures, given
by princes as a reward for fome extraordinary fervice.
We read in hiftory, that Robert Bruce, king of Scot¬
land, allowed the earl of Wintoun’s anceftor to bear,
in his coat-armour, a crown fupported by a fword, to
fhow that he, and the clan Seaton, of which he was
the head, fupported his tottering crown. Queen Anne
granted to Sir Cloudefly Shovel, rear-admiral of Great
Britain, a cheveron between two fleurs-de-lis in chief,
and a crefcent in bafe, to denote three great viftories
he had gained ; two over the French, and one over the
Turks.
Arms of community, are thofe of biftioprics, cities,
univerlities, academies, focieties, companies, and other
bodies corporate.
Arms of patronage, are fuch as governors of pro¬
vinces, lords of manors, patrons of benefices, &.c. add
to their family-arms, as a token of their fuperiority,
rights, and jurifdi£lion. Thefe arms have introduced
into heraldry, caftles, gates, wheels, ploughs, rakes,
harrows, &c.
Arms of family, ox paternal arms, are thofe that be¬
long to one particular family, that diftinguhh it from
others, and which no perfon is fuffered to affume with¬
out committing a crime, which fovereigns have a right
to reftrain and punilh.
Arms of alliance, are thofe which families, or private
perfons, take up and join to their own, to denote the
alliances they have contracted by marriage. This fort
of arms is either impaled, or borne in an efcutcheon of
pretence, by thofe who have married heireffes.
Arms offuccejfon, are fuch as are taken up by them
who inherit certain eftates, manors, &c. either by will,
entail, or donation, and which they either impale or
quarter with their own arms; which multiplies the
titles of fome families out of necefiity, and not through
oftentation, as many imagine.
Thefe are the eight claffes under which the divers
forts of arms are generally ranged \ but there is a fort
which blazoners call ajfurnptive arms, being fuch as are
taken up by the caprice or fancy of upftarts, though
of ever fo mean extratftion, who, being advanced to a.
degree of fortune, affume them without a legal title.
Tiffs, indeed, is a great abufe of heraldry; and com¬
mon only in Britain, for on the continent no fuch
pratftice takes place.
w e now proceed to confider the effential and inte¬
gral parts of arms, which are thefe :
L D R Y.
Chap. I. Of the Shield or Efcutcheon.
399
Of the
Shield, 5t<f.
The Jhieldox efcutcheon is the field or ground where¬
on are reprefented the figures that make up a coat of
arms : for thefe marks of diftinftion were put on buck¬
lers or ftffelds before they were placed on banners, ftand-
ards, flags, and coat-armour; and wherever they may
be fixed, they are ftill on a plane or fuperficies whofe
form refembles a fhield.
Shields, in Heraldry called efcutcheons or fcutcheons,
from the Latin word fcutum, have been, and ftill are,
of different forms according to different times and
nations. Among ancient ftffelds, fome were almoft:
like a horfe-ftioe, fuch as is reprefented by n° 1. in the
figure of Efcutcheons; others triangular, fomewhat
rounded at the bottom, as n° 2. The people wdio in- p]ats
habited Mefopotamia, now called Dtarbeck, made ufe CCLIV.
of this fort of ftiield, which it is thought they had of
the Trojans. Sometimes the fhield was heptagonal,
that is, had feven fides, as n° 3. The firft of this
fhape is faid to have been ufed by the famous triumvir
M. Antony. That of knights-banneret was fquare, like
a banner, as n° 4. As to modern efcutcheons, thofe of
the Italians, particularly of ecclefiaftics, are generally
oval, as n® 5. The Englifh, French, Germans, and
other nations, have their efcutcheons formed different
ways, according to the carver’s or painter’s fancy : fee
the various examples contained from n° 6—16 of the
figure. But the efcutcheon of maids, widowrs, and of
fuch as are born ladies, and are married to private
gentlemen, is of the form of a lozenge : See n° 17—20.
Sir George Mackenzie mentions one Muriel, countefs
of Strathern, who carried her arms in a lozenge, anno
1 284, which (hows how long we have been verfant in
heraldry.
Armorifts diftinguifh feveral parts or points in efcut¬
cheons, in order to determine exaftly the pofition of
the bearings they are charged with; they are here de¬
noted by the firft nine letters of the alphabet, ranged in
the following manner:
A the dexter chief
B the precife middle chief
C the fni/ler chief
D the honour point.
E the fefs point.
F —the nombril point.
G the dexter bafe.
H the middle precife bafe.
I thefinijler bafe.
ABC
D
E
F
G H I
The knowledge of thefe points is of great importance,
and ought to be,well obferved, for they are frequently
occupied with feveral things of different kinds. It is
neceffary to obferve, that the dexter fide of the efcutcheon
is oppofite to the left hand, and the finifter fide to the
right hand, of the perfon that looks on it.
Chap. II Of EinHures, Furs, Lines, and Dif¬
ferences.
Sect. I. Of Tinclures.
The Escutcheon, The Charges,
The Tinctures, The Ornaments.
By tinRures is meant that variable hue of arms
which is common both to fhields and their bearings.
According s
400
H E R A
The According to the French heralds, there are but feven
I in cl ares. jn armoury j of which two are metals, the
other five are colours.
The Metals are,
| tcrraed j
Oliver, 3 i
Or.
Argent.
The Colours are.
1
Blue,
Red, | I
Green, termed <
Purple, |
Black, J
f Azure.
| Gules.
Vert.
Purpure.
Sable.
When natural bodies, fuch as animals, plants, cele-
ftial bodies, &c. are introduced into Coats of arms,
they frequently retain their natural colours, which is
exprcfled in this 1'cience by the word proper.
Befides the five colours above mentioned, the Eng-
lifli writers on heraldry admit two others, vitz.
Orange, 1 terniej f Penny.
Blood-colour, j ‘ 1 Sanguine.
But thefe two are rarely to be found in Britifh
bearings.
Thefe tinaures are reprefented in engravings and
drawings (the invention of the ingenious Silveller Petra
Sanaa,°an Italian author of the 17th century) by dots
and lines, as in fig. ii. n° 1—9*
Or is expreffed by dots.
Argent needs no mark, and is-therefore plain.
Axure, by horizontal lines.
Gules, by perpendicular lines.
Vert, bv diagonal lines from the dexter chief to the
finifter bate points.
Purpure, by diagonal lines from tne limiter chie. to
the dexter bafe points. _ _
Sable, by perpendicular and horizontal lines croning
each other.
Penny, by diagonal lines from the fimUer chief to
the dexter bafe points, traverfed by horizontal
lines. . -
Sanguine, by lines crofiing each other diagonally trom
dexter to finifter, and bom finifter to dexter.
Sir George M‘Kenzie obferves, that “ fome _ fan-
taftic heralds have blazoned not only by the ordinaiy
colours and metals, but by flowers, days of the week,
parts of a man’s body, &c. and have been condemned
lor it by the heralds of all nations. Yet the Englifh
have fo far owned this fancy,” (the moft judicious ot
them, as Mr Cartwright and others, reprobate it as
abfurd), “ that they give it for a rule, that the coats
of fovereigns Ihould be blazoned by the planets, thole
of noblemen by precious ftones j and have luited them
ih the manner here let down :
Or Topaz
Argent Pearl
Sable Diamond
Gules Ruby
Azure Sapphire
Vert Emerald
Purpure Amethyft
Tenny Jacinth
Sanguine Sardonix
Sol.
Luna.
Saturn.
Mars.
Jupiter.
Venus.
Mercury.
Dragon’s-head.
Dragon’s-tail.
• /
L D R Y. . Chap, II.
« But I crave leave to fay, that thefe are but mere The Furs,.
fancies *, and are likewife unfit for the art, for thefe
reafons: ill, The French (Tom whom the Englilh
derive their heraldry, not only in principles^ but in
words of the French language) do not only not ufe
thefe diflerent ways of blazoning, but treat them en
ridicule. 2dly, The Italian, Spanilh, and Latin he¬
ralds ufe no fuch different forms, but blazon by the
ordinary metals and colours, Should imitate
nature ■, and as it would be an unnatural thing in com¬
mon difcourfe not to call red red becaufe a prince
wrears it, fo it is unnatural to ufe thefe terms in he¬
raldry. And it may fall out to be very ridiculous in
fome arms : for inftance, if a prince had for his arms
an afs couchant under his burden gules, how ridiculous
would it be to lay he had an afs couchant Mars l A
hundred other examples might be given; but it. is
enough to lav, that this is to confound colours with
charges, and the things that are borne wTith colours,
qthly, It makes the art unpleafant, and deters gentle¬
men from itudying ft, and ftrangers from underftand-
ing what our heraldry is j nor could the arms, of our
princes and nobility be tranflated in this difguife into
Latin or any other language. But that which con¬
vinces molt that this is an error is, became it makes
that great rule unneceffary, whereby colour cannot be
put upon colour, nor metal upon metal j but this can¬
not hold but where metals and colours are expreffed.
The Englilh heralds give different names to the
roundlet (N° 10), according to its colour. Thus, if
it is
Or,
Argent,
Azure,
Gules,
»yert,
Purpure,
Sable,
Tenny,
Sanguine,
( Bezant.
Plate.
Hurt.
Totteau.
'•> it is called a Pompey.
Golpe.
Pellet.
Orange.
( Guze.
The French, and all others nations, do not admit
fuch a multiplicity of names to this figure * but call
them Bezants, after an ancient coin ftruck at Conftan-
tinople, once Byzantium, if they are Or and Torteaux j
or of any other tincture, exprefling the fame.
Sect. II. Of Furs.
Furs reprefents the hairy fkin of certain hearts, pie-
pared for the doublings or linings of robes and gar¬
ments of ftate : and as fhields were anciently covered
with furred fkins, they are therefore ufed in heraldry
not only for the linings of the mantles, and other or¬
naments of the fhields, but alfo in the coats of arm*
themfelves. _ r .
There are three different kinds in general ute, viz..
1. Ermine; which is a field argent, powdered with
black fpotsy their tails terminating in three hairs. (Fig.
ii. N® 11.)
2. Counter-ermine, where the field is fable, and the
powdering white. (N° l 2.)
2. Fair (N® 15-)* which is expreffed by blue and
white fkins, cut into the forms of little bells, ranged in
rows oppofite to each other, the bafe of the white
3
I
I
%
\
%
| * . V
