L-iga--
tl
^■2.
\
\
>
\
Encyclopaedia Britannica
GTE
Cryftals /CRYSTALS, in Chemi/lry, falls or other matters
II Ihot or congealed in the manner of cryltal. See
Ctefiphoru chemistry jn(ieX . an(} Crystallizatiom.
CTESIAS, a native of Cnidos, who accompanied
Cyrus the fon of Darius in his expedition againft his
brother Artaxerxes; by whom he was taken prifoner.
But curing Artaxerxes of a wound he received in the
battle, he became a great favourite at the court of
Perfia, where he continued praddifing phyfic for 17
years, and was employed in feveral negociations. He
wrote the Hilfory of Perfia in 23 books, and a Hi-
ffory of the Indies : but thefe works are now loft, and
all we have remaining of them is an abridgment com¬
piled by Photinus. The moft judicious among the an¬
cients looked upon Ctefias as a fabulous writer ; yet
feveral of the ancient hiftorians and modern Chriftian
writers have adopted in part his chronology of the Af-
fyrian kings.
C FESIBIUS, a mathematician of Alexandria, a-
bout 120 years before Chrift. He was the firft who
invented the pump. He alfo invented a clepfydra, or
a w'ater-clock. This invention of meafuring time by
water was’wonderful and ingenious. Water was let
drop upon wheels which it turned : the wheels com¬
municated their regular motion to a fmall wooden
image, which by a gradual rife pointed with a flick to
the proper hours and minutes, which were engraven on
a column near the machine. This artful invention
gave rife to many improvements ; and the modern man¬
ner of meafuring time with an hour-glafs is in imita¬
tion of the clepfydra of Ctefibius.
CFESIPHON, a celebrated Greek architeft, who
gave the defigns of the famous temple of Ephefus,
and invented a machine for bringing thither the co¬
lumns to be ufed in that noble ftrufture. He flouriftr-
ed 544 B. C.
Ctesiphon, in Ancient Geography, a large village,
or rather a fine city, of Chalonitis, the moft fouthern
province of Aflyria. It was fituated on the left or
eaft fide of the Tigris, oppodte to Seleucia on this fide j
and built by the Parthians, to rival Seleucia. Here
the kings of Parthia palfed the winter (Strabo) ; as
they did the fummer at Ecbatana.
Ctesiphon was alfo the name of feveral noted per-
fons of antiquity. 1. An Athenian, who advifed his
fellow citizens to crown publicly Demofthenes with a
golden crown for his probity and virtue. This was
oppofed by the orator AEfchines, the rival of De-
Voi. VII. Part I.
CUB
mofthenes, who accufed Ctefiphon of feditious views. Cub,
Demofthenes undertook the defence of his friend, in Cuba,
a celebrated oration ftill extant, and AEfchines was ba- ‘ 'r~~
niflied. 2. A Greek architeift, w7ho made the plan of
Diana’s temple at Ephefus. 3. An elegiac poet,
whom King Attalus fet over his poffeffions in AEolia.
4. A Greek hiftorian, who wrote a hiftory of Boe-
otia.
CUB, a bear’s whelp. Among hunters, a fox and
marten of the firft year are alfo called cubs. Sec
Ursus.
CUBA, a large and very important ifland in the
Weft Indies, belonging to Spain. On the eaft fide it
begins at 20. 20. N. Eat. touches the tropic of Can¬
cer on the north, and extends from 74. to 85. 15. W.
Long. It lies 60 miles to the weft of Hiipaniola, 25
leagues north of Jamaica, 100 miles to the eaft of Ju-
catan, and as many to the fouth of Cape Florida ; and
commands the entrance of the gulfs both of Mexi¬
co and Florida, as alfo the windward paflages. "By
this fituation it may be called the key of the Weft In¬
dies. It was difcovered by Columbus in 1492, who
gave it the name of Ferdinando, in honour of King
Ferdinand of Spain ; but it quickly after recovered its
ancient name of Cuba. The natives did not regard
Columbus with a very favourable eye at his landing j
and the weather proving very tempeftuous, he jfoon
left this ifland, and failed to Hayti, now' called Hifpa-
nio/a, wdrere he was better received. The Spaniards,
however, foon became mailers of it. By the year
1511 it was totally conquered } and in that time they
had deftroyed, according to their own accounts, feve¬
ral millions of people. But the pofTeflion of Cuba was
far from anfwering the expedlations of the Spanifti
adventurers, whofe avarice could be fatiated with
nothing but gold. Thefe monfters, finding that there
was gold upon the ifland, concluded that it muft coits
from mines ; and therefore tortured the few inhabi¬
tants they had left, in order to extort from them a dif-
covery of the places where thefe mines lay. The mi-
feries endured by thefe poor creatures were fuch that
they almoft unanimoully refolved to put an end to their
own lives; but were prevented by one of the Spaniih
tyrants called Vafco Porcellos. This wretch threaten¬
ed to hang himfelf along with them, that he might
have the pleafure, as he faid, of tormenting them in
the next world worfe than he had done in this; and
fo much were they afraid of the Spaniards, that this
A threat
CUB [ 2
threat diverted tlrefe poor favages from their defperate
threat aivtr i Havannah was built,
refolulion. In 151!, tnc town « 1, nres
now the principal place on the illan .
were at firft built only of wood ; and the to f If
was for a long time fo inconfiderable, that 'n 53
” aken by a French pirate, who obliged the mha-
bhants to pay 700 ducats to lave it from being burn .
The ve y day after the pirate’s departure, three Spa-
niih Ihips arrived from Mexico, and having unloaded
their cargoes failed in pnrfuit of the pirate Ih.p. But
foch wasgthe’cowardice of the officers, that the pirate
took all the three (hips, and returning to the Havan-
rah obliged the inhabitants to pay 7°° ducats more.
To prevent misfortunes of this kind, the inhabitants
buiU their houfes of done 5 and the place has fince
been ftrongly fortified. See Havannah. ■
According to the Able Raynal, tne Spamlh fettle-
ment at Cuba is very important on three account^
I. The produce of the country, which is con
2 As being the llaple of a great trade J and, 3. As
, . : k^v to t|,e Well Indies. T he principal pro-
S^i^ts cotton. The commodfty W
of fiigar i and this, whichldU ^ItftlfbeV»
give* Cuba thatTau o7p,orpeti.y forf which^ fee™
u f„gngeednebruteven fnd 'ZntllLZ yet it has plains
fufficiently extenfive, and well enough watered, f p-
pl th -fumpfton Cd ; e g«a,e part of E P _
rlnroperiV ntaIger«ould enable it ,0 furpafs every
i ^tSrrtM^^p?^,
‘that ,0 thls’day they have buf fr f,'antat.or,s where
with the finelt canes, they ™k' but“partly
of coatfe fngar at a great 1 the mothe/-
fnr the Mexican market, and part y
‘ ntrv while the indolent inhabitants are content
'to0 import fugar for ‘'■'f^'^entpTedwfth ""o-
PeTu'therVwas Sufficient, with the little brought from
Caracca aud Buenos Ayres, to fupplv all Spam. But
S trade too has declined through the negligence of
t court of Madrid, in not gratifying the gene
fcarce be applied to any other purpofe than that o
Ceding canle. The hundredth part of this ifland is
^ . VPt cleared. The true plantations are all confined
to the beaut'ful plains of the Havannah, and even tho e
are not whit they might be. All thele plantations
1 CUB
tocrether may employ about 25,000 male and female
ilaves The7 number of whites, meftees, mulattoes
,nd free negroes upon the whole idand, amounts to
about To,coo- The food of thefe different fpecies con-
fifts of excellent pork, veiy bad beef, .^nd caJa^
bread The colony would be more flounflnng,
modu'aions bad not been made the property of a com-
lauy, whofe exclufive privilege operates as a conftant
;ld invariable principle of difeouragement. If any
, . ,, f,irinlv the want of an open trade, and a-
tXShe grftlces occafioned by'his monopoly at
Cuba it would be the advantage which this .{land has
rsj? *."=riwn*t >
colony ltfelf* , . became acquainted with
tempt upon Fl°r df i"hlL It was immediately dif- .
tVle "7 canifw® beft route the (hips bound
covered that this take ; and to
irth^we'ahh'of the ffiand is principally, tf no, al-
t0pCUBE,0tnG„v.elry, a Mid body confining of fix
or quantity, being ouantitv whereof it is the
be eq„al ,0 the numbe or^uanm, f ^
cube-root , as 2 is • q . anj is the
» lo ^ and two times 4 is o , anu u-j-
times 2 is 4, ano ,,7^ gee Algebra.
“rUBEBS0 iti’he litwl Vln, dried truit
CUBEBb, in tne m ^ often lomewhat
refembling a gram f P PP [rom the ifland of Java,
i^rlan^r and pungency, they are far mfe-
rl°CUBK^equat 1 on. Je' ^LThe word is derived
CUB'D1,f ;adif “and i^ve" ihem from their be-
from .»««, a ^ ’ comJon die> or of a cubic fi-
,nS Thefe bodies owe this fhape to an admixture
, J ,be re are only two known fpecies of the
of lead, and there y ^ w.th thin
genus. I- A c“ . d,miJs Df Yotkfhire, and fume
flakes, found in the lea . nrifi 2 A milky white
other parts of the iing is’found in the lead-
one with thicker cru .. VnrUlhire hut is ufually
mines of Derbylh.re and Yorklbire,
‘"cubit8 Tn't! e menfurntion of the ancients a long
me^ffi«,^equal to the length of a man’s arm, from the
'he cu'bft °oTtheUScti?tu- equal .0 , loot 9.888
inches. i roe Qf two mufcles
CUBITiEUS muscles ^e name
of the hand. See Anato „ . ne or the arm, teach-
CUB1TUS, m otherwife called uha,
ing from the elbm\ to t^^w ^ ^ for all that
or the greater fojfi e- elbow and the wrifl } m-
part of the arm between he dbq Ue ano the
eluding the ulna or cubitus, proper..
radius. in Anatomy, the
CUBOhDES, or Os Cvbifokmz, feventh
cue [
Cucking- feventh bone of the foot; fo called from. Its being In
ftool form of a cube or die.
Cucumis CUCKING-stool, an engine invented for punifh-
_U 1 '■ Ing fcolds and unquiet women, by ducking them in
water j called in ancient times a tumbrel, and fome-
times a trebuchet. In Domefday, it is called cathedra
Jlercoris ; and it was in ufe even in the Saxon times,
by whom it was deferibed to be cathedra in qua nx-
qfee rnulieres fedentes aquis demergebantur. It was an¬
ciently alfo a punilhment inflidled upon brewers and
bakers tranfgrefling the laws who w’ere thereupon
in fuch a ftool immerged over head and ears injlercore,
fome ftinking water. Some think it a corruption
from ducking Jlool ; others from choaking-Jlool, quia hoc
tnodo demerfee aquis fere fuffocantur. See Castioa-
tory.
CUCKOW. See Cuculus, Ornithology Index.
Cv enow-Spit, the fame with froth-fpit. See Froth-
Spit, and Cicada.
CQCUBALUS, BERRY-BEARING CHICK-WEED: A
genus of plants belonging to the decandria clals ; and
in the natural method ranking under the 22d order,
Caryophyllei.
CUCULUS, the Cuckow, a genus of birds belong¬
ing to the order of picse. See Ornithology Index.
CUCUMBER. See Cucumis, Botany Index.
CUCUMIS, the Cucumber : a genus of plants be¬
longing to the moncecia clafs ; and in the natural
method ranking under the 34th order, Cucurbitacece.
See Botany Index.
Four varieties of the cucumis fativus are chiefly cul¬
tivated in this country. They are raifed at three dif¬
ferent feafons of the year: 1. on hot-beds, for early
fruit 5 2. under bell or hand glaffes, for the middle
crop j 3. on the common ground, which is for a late
crop, or to pickle. The cucumbers which are ripe
before April are unwholefome ", being raifed wholly
by the heat of the dung without the afliftance of the
fun. Thofe raifed in April are good, and are raifed
in the following manner.
Towards the latter end of January, a quantity of
frelh horfe-dung muft be procured with the litter
among it j and a fmall proportion of fea-coal allies
Ihould be added to it. In four or five days the dung
will begin to heat; at which time a little of it may
be drawn flat on the outfide, and covered with two
inches thicknefs of good earth : this muft be covered
with a bell-glafs } and after twro days, when the earth
is warm, the feeds muft be fown on it, covered with
a quarter of an inch of frelh earth, and the glafs then
let on again. The glafs muft be covered with a mat
at night, and in four days the young plants will ap¬
pear. When thefe are feen, the reft of the dung muft
be made up into a bed for one or more lights. This
muft be three feet thick, beat clofe together, and co¬
vered three inches deep with fine frelh earth •, the
frame muft then be put on, and covered at night, or
in bad weather, with mats. When the earth is hot
enough, the young plants from under the bell muft be
removed into it, and fet two inches diftance. The
glafles muft be now and then a little raifed, to give
air to the plants, and turned often, to prevent the
wet from the fteam of the dung from dropping down
upon them. The plants muft be watered at proper
times j and the water ufed for this purpofe muft be
] cue
fet on the dung till it becomes as warm as the air in Cucumis
the frame : and as. the young plants increafe in bulk, Cuc^rbita
they muft be earthed up, which will give them great   
additional ftrength. If the bed is not hot enough,
fome frelh litter ftiould be laid round its fides : and if
too hot, fome holes Ihould be bored into feveral parts
of it with a flake, which will let out the heat ; and
when the bed is thus brought to a proper coolnefs, the
holes are to be Hopped up again with frelh dung.
When thefe plants begin to Ihoot their third or rough
leaf, another bed muft be prepared for them like the
firft ; and when it is properly warm through the earth,
the plants of the other bed muft be taken up, and
planted in this, in which there muft be a hole in the
middle of each light, about a foot deep, and nine
inches over, filled with light and fine frelh earth laid
hollow in form of a bafon : in each of thefe holes there
muft be fet four plants: thefe muft be, for two or
three days, lhaded from the fun, that they may take
firm root j after which they muft have all the fun
they can, and now and then a little frelli air, as the
weather will permit. When the plants are four or
five inches high, they muft be gently pegged down
towards the earth, in dire£lions as different from one
another as may be j and the branches afterwards pro¬
duced Ihould be treated in the fame manner. In a
month after this the flowers will appear, and foon af¬
ter the rudiments of the fruit. The glaffes Ihould
now be carefully covered at night ; and in the day¬
time the whole plants fhould be gently fprinkled with
wrater. Thefe will produce fruit till about midfum-
mer ; at which time the fecond crop will come in to
fupply their place : thefe are to be raifed in the fame
manner as the early crop, only they do not require fo
much care and trouble. This fecond crop ftiould be
fown in the end of March or beginning of April.
The feafon for fowing the cucumbers of the laft crop,
and for pickling, is towards the latter end of May,
wrhen the weather is fettled : thefe are fown in holes
dug to a little depth, and filled up wdth fine earth, fo
as to be left in the form of a bafon ; eight or nine
feeds being put into one hole. Thefe will come up
in five or fix days; and till they are a week old, are
in great danger from the fparrows. After this they
require only to be kept clear of weeds, and watered
now and then. There ftiould be only five plants left
at firft in each hole ; and when they are grown a little
farther up, the worft of thefe is to be pulled up, that
there may finally remain only four. The plants of
this crop will begin to produce fruit in July.
CUCURBIT, the name of a chemical veffel em¬
ployed in diftillation, when covered wdth its head. Its
name comes from its elongated form in fhape of a
gourd : fome cucurbits, however, are fhallow and
wide-mouthed. They are made of copper, tin, glafs,
and (lone ware, according to the nature of the fub-
ftances to be diftilled. A cucurbit, provided with its
capital, conftitutes the veffel for diftillation called an
alembic.
CUCURBITA, the Gourd, and Pompion : A ge¬
nus of plants belonging to the moncecia clafs j and
in the natural method ranking under the 34th order,
Cucurbitacece. See Botany Index.
All the fpecies of gcurds and pompions, with their
refpe£tive varieties, are raiied from feed fown annually
A 2 in
Cucurbit a-
ceae
CUD [4
April or the beginninR of M»y, either with ht with-
out the help of attificial heat. But the plants forward-
11 ed a hot bed till about a month old, produce fruit
Ciuldalorc. h or f|X „ceks e;,rlier on that account, and
 V  ripen proportionably fooner. The firft fpecies part.cu-
dy will fcarce ever produce tolerably feed fru.t m
this country, without the treatment above mentioned
In this country thefe plants are cult,vated only for
curiofity ; but in the places where they "ofh the
they anfvver many important purpofes. In both the
Indies bottle-gourds are very commonly cultivated
and fold in the markets. They make the principal
food of the common people, part.culaily m the war
months of Tune, July, and Augult. foe Arabians
Tall this kind of gourd cWiA It grows commonly
“ the mountains-in thefe delerts. rhe natives bo.
and feafon it with vinegar •, and fometunes, filling the
fhell with rice and meat, make a kind of pudding o
it The hard fhell is ufed for holding water, and fome
of them are capacious enough to contain 22 ga ,
thefe however, are very uncommon. I he fruit ot
the nompion likewife conftitutes a great part of the
food of the common people during
• t Pa°^
feafoned with butter, vinegar, &c. ufed
able good fauce for butchers meat, and are alio tiled
in Lr 'n England they are feldom ufed till grown
to maturity. A hole is then made m one fide, ^TOU^\
which the pulp is fcooped out •, after being ive e
„£ "the feeds, it is mixed with diced apples, mi ,
fugar and grated nutmeg, and thus a kind of pud-
lincr is made The whole is then baked in the oven,
ancf goeTbvthe name of a ^rfUn pye. For ,h,s pur-
uof-8thc plants are cultivated in many places of . g
land by the country people, who ra, = them upon o d
dung-hill. The third fpecies s^"d
Sou, half -:-^rda,r:feaTeiameth0e
^manmneet,.drhhytme people edeemed delicate
eating.
CUCURBITACEiE, the name of the 34th order
in Linnteus’s fragments of a natural method, confiding
of p antT which refemble the gourd in external figure,
habit v rtues, and fenfible qualities. This order con-
^ats’,he following genera, via. gyonovia melorhria,
pair,flora, angaria, bryon.a cucum.s, cucu.bita,
lea momordica, ficyos, tricholanthes. r f .
CUCURUCU, in Zoology, the name of a erpe 1^
found in America, growing 10 or 12 fee g‘ 1
alfo very thick in proportion to its length, and is o
yellowifh colour, ftrongly variegated with black Ipot
which are irregularly mixed among the yellow, ^nd
often have fpots of yellow within them. . y
' poifonous fpecies, and greatly dreaded by the native
but its fiefh is a very rich food, and much elteemea
among them, when properly prepared. t in
CUD, fometimes means the infide 01 t
beafls but generally the food that they keep there,
^d chew over again. See Anatomt Index.
CUDDALORE, a town on the coatt of Coro-
ma^deHnfndia, belonging to the
Ae place where Fort St David once Hood. N. Lat. I..
1 CUD
,0. E. Long. 79. 5 V 30. This place was reduced by CtaUdwe.
the French in the year 1781 ; and in 1783 undeiwent
a fevere fiege by the Britifh forces commanded by ge¬
neral Stuart. At this time it was become the prin¬
cipal place of arms held by the enemy on that coaft:
they had exerted themfelves to the utmoil in fort y-
ing it; and it was garrifoued by a numerous body o
the belt forces of France, well provided with artil¬
lery, and every thing neceffary for making a v-gorous
de Previous to the commencement of the fiege, they
had conllrufted ftrong lines of defence all along the
fort excepting one place where the town was covered
by a wood, fuppofed to be inacceflible. Through i
wood, however! General Stuart began to cut ns way
on which the befieged began to draw a line of forti -
cation within that alfo. The Bntilh commander then
determined to attack thefe fortifications before they
were quite completed *, and for this purpote a vigorous
attack was made by the Uoops under General Lruce.
The grenadiers affailed a redoubt which greatly an-
noyedgthem, but were obliged to retire • on which the
whole army advanced to the attack of the lines. J he
French defended themfelves with relolution j and as
both narties charged each other with fixed bayonets,
a dreadful {laughter enfued. At laft the Bntifli were
obliged to retreat j but the French having imprudent¬
ly cSome out of their lines to puvfue them, were in
Iheir turn defeated, and obliged to give up the lines
they had conftrUaed with lo much pains and lo gal-
UuUy defended.^ M - the hal£
were Europeans; -and that of the French was
"0 Though'the^Britilh proved viaorious in this edi¬
ted yet the viflory colt fo dear that there was not
now a fufficient number to carry on the fiege wn.1^
ftrL^fdlmimmeTfollhAlTtL’le^^
himfe^was kiZ whf about *9= of his countrymen,
and as many taken pnfoners. ^ of the
lfhremarkable1 c'ircumftarmes that happened during
moft remarkaoi _ of Sepoy grenadiers en-
the whole war, viz. A ^ oppP0fed to them with
countering the 1 • them. This extraor-
fixed bayonets, an over whh due applaufe,
dinary bravery was J for themfelves.
but procured for ^at oorps^p,^, ^
Lnngefr No Sr operation of any conference took
Cuddy
II
Cud worth.
CUD' [5
place during the fiege, which was now Toon ended by
the news of peace having taken place between the bel¬
ligerent powers of Europe.
CUDDY, in a fitlf rate man of war, is a place lying
between the captain-lieutenant’s cabin and the quarter¬
deck ; and divided into partitions for the mailer and
other officers. It denotes alio a kind of cabin near the
Hern of a lighter or barge of burden.
CUDWEED. See Gnaphahum, Botany In¬
dex.
CUDWORTH, Ralph, a very learned divine of
the church of England in the 17th century. In Janu¬
ary 1657, he was one of the perfons nominated by a
committee of the parliament to be confulted about the
Englilh tranllation of the bible. In 1678 he publilhed
his ^Hrue IntelleBual Syjlem of the Univerfe ; a work
which met with great oppofition. He likewile publilh-
ed a- treatife, entitled, Deus jujlificatus : or, “ The di¬
vine goodnefs of God vindicated, againft the aflertions
of abfolute and unconditionate reprobation.” He em¬
braced the mechanical or corpafcular philofophy : but
with regard to the Deity, fpirits, genii, and ideas, he
followed the Platonilfs. He died at Cambridge in
1688. The editor of the new edition of tire Biogra-
phia Britannica obferves, that it is not eafy to meet
with a greater llore-houfe of ancient literature than
the “ Intellectual Syllem j” and various writers, we
believe, have been indebted to it for an appearance of
learning which they might not otherwife have been
able to maintain. That Dr Cudworth wras fanciful in
fome of his opinions, and that he was too devoted a
follow'er of Plato and the Platonifts, will fcarcely be
denied even by thofe who are moll fenfible of his gene¬
ral merit. The retleftions that have been call upon fuch
a man as the author, by bigotted writers, are altogether
contemptible. It is the lot of dilfinguilhed merit to
be thus treated. Lord Shaftefbury, fpeaking on this
fubjeft, has given an honourable teftimony to the me¬
mory of Dr Cudwrorth. “ You know (lays his lord-
Ihip) the common fate of thofe who dare to appear
fair authors. What was that pious and learned man’s
cafe, who wrote the Intelleflual Syftem of the Uni¬
verfe ! I confefs it was pleafant enough to confider,
that though the whole world were no lefs fatisfied w?ith
his capacity and learning, than with his fincerity in
the caufe of Deity ; yet he was accufed of giving
the upper hand to the atheills, for having only Hated
their reafons, and thofe of their adverfaries, fairly to¬
gether.”
It is obferved by Dr Birch, that Dr Cudworth’s
Intelle&ual Syftem of the Univerfe has raifed him a
reputation, to which nothing can add but the publi¬
cation of his other writings ftill extant in manufcript.
That thefe writings are very valuable cannot be doubt¬
ed. We may be affured that they difplay a great
compafs of fentiment and a great extent of learning.
Neverthelefs, from their voluminous quantity, from
the abftrufenefs of the fubjedts they treat upon, and
from the revolutions of literary tafte and opinion, it
is morally certain that the publication of them would
not be fuccefsful in the prefent age. Mr Cudw’orth’s
daughter Damaris, who married Sir Francis Maftiam
of Oates in Eflex, was a lady of genius and learning :
Ihe had a great friendlhip for Mr Locke, who refided
] C U F
feveral years at her houfe at Oates, wffiere he died in
1704.
C UE, an item or inuendo, given to the aftors on the u
ftage what or when to fpeak. See Prompter.
CUENZA, a town of Spain, in New Caftile, and
in the territory of the Sierra, with a bilhop’s fee. It
was taken by Lord Peterborough in 1706, but reta¬
ken by the duke of Berwick. It is feated on the river
Xucar, in W. Long. 1. 45. N. Lat. 40. 10.
CUERENHERT, Theodore Van, a very extra¬
ordinary perfon, w'as a native of Amfterdam, where
he was born in 1552. It appears, that early in life
he travelled into Spain and Portugal ; but the motives
of his journey are not alcertained. He was a man of
fcience, and according to report, a good poet. The
filler arts at firft he confidered as an amufement only i
but in the end he w^as, it feems, obliged to have re-
courfe to engraving alone for his fupport. And though
the different ftudies in which he employed his time
prevented his attachment to this profdjion being fo
clofe as it ought to have been, yet at leal! the marks
of genius are difcoverable in his w7orks. they are
flight, and haftily executed wuth the graver alone j but
in an open carelefs ftyle, fo as greatly to refemble de-
figns made with a pen. He wras eftablilhed at Haer-
lem j and there purfuing his favourite ftudies in litera¬
ture, he learned Latin, and was made fecretary to that
town, from whence he was fent leveral times as am-
baffador to the prince of Orange, to wffiom he addref-
fed a famous manifelto, which that prince publiflied-
in 1566. Had he flopped here, it had been wellj
but direfling his thoughts into a different channel, he
undertook an argument as dangerous as it was abfurd.
He maintained that, all religious communions were
corrupted ; and that, without a fupernatural million,
accompanied wuth miracles, no perfon had a right to
adminifter in any religious office : he therefore pro¬
nounced that man to be unworthy the name of a
Chriftian who would enter any place of public wor-
fhip. This he not only advanced in words, but ftrove
to fhow the fincerity of his belief by praflice ; and for
that reafon would not communicate wuth either Pro-
teftant or Papift. His works were publiflied in three
volumes folio in 1630 j and though he was feveral
times imprifoned, and at laft fentenced to banifhment,
yet he does not appear to have altered his fentiments.
He died at Dergoude in 1590, aged 68 years. It is
no fmall addition to the honour of this lingular man,
that he was the inftruflor of that juftly celebrated
artift Plenry Goltzius. Cuerenhert wmrked jointly
with the Galles and other artifts, from the defigns of
Martin Hemlkerck. The fubjeffs are from the Old
and New Teftament, and confift chiefly of middling
fized plates lengthwife. He alfo engraved feveral
fubjefls from Franc. Floris.
CUERPO. To walk in cuerpo, is a Spanifli phrafe
for going without a cloak ; or without all the forma¬
lities of a full drefs.
CUFF, Henry, the unfortunate fecretary of the
unfortunate earl of Effex, was born at Hinton St
George in Somerfetftfire, about the year 1560, of a
genteel family, who were poffeffed of confiderable e-
ftates in that county. In 1576, he wras entered of
Trinity college Oxford, where he focm acquired con-
fiderable
Cue
!'
Cuff.
Cu']as
II
Cuirafs.
GUI [6
fiJerable rEpiitation as a Grecian and difputant. He
r n n • !„ 4.1 ml
lideraDie reputation da a   ^
obtained a fellow (hip in the above-mentioned college ;
but was afterwards expelled for fpeakmg difrefpedt-
fully of the founder (a). He was however, foon
after admitted of Merton college ; of which, in 15M6,
he was clefted probationer, and in 1588 fellow. n
this year he took the degree of mafter of arts.. Some
time after he was elefted Greek profeffor and in 1594
proftor of the univerfity. When he left Oxford is
uncertain ; nor are we better informed as to the means
of his introduftion to the earl of Effex. W hen t at
nobleman was made lord lieutenant of Ireland, .
Cuff was appointed his fecretary, and continued inti¬
mately connefted with his lordfh.p until his confine¬
ment in the tower j and he is generally fuppofed o
have advifed thofe violent meafures which ended 11
their mutual deftruaion. The earl indeed confeffed
as much before his execution and charged him to lus
face with being the author of all his misfortunes. Mr
Cuff was tried for high-treafon convlftcd’ and TeXe'
cuted at Tyburn on the 30th of March 1601. Lord
Bacon, Sir Henry Wotton, and Camden, fpeak of him
in very harlh terms. He was certainly a man of
learning and abilities. He wrote two books; the
one entitled, The Differences of the Ages of Man s
Life; the other, De V” ; f rwle
tfiacno. The firft was publilhed after his death , the
fecond is ftill in manufeript..
CU]AS, James, in Latin Cujacius, the beft civi¬
lian of bis time, was born at Touloufe, of obfeure p -
rents in 1520. He learned polite literature and hi-
ftory’; andacquired great knowledge in the ancient
laws, which he taught with extraordinary reputation
at Touloufe, Cahors, Bourges, and Valence in Dau-
phine. Emmanuel Philibert, duke of Savoy, lnv.lted
him to Turin, and gave him fingular marks o his e-
fteem. Cujis afterwards refufed very advantageous
offers from Pope Gregory XIII. who was defirous of
having him teach at Bologna : but he.chofe rather to
fix at Bourges, where he had a prodigious number of
fcholars ; whim he not only took great pleafure m
nftruaing, but aflifted with his fubftance which oc-
cafioned his being called the ^
He died at Bourges in 1590, aged 70. H
are in high efteem among civilians. ...
CUIAVIA, a territory of Great Poland, having on
the north the duchy of Pruflia, on the weft the pala¬
tinate of Kalifk, and on the fouth thofe of Licici an
Rava and on the weft that of Ploczko. It coma,ns
two palatinates, the chief towns of which are Inow-
]„ez and Bred; as alfo Uladiilaw, the oap.talofthe
a'CUIRASS, a piece of defenftve armour, made
of iron plate, well hammered, ferving to cover the
body, from the neck to the girdle, both be.ore and
behind. Some derive the word, by corruption, from
1 C U L
the Italian cuore, “ heartbecaufe it covers that Cmrafllers
part ; others from the French cuir, or tbc Latin ron-
, others from the French cuir, or rne ^auu cu,t- CullTage>
“ leather whence coriaceous : becaufe delenlive   
arms were originally made of leather. The cuirals
was not brought into ufe till about the.year 1300,
though they were known both to the ancient Greeks
and Romans in different forms. . „
CUIRASSIERS, cavalry armed with cuiraiies, as
moft of the Germans are : The French have a. regi¬
ment of cuiraffiers ; but we have had none in the
Britifti army fince the revolution.
CULDEE, in church-hiftory, a fort of monkiih
priefts formerly inhabiting Scotland and Ireland. Be¬
ing remarkable for the religious exercifes of preaching
and praying, they were called, by way of eminence
cultores Dei; from whence is derived the %\ord cul-
cfees. They made choice of one of their ow-n frater¬
nity to be their fpiritual head, who was afterwards
called the Scots bijhop. r , • ,
CULEMBACH, adiftriftor marquifate olthe clrcl<-
of Franconia, in Germany. It is bounded on the weft
by the bifhopric of Bamberg ; on the fouth by the t -
ritory of Nuremberg ; on the eaft by thc Pa|ff
Bavaria and Bohemia; and on the north y g
land and part of the circle of Upper Saxony. It is
high mountains; the moft confiderable °f atter »re
thofe of Frichtelbetg, all of them covered " P'"e
trees Here are the fources of four large rivers, the
Maine, the Sala, the Eger, and the Nab..
quifate is the upper part of the burgraviate of Nu
K CulIk.ach, a town of Germany, In Wancoma,
the capital of the marquifate of the fame nam . ^
good fortifications, and .is fea.ed confluence of
fwo branches of the r.ver Mame. / "“fy
and burnt by the Huffites m 143°. b> hc
tants of Nuremberg in 1573* E. L g-
LCULEUS, in Roman antiquity, the largeft mea-
^ "-apachy forcings
^"pints, Engliih wine-meafure, and was 11,095 ^lid
inCCULEX, the GNAT ; a genus of infers b^ngtng
to the order of diptera. See E^omotogy ^
CUTIACAN, a province of North A 7 ’
the audience of Guadalajara. It is bounded on the
north by New Mexico on the ^ ^ ^"the
i i^S^lty, ;„d has rich
t TAGE a barbarous and immoral practice,
wherewSs “of manors ancient,y affumed a right
to the firft night of their vaffals brides. culleNj
(a) The founder of Trinity College was Sir 1 ho^y ‘gown, out of fun, no d°ubt* Cuff’
bp-pe\ui:ijrle abr:.mention^. “ A pox heads of colleges in
h^n^ Wood was told this ftory by Dr Bathurft.
G U L [
Cullen. CULLEN, a borough town in the county of Banff
v— 1 in Scotland. It is fituated on the fea-coaft. W. Long.
2. 12. N. Lat. 57. 38. The manufacture of linen
and damafk has been eftablifhed in this town for more
than 50 years.
Cullen, Dr William, an eminent phyfician and
diftinguifhed medical teacher, was born in Lanarkfhire,
in the wTeft of Scotland, 11th December 1712. His
father was for fome time chief magiftrate of the town of
Hamilton ; but though a very refpettable man, his
circumftances were not fuch as to permit him to lay out
much money on the education of his fon. William there¬
fore, after ferving an apprenticefhip to a furgeon apothe¬
cary in Glafgotv, went feveral voyages to the Weft In¬
dies as a furgeon in a trading veffel from London : but
of this employment he tired, and fettled himfelf, at an
early period of life, as a country furgeon in the parilh
of Shotts, where he ftaid a fhort time praftifing a-
mong the farmers and country people, and then went
to Hamilton with a view to praclife as a phyfician, hav¬
ing never been fond of operating as a furgeon.
While he refided near Shotts, it chanced that Archi¬
bald duke of Argyle, who at that time bore the chief
political fway in Scotland, made a vifit to a gentleman
of rank in that neighbourhood. The duke was fond
of literary purfuits, and was then particularly engaged
in fome chemical refearches, which required to be elu¬
cidated by experiment. Eager in thefe purfuits, his
grace, while on this vifit, found himfelf much at a lofs
for the wTant of fome fmall chemical apparatus, which
his landlord could not furnifh : but happily recolle&ing
young Cullen in the neighbourhood, he mentioned him
to the duke as a perfon who could probably furnifh it.
—He was accordingly invited to dine; was introduced
to his grace,—who was fo much pleafed with his know¬
ledge, his politenefs and addrefs, that he formed an ac¬
quaintance which laid the foundation of all Doftor Cul¬
len’s future advancement.
The name of Cullen by this time became familiar at
every table in that neighbourhood j and thus he came
to be known, by charafter, to the duke of Hamilton,
who then refided, for a fhort time, in that part of the
country : and that nobleman having been fuddenly ta¬
ken ill, the afiiftance of young Cullen was called in j
which proved a fortunate circumftance in ferving to
promote his advancement to a ftation in life more
fuited to his talents than that in which he had hitherto
moved.
The duke was highly delighted with the fpright-
ly charadfer and ingenious converfation of his new
acquaintance. Receiving inftrudlion from him in
a much more pleafing, and an infinitely eafier way
than he had ever before obtained, the converfation
of Cullen proved highly interefting to his grace.
—No wonder then that he foon found means to get
his favourite doftor, who was already the efteem-
ed acquaintance of the man through whofe hands all
preferments in Scotland were obliged to pafs, appointed
to a place in the univerfity of Glafgow, where his fin-
gular talent* for difcharging the duties of the ftation he
now occupied foon became very confpicuous.
During his refidence in the country, however, feve¬
ral mportant incidents occurred, that ought not to be
paired over in filence. It was during this time that
was formed a connexion in bulinefs in a very humble
7 ] C U L
line between two men, who became afterwards eminent- Cullen,
ly confpicuous in much more exalted ftations. William, v—
afterwards Dodlor Hunter, the famous ledturer on ana¬
tomy in London, was a native of the fame part of the
country ; and not being in affluent circumftances more
than Cullen, thefe two young men, ftimulated by the
impulfe of genius to profecute their medical fludies
with ardour, but thwarted by the narrownefs of their
fortune, entered into a copartnery bufinefs as furgeons
and apothecaries in the country. The chief end of
their contradf being to furnifh the parties with the
means of profecuting their medical ftudies, which they
could not feparately fo w’ell enjoy, it was ftipulated,
that one of them alternately fhould be allowed to ftudy
in what college he inclined, during the winter, while
the other fhould carry on the bufinefs in the country
for their common advantage. In confequence of this
agreement, Cullen was firft allowed to ftudy in the u-
niverfity of Edinburgh for one winter ; but when it
came to Hunter’s turn next winter, he, preferring Lon¬
don to Edinburgh, went thither. There his lingular
neatnefs in difledling, and uncommon dexterity in ma¬
king anatomical preparations, his affiduity in ftudy, his
mildnefs of manner, and pliability of temper, foon re¬
commended him to the notice of Dr Douglas, who
then read leftures upon anatomy and midwifery there j
who engaged Hunter as an affiftant, and whofe chair he
afterwards filled with fo much honour to himfelf and fa-
tisfadfion to the public.
I hus was diffolved, in a premature manner, a copart¬
nery perhaps of as lingular a kind as is to be found in
the annals of literature : nor w as Cullen a man of that
dilpofition to let any engagement with him prove a bar
to his partner’s advancement in life. The articles w-ere
freely departed from by him •, and Cullen and Hunter
ever after kept up a very cordial and friendly correfpond-
ence; though, it is believed, they never from that time
had a perfonal interview.
During the time that Cullen pradlifed as a country
furgeon and apothecary, he formed another connedfion
of a more permanent kind, which happily for him, was
not difiolved till a very late period of his life. With
the ardour of difpofition he pofTefled, it cannot be fup-
pofed he beheld the fair fex with indifference. Very
early in life he took a ftrong attachment to an amiable
wroman, a Mifs Johnfton, daughter to a clergyman in
that neighbourhood, nearly of his own age, who was
prevailed on to join with him in the facred bonds of
w-edlock, at a time when he had nothing elfe to recom¬
mend him to her except his perfon and difpofitions.
After giving to him a numerous family, and partici¬
pating with him the changes of fortune which he ex¬
perienced, ftie died in fummer 1786.
In the year 1746, Cullen who had nowT taken the
degree of dodlor in phyfic, w as appointed a ledlurer in
chemiftry in the univerfity of Glafgow : and in the
month of Odtober began his kdtures in that fcience.
His fingular talents for arrangement, his diftindlnefs of
enunciation, his vivacity of manner, and his know ledge
of the fcience he taught, rendered his le&ures intereft¬
ing to the ftudents to a degree that had been till then
unknowm at that univerfity. He became, therefore, in
fome mealure, adored by the ftuderts. The former pro-
feffors were eclipftd by the brilliancy ot his reputation 5
and he had to experience all thole little rubs that envy
x and
C XT L . . [ 8
Cullen, and difappomted ambition naturally threw in his wav.
  ' Rc^ardlefs, however, of thefe iecret fliagreens, he piei-
fed forward with ardour in his literary career ; and,
fu jported by the favour of the public he confoled him-
felf for the contumely he met with from a few indi¬
viduals. His praaice as a phyfician increafed from day
to day •, and a vacancy having occurred m the year
Cullen.
he was then appointed by the king proleilor of
r» o rnpnt
medicine i7tharuniverfity. This new appointment
ferved only to call forth his powers, and to bring to
light talents that it was not formerly known he poile -
fed ; fo that his fame continued to increaie. _
As, at that period, the patrons of the umverfity of
Edinburgh were conllantly on the watch for the mo ft
-eminent medical men to lupport the rifing fame of the
vcoilege, their attention was foon direaed towards Gul¬
den ; who, on the death of Dr Plummer, profeflor of
chemiftry, was, in 1756, unammoufly invited to accept
the vacant chair. This invitation he accepted: and ha¬
ving refigned all his employments m Glafgow, he be-
gan"bis academical career in Ed.nburgh m the month
of Oclober of that year; and there he refided till his
dC IfAhe admiffion of Cullen into the univerftty of Glaf¬
gow gave great fpirit to the exertions of the ftudents,
fhis was ftill, if poffible, more ftrongly felt in Edin¬
burgh Chemiftry, which had been till that time of
fmall account in that umverfity, and was attended to y
very few of the ftudents, inftantly became a favourite
iludy ; and the leftures upon that faence were more
frequented than any others m the umverfity, anatomy
alone excepted. The ftudents, in general, fpoke of
Cullen with the rapturous ardour that is natural to
youth when they are highly pleafed. Thefe eulog,UI™
appeared extravagant to moderate men, and cou d not
fail to prove difgufting to his colleagues. A party was
formed among the ftudents for oppofing this new fa¬
vourite of the public ; and thefe ftudents, by mifrepre-
fenting the doftrines of Cullen to others who could no
have an opportunity of hearing thefe doth lines them-
felves, made even fome of the moft intelligent men in the
univerfity think it their duty publicly to oppoie thefe
imaginary tenets. The ferment was thus augmented ,
and it was fome time before the profeflors difeovered
the arts by which they had been impofed upon, and
univerfal harmony reftored.
During this time of public ferment, “ en ”
fteadiiy forward, without taking any part himfelf in
hefe difputes. He never gave ear to any talcs re peft-
his colleagues, nor took any notice of the doflrmes
they taught: That fome of their unguarded ftnaures
St at time, come to his knowledge is not impoffi-
ble i but if they did, they feemed to make no nnpreflion
011 Theih*attempts of a party of (Indents to lower the
charafter of Cullen on his firft outlet in the univerfity of
Edinburgh having proved fruitlefs, his fame as a profef-
fo? and his reputation as a phyfician, became more
7d more refpeited every day. Nor could it well be
otherwife: Cullen’s profefiional knowledge was alway^
ereat and his manner of letturing fingularly clear and
Lellimble, lively and entertaining 5 and to his patients,
bis conduft in general as a phyfican was fo pkafing^
his addrefs fo affable and engaging, and his manner lo
open, fo kind, and lo little tcgulated by pecumary
] C U L
confiderations, that it was impoffible for thofe who had
occafion to call once for his medical afliftance, ever to
be fatisfied on any future occafion without it. He be¬
came the friend and companion of every family he vi-
fited ; and his future acquaintance could not be dil-
^But if'Dr Cullen in his public capacity deferved to
be admired, in his private capacity by his ftudents he
deferved to be adored. His conduft to them was io
attentive, and the intereft he took in the private con¬
cerns of all thofe ftudents who applied to him lor ad¬
vice, was fo cordial and fo warm, that it was impofli-
ble for anyone who had a heart fufceptible of gene¬
rous emotions, not to be enraptured with a conduit io
uncommon and fo kind. Among ingenious youth
gratitude eafily degenerates into rapture—into reipett
nearly allied to adoration. Thole who advert to this
natural conftruftion of the human mind, will be at no
lofs to account for that popularity that Cullen enjoy-
ed-a popularity, that thofe who attempt to weigh
every occurrence by the cool ftandard of reafon alone,
will be inclined to think exceflive. It is fortunate,
however, that the bulk of mankind will ever be in¬
fluenced in their judgment not le s by feelings and a -
feaions than by the cold and phlegmatic dilates of
reafon. The adoration which generous conduit ex¬
cites is the reward which nature hath appropriated
excluiively to difinterefled beneficence. 1 his was the
fecret charm that Cullen ever earned about with him,
which fafeinated fuch numbers of thofe who had in¬
timate accefs to him. This was the power which his
envious opponents never could have an opportunity o
fcThe'general condua of Cullen to his (Indents teas
this With all fuch as he obferved to be attentive and
diligent, he formed an early acquaintance, by inviting
them by twos, by threes, or by fours at a time, to fup
with him, convening with them on thefe occafions w th
the moft engaging cafe, and freely entering with them
on the fubjeil of their ftudies, their amufements their
difficulties, their hopes, and future profpeds. In this
way he ufually invited the whole of Hs numerous dais,
tilUie made himfelf acquainted with ffieir abilities,
their private charafter, and their objeds of purfuit.
ThofePamong them whom he found moft afliduous belt
difpofed or the moft friendlefs, he invited the ™ft fre¬
quently,’ till an intimacy was gradually formed which
proved^highly beneficial to them. Their doubts ruth
regard to their objeds of ftudy, he liftened to with at¬
tention, and folved with the moft obliging c°ndelcen-
fion His library, which confifted of an excellent a -
br ment of the belt books, efpecia ly on medical fub-
X was at all times open for their accommodation
A Vfle advice in every cafe of difficulty to them, they
lh; had'iu: (lower readi.y .0 ob«e,„
They feeiued to be his family, and few perfous of d, -
IrZfhed merit have left the univerSt, of Edmburgh
in his time, with whom he did not keep up a cor.el-
oondeuce till they were fairly eftabltfhed m bufmefs.
By thefe means, he came to have a moft accurate know¬
ledge of the ftate of every country, with lefpeft to
pralitioners in the medical line ; the only u e he made
of which knowledge, was to direft ftudtnts in their
choice of places, where they might have an 0PP0lt^n>-
r rr in bnfinefs with a reafonable profpect ox
ty of engaging m bulinels VMtu u fuccefs.
l
C U L [9
Cullen, fu'ccexs'. Many, very many, able men has he thus
put into a good line of bufinefs, where they never
could have thought of it themfelves •, and they are
now reaping the fruits of this beneficent forefight on
his part.
Nor was it in this wray only that he befriended the
ftudents at the univerfity of Edinburgh. Poffefiing a
benevolence of mind that made him ever think firlt of
the wants of others, and recolle&ing the difficulties
that he himfelf had had to ftruggle with in his younger,
days, he was at all times Angularly attentive to their pe¬
cuniary concerns. From his general acquaintance a-
mong the ftudents, and the friendly habits he was on
with many of them, he found no difficulty in difcover-
ing thofe among them who were rather in embarraffed
circumftances, without being obliged to hurt their de¬
licacy in any degree. To fuch perfons, when their
habits of ftudy admitted of it, he was peculiarly at¬
tentive. They wTere more frequently invited to his
houfe than others ; they were treated with more than
ufual kindnefs and familiarity 5 they were conduced to
his library, and encouraged by the moft delicate addrefs
to borrow from it freely whatever books he thought
they had occafion for: and as perfons in thefe circum¬
ftances were ufually mote ffiy in this refpeft than others,
books wrere fometimes preffed upon them as a fort of
conftraint, by the doctor infilling to have their opinion
of fuch or fuch paffages they had not read, and defiring
them to carry the book home for that purpofe. He
in ffiort, behaved to them rather as if he courted their
company, and flood in need of their acquaintance than
they of his. He thus raifed them in the opinion of
their acquaintance to a much higher degree of eftima-
tion than they could otherwife have obtained ; which,
to people whofe minds were deprefled by penury, and
whofe fenfe of honour was lharpened by the confciouf-
nefs of an inferiority of a certain kind, was Angularly
engaging. Thus they were infpired with a fecret fenfe
of dignity, which elevated their minds, and excited an
uncommon ardour of purfuit, inftead of that melancho¬
ly inactivity which is fo natural in fuch circumftances,
and which too often leads to defpair. Nor was he lefs
delicate in the manner of fupplying their wants, than
attentive to difcover them. He often found out fome
polite excufe for refufing to take payment for a firft
courfe, and never was at a lofs for one to an after courfe.
Before they could have an opportunity of applying for
a ticket, he would fometimes lead the converfation to
fome fubjeft that occurred in the courfe of his leCluresj
and as his leClures were never put in writing by him¬
felf, he would fometimes beg the favour to fee their
notes, if he knew they had been taken with attention,
under a pretext of affifting his memory. Sometimes he
would exprefs a wilh to have their opinion of a particu¬
lar part of his courfe, and prefented them with a ticket
^for that purpofe •, and fometimes he refufed to take
payment, under the pretext that they had not received
his full courfe the preceding year, fome part of it ha¬
ving been neceflarily omitted for want of time, which
he meant to include in this courfe. By fuch delicate
addrefs, in which he greatly excelled, he took care to
forerun their wants. Thus he not only gave them the
benefit of his own leftures, but by refufing to take
their money, he alfo enabled them to attend thofe of
ethers that were necelfary to complete their courfe of
Vol. VII. Part I.
1 C U L
ftudies. Thefe were particular devices he adopted to Cullen,
individuals to whom economy was neceffary j but it —v——
was a general rule with him, never to take money from
any ftudent for more than two courfes of the fame fet
of le&uies, permitting him to attend thefe le&ures as
many years longer as he plealed gratis.
He introduced another general rule into the univer¬
fity, that was diftated by the fame principle of difin-
terefted beneficence, that ought not to be here paf-
fed over in filence. Before he came to Edinburgh, it
was the cuftom of medical profefibrs to accept of fees
for their medical affiftance, when wanted, even from
medical ftudents themfelves, who were perhaps attend¬
ing the profeffbr’s own lectures at the time. But Cul¬
len never would take fees as a phyfician from any ftu¬
dent at the univerfity, though he attended them, when
called in as a phyfician, with the fame affiduity and
care as if they had been perfons of the firft rank, who
paid him moft liberally. This gradually induced others
to adopt a fimilar practice ; fo that it is now become a
general rule for medical proftflbrs to decline taking any
fees when their affiftance is neceffary to a ftudent. For
this ufeful reform, with many others, the ftudents of
the univerfity of Edinburgh are folely indebted to the
liberality of Dr Cull en.
The firft leftures which Cullen delivered in Edin¬
burgh w’ere on chemiftry ; and for many years he alfo
gave clinical lectures on the cafes which occurred in the
royal infirmary. In the month of February 1763,
Dr Alfton died, after having begun his ufual courfe of
lectures on the materia medica; and the magiftrates of
Edinburgh, as patrons of that profefforffiip in the uni¬
verfity, appointed Dr Cullen to that chair, requefting
that he would finifti the courfe of leblures that had been
begun for that feafon. This he agreed to do ; and
though he was under a neceffity of going on with the
courfe in a few days after he was nominated, he did not
once think of reading the leftures of his predeceffor,
but refolved to deliver a new courfe entirely his own.
The popularity of Cullen at this time may be guefied
at by the increafe of new ftudents who came to attend
his courfe in addition to the eight or ten who had en¬
tered to Dr Alfton. The new ftudents exceeded 100.
An imperfeft copy of thefe leflures thus fabricated in
hafte, having been publiffied, the doftor thought it ne-
cefiary to give a more correft edition of them in the
latter part of his life. But his faculties being then
much impaired, his friends looked in vain for thofe
ftriking beauties that charafterifed his literary exer¬
tions in the prime of life.
Some years afterwards, on the death of Dr White,
the magiftrates once more appointed Dr Cullen to give
lectures on the theory of phyfic in his ftead. And it
was on that occafion Dr Cullen thought it expedient to
refign the chemical chair in favour of Dr Black, his
former pupil, whofe talents in that department of fcience
were then well known, and who filled the chair till his
death with great fatisfaftion to the public. Soon after,
on the death of Dr Rutherford, who for many years
had given leflures with applaufe on the pra&ioe of phy¬
fic, Dr John Gregory (whofe name can never be men¬
tioned by any one who had the pleafure of his acquain¬
tance without the warmeft tribute of a grateful refpedl)
having become a carididate for this place along with Dr
Cullen, a fort of coropromife took place between them,
B by
C U L [
Cullen, by which they agreed each to give le&ures alternately
"■“■"■v ■■,l ' on the theory and on the praftice or phyfic during
their ioint lives, the longed: lurvivor being allowed to
hold either of the claffes he Ihould incline. In c0,^‘e^
quence of this agreement, Dr Cullen delivered the nrr
courfe of leftures on the praftice of phyfic in winter
1766, and Dr Gregory fucceeded him in that branch
the following vear. Never perhaps did a literary ar¬
rangement take place that could have proved more be¬
neficial to the Undents than this. Both thefe men poj-
fefled great talents, though of a kind extremely dithmi-
lar. Both of them had certain failings or defeats, which
the other rvas aware of, and counteracted. Each o
them knew and relpefted the talents of the other. Tney
co-operated, therefore, in the happieft manner, to en¬
large the uuderftanding, and to forward the purfurts o
their pupils. Unfortunately this arrangement was loon
deftroyed by the unexpe&ed death of Dr Gregory,
who wms cut off in the flower of life by a fudden and
unforefeen event. After this time, Cullen continued
to give leaures on the pradice of phyfic till a tew
months before his death, which happened on the 5th
of February 1790, in the 77th year of his age. _
In drawing the charaaer of Dr Cullen, his biogra¬
pher, Dr Anderfon obferves, that in fcientific purimts
men may be arranged into two grand claffes, which,
though greatly different from each other in their ex¬
tremes, yet approximate at times fo near as to be blend¬
ed indiferiminately together 5 thofe who ponds a ta-
* lent for detail, and thofe who are endowed with the
faculty of arrangement. The firft may be faid to view
obiindividually as through a micrcfcope. 1 he
field of vifion is confined 5 but the objeas include
within that field, which muff ufually be con fide red
finely and aoart from all others, are feen with a won¬
drous degree of accuracy and diffmanefs. I he otner
takes a fw’eeping view of the . univerfe at }ayge»
confiders every objea he perceives, not individu¬
ally, but as a part of one harmonious whole : His mind
is therefore not fo much employed in examining the Se¬
parate parts of this individual objea, as in tracing its
relations, conneaions, and dependencies on a‘
round it.—Such was the turn of Cullen’s mind. I he
talent for arrangement was that which peculiarly il-
tinguiffied him from the ordinary clafs of mortals ; and
this talent he poffeffed perhaps in a more diftmguilhed
decree than any other perffm of the age m which he
lived. Many perfons exceeded him in the minute know¬
ledge of particular departments, who, knowing this,
naturally looked upon him as their inferior ; but pol-
fefling not at the fame time that glorious faculty, which,
“ with an eye wide roaming, glances from the earth to
heaven ” or the charms which this talent can intu.e
into congenial minds, felt difguft at the pre-eminence
he obtained, and aftonilhment at the means by which
he obtained it. An Arirtotle and a Bacon have had
their talents in like manner appretiated } and many are
the perfons who can neither be exalted to luolime ideas
with Homer, norravifhed with the natural touches of a
Shakefpeare. Such things are wifely ordered, that every
department in the univerfe may be properly filled by
thofe who have talents exadly fuited to the talk affign-
ed them by heaven.
Had Cullen, however, poffeffed the talents for ar¬
rangement alone, froall would have been his title to
10 ] C u L
that hich degree of applaufe he has attained. With- Cullen,
out a knowledge otfa&s, a talent for arrangement pro-
duces nothing but chimeras ; without materials to work
upon, the ffru&ures which an over-heated imagination
may rear up are merely “ the bafelefs fabric of a vifion.”
Nb man was more fenlible of the juftnefs of this icmaik
than Dr Cullen, and few were at greater pains to avoid
it. His whole life, indeed, was employed, almott with¬
out interruption, in colle&ing fads. Whether he was
reading, or walking, orconverfing, thefe were continu¬
ally falling into his way. With the keen perception of
an eagle, he marked them at the firft glance ; and with¬
out Hopping at the time to examine them, they were
ftored up in his memory, to be drawn forth as occafion
required, to be confronted with other fafts that had
been obtained after the fame manner, and to have their
truth afcertained, or their falfity proved, by the evidence
which Ihould appear when carefully examined at the
impartial bar of juftice. Without a memory retentive
in a lingular degree, this could not have been done j
but fo very extraordinary was Dr Cullen’s memory,
that till towards the very decline of life, there was
fcarcely a fa£l that had ever occurred to him which he
could not readily recolleff, with all its concomitant cir-
cumftances, whenever he had occafion to refer to it. It
was this faculty which fo much abridged his labour m
ftudy, and enabled him fo happily to avail himfeif of the
labour of others in all his literary fpeculations. He of¬
ten reaped more by the converfation of an hour than
another man would have done in whole weeks of labo¬
rious ftudy. , ^
In his preleaions, Dr Cullen never attempted to
read His ledures were delivered viva voce, without
having been previoufly put into writing, or thrown in¬
to any particular arrangement. The vigour of his mind
was fuch, that nothing more was neceffary than a few
ftiort notes before him, merely to prevent him from va-
ryincr from the general order he had been accuftomed
to obferve This gave to his difcourfes an eale, a vt-
vacity, a variety, and a force, that are rarely to be met
with in academical difcourfes. H.s leftures, by confe-
quence, upon the fame fubjea, were never exaftly the
fame. Their general tenor indeed was not much va¬
ried • but the particular illuftrations weie always new,
well fuited to the circumftances that attrafted the ge¬
neral attention of the day, and were delivered m the
particular way that accorded with the caft of mind the
prelector found himfeif in at the time, lo thefe cir¬
cumftances muft be afcribed that energetic artlefs elo¬
cution, which rendered his leaures fo generally capti¬
vating to his hearers. Even thofe who could not fol¬
low him in thofe extenfive views his penetrating mind
glanced at, or who were not able to underftand thole apt
allufions to collateral objeaswhich hecould only rapidly
point at as he went along, could not help being warm¬
ed in fome meafure by the vivacity of his manner. But
to thofe who could follow him m his rapid career, the
ideas he fuggefted were fo numerous the views he
laid open were fo extenfive, and the objects to be at-
tained were fo important-that every aftive faculty o£
the mind was roufed; and fuch an ardour of enthufiafm
was excited in the profecution of ftudy, as appeared to
be perfeftly inexplicable to thofe who were merely un¬
concerned fpeftators. In confequence of this unfhack-
led freedom in the compofition and delivery of *as _*
Cullen.
C U L [ II 1 C U
tures, every circumftance was in the niceft unifon with was tall and thin, Hooping much
the tone of voice and exprefhon of countenance, which
the particular caft of mind he was in at the time infpi-
red. Was he joyous, all the figures introduced for il-
lullration were fitted to excite hilarity and good hu¬
mour : was he grave, the objefts brought under view
were of a nature more foieran and grand : and was he
peevifh, there was a peculiarity of manner in thought,
in word, and in a£tion, which produced a moil Hriking
and interefting effedf. The languor of a nervelefs uni¬
formity was never experienced, nor did an abortive at¬
tempt to excite emotions that the fpeaker himfelf could
not at the time feel, ever produce thofe difcordant ideas
which prove difgufting and unpleafing.
It would feem as if Dr Cullen had confidered the
proper bufinefs of a preceptor to be that of putting his
pupils into a proper train of Itudy, fo as to enable them
to profecute thofe ftudies at a future period, and to car¬
ry them on much farther than the ihort time allowed
for academical preleftions would admit. He did not,
therefore, fo much drive to make thofe who attended
his lectures deeply verfed in the particular details of
objects, as to give them a general view of the whole
fubjefl to fhew what had been already attained re-
fpe&ing it j to point out what remained yet to be dif-
covered ; and to put them into a train of ftudy that
fhould enable them, at a future period, to remove thofe
difficulties that had hitherto obftrucled our progrefs,
and thus to advance themfelves to farther and far¬
ther degrees of perfe&ion. If thefe were his views,
nothing 'could be more happily adapted to them than the
mode he invariably purlued. He firft drew, with the
ftriking touches of a mailer, a rapid and general outline
of the fubjeft, by which the whole figure was feen at
once to Hart boldly from the canvas, diftinft in all its
parts, and unmixed with any other obje£l. He then
began anew to retrace the pidlure, to touch up the lef-
fer parts, and to finiffi the whole in as perfect a manner
as the Hate of our knowledge at the time would permit.
Where materials were wanting, the pi&ure there conti¬
nued to remain imperfedt. The wants were thus ren¬
dered obvious ; and the means of fupplying thefe were
pointed out with the moll careful difefimination. The
iludent, whenever he looked back to the fubjeft, per¬
ceived the defeats; and his hopes being awakened, he
felt an irrefiftible impulfe to explore that hitherto un¬
trodden path which had been pointed out to him, and
fill up the chafm which Hill remained. Thus were the
aflive faculties of the mind moll powerfully excited;
and inftead of labouring himfelf to fupply deficiencies
that far exceeded the power of any one man to accom-
pliffi, he fet thoufands at work to fulfil the talk, and
put them into a train of going on with it.
It was to thefe talents, and to this mode of apply¬
ing them, that Dr Cullen owed his celebrity as a pro-
felTor; and it was in this manner that he has perhaps
done more towards the advancement of fcience than
any other man of his time, though many individuals
might perhaps be found who were more deeply verfed
in the particular departments he taught than he himfelf
was.
Dr Cullen’s external appearance, though ftriking and
not unpleafing, was not elegant. He had an expref-
five countenance, and a lively eye. In his perfon he
bout the Ihoulders; CuHodert.
and when he walked, he had a contemplative look,
feemingly regarding little the obje&s around him. Ac¬
cording to the obfervation of one who was well ac¬
quainted with the character of Cullen, he was eminent¬
ly diltinguiffied as a profeflbr for three things. “ The
energy of his mind, by which he viewed every fubjtft
with ardour, and combined it immediately with the
whole of his knowledge.
“ The fcientific arrangement which he gave to his
fubjeft, by which there was a hicidus ordo to the dulleft
fcholar. He was the firft perfon in this country who
made chemiftry ceafe to be a chaos.
“ A wonderful art of interelling the lludents in every
thing which he taught, and of raifing an emulative en-
thufiafm among them.” Life of Cullen by Dr Anderfon
in the Bee.
CULLODEN, a place in Scotland within two
miles of Invernefs, chiefly remarkable for a complete
vidlory gained over the rebels on the 16th of April
1746. That day the royal army, commanded by
the duke of Cumberland, began their march from
Nairn, formed into five lines of three battalions each ;
headed by Major-general Hulke on the left, Lord Sem-
pill on the right, and Brigadier Mordaunt in the cen¬
tre 5 flanked by the horfe under the Generals Hawley
and Bland, who at the fame time covered the cannon
on the right and left. In this order they marched
about eight miles, when a detachment of Kingfton’s
horfe, and of the Highlanders, having advanced before
the reft of the army, difeovered the van of the rebels
commanded by the young Pretender. Both armies
immediately formed in the order and numbers ftiown
in the annexed fcheme.
About two in the afternoon the rebels began to
Cannonade the king’s army j but their artillery being
ill ferved, did little execution; while the fire from
their enemies was feverely felt, and occafioned great
diforder. The rebels then made a puffi at the right
of the royal army, in order to draw the troops for¬
ward ; but finding themfelves difappointed, they turn¬
ed their whole force on the left; falling chiefly on
Barrell’s and Monro’s regiments, where they attempt¬
ed to flank the king’s front line. But this defign
alfo was defeated by the advancing of Wolfe’s regi¬
ment, while in the mean time the cannon kept play¬
ing upon them with cartridge-fhot. General Hawley,
with fome Highlanders, had opened a paflage through
fome ftone walls to the right for the horfe which ad¬
vanced on that fide ; while the horfe on the king’s
right wheeled off upon their left, difperfed their bo¬
dy of referve, and met in the centre of their front line
in their rear ; when being repulfed in the front, and
great numbers of them cut off, the rebels fell in¬
to very great confufion. A dreadful carnage was
made by the cavalry on their backs ; however, fome
part of the foot ftill preferved their order ; but King¬
fton’s horfe, from the referve, gailopped up brifkly,
and falling upon the fugitives, did terrible execution.
A total defeat inftantly took place, with the lofs of
2500 killed, wounded, and prifoners, on the part of
the rebels, while the royalifts loft not above 200. The
young Pretender had his horfe (hot under him during
the engagement; and after the battle retired to the
B 2 houfe
C U L [12
Culloden, houfe of a faftor of Lord Lovat, about ten miles from
Culm, invernefs, where he ftaid that night. Next day he
U~v fet out for Fort-Auguftus, from whence he P^ed his
iourney through wild deferts w!th great difficulty and
diftrefs^ till at laft he fafely reached France, as related
under the article Britain, N° 423. (a).
CULM, or Culmus, among botamfts, a draw or
haulm ; defined by Linmeus to be the proper trun
of the graffes, which elevates the leaves, flower, and
^This fort of trunk is tubular or hollow, and has
frequently knots or joints diftributed at proper di an-
ces through its whole length. The leaves are long,
fleck and placed either near the roots in great nu -
bers, or proceed finely from the of
the ftalk, which they embrace at the bale, hk
flieath or glove.
1
C U L
The haulm is commonly garniffied with leaves:
fometimes, however, it is naked j that is, devoj4
leaves, as in a few fpecies of cypiefs-grafs. Molt
graffes have a round cylindrical ftalk} m fome fpecies
of fchcenus, fcirpus, cyprels grafs, and others, it is
The ftalk is fometimes entire, that is, has no bran¬
ches •, fometimes branching, n \n fchanus aculeatus et
capenfis j and not feldom confifts of a number of fcales,
which lie over each other like tiles. . ,
Laftly, in a few graffes, the ftalk is not mterrupted
with joints, as in the greater part. _ The fpace con¬
tained betwixt every two knots or joints, is termed
by botanifts internodium, and articulus culmi.
7This fpecies of trunk often affords certain marks of
diftinaion in difcriminatin^ the fpec.es. rhus .n the
genus eriocaulon, the fpecres are fcarce to be^.ft^
Culm
. I I gg HE UJ StUOy§UI^ piEMOH
(a) P/an of the Battle of Culloden.
jCauoijn^ neaiansg; s‘uoll§^
‘iNnvaaop\[ *2ua;
Suitu3TJ ?| n jj H§iia mdm9s J31-uo3n I || || 9JI°AV
•ansnj4 -usq aofex\r
..mps™ ^||||^|1||^i|||2"||||0^If||i’M1Ea 'SU°08"aV-
r •ai-avwaaTV J° ’u33 'in3l.T
•GNVTa ’USQ
’AIMFIV SiSONI'H 3HJh
•wn-aoNy pioT ptioffO
N.
Duke of Perth.
The REBEL ARMY.
Lord John Drummond.
Lord Geo. Murray.
e o o
o ^ Q ^ ^
On 2 "O
o 3
o ^
SB
to ^
O T3 S
O o O o
o 3
5 A o |.
0 S 0 |
o "5
o £.
O
4^
o
o
tr*
^ ^ c
O w
O
O -5
O ^
o 3.
O 3
r >
O n ^ S'
O O- O O
o 3’ o
w 05
Left flank 400.
Dd. John Drummond.
Guards, huffars,
Firft column 800.
Thole of the above, who
have only guns, and
Kilmarnock’s guards.
Fitzjames’s
juaras, nunais,  , r
and Perthffiire The young Pretender. horie.
fquadron.
Second column 800.
Right flank 400
Piquets, by Stapleton.
Third column 800.
Ld. Lewis Gordon’s and Glenbucket’s,
to be ready to luccour when needlul.
The D. ot Perth’s reg. and Ld. Ogilvie s,
not to fire without pofitive order-, and to
keep clofe as afrefficorpsde referve. 800.-
Colonel Roy Stuart’s, and
thole of the above who
have only guns.
-In all 8350.
Park wall, broke down by the Campbells.
CUM
Culmife- guifhed but by the angles of the cu^rns or ftalks.
rous Thefe in fome fpecies are in number 5, in others 6,
r J] and in others 10.
land.' CULMIFERO.US plants, (from culmus, a ftraw
-■■■ y -   or haulm) : plants fo called, which have a fmooth
jointed ttalk, ufually hollow, and wrapped about at
each joint with fingle, narrow, lharp-pointed leaves,
and the feeds contained in chaffy hulks ; iuch are oats,
wheat, barley, rye, and the other plants of the natu¬
ral family of the Grasses.
CULMINATION, in AJIronomy, the palfage of
any heavenly body over the meridian, or its greateft
altitude for that day.
CULPRIT, a term ufed by the clerk of the ar¬
raignments, when a perfon is indicled for a criminal
matter. See Plea to Indiflment, par. II.
CULROSS, a royal borough town in Scotland, 11-
tuated on the river Forth, about twenty-three miles
north-weft of Edinburgh. Here is a magnificent
houfe, which was built about the year 1590 by Ed¬
ward Lord Kinlofs, better known in England by the
name of Lord Bruce, llain in the noted duel between
him and Sir Edward Sackville. Some poor remains
of the Ciftercian abbey are ftill to be feen here, found¬
ed by Malcolm earl of Fife in 1217. The church w^as
jointly dedicated to the Virgin and St Serf confeffor.
The revenue at the dilfolution was 768 pounds Scots,
befides the rents paid in kind. The number of monks,
exclufive of the abbot, was nine. W. Long. 3. 34.
N. Lat. 56. 8.
CULVER1N, a long llender piece of ordnance or
artillery, ferving to carry a ball to a great diftance.
Manege derives the word from the Latin colubrina;
others from coluber, “ fnake either on account of
the length and llendernefs of the piece, or of the ra¬
vages it makes.
There are three kinds of culverins, viz. the extra¬
ordinary, the ordinaiy, and the leaft fized. 1. The
culverin extraordinary has 5^ inches bore ; its length
32 calibers, or 13 feet’, weighs 4800 pounds j its load
above 12 pounds; carries a Ihot 5^ inches diameter,
Weighing 20 pounds weight. 2. The ordinary cul
verin is 12 feet long; carries a ball of 17 pounds
5 ounces ; caliber 54 inches; its weight 4500 pounds.
3. The culverin of the leaft fi'ze, has its diameter 5
inches; is 12 feet long; weighing about 4000 pounds;
carries a Ihot 3^ inches diameter, weighing 14 pounds
9 ounces.
CULVERTAILED, among Ihipwrights, fignifies
the fattening or letting of one timber into another, fo
that they cannot flip out, as the corlings into the
beams of a (hip.
CUM A, or Cumj*e, in Ancient Geography, a town
of iEolia in Alia Minor. The inhabitants have been
acculed of ftupidity for not laying a tax upon all the
goods which entered their harbour during 300 years.
They were called Cumani,
CUMtL, or Cuma, in Ancient Geography, a city
of Campania near Puteoli, founded by a colony from
Chalcis and Cumae of /Eolia before the Trojan war.
The inhabitants were called Cumcei. One of the Si¬
byls fixed her refidence in a cave in the neighbour¬
hood, and wras called the Cumean Sibyl.
CUMBERLAND, Cumbria, lo denominated from
the Cumbri, or Britons who inhabited it; one of the
GUN
moft northerly counties in England. It wras formerly Cumber-
a kingdom, extending from the vallum of Adrian to 1
the city of Dumbritton, now Dumbarton on the frith cunf.uS.
of Clyde in Scotland. At prefent it is a county of  v——•
England, which gives the title of duke to one of the
royal family, and fends turn members to parliament.
It is bounded on the north and north-weft by Scot¬
land ; on the fouth and fouth-eaft by part ot Lanca-
flrire and VVeftmorland : it borders on the eaft w ith
Northumberland and Durham ; and on the weft is
walhed by the Irifti fea. The length from north to
fouth may amount to 55 miles, but the breadth does
not exceed 40. It is well watered with rivers, lakes,
and fountains; but none of its ftreams are navigable.
In fome places there are very high mountains. The
air is keen and piercing on thefe mountains, towards
the north ; and the climate is moift, as in all hilly-
countries. The foil varies with the face of the coun¬
try ; being barren on the moors and mountains, but
fertile in the valleys and level ground bordering on
the fea. In general, the eafttrn parts of the (hire are
barren and defolate ; yet even the leaft fertile parts
are rich in metals and minerals. The mountains of
Copland abound with copper: veins of the fame metal,
with a mixture of gold and filver, were found in the
reign oi Queen Elizabeth among the fells of Dement ;
and royal mines were formerly wrought at Kef-
wick. The county produces great quantities of coal,
fome lead, abundance of the mineral earth called
black-lead, feveral mines of lapis calaminaris : and an
inconfiderable pearl fifhery on the coaft near Raven-
glafs.
Cumberland, Richard, a very learned Engliflv
divine in the latter end ot the 17th century, was fon
of a citizen of London, and educated at Cambridge.
In 1672 he publiflred his excellent Treatile of the
Law's of Nature ; and in 1686, An ElTay toward the
Jew'ifli Weights and Mi alures. After the Revolution
he was nominated by King William to the biftropric
of Peterborough, without the leaft folicitation on his
part. Fie purfued his Ifudies to the laft ; and the
world is obliged to him for clearing up leveral difficul¬
ties in hiftory, chronology, and philofophy. After
the age of 83, he applied himfelf to the ftudy of the
Coptic language, of which he made himielf mafter.
He was as remarkable tor humility of mind, benevo¬
lence of temper, and innocence of life, as for his ex-
tenfive learning. Fie died in 1718.
CUMINUM, cumin : A genus of plants belong¬
ing to the pentandria clals ; and in the natural method
ranking under the 45th order, Umbellatce. See Bo¬
tany Index.
CUNAEUS, Peter, born in Zealand in 15^^* wa8
diftinguilhed by his knowdedge in the learned langua¬
ges, and his fkill in the Jewifh antiquities. He alfo
ftudied law, which he taught at Leyden in 1615 ;
and read politics there till his death, in 1638. His
principal work is a treatife, in Latin, on the republic
of the Fie brew's,
CUNEIFORM, in general, an appellation given to
any body having the lhape of a wedge.
CuNEiFORM-2?o«e, in Anatomy, the feventh bone of
the cranium, called alfo os bajilare, and os fphenoides.
See Anatomy Index.
CUNEUS, in antiquity, a company of infantry-
j. drawn
f «3 1
Cunning
ham.
CUN [ i
Cuniculus drawn up in form of a wedge, the better to break
through the enemy’s ranks.
CUNICULUS. See Lepus, Mammallia Index.
Cuniculus, in mining, a term uled by authors in
diftinftion from puteus, to exprefs the feveral iorts of
paffages and cuts in thefe fubterranean works. The
cuniculi are thofe dire<ft paffages in mines where they
walk on horizontally •, but the putei are the perpen¬
dicular cuts or defcents. The miners in Germany call
thefe by the name Jiollen, znA fchachts ; the firft word
expreffing the horizontal, and the fecond the perpen¬
dicular cuts.
CUNILA, a genus of plants belonging to the mo-
nandria clals ; and in the natural method ranking
under the 42d order, Vertictllntce. See Botany Index.
CUN IN A, in Mythology, a goddefs who had the
care of little children.
CUNITZ, or Cunitia, Maria, aftronomer, was
the eldeft daughter of Hendric Cunitz, doftor of
medicine in Silefia, and was born about the beginning
of the 17th century. She learned languages with
amazing facility; and understood Polilh, German,
French, Italian, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. She at¬
tained a knowledge of the fciences with equal eafe :
Hie was {killed in hiftory, phyfic, poetry, painting,
mulic, and playing upon inflruments 5 and yet thefe
were only an amufement. She more particularly ap¬
plied herfelf to the mathematics, and efpecially to
aftronomv, which (he made her principal itudy, and
was ranked in the number of the molt able aftro-
nomers of her time. Her Aftronomical Taoies ac¬
quired her a prodigious reputation : (he printed them
in Latin and German, and dedicated them to the em¬
peror Ferdinand III. She married Elias de Lew in,
M. D. and died at Piltehen in 1664.
CUNNINGHAM, one of the four bailiwicks in
Scotland •, and one of the three into which the {hire
of Air is fubdivided. It lies north-eaft of Kyle.
It contains the fea-port towms of Irvine and Salcoats.
Cunningham, Alexander, author of a Hiitory
of Great Britain from the Revolution to the accef-
fion of George I. was born in the fouth of Scotland
about the year 1654, in the regency of Oliver Crom¬
well. His father was minifter at Ettrick, in the
preibytery and {hire of Selkirk. He was educated,
as was the cuftom among the Scottifli prefbyterian
gentlemen of thofe timeli, in Holland \ w'here^ he
imbibed his principles of government, and lived
much with the Englifh and Scots refugees at the
Hague before the revolution, particularly with
the carls of Argyle and Sunderland. He came
over to England with the prince of Orange, and en¬
joyed the confidence and intimacy of many leading
men among the whig party, that is, the friends and
abettors of King William and the revolution. He
was employed, at different times, in the charafter of
a travelling companion or tutor j firff, to the earl
of Hyndford, and his brother Mr William Car¬
michael, folicitor-general, in the reign of Queen Anne,
for Scotland •, fecondly, with the lord Lome, after¬
wards fo well known under the name of John Duke oj
Argyle ; and thirdly, with the lord vifeount Lonfdale.
In his travels, we find him, at the German courts,
in company with the celebrated Mr Joleph Addiion,
whofe virtues he celebrates.
[ ] CUN
Lord Lome, at the time he was under the tuition
of Mr Cunningham, though not feventeen years of age,
wTas colonel of a regiment, w'hich his father, the earl w’
of Argyle, had raifed for his majefty’s fervice in Flan¬
ders. Mr Cunningham’s connexion with the duke
of Argyle, with whom he had the honour of main¬
taining an intimacy as long as he lived, together
with the opportunities he enjoyed of learning, in
his travels, what may be called military geography,
naturally tended to qualify him for writing on military
affairs.
Mr Cunningham, both when he travelled with the
nobleman above-mentioned, and on other occafions,
was employed by the Englilh miniftry in tranfmitting
fecret intelligence to them on the moft important fub-
je£!s. He was alfo, on fundry occafions, employed
by the generals of the confederate armies, to carry in¬
telligence, and to make reprefentations to the court of
Britain. In Carftaires’s State Papers, publilhed by Dr
Macormick, principal of the United College of St An- •
drevv’s, in 1774, there are two letters from our author,
dated Paris the zzd and 26th of Auguft 1701, giving
an account of his conferences with the marquis de
Torcy, the French minifter, relative to the Scots
trade"’with France. This commercial negociation,
from the tenor of Cunningham’s letters compared
with his hiftory, appears to have been only the often-
fible objeft of "his attention : for he fent an exaft ac¬
count to King William, with whom he was perfonally
acquainted, of the military preparations throughout all
Frsticc*
Mr Cunningham’s political friends, Argyle, Sun¬
derland, Sir Robert Walpole, &c. on the acceffion of
George I. fent him as Britiftr envoy to the republic of
Venice. He arrived in that city in 1715 5 and con¬
tinued there, in the chara&er of refident, till the year
1720, w’hen he returned again to London. He lived
many’ years after, which he feems chiefly to have paf-
fed in a ftudious retirement. In 1735, he wms vifited
in London by Lord Hyndford, by the direaion of his
lordlhip’s father, to whom he had been tutor, when
he appeared to be very old. He feems to have lived
about two vears after : for the body of an Alexander
Cunningham lies interred in the vicar chancel of St
Martin’s church, who died in the 83d year of his age,
on the 15th day of May 1737 i and who %vas Pro*
bably the fame perfon. . ,
“ His “ Hiftory of Great Britain, from the revolu¬
tion in 1688 to the acceflion of George I.” was pub-
lifhed in two volumes 4to, in 1787. It was written
by Mr Cunningham in Latin, but vyas tranflated into
Englilh by the reverend William I homfon, LL. D.
The original manufeript came into the poffeflion of the
reverend Dr Hollingberry, archdeacon of Chichefler,
feme of whofe relations had been connefted with the
author. He communicated it to the earl of Hardyncke,
and to the reverend Dr Douglas, now bifhop of Car-
lifle, both of whom recommended the publication.
In a fhort preface to the work, the archdeacon fays,
« T\Xy defign was to have produced it in the ori¬
ginal; but knowing bow few are Sufficiently learned
to underftand, and how many are indifpoled to read
two quarto volumes in Latin, however mtereftmg and
entertaining the fubjeeft may be, I altered my purpofe
and intended to have fent it into the world m a trani-
lation.
Cunning¬
ham.
Cunning.
ham
II
Cunoce-
phali.
CUN [
- lation. A nervous fever depriving me of the power,
defeated the fcheme.” But he afterwards transferred
the undertaking to Dr Thomlbn ; and Dr Holling-
beny obferves, that Dr Thomfon “ has expreffed the
fenfe of the author with fidelity.” The work was
undoubtedly well deferving of publication. It contains
the hiftory of a very interefting period, written by a
man who had a confiderable degree of authentic in¬
formation, and his book contains many curious parti¬
culars not to be found in other hiftories. His cha-
rafters are often drawn with judgment and impartiali¬
ty } at other times they are fomewhat timflured with
prejudice. This is particularly the cafe with refpedl
to Biflrop Burnet, againft whom he appears to have
conceived a drong perfonal difiike. But he was ma-
nifeftly a very attentive obferver of the tranfattions
of his own time ; his work contains many juft poli¬
tical remarks ; and the fafls which he relates are ex¬
hibited with great perfpicuity, and often with much
animation. Throughout his book he frequently inter-
fperfes fome account of the literature, and of the moft
eminent perfons of the age concerning which he writes;
and he has alfo adorned his work with many allufions
to the claffics and to ancient hiftorv.
Alexander Cunningham, the author of the Hiftory
of Great Britain, has been fuppofed to be the fame
perfon with Alexander Cunningham who publilhed an
edition of Horace at the Hague, in two volumes 8vo,
in 1721, which is highly efteemed. But from the
beft information we have been able to collefl, they were
certainly different perfons; though they were both of
the fame name, lived at the fame time, had both been
travelling tutors, were both faid to have been eminent
for their fkill at the game of chefs, and both lived to
a very advanced age. The editor of Horace is ge¬
nerally faid to have died in Holland, where he taught
both the civil and canon laws, and where he had
colle&ed a very large library, which was fold in that
country.
CUNNQS, in Anatomy, the pudendum muHebre, or
the anterior parts of the genitals of a woman, including
the labia pudendi and mans veneris. See Anatomy
N° 108.
CUNOCEPHALI, in Mythology, (fromxviyy“ dog,”
and “ head,”) a kind of baboons, or animals
with heads like thofe of dogs, which were wonder¬
fully endowed, and were preferved with great venera¬
tion by the Egyptians in many of their temples. It is
related, that by their aftiltance the Egyptians found
out the particular periods of the fun and moon ; and
that one half of the animal was often buried, while
the other half furvived ; and that they could read and
write. This ftrange hiftory, Dr Bryant imagines, re¬
lates to the priefts of Egypt, ftyled cahen, to the no¬
vices in their temples, and to the examinations they
were obliged to undergo, before they could be ad¬
mitted to the priefthood. The Egyptian colleges
were fituated upon rocks or hills, called caph, and from
their confecration to the fun, caph-el; whence the
Greeks deduced and from cahen-caph-e/t\\zy form¬
ed KvitKi<pxX»f. So that cahen-caph-el was fome royal
femmary in Upper Egypt, whence they draughted novi¬
ces to fupply their colleges and temples. By this e-
tymology he explains the above hiftory. The death
Cupel.
15 ] c U P
of one part, while the other furvived, denoted the re- Cunodon-
gular fucceflion of the Egyptian priefthood. The cu- tes
nocephah are alfo found in India and other parts of
the world. 1 hefe and the acephali were thus denomi->
nated from their place of refidence and from their
worfhip.
CUNODONTES, a people mentioned by Solinus
and liidorus, and by them luppefed to have the teeth
of dogs. They wTere probably denominated, fays Dr
Bryant, from the objeft of their worfhrp, the deity
Chan-Adon, which the Greeks expreffed Kvxoday, and
thence called his votaries Cunodontes.
CUNONIA : A genus of plants belonging to the
decandria clafs ; and in the natural method ranking
with thofe of which the order is doubtful. See Botany
Index.
CUOGOLO, in Natural Hijiory, the name of a ftone
much uled by the Venetians in glafs-making, and
found in the river Felino. It is a froall Hone of an
impure white, of a fhattery texture, and is of the
fhape of a pebble.
CUP, a veffel of capacity of various forms and ma¬
terials, chiefly to drink out of. In the Ephem. Ger¬
man. we have a defcription of a cup made of a com¬
mon pepper-corn by Ofwald Nerlinger, which holds
1 200 other ivory cups, having each its feveral handle,
all gilt on the edges; with room for 400 more.
Cup, in Botany. See Calyx, Botany Index.
Cvp-Ga/ls, in Natural Hijlory, a name given by au¬
thors to a very Angular kind of galls, found on the
leaves of the oak and fome other trees. They are
of the figure of a cup, or drinking-glals without its
foot, being regular cones adhering by their point or
apex to the leaf ; and the top or broad part is hollow¬
ed a little way, fo that it appears like a drinking-
glafs with a cover, whicli was made fo fmall as not
to clofe it at the mouth, but fall a Itttle way into it.
This cover is flat, and has in the centre a very fmall
protuberance, refembling the nipple of a woman’s
breaft. This is of a pale green, as is aifo the whole of
the gall, excepting only its rim that runs round the
top : this is of a fcarlet colour, and that very beautiful.
Befides this fpecies of gall, the oak leaves furnifli us
wuth feveral others, fome of which are oblong, fome
round, and others flatted ; thefe are of various fizes,
and appear on the leaves at various fealbns of the
year. They all contain the w'orm of fome (mail fly ;
and this creature paffes all its changes in this its ha¬
bitation, being fometimes found in the worm, fome-
times in the nymph, and fometimes in the fly ftate,
in the cavity of it.
CUPANIA, in Botany : A genus of plants belong¬
ing to the monoecia clafs; and in the natural method
ranking under the 38th order, Tricocca. See Botany '
Index.
CUPEL, in Metallurgy, a fmall veffel which ab-
forbs metallic bodies when changed by fire into a fluid
fcoria ; but retains them as long as they continue in
their metallic ftate. One of the moft proper materials
for making a veffel of this kind is the allies of ani¬
mal bones ; there is fcarcely any other fubftance which
fo ftrongly refifts vehement fire, which is fo readily im¬
bibes metallic fcoriae, and which fo little difpofed to
be vitrified by them. In want of thefe, fome make
ufe
Cupel,
Cupella-
tion.
CUP [i
ufe of vegetable aihes, freed by boiling in water from
their faline matter, which would caule them melt in
The bones, burnt to perfeft whitenefs, fo that no
particle of coaly or inflammable matter may remain
in them, and well waftied from filth, are ground into
moderately fine powder ; which in or^ler to its being
formed into cupels, is moiftened with juft as much
water as is fufficient to make it hold together when
ftrongly preffed between the fingers j fome direft glu¬
tinous liquids, as whites of eggs or gum-water in or¬
der to give the powder a greater tenacity : but the
inflammable matter, however fmall in quantity, which
accompanies thefe fluids, and cannot be eaffly burnt
out from the internal part of the mafs, is apt /^ive
a oart of the metallic fcoria that has been abiorbed,
and to occafion the veffel to burft or crack. The cu¬
pel is formed in a brafs ring, from three quarters of
an inch to two inches diameter, and not quite lo deep,
placed upon fome fmooth fupport: the ring being fill¬
ed with moiftened powder, which is preffed dole with
the fingeis 5 a round-faced peftle, called a monk, is
ftruck down into it with a few blows of a mallet, by
which the mafs is made to cohere, and rendered iul-
ficiently compad, and a (hallow cavity formed in the
middle : the figure of the cavity is nearly that d a
fphere, that a fmall quantity of metal melted 111 it
may run together into one bead. To make tj16 ca*
vity the fmoother, a little of the fame kind of aihes
levigated into an impalpable powder, and not moift¬
ened, is commonly fprinkled on the furface, through a
fmall fine fieve made for this purpofe, and the monk
again ftruck down upon it. The ring or mould is a
little narrower at bottom than at top ; fo that by prel-
' ftng it down on fome of the dry powder fpread upon
a table, the cupel is loofened, and forced upwards
a little; after which it is eafily pulhed out with the
finger, and is then fet to dry m a warm place tree
CUPELLATION, the aft of refining gold or iil-
ver by means of a cupel. For this purpofe another
veffel, called a muffle, is made ufe of, within which one
or more cupels are placed. The muffle is placed upon
a grate in a proper furnace, with its mouth facing
door, and as clofe to it as may be. The furnace be¬
ing filled up with fuel, fome lighted charcoal is thrown
on the top, and what fuel is afterwards neceffary is
fupplied through a door above. The cuPels are fet ,n
thePmuffle ; and being gradually heated by the
five kindling of the fuel, they are kept red-hot for
fome time, that the moifture which they ftrongly re¬
tain may be completely diffipated : for if any vapours
fhould iffue from them after the metal is put in, they
would occafion it to fputter, and a part of it to be
thrown off in little drops. In the fides of the muffle
are fome perpendicular flits, with a knob over the top
of each, to prevent any fmall pieces of coals or afties
from falling in. The door, or fome apertures made in
it, being kept open, for the infpeftion of the cupels,
frefti air enters into the muffle, and paffes off throng
thefe flits : by laying fome burning charcoal on an iron
plate before the door, the air is heated before its
admiffion 5 and by removing the charcoal, or fupply-
ing more, the heat in the cavity of the muffle may be
foroewhat diminiffled or increafed more fpeedily than
Cupdia-
tion.
6 ] CUP
can be effe&ed by fuppreffing or exciting^ the fire in
the furnace on the outfide of the muffle. _ The renew-1^
al of the air is alfo neceffary for promoting the fcon-
fication of the lead. .
The cupel being of a full red heat, the lead caft in¬
to a fmooth bullet, that it may not fcratch or injure
the furface, is laid lightly in the cavity it immedi¬
ately melts •, and then the gold or filver to be cupelled
is cautioufly introduced either by means of a {mall
iron ladle, or by wrapping them in paper, and cap¬
ping them on the lead with a pair of tongs. .1 he
quantity of lead fflould be at leaft three or four times
that of the fine metal : but when gold is very impure,
it requires 10 or 12 times its quantity of lead for cu-
pellation. It is reckoned that copper requires lor its
fcorification about 10 times its weight of lead : that
when copper and gold are mixed in equal quantities,
the copper is fo much defended by the gold, as not to
be feparable with lefs than 20 times its weight ot
lead ; and that when copper is in very fmall proportion,
as a 20th or 30th part of the geld or filver, upwards ot
60 parts of lead are neceffary for one of the copper.
The cupel muft always weigh at leaft half as much as
the lead and copper ; for otherwife it will not be iut-
ficient for receiving half the fcoria : there is little dan¬
ger, however, of cupels being made too fmall lor the.
quantity of a gold affay. . , . c r .
The mixture being brought into thin fufion, the
heat is to be regulated according to the appearances;
and in this confift! the principal nicety m the ope¬
ration. If a various coloured Ikm nfes to the top,
which liquefying, runs off to the fides, and is there
abforbed by the cupel, vifibly ftainmg the parts it en¬
ters ; if a frefti fcoria continually fucceeds, and is ab¬
forbed nearly as faft as it is formed, only a fine circle
of it remaining round the edge of the metal ; if the
lead appears in gentle motion, and throws up a fume
a little way from the furface •, the fire is of the pro¬
per degree, and the procefs goes on fucceishilly.
F Such a fiery bvightnefs of the cupel as prevents its
colour from being diftinguiftied, and the fumes of the
lead rifing up almoft to the arch of the muffle, are
marks of too ftrong a heat 5 though it muft be obfer-
ved, that the elevation of the fumes is not always in
proportion to the degree of heat •, for if the heat
greatly exceeds the due limits, both the fumes and
ebullition will entirely ceafe. In thefe circumftances
the fire muft neceffarily be diminiffled : for while the
lead boils and fmokes vehemently, its fumes are ap
carry off fome part of the gold 5 the cupel is liable to
crack from the hafty abforpUon of the fcoria, and p
of the gold and filver is divided mto globules, wmc
lying difeontinued on the cupel after the prpeefs is -
niffled, cannot eafily be collefted *, if there is no ebul¬
lition or fumes, the fcorification does not appear to go
on. Too weak a heat is known by the dull rednefs
of the cupel j by the fume not rifing from the furface
of the lead •, ’and the fcoria like bright drops in bngu d
motion, or accumulated, or growing confiftent all over
the metal. The form of the furface affords affo an
ufeful mark of the degree of heat 5 the ftronger t e
fi e, the more convex is the furtace 5 and the weaker,
the more flat : in this point, however, regard imffl be
had to the quantity of metal ^ a large quantity being
always flatter than a fmall one in an equal fire; ar[b
t
Capelling
Furnace
I!
CuprelTus.
CUP [i
1 owards the end of the procefs, the fire muit be
increafed j for the gr'eateft part of the fufible metal lead
being now worked off, the gold and filver will not
continue melted in the heat that was fufficient before.
As the lait remains of the lead are feparating, the rain-
bovy colours on the furface become more vivid, and
variouily interfed one another with quick motions.
Soon after, difappearing all at once, a fudden lumi¬
nous bnghtnefs of the button of gold and filver
fliows the procefs to be finiflied. The cupel is then
drawn forwards towards the mouth of the muffle ;
and the button, as foon as grown fully folid, taken
out.
CUPELLING furnace. See Cupelling Fur¬
nace. t:
CUPID, in Pagan mythology, the god of love.
I here feems to have been two Cupids ; one the fon of
Jupiter and Venus, whofe delight it was to raife fenti-
ments of love and virtue j and the other the fon of
Mars and the fame goddefs, who infpired bafe and im¬
pure dehres. The fiift of thefe, called Eros, or true
love, bore golden arrows, which caufed real joy, and
a virtuous affedion ; the other, called Anteros, had
leaden arrows, that railed a paflion founded only on
defire, which ended in fatiety and difguft. Cupid was
always drawn with wings, to reprefent his inconftancy:
and naked, to ftiow that he has nothing of his own.
He was painted blind, to denote that love fees no fault
m the objed beloved ; and with a bow and quiver of
arrows, to {how his power over the mind. Sometimes
he is placed between Hercules and Mercury, to (how
tne prevalence of eloquence and valour in love ; and at
others is placed near Fortune, to fignify that the fuc-
cds of lovers depends on that inconftant goddefs
Sometimes he is reprefented with a helmet on his head
and a ipear on his ihoulder, to fignify that love dif
arms the fierceft men ; he rides upon the backs of pan¬
thers and lions, and ufes their manes for a bridle to
denote that love tames the moll favage beafts. He is
hkewife pidured riding upon a dolphin, to fignify that
blVernr,Slr-fTeXte.nds over the fea no lefs than land.
CUi OLA in Archite&ure, a fpherical vault, or the
round top of the dome of a church, in the form of a
cup inverted.
CUPPING, in Surgery, the operation of applying
cupping-glaffes for the difcharge of blood and other
humours bv the {kin. See Surgery.
CUPRESSUS, the cypress tree : A genus of
plants belonging to the moncecia clafs ; and in the na-
tura! method ranking under the 51ft order, Confer*.
oee Botany Index. J
. r.je wo°d ol the fempervircns, or evergreen cyprefs,
rs fa.d to refift worms, moths, and putrefa&ion, and
o laft many centuries. The coffins in which the A
fhen.ans were wont to bury their heroes, were made,
lays Thucydides, of this wood ; as were likewife the
cheffs containing the Egyptian mummies. The doors
ot St I eter s church at Rome were originally of the
ume materials. Thefe, after lafting upwards of 600
years at the end of which they did not difcover the
maJIelt tendency to corruption, were removed by or-
T Eugi"mSrIV- of brafs fubftituted
m their place. The fame tree is by many eminent au¬
thors recommended as improving and meliorating the
"Vo7, VILtn 1 and exhal--s,guP0:
7 1
CUR
which account many ancient phyficians of the eaftern Cuprum
countries uled to fend their patients who were troubled Anmior,iu’
cale
.  VFliU Vv CI c uuuuieu
with weak lungs to the ifiand of Candia, where thefe
tiees grew in great abundance ; and where, from the
falubrious air alone, very few failed of a perfeft cure.
In the fame ifiand, fays Miller, the cyprefs-trees were
fo lucrative^ a commodity, that the plantations were
called dos filue ; the felling of them being reckoned a
daughter’s portion. Cyprefs, fays Mr Pococke, is the
only tree that grows towards the top of Mount Leba¬
non, and being nipped by the cold, grows like a fmall
oak. Noah’s ark is commonly fuppofed to have been
made of this kind of wood.
CUPRUM ammoniacale. See Chemistry///-
rr Pr<Ta™tion is recommended in feme kinds
of fpafmodic difeafes, given in the dofe of one or two
grains.
Cuprum, or Copper. See Copper, Chemistry
Index.
. CUR ACOA, or Curas sow, one of the larger An¬
tilles rfiands, fubjefl to the Dutch ; fituated ’in W
Long 68. 30. N. Eat. 12. 30. This ifiand is little
elie than a bare rock, about ten leagues long and five
broad ; lying three leagues off the coaft of Venezuela.
It has an excellent harbour, but the entrance is diffi¬
cult. 1 he bafon is extremely large, and convenient
in every rebpeft ; and is defended by a fort Ikilfully
conftrufted, and always kept in repair. The reafon
of forming a fettlement upon this barren fpot, was to
carry on a contraband trade with the Spaniffi colonies
on the continent ; but after fome time the method of
managing this trade was changed. Curaffow itfelf
became an rmmenfe magazine, to which the Spaniards
reforted in their boats to exchange gold, filver, va¬
nilla, cocoa, cochineal, bark, (kins,1 and mules, for ne¬
groes, linen, filks, India fluffs, fpices, laces, ribbands
quickfilver, . fleel, and iron ware. Thefe voyages*
though continual, did not prevent a number of Dutch
Hoops from palling from Curaffow to the continent.
But the modern fubftitution of regifter-fhips, inftead
of galleons, has made this communication lei’s frequent •
but it will be revived whenever, by the intervention
oi- war, the communication with the Spanilh Mam {hall
be cut off. The difputes between the courts of Lon¬
don and Verfailles alfo prove favourable to the trade
of Curaffow. At thefe times it furniffies provifions
to tne louthern parts ot St Domingo, and takes off all
its produce. Even the French privateers, from the
windward Hlands, repair in great numbers to Curaf-
low, notwithftanding the diftance. The reafon is
that they find there all kinds of neceffary {tores foi*
their veffels 5 and frequently Spanifh, but always Eu¬
ropean goods, which are univerlally ufed. Engliffi
privateers feldom cruize in thefe parts. Every com.
modity without exception, that is landed at Curaffow
pays one per cent, port-duty. Dutch goods are neve^
taxed higher j but thofe that are {hipped from other
-European ports pay nine per cent. more. Foreign
coffee is fubjea to the fame tax, in order to promote
the fale of that of Surinam. Every other preduaion
of America is fubjea only to a payment of three per
cent, but with an exprefs ftipulation, that they are to
be conveyed direaiy to fome port belonging to the re¬
public. 0 °
CURATE, the Weft degree in the church of Eng-
C landS;
Curate.
CITR f 1
euratella knd ; lie who reprefents the ioeumhent of a church,
II parfon, or vicar, and performs divine ^rvice
Surb- ftead ' and in cafe of pluralities of livings, or wheie a
    clergyman is old and infirm, it is reqmfite there (hould
be a curate to perform the cure of the church. He.is
to be licenfed, and admitted by the bi(hop dm-
cefe or by an ordinary having epifcopal jurifd^ion ,
and’when a curate hath the approbation of the biftiop,
he ufually appoints the fidarv too ; and in luch cafe if
be be not paid, the curate hath a proper remedy in the
ecclefiaftical court, by a fequeftration of the profits of
the benefice j but if the curate is not licenftd by t e
bilhop, he is put to his remedy at common law, where
he muft prove the agreement, &c. _ A curate having
no fixed eftate in his curacy, not being inft.tuted and
indufted, mav be removed at pleafure by the bilhop or
incumbent. But there are perpetual curateS
as temporary, who are appointed where tithes are im
nrnnriate and no vicarage endowed : thele are not
removable, and the iroproprietors are obl.gea to find
teern . {ome whereof have certain portions of the tithe
fettled on them. Every clergyman that officiates m a
church (whether incumbent or fubft.tute m the l,t„ -
„ is ca led a curate. Curates muft fubfcribe the de-
fLation according to the aft of unltorm.ty, or a,e
liabCUR of plants belonging to
theCpolyandria clafs •, and in the n^^al method rank¬
ing Lth thofe of which the order is doubtful. See Bo-
T CURATOR, among the Romans, an officer under
the emperors, who regulated the price of all kinds of
merchandife and vendible commodities in the cities o
the empire. They had likewife the fuperintendance of
the ruftoms and tributes j whence alfo they were called
Cure*#
II
Cureles.
Curatoc, among civilians, a truftec or perfon no-
minated to ake oare of the affairs and interefts of a
” fon emancipated or interdiaed. In countries where
the Roman law prevails, between the age of .4 and
24 years, minors have curators affigned them ; till 14.
''"cuKJTnlf an Vniverjtty, in the United Provinces,
is an eleftive office, to which belongs the direaion of
he Mrs of the univetfity i a, the admm,Bratton of
the revenues, the infpea.on of the profeffors, See.
The curators are chofen by the Bates of each province .
The univerfitv of Leyden has three ; the burgher-
m-.fters of the city have a fourth. _
CURB in the manege, a chain of iron m _
to the upper part of the branches °f the br,fe ln a
hole called the eye, and running 0v« the horfe s bear .
Tt confiils of thefe three parts ; the hook fixed to the
eve of the branch •, the chain of SS s or hnks , ana
the two rings, or mailes. Large curbs, provided they
be round, are always molt gentle - but ^ 18 t° be ^
ken that it reft in its proper place, a little above in
hllrd, otherwife the bit-mouth will not have the effba
,haS>^'^db£“- - -»s-’ ,he IUrdi("f
bits, called genetics, have a ring that ferves mftead o
a c'u., Tn^arrieryX'n hard and callous dwelling on
the hind’part of the hock, attended “,th ^
fometimes with pain and lamenefs. See Srav s.
8 1 CUR
CURCAS, a name given in Egypt to an efculent
root, approaching to the tafte and virtues of the colo-
cafia. It is alfo a name ufed m Malabar for a fmall — v
fruit of the (hape and fize of a hazel nut. Both thefe
things have the credit of being ftrong provocatives :
and it is very probable that the curcas of the Eaft In¬
dies may be the fruit called be// by Avicenna, and faid
to poffefs the fame virtues. Garcias has been led into
a very great error by this fimilarity of names and vir¬
tues •, and fuppofes the curcas of Egypt the fame with
that of the Eaft Indies. . ,
CURCULIO, a genus of infers belonging to the
order of coleoptera. See Entomology Index. ^
CURCUMA, turmeric: A genus ot plants fie-
longing to the monandria clafs } and in the natura
method ranking under the 8th order, Scitdmines. See
Botany Index. ,
CURDISTAN, a country of Afia, fituated between
the Turkifti empire and Perfia, lying along the eaftem
coaft of the river Tigris, and comprehending great part
of the ancient Affyria. Some of the inhabitants live
in towns and villages, and others rove from place to
place, having tents like the wild Arabs, and are alfo
Jobbers like them. Their religion is partly Chriftian,
and partly Mahometamfm. # -
CURDLING, the coagulating or fixing ot any
fluid body, particularly milk. See Cheese, Agri¬
culture Index. r a
Paufanias fays, that Anftmus fon of Apollo, and
Cvrene, daughter of the river Peneus, were the fitft
who found out the fecret of curdling milk.
At Florence they curdle their milk for tbe ma ^
of cheefe with artichoke flowers, in lieu of the xenne..
ufed for the fame purpofe among us. _ f .
The Bifaltse, a people of Macedonia, Rochfort ob-
ferves live wholly upon curdled milk, i. e. on curds.
Hu ' dd» "hat curds arc the whole food of the pcoo e
of Upper Auvergne in France, and whey their on y
dr CURETES, in antiquity, a fort of pnefts or people
of the ifle of Crete, called alfo Corybantes. See Co-
rybantes and Crete. The Curetes are laid to have
been originally of Mount Ida in Phrygia-, for winch
reafon they were alfo called Idee: DaByl, See Bao
TYLucian and Diodorus Siculus reprefent them as
very expert in calling of darts > though other authors
give them no weapons but bucklers and P>kes ’ b“ aU
agree in furnifhing them with tabors and caftanettas
-A relate, that they ^f is^fat t^
and cladldingst uCrn0from hearing the cries of young
^upheTther; he° was favef from being deftroy-
^ Some authors, however, give a dlfferent
the Curetes. According to Pezron and others, the
Curetes we e, in the times of Saturn, &c. and in the
countries of Crete and Phrygia, what the druids were
afterwards among the Gauls, &c.i. e. they were pnefts
wtuThad Caraods^ iu°thofe^dayslt w^s
ffippoftd0there was no communication with the gods
bT by divinations, auguries, and the operations of
• . Curetes paffed for magicians and enchan-
re:Sg; t’o thefcthey aSded the ftudy of the ftars, of-
CUR [ :
flurfeu ture, and poefy ; and To were philofophers, aftrono-
mers, &c.
—Voffius, de Idoldt. diftinguidies three kinds of Cu-
retes j thofe of ^Etolia, thofe of Phrygia, and thofe of
Crete, who were originally derived from the Phry¬
gians. The firft, he fays, took their name from
tonfure ; in regard, from the time of a combat wherein
the enemy feized their long hair, they always kept it
cut. Thofe of Phrygia and Crete, he fuppofes, were
fo called from xagej, young man, in regard they were
. young, or becaufe they nurfed Jupiter when he was
young.
CURFEU, Curfew, or Courfew, a fignal given
in cities taken in war, &c. to the inhabitants to go to
bed. Palquin fays, it was fo called, as being intend¬
ed to advertife the people to fecure themfelves from the
robberies and debaucheries of the night.
CuRFEir-Be/I, in French couvrefeu, and in law Latin
of the middle ages, ignitegium, or pyritegium, was a
fignal for all perfons to extinguilb their fires. The molt
eminent curfew in England was that eftablilhed by
William the Conqueror, who appointed, under fevere
penalties, that, at the ringing of a bell at eight o’clock
in the evening, every one Ihould put out their lights
and fires and go to bed ; whence to this day, a bell
rung about that time is called a curfew-bell. This law
was abolilhed by Henry I. in i too.
This praftice was highly necefiary to prevent acci¬
dents in thofe ages when the fires were placed in a
hole in the middle of the floor, under an opening in
the roof to allow the efcape of the fmoke. This hole
was covered up when the family went to bed. The
fame praflice ftill exifts in fome countries, and particu¬
larly in fome parts of Scotland. But befides fecuring
houfes againft accidents by fire, the law which was
very generally eftablilhed in Europe for extinguilhing
or covering fires, was probably meant alfo to check
the turbulence which frequently prevailed in the middle
ages, by forcing the people to retire to reft or to keep
within doors. From this ancient pra&ice, in the opinion
o Beckmann, has arifen a cuftom in Lower Saxony of
faying, when people wilh to go home fooner than the
company choofe, that they hear the biirgerqlocke, the
burgher’s bell.
The ringing of the prayer-bell, as it is called, which
is ftill praftifed in fome Proteftant countries, accord-
lug to Beckmann, -originated in that of the curfeu-bell.
Pope John XXIII. dreading that fome misfortunes
were to befal him,' ordered every perfon on hearing the
igmtegium to repeat the ave Maria three times, with a
view to avert them. When the appearance of a co¬
met, and a dread of the Turks, alarmed all Chriften-
dom, Pope Calixtus VIII. increafed thefe periodical
times of prayer, by ordering the prayer-bell to be runo-
alio at noon. blr/}. of Invent, ii. ioi.
CURIA, in Roman antiquity, was ufed for the fe-
nate-houfe. There were feveral curia; in Rome*, as
the curia calabra, faid to be built by Romulus: the
curia h of ilia, by Tullus Hoftilus; and the curia pom-
peia, by Pompey the Great.
Curia alfo denoted the places where the curise
uled to aflemble. Each of the 30 curiae of old Rome
had a temple or chapel afligned to them for the com¬
mon performance of their facrifices, and other offices of
their religion $ fo that they were not unlike our pa-
9 ] CUR
rilhes. Some remains of thefe little temples feem to
have fubfifted many ages after on the Palatine hill,
where Romulus firft built the city, and afterwards re-
fided.
Curia among the Romans, alfo denoted a portion
or divifion of a tribe. In the time of Romulus, a tribe
confifted often curiae, or a thoufand men ; each curia
being one hundred. That legiflator made the firft di¬
vifion of his people into thirty curiae. Afterwards
curia or damns curialis, becaufe ufed for the place
where each curia held its alfemblies. Hence alfo
curia palled to the fenate-houfe ; and it is from hence
the moderns came to ufe the word curia, “ court,” for
a place of juftice, and for the judges, &c. there af-
fembled.
Varro derives the word from cura, “ care,” q. d. an
aflembly of people charged with the care of public affairs.
Others deduce it from the Greeks j maintaining, that
at Athens they called the place where the magi-
ftrate held, his alfizes, and the people ufed to affemble :
xv(>ix, again, may come irom authority, power;
becaufe it was here the laws were made.
Curia, in our ancient cuftoms.—It was ufual for
the kings of England to fummon the bilhops, peers,
and great men of the kingdom, to fome particular
place, at the chief feftivals in the year ; and this af-
fembly is called by our hiftorians curia ^ becaufe there
they confulted about the weighty affairs of the nation j
whence it was fometimes alfo called folemnis curia, ge-
nerahs curia, auguflalis curia, and curia publico, &c
See Witena-Mo*. ^
Curia Baronum. See CouRT-Baron.
Curio Claudenda, is a writ that lies againft him who
fliould fence and inclofe the ground, but refufes or de¬
fers to do it.
CURIATII, three brothers of Alba, maintained
the intereft of their country againft the Romans, who
had declared war againft thofe of Alba. The two ar¬
mies being equal, three brothers on each fide were
chofen to decide the conteft ; the Curiatii by thofe of
Alba, and the Horatii by the Romans. The three firft
were wounded, and two'of the latter killed j but the
third, joining policy to valour, ran away j and having
thus tired the Curiatii, he took them one after another
and killed them all three.
CURING, a term ufed for the preferving fifli, flefh,
and other animal fubftances, by means of certain ad¬
ditions of things, to prevent putrefa&ion. One great
method of doing this is by expofing the bodies to
the fmoke of wood, or rubbing them with fait, nitre,
&c.
CURIO, the chief and prieft of a curia.—Romulus,
upon dividing the people into curise, gave each divi¬
fion a chief, who was to be prieft of that curia, under
the title of curio and fa men curialis. His bufinefs
was to provide and officiate at the facrifices of the cu¬
ria, which were called curionia ; the curia furniihing
him with a fum of money on that confideration, which
penfion or appointment was called curioniutn. Each
divifion had the eleftion of its curia ; but all thefe par¬
ticular curios were under the direftion of a fuperior or
general, called curio maximus, who was the head of the
body,, and elefted by all the curios affembled in the
comitia curialis.
All thefe inftitutions were introduced by Romu-
C 2 lus,
CUR
Coriofus las, ami confirmed by Numa, as
Current. CURIOSUS, an officer of the Roman empire du-
  v 'ring the middle age, appointed to take care that no
f.auds and irregularities were committed ; particularly
no abufes in what related to the polls, the roads, &c.
and to give intelligence to the court of what palTed
in the provinces. This made the curiofr peopk of
muortance and put then in a condition of doing
xnoPre harm’ than they prevented •, on which account,
Honorius caffiiered them, at leaft in fome parts of the
^ enThe’cu””ofl"came pretty near to what we call
trollers. they had their name from cura, carep.
quodcuru agendis et eveBionibus curfus pubha infpici-
^ CU°RLEW. See Scolopax, Ornithology Index.
CURMI, a name given by the ancients to a ort o
malt liquor or ale. It was made of barley, and uas
drunk by the people of many natrons °f wme,
according to Diolcorides’s account. He accuies o
caufing pains in the head, generating bad jurces and
difordf/na the nervous fyftem. ^ He alio lays, that m
the weftern part of Iberia, and in Britain, iuch a iurt
of liquor was in his time prepared from wheat mftea
CURNOCK, a meafure of corn containing four bu-
^CURRANS^or Currants, the ^ fruit of a Ipecies
of groffularia. See Grossularia, Botany Index'
The white and red fort are molfly uted for the
black and chiefly the leaves, upon firft coming out,
are in ufe to flavour Engliffi fpints and counterfeit
French brandy. Currants greatly affuage drought,
cool and fortify the ftomach, and help digeftion } and
the ieUy of black currants is faid to be very efficacious
in curing inflammations of the throat.
111 Currants dfo fignify . fmaller kmd of gr»P«
brnnerht orincipally from Zante and Cephalonia. ihey
are gathered off the bufties, and laid to dry in the fun,
and ffi put up in large bmts. They are opening and
pecloral} but are more ufed in the kitchen t an in
^CURRENT, or Currant, a term ufed to exprefs
the prefent time. Thus the year 1804 ^ the current
vear the 20th cunent is the 20th day ot the month
now’ running.—With regard to commerce, the puce
current, of aly ^handife ^ ^ ^
bBffiuferfor^ny thing that has or ts re¬
ceived in commerce } in which fenfe ue fay, cunent
“ in Na,ig,ur, ceitain
ment of the water ot the fea, by wh.ch all bodies
fioarioir therein are compelled to alter their courfe or
velocity, or both, and fnbmit to the laws impofed on
tile'fea "currents are either natural and general,
as arifing from ."e diurnal rotation of the earth about
its axis i or accidental and particular, caufed by the
waters being driven againft promontories, or in
if. and 11 rail i where, wanting room to fpraad,
fh" ate driven'back, and thus diflorb the ordinary
flux7 of the fea. Currents ate various and direaed
towards different parts of the ocean, of which tome
F 20 ] CUR
Halicarnaffeus re- are conftant, others periodical. The moft extraordl*
Halicarnaiieus ^ curren; 0f the fea is that by which part of the ^
Atlantic or African ocean moves about Guinea rom
Cape Verd towards the curvature or bay of Atnca,
which they call Fernando Poo ; viz. from weft to eaft,
contrary to the general motion : And fuch is the force
of the current, that when flups approach too near ie
{here, it carries them violently towards that bay and
deceives the mariners in their reckoning. There 1S a
great variety of drifting currents which do not la ,
but return at ceitain periods: and thefe do, moft
them, depend upon and follow the anmverfary winds
or monfoons, which by blowing in one place maycaue
a current in another. Vaienms nifoiras us, that at
lava, in the ftraits of Sunda when the ™onfoons
blow from the weft, viz. in the month of May, the
currents fet to the eaft ward, contrary to the genera!
motion. Between the ifland of Celebes and Madura,
when the weftern monfoons fet in, viz. in December,
January, and February, or when the wmds blow from
the north-weft, or between t e noiti an J .
currents fet to the fouth-eaft or between the ^ou
and eaft At Ceylon, from the middle of Maich to
Oaober, the curren.: fet to the fouthward, and rn
the other parts of the year to the northward rbecaufe
at this time the fou.hern monfoons blow and at^he
other the northern. Between Coch.n-Ch.na and
lacca, when the weftern monfoons blow, viz. .
April to Auguft, the currents fet eaftward again
the general motion •, but the reft of the year they
fet sveftward, the monfoon conlpmng 'l^Cun’
motion. They run fo fttongly in thefe feas, that un^
experienced Jlors mitlake them for waves that beat
upon the rocks, known nfually by name of W-
ers So for fome months after the i^th ol t ebrua y,
the currents fet from the Maldives towards India on
the eaft, againft the general motion of the fea. On the
{hore of China and Cambodia, in the months of Oao-
ber November, and December, the currents fet to the
north-weft, and from January to the ^th-weft vrh
they run with fuch rapidity about the of Parcel
that thev feem fwifter than an arrow. At Fulo k,on
dme upon the coaft of Cambodia, though the mon-
Zul are ffiifting, yet the -rents fet ftrong y to
wards the eaft, even when they blow to a con y
point Along the coafts of the bay ol Bengal, as
Gr as the Cape Romania, at the extreme point of
Malacca the current runs fouthward m November and /
December When the monfoons blow fiom China
S Malacca, the fea runs fwiftly Pulo Camb^ta
Pulo Condore on the coaft of Cambodn . Y
of Sans Bras, not far from the Cape of Good Hope,
.1 a current particularly remarkable, where tne
fea ,m,s fcomTaft to weft to the landward ; a,^ Uus
more vehemently, undou'b‘tedly owing
intTS ?e«ing ’ of progriff-ve motion of the current
mayt "thef quitl down^ the ho.tom, or to a cer-
faion'and'veiocUy oV currents is a very material .ar
CUR f
Current, tide in navigation, it is highly ncceflary to difcover
Curriculus. b°th, in order to afcertain the fliip’s fituation and
courfe with as much accuracy as poftible. The moft
fuccefsful method which has been hitherto pradtifed
by mariners for this purpofe, is as follows : A com¬
mon iron-pot, w'hich may contain four or five gallons,
is fufpended by a fmall rope, fafiened to its ears or
handles, fo as to hang diredly upright, as when pla¬
ced upon the fire. This rope, which may be from 70
to 100 fathoms in length, being prepared for the
experiment, is coiled in the boat, which is hoifted out
of the fiiip at a proper opportunity, w'hen there is
little or no wind to ruffle the furface of the fea. The
pot being then thrown overboard into the water, and
immediately finking, the line is ilackened till about
70 or 80 fathoms of the line are run out j after wfflich
the line is faftened to the boat’s ftern, by which Ihe is
accordingly redrained and rides as at an anchor. The
velocity of the current is then eafily tried by the log
and half-minute glafs, the ufual method of difcovering
the rate of a fhip’s failing at fea. The courfe of the
dream is next obtained by the compafs provided for
this operation. Having thus found the fetting and
drift of the current, it next remains to apply this ex¬
periment to the purpofes of Navigation ; for which
fee that article.
Under-CuRRENrs, are difiinft from the upper or ap¬
parent, and in different places fet or drive a contrary
way. Dr Smith makes it highly probable, that in
the Downs, in the ffraits of Gibraltar, &c. there is
an under-current, whereby as much water is carried
out as is brought in by the upper currents. This he
argues from the offing between the north and fouth
Foreland, where it runs tide and half-tide, i. e. it is
ebb or flood in that part of the Downs three hours
before it is fo off at fea : a certain fign, that though
the tide of flood runs aloft, yet the tide of ebb runs
under-foot, i. e. clofe by the ground ; and fo at the
tide of ebb it will flow under foot. This he confirms
by an experiment in the Baltic found, communicated
to him by an able feamen prefent at the making it.
Being there then with one of the king’s frigates, they
went with their pinnace into the mid ftream, and
were carried violently by the current. Soon after
that, they Junk a bafket with a large cannon bullet to
a certain depth of water, which gave a check to the
boat’s motion; and finking it Hill lower and lower,
the boat was driven a-head to the windward againft
the upper current, the current aloft not being above
four or five fathom deep. He added, that the lower
the bafket was let down, the ftronger the under-cur¬
rent was found.
From this principle, it is eafy to account for that
continual indraught of water out of the Atlantic into
the Mediterranean through the ftraits of Gibraltar, a
paffage about 20 miles broad ; yet without any fen-
fible rifing of the water along the coafls of Barbary,
&c. or any overflowing of the land, which there lies
very low.—Dr Halley, however, folves the currents
fetting in at the ftraits without overflowing the banks,
by the great evaporation, without fuppofing any un¬
der current.
CURRICULUS, in our ancient writers, denotes
the year or courfe of a year. ASlutn ejl hoc annorum
Dominic* mcarnationis quater quinquagcnis ct quinquies
i ] CUR
quints lujiris, et tribus curriculis: i. e. In the year Currie
1028 ; for four times fifty make two hundred, and five . II
times two hundred make one thoufand ; five lurtres are^^f;
twenty-five years, and three curriculi are three years. •
CURRIERS, thofe who drefs and colour leather
after it comes from the tan-yard. See Tanning.
CURRODREPANUS (formed of currus, “ cha¬
riot,” and $3i7rxvov “ fcythe” or “ fickle”), in anti¬
quity, a kind of chariot armed with fcythes The
driver of thefe chariots was obliged to ride on one of
the horfes, as there was no other feat for him ; the
ufual place for him being all armed with knives, as
was likewife the hinder part of the chariot. There
were no feythes pointing down to the earth, either
from the beam or axle-tree ; but thefe were fixed at
the head of the axle-tree in fuch a manner as to be
moveable by means of a rope, and thereby could be
railed or let down, and drawn forward or let fall back¬
ward, by relaxing the rope.
CURRYING, the method of preparing leather with
oil, tallowq &c.
The chief bufinefs is to foften and fupple cow and
calve-fkins, which make the upper leather and quar¬
ters of fhoes, covering of faddles, coaches, and other
things which muft keep out water. 1. Thefe Ikins,
after coming from the tanner’s yard, having many
fltfliy fibres on them, the currier foaks them fome
time in common water. 2. He takes them out, and
ftretches them on a very even wooden horfe ; then
with a paring knife he ferapes off all the fuperfluous
flefh, and puts them in to foak again. 3. He puts
them wet on a' hurdle, and tramples them with his
heels till they begin to grow foft and pliant. 4. Pie
foaks thereon train-oil, which by its un&uous quality
is the beft liquor for this purpofe. 5. He fpreads them
on large tables, and faftens them at the ends. There,
with the help of an inftrument called a pummel, which
is a thick piece of wmod, the under fide of which is
full of furrow's crofting each other, he folds, fquares,
and moves them forwards and backwards feveral times,
under the teeth of this inftrument, which breaks their
too great ftiffnefs. This is what is properly called
currying. The order and number of thefe operations
is varied by different curriers, but the material part is
always the fame. 6. After the fkins are curried, there
may be occafion to colour them. The colours are
black, white, red, yellow, green, &c. the other co¬
lours are given by the fkinners, who differ from cur¬
riers in this, that they apply their colours on the ftefti
fide ; the curriers on the hair fide. In order to whiten
Ikins, they are rubbed with lumps of chalk or white
lead, and afterwards with pumice-ftone. 7. When a
Ikin is to be made black, after having oiled and dried
it, he paffes over it a puff dipt in w'ater impregnated
with iron ; and after his firft wetting, he gives it ano¬
ther in a w’ater prepared with foot, vinegar, and gum-
arabic. 1 hefe different dyes gradually turn the Ikin
black, and the operations are repeated till it be of a
Ihining black. The grain and wrinkles, which contri¬
bute to the fupplenefs of calves and cows leather, are
made by the reiterated folds given to the Ikin in every
direction, and by the care taken to ferape off all hard
parts on the colour fide.
CURSING and Swearing, an offence agninft
God and religion, and a fin of all others the moll ex>
travagant
Curtius.
CUR [
Curfitor travagant and unaccountable, as having, no benefit or
11 advantage attending it. By the laft ftatute againft this
, crime, 19 George II. which repeals all former ones,
' every labourer, failor, or foldier, profanely curfing or
fwearing, fliall forfeit is.-, every other perfon under
the rank of a gentleman, 2S. J and every gentleman or
perfon of fuperior rank, 5s. to the poor of the panlh *,
and, on a fecond conviftion, double : and, for every
fubfequent offence, treble the fum firft forfeited, with
all charges of conviction : and, in default ol payment,
{hall be fent to the houfe of corre&ion for ten days.
Any juftice of the peace may conviCt upon his own
hearing, or the teftimony of one witnefs; and any
conftable or peace officer, upon his own hearing, may
fecure any offender, and carry him before a juftice,
and there convia him. If the juftice omits his duty,
he forfeits 5!. and the conftable 40s. And the ad is
to be read in all pariffi churches, and public chapels, the
Sunday after every quarter day^ on pain of 51- to be
levied by warrant from any juftice. Befides this pu-
niffiment for taking God’s name in vain in common
difcourfe, it is enaded, by flat. 3. Jac. I. c. 21. tbat 1
in any ftage-play, interlude, or ffiow, the name o. the
Holy Trinity, or any of the perfons therein, be jeft-
inely or profanely ufed, the offender fliall forfeit 10 .
one moiety to the king, and the other to the informer
CURSITOR, a clerk belonging to the court ot
chancery, whofe bufmefs it is to make out original
writs. In the ftatute 18 Edw. III. they are called
c/eris ofcourfe, and are *24 in number, making a cor¬
poration of themfelves. To each of them is allowed a
divifion of certain counties, into which they inue out
the original writs required by the fubjeCV.
CURTATE distance, in sljlronomy, the diftance
of a planet from the fun to that point, where a per¬
pendicular let fall from the planet meets with the
CURT AT ION, in AJlronomy, is the interval be¬
tween a planet’s diftance from the fun and the curtate
diftance. r t? 1 j
CURTEYN, (Curtana'), was the name ot i^dward
the Confeffor’s fword, which is the firft fword carried
before the kings of England at their coronation
and it is faid the point of it is broken as an emblem ot
mercy.
CURTIN,
22 7 CUR
he lived, are points no one pretends to know. By his Curvature
ftyle he is fuppofed to have lived in or near the Au- Curuje>
guftan age -, while feme are not wanting, wiio nna- —v
gine the work to have been compofed in Italy about
300 years ago, and the name of Quintus Curtius to be
fi&itioufly added to it. Cardinal du Perron was fo
great an admirer of this work, as to declare one page
of it to be worth 30 of Tacitus *, yet M. le Clerc, at
the end of his Art of Criticifm, has charged the writer
with great ignorance and many contradictions. He
has neverthelefs many qualities as a writer, which v\ill
always make him admired and applauded. ^
CURVATURE of a Line, is the peculiar man¬
ner of its bending or flexure, by which it becomes a
curve of any form and properties. Thus the nature ot
the curvature of a circle is fuch, as that every point m
the periphery is equally diftant from a point within,
called the centre ; and fo the curvature ot the lame
circle is everywhere the fame. But the curvature in
all other curves is continually varying.
CURVE, in Geometry, a line which running on
continually in all directions, may be cut by one right
line in more points than one. See Conic Sections
Curue of Equable Approach._ Leibnitz firft pro-
pofed to find a curve, down which a body deicending
by the force of gravity, {hall make equal appfoaches to
the horizon in equal portions of time. This curve,
as it has been found by Bernoulli and others, is the
fecond cubical parabola placed with its vertex upper-
moft, and which the defending body muft enter with a
certain determinate velocity. The queftion was ren¬
dered general by Varignon for any law 01 gravity, by
which a body may approach towards a given point by
equal fpaces in equal times. Maupertuis aifo refolved
the problem in the cafe of a body defending m a me¬
dium whofe refiftance is as the fquare of the velocity.
Curves, Algebraical or Geometrical, are thole in
which the relation of the abfeiffes to the ordinates can
be expreffed by a common algebraic equation.
Curves, Hranfcendental or Mechanical, are thole
which cannot be defined or expreffed by an algebraic
equation. . .
CURVET, or Corvet, in the manege, an air >n
which the horfe’s legs are railed higher than in the
CURTIN, Curtain, or Courtin, in Fortification, de™''V0^1’erbe^\ngthae^oUe^aifeTboth his fore-legs at
is that part of the rampart of a place which is betwixt war , advanced, (when he is going flraight
the flanks of two. baftions, bordered with a parap ci’rcle) and as his fore legs are
five feet high, behind which the foldiers ftand to fire
upon the covered way and into the moat.
CURTIUS, Marcus, a Roman youth, who de¬
voted himfelf to the gods manes for the fafety ot his
country, about 360 years before the Auguftan age. A
wide gap had fuddenly opened in the forum, and the
oracle had faid that it never would clofe before Rome
threw into it whatever it had moft precious. Curtius
immediately perceived that no lefs than a human fa-
crifice was required. He armed himfelf, mounted his
horfe, and folemnly threw himfelf into the gulf, which
inftantly clofed over his head.
Curtius, Quintus, a Latin, hiftonan who wrote
the life of Alexander the Great in 10 books, of which
the two firft are not indeed extant, but are fo well
fupplied by Freinffiemius, that the lofs is fcarcely re¬
gretted. Where this writer was born, or even when
once, cqua^ a<u»c..v—, v. ,• r 1 „
forward, and not in a circle) } and.as his fore legs a e
falling, he immediately raifes his hind legs, equal y a -
vanced, and not one before the other : fo that all his
four legs are in the air. at once ; and as he fets them
down, he marks but twice with them. . f
CURVILINEAR, or Curvilineal, is laid ot
figures bounded by curves or crooked lines.
CURVIROSTRA. See Loxia, Ornithology
1.?2cJ6X • • • 1 •
CURULE chair, in Roman antiquity, a chair
adorned with ivory, wherein the great magiftrates ol
Rome had a right to fit and be carried.
The curule magiftrates were the sediles, tl - p .
tors, cenfors, and confuls. This cha.r -s Sued ™ a
kind of chariot, whence it had its name. The (ena-
tors who had borne the oftices of teddes, prsetors, &c.
were carried to the fenate-houfe m this chair, as w ere
Curzota
Cufh
C U S [ 23 ]
alfo thofe wlio triumphed, and fuch as went to admi- Nile,
nifter juftice, &c. See ^Edile, &c.
^ CURZOLA, an ifland in the gulf of Venice, lying
on the coafl of Dalmatia. It is about 20 miles long,
and has a fmall town of the fame name, with a bifhop’s
fee. It belongs to the Venetians. E. Long. xy. 15.
N. Lat. 43. 6.
CUSA, Ni cholas de, a learned cardinal, born of
mean parentage, and named from Cufa, the place of
his birth. He was made a cardinal in 1448 ; and be¬
ing appointed governor of Rome by Pope Pms II. du¬
ring his abfence at Mantua, he was the chief concer-
ter and manager of the war againft the Turks. He
founded a church, and a noble library of Greek and
Latin authors, at Cufa ; and left many excellent works
behind him, which were collected and publifhed in
three volumes at Bafil in 1565. In thefe he has made
no fcruple to detefl the lying traditions and fophiltries
of the Roman church.
CUSCO, a large and handfome town of South A-
merica in Peru, formerly the refidence of the Incas.
It is feated at the foot of a mountain, and is built in a
fquare form, in the middle of which there is the belt
market in all America. Four large flreets terminate in
this fquare, which are all as ftraight as a line, and re¬
gard the four quarters of the world. The Spaniards
tell us wonderful things of the richnefs of the Inca’s
palace, and of the temple of the fun ; but more fober
travellers, judging from what remains, think moft of
them to be fabulous. At nrefent it contains eight large
parifhes, and five religious houfes, the belt of which
belongs to the Jefuits; and the number of the inhabi¬
tants may be about 5^)000, of which three fourths are
the original natives, Americans. From this town there
is a very long road, which runs along the Cordilleras ;
and, at certain diftances, there are fmall houfes for
reding places, fome parts of which are fo artificially
wrought, that it is furprifing how a people who had
no iron tools could perform fuch workmanlhip. There
are dreams of water run through the town, which are a
great convenience in fo hot a country where it never
tains. It is 375 tnilcs ead of Lima. W. Long. 74. 37.
S. Lat. 13. o. '
CQSCU F A, dodder. *, a genus of plants belonging
to the tetrandria clafs; and in the natural method
ranking under thofe of which the order is doubtful.
See Botany Index.
CUSH, the elded fon of Ham, and father of Nim¬
rod ; the other fons of Cufh were Seba, Havilab, Sab-
tah, Raamah, and Sabtecha. Gen. x. 6—8. Though
we know of no other perfon of Scripture that is called
by this name, yet there are feveral countries that are
called by it j whether the fame man may have dwelt
in them all at different times, or that there w'ere fome
other men of this name, we are ignorant.
1 he Vulgate, Septuagint, and other interpreters,
both ancient and modern, generally tranflate Cufh,
Ethiopia: but there are many paffages wherein this
tranfiafion cannot take place.
Cush is the name of the country watered by the
Araxes. They who in tranflating' the fituation of
Eden, have made Cu/h Ethiopia, gave rife to that
unwarrantable opinion which Jofephus and feveral
others have entertained of the river Gihon’s being the
G U S
In this place (Gen. ii. 13.) the LXX tranfla- Cuduon
tion renders the word CuJJj by the name of Ethiopia ; I]
and in this midalcp. is nor nnW hprp Cufpinian.
and in this miduke, is not only here followed by our
Englifli verfion, but in the fame particular in feveral
other places.
Cuth is the fame as Cufh. The Chaldees generally
put the tau where the Hebrews ufe the /chin : they fay
cuth, indead of cu/h. See Cuth.
But Ethiopia is frequently in the Hebrew called
CuJJj ; and Joftphus fays, that they called themfelves
by this name, and that the fame name was given them
by ail Afia. St Jerome tells us that the Hebrews call
the Ethiopians by the fame name, and the Septuagint
give them no other. Jer miah (xiii. 23.) fays, “ Can
the Cufhaean, or Ethiopian, change his colour ?” In
Ezekiel (xxix. 10.'I the Lord threatens to reduce
“ Egypt to a deiert, from the tower of Syene even
unto the border of Cufh, or Ethiopia and in Ifaiah,
(xi. ix.) he fays, “ he will recover the remnant of his
people, which fhall be left, from Affyria, and from
Egypt, and Pathros, and from Cufh.” All thefe
marks agree with Ethiopia properly fo called, which
lies to the fouth of Egypt.
Bochart has fhown very clearly that there was a
country called the “ land of Cu/h” in Arabia Petrtea,
bordering upon Egypt ; that this country extended
itfelf principally upon the eaflern fhore of the Red
fea, and at its extremity to the point of the fea, in¬
clining towards Egypt and Paleftine.
1 hus there are three countries of the name of Cufh,
deferibed in Scripture, and all confounded by inter¬
preters under the general name of Ethiopia.
CUSHION, in engraving, is a bag of leather filled
with fand, commonly about nine inches fquare, and
three or four thick, ufed for fupporting the plate to
be engraved.
Cushion, in gilding, is made of leather, fattened to
a fquare board, from 14 inches fquare to 10, with a
handle. The vacuity between the leather and board
is fluffed with fine tow or wool, fo that the outer fur-
face may be flat and even. It is ufed for receiving the
leaves of gold from the paper, in order to its being
cut into proper fizes and figures.
CUSI, in Natural Hi/lory, a name given by the
people of the Philippine iflands to a very fmall and
very beautiful fpecies of parrot.
CUSP.(ci^>rr,) properly denotes the point of a fpear
or fwmrd : but is uied in aftronomy to exprefs the
points or horns of the moon, or any other luminary.
Cusp, in A/rology, is ufed for the firft point of each
of the 12 houfes, in a figure or fcheme of the heavens.
See House.
CUSPIDATED, in Botany, are fuch plants w'hofe
leaves are pointed like a fpear.
CUSP1NIAN, John, a German, was born at Swein-
furt in 1473, and died at Vienna in 1529. He was
firft phyfician to the emperor Maximilian I. and em¬
ployed by that prince in feveral delicate negociations.
We have of his in Latin, 1. A hittory of the Roman
emperors from Julius Ctefar to the death of Maximi¬
lian I. Degory Wheare, in his Methodus Le^endce
Hiftoria, calls this “ luculentum fane opus, et omnium Icc-
tione digniffimum.’” 2. A hiftory of Auftria j being a
kind of continuation of the preceding. 3. A hiftory
of
C U S [24
Cairo of the origin of the Turks, and of their cruelties to-
tl wards CHriftians. Gerard Voflius calls Culpiman mag-
num [no <cvo hijloria: lumen.
V CUSSO, the name given by the natives to a tree
which is indigenous to the high country of Abyflima.
It is particularly deferibed by Mr Bruce ; but as this
celebrated traveller was totally unacquainted with the
language of botany, it is impoflible to difeover to what
clafs, order, or genus, it belongs. It grows nearly to
the height of 20 feet, and the feed is employed by
the Abyffinians as a vermifuge. From the figure which
Mr Bruce has given of this plant, it w:ould appear to
be moft nearly allied to the palms.
CUSTOM, a very comprehenfive term, denoting
the manners, ceremonies, and fafhions of a people,
which having turned into a habit, and pafled into ule,
obtain the force of laws; in which ienfe it implies
fuch ufages, as, though voluntary at firft, are yet by
pra6fice become neceffary. .
Cuftom is hence, both by lawyers and civilians, de¬
fined lex non feripta, “a law or right not written,
eilablilhed by long ufage, and the confent of our an-
ceftors : in which fenfe it ftands oppofed to the lex
feripta, or “ the written law.” See Law Index.
Custom and Habit, in the human economy. 1 be
former is often confounded with the latter. By cli¬
ft om we mean a frequent reiteration of the fame a6tj
‘and by habit, the effea that cuftom has on the mind
or body. This curious fubjeft falls to be confidered
firft in the moral, and fecondly in a phyfical, light.
I. Influence of Cufom and Habit on the Mind, Sec.
Cuftom hath fuch influence upon many of our feel¬
ings, by warping and varying them, that its opera¬
tions demand the attention of all thofe who would be
acquainted with human nature. 'I he fubjett, how¬
ever, is intricate. Some pleafures _ are fortified by
Kamii cuftom: and yet cuftom begets familiarity, and con-
Elementiof fequently indifference :
If all the year were playing holidays,
To fport would be as tedious as to work :
But when they feldom come, they wifti’d-for come,
And nothing pleafeth but rare accidents. Shakefpeare
]
c u s
Cuftom
and Habit.
In many inftances, fatiety and difguft are the confe-
quences of reiteration : again, though cuftom blunts
the edge of diftrefs and of pain ; yet the want of any
thing to which we have been long accuftomed is a fort
of torture. A clue to guide us though all the intri¬
cacies of this labyrinth, wmuld be an acceptable pielent.
Whatever be the caufe, it is certain that we are
much influenced by cuftom : it hath an effea upon
our pleafures, upon our aaions, and even upon our
thoughts and fentiments. Habit makes no figure du¬
ring the vivacity of youth : in middle age it gains
ground ■, and in old age governs without controul. In
that period of life, generally fpeaking, we eat at a
certain hour, take exercife at a certain hour go to
reft at a certain hour, all by the direction or Habit;
nav, a particular feat, table, bed, comes to be effen-
tial •, and a habit in any of thefe cannot be controuled
without uneafinefs.
Any flight or moderate pleafure,_ trequentiy reite¬
rated for a long time, forms a peculiar connexion be¬
tween us and the thing that caufes the pleafure. I his
connexion, termed habit, has the effea to awaken our
defire or appetite for that thing when it returns no
asufual. During the courfe of enjoyment, the plea-t  
fure riles infenfibly. higher and higher till a habit be
eftablilhed ; at which time the plealure is at its height.
It continues not, however, ftationary : the lame cu-
ftomary reiteration which carried it to its heig.it,
brings it down again by infenfible degrees even low¬
er than it was at firft J but of that circumftance after¬
wards. What at prefent we have m view, is to prove
by experiments, that thofe things which at firft aie
but moderately agreeable, are the apteft to become
habitual. Spirituous liquors, at firft fcarce agreeable,
readily produce a habitual appetite : and cuftom pre¬
vails fo far, as even to make us fond ol things
nally difagreeable, fuch as coffee, affa-feetida, and to-
A walk upon the quarter deck, though intolerably
confined, becomes however fo agreeable by cuftom,
that a failor in his walk on fliore confines himteft com¬
monly within the fame bounds. 1 he author knew a
man who had relinquiftied the fea for a country life
in the coiner of his garden, he reared an artificial
mount with a level fummit, refembling moft accurate y
a quarter-deck, not only in lhaPe but in fize j and
here he generally walked. In Minorca Governor
Kane made an excellent road the whole length of t e
ifland : and yet the inhabitants adhere to the old road
though not only longer, but extremely bad. P ay or
gaming, at firft barely amufing by the occupation
affords, becomes in time extremely agreeable , and
frequently profecuted with avidity, as if it were the
chief bufinefs of life. The fame obfervation is appli¬
cable to the pleafures of the internal fenfes thofe of
knowledge and virtue in particular : children have
fcarce any fenfe of thefe pleafures •, and men very little
who are in the ftate of nature without culture . our
tafte for virtue and knowledge improves llowly . but
is capable of growing ftronger than any other appetite
in human nature. , Q1qs
To introduce an aeftive habit, frequency of ads is
not fufficient without length of time : the quickeft fuc-
ceflion of a£ls in a fhort time is not
flow fucceffion in the longeft time. I he efteeft mu
be produced by a moderate fott aftion, and a long fe-
xiesPof eafy touches, removed from each other by l.mrt
intervals. Nor are thefe fufficient without regffian y
in the time, place, and other circumftgn?eS
tion i the more uniform any operation is, the foone
it becomes habitual. And this holds equally ir* a P -
five habit •, variety, in any ^markable degree Pre
the effea j thus any particular food will Larce ever
become habitual where the manner of dreffing is van
ed The circumftance. then requiffte «o augment a
moderate pleafure, and at the long-run to form a ha-
bh are weak uniform *8., reiterated dur.ng a long
courfe of time, without any confiderable interruption .
every agreeable caufe that operates m this manner wi
^Jffeatmtnd aver [ton, as diftinguiffied fr01"Paf[p0n
the one hand, and on the other from ongura difpo-
on
fition, “alfty habits «fpcaing particular ^b-
tXan, peHon muft
« Sufte'habiT'of aSml! 'Son S-
\
CVS [
" Guftom r,crated, whether it be friendfhip or love, feldom fwells
into any tumultuous or vigorous paffion •, but it is how-
v ever the ftrongeft cement that can bind together two
individuals of the human fpecies. In like manner, a
flight degree of dilguft often reiterated with regula-
rity, grows into the habit of averfion, which common¬
ly fubfilts for life.
Objefts of tafle that are delicious, far from tending
to become habitual, are apt by indulgence to produce
iatiety and difguft : no man contrafts a habit of ufing
fugar, honey, or Iweet meats, as he does tobacco. &
'I hefe violent delights have violent ends,
And in their triumphs die. The fweetell honey
Is loathfome in its own delicioufnefs,
And in the tafte confounds the appetite •,
Therefore love mod’rately, long love doth fo ;
Too fwift arrives as tardy as too flow.
Romeo and 'Juliet, Aft ii. fc. 6.
The fame obfervation holds with refped to all objefts
which being extremely agreeable raife violent paflions :
fuch paflions are incompatible with a habit of any kind:
and in particular they never produce affe&ion or a-
verfion : a man who at firfl fight falls violently in love,
has a ftiong defire of enjoyment, but no affe&ion for
the woman (a) : a man wdto is lurpriled with an un-
expeffed favour, burns for an opportunity to exert his
gratitude, without having any affeftion for his bene-
faffor : neither does defire of vengeance for an atroci¬
ous injury involve averfion.
It is perhaps not eafy to fay why moderate plea-
fures gather ftrength by cuflom : but two caufes con¬
cur to prevent that cffea in the more intenfe plea-
lures. Thefe, by an original law in our nature, in-
creafe quickly to their full growth, and decay with no
lels precipitation : and cuftom is too flow in its ope-
ration to overcome that law. The other caufe is not
lefs powerful: exquifite pleafure is extremely fatiguing;
occafiomng, as a naturalift would fay, great expence
of animal Ipirits *, and of luch the mind cannot bear
io frequent gratification, as to luperinduce a habit : if
the thing that raifes the pleafure return before the mind
Vol. VII. Part I.
25 ] c u s
have recovered its tone and reliflr, difgufl: enfues inftead Cuftom
of plealuie. ard Habit.
A habit never fails to admonifih us of the wonted
time of gratification, by raifing a pain for want of the
objedl, and a delire to have it. The pain of want is
always firfl: felt; the defire naturally follows ; and
upon prefenting the objeft, both vanifli inflantaneoufiy.
I hus a man accuflomed to tobacco, feels, at the end
of the ufual interval, a confuied pain of want ; which
at firfl points at nothing in particular, though it loon
lettles upon its accuflomed objcdf : and the lame may
be obferved in perfons addiffed to drinking, who aie
often in an unealy refllels flate before they think of
the bottle. In pleafures indulged regularly, and at
equal intervals, the appetite, remarkably oblequious to
cuflom, returns regularly with the ufual time of gra¬
tification ; not looner, even though the objeft be pre-
lenttd. This pain of want aiifing from habit, feems
direftly oppofite to that of fatiety ; and it muft appear
lingular, that frequency of gratification fliould pro¬
duce efleas fo oppolite, as are the pains of excels and
of want.
'The appetites that refpea the prefervation and pro¬
pagation of our Ipecies, are attended with a pain of
want fimilar to that occafioned by habit : hunger and
thirfl are uneafy fenfations of want, which always pre¬
cede the defire of eating or drinking ; and a pain for
want of carnal enjoyment precedes the defire of an ob-
je(fl. 1 he pain being thus lelt independent of an ob-
je6f, cannot be cured but by gratification. Very dif-
lerent is an ordinary paflion, in which defire precedes
the pain of want : fuch a pallion cannot exifl but while
the object is in view ; and therefore, by removing the
objea out of tiiought, it vanilheth with its defire and
pain of want.
The natural appetites above mentioned, differ from
habit in the following particular: they have an unde¬
termined diretlion toward all objeds of gratification
in general; whereas an habitual appetite is direded
to a particular objed : the attachment we have by ha¬
bit to a particular woman, difters widely from the na¬
tural paflion which comprehends the whole fex ; and
the
JdJTVT '.vlthout rftf,ior'' '> fintly exemplified in the follmving flory. When Connantinoole was
was at .Lt H • a of an illuftrious family, fell i.fto the hands of Mahome 11 who
felf ,m with 1 Pr,,ne °/ y°",h !‘nd 8‘0ry- His ^avage heart being fubdned by her charms he fltut him
y abLUl t^bmv'anVll LT i° “if"", Vt0b,“n'd ^ “ "’“ke’ht ^uent
naffinn Th r ,7y’ d J ° }'* rene- War relaxed* fur ''ia°rv was no longer the monarch’s favourite
manders 'fhfitlh!’ “CCl!l,"n,ed t0 b““'y. began to murmur, and the infeaion Ipread even among the com-
Sm ofiLdLrfe^hewllbiidvTo ;trrhe,fideli7nh-' Ted who dul ac^Zt
his refolution. He ordered Muftapha to affemble^rh0 ,IS ^ 011’’ The lultan, after a gloomy filence, formed
tired to Irene’s apartment KWr hlf 7? I Irr°PS ”'Xt rmoimnS i and then with precipitation re.
beftow fo many farm carelfes Todve Vnew? n”"" l “'T" f° ucharming ! ,lcver before did the prince
beftow their utmoft art and rar f j r ewuultre to her beauty, he exhoited her women next morning to
and pulling off her ve demand ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ °f"the ^
After an awful n ,,,<1^1, - u ^ mtb 3 fierce look’ whether they had ever beheld fuch a beauty ?
witltlhe other puling outllffclmhar0^^3^ young Greak by her beautiful locks ?„d
graudees, withlyes fild and fmls l l s f H 7/ ^ "’f bodJ'.« 0ne Then turning his
love.” However ftranoe it mav a.,nPa - WOrd/fays he)’. when 11 1S ^7 will, knows to cut the bands of
the moft brutal averfion^ diredted both to the f^™ ^ that defire °f enjoyment may confift with
of Sully’s Memoirs ; to ’whkh f e the re^! WW,,“- °f haV£ « ^ book
c u s
[ 26 ]
c u s
Cuftom
and Habit.
the habitual reliOi for a particular difli, is far from be
mg the fame with a vague appetite for food. That
difference notwithflanding, it is ttill remarkable, that
nature hath enforced the gratification of certain natu¬
ral appetites effential to the fpecies, by a pain ol the
fame fort with that which habit produceth.
The pain of habit is lefs under our power than any
other pain that arifes from want of gratification • hun-
aer and thirft are more eafily endured, efpecially at
firft, than an unufual intermiffion of any habitual plea-
fure : perfons are often heard declaring, they would
forego deep or food, rather than tobacco. We muff
not, however, conclude, that toe gratification of an
habitual appetite affords the fame delight with the gra¬
tification of one that is natural : far from, it, the pain
of want only is greater. , , ,
The flow and reiterated a&s that produce a < ,
ftrengthen the mind to enjoy the habitual P^afure in
greater quantity and more frequency than onginal y ,
and by that means a habit of intemperate gratification
is often formed : after unbounded a&s of intemperan ,
the habitual relilh is foon reftored and the pain for
want of enioyment returns with frefh vigour. _ .
The caufes of the prefent emotions hitherto m view,
are either an individual, fuch as a companion a cer
tain dwelling-place, a certain amufement , or a par
thcuiar fpecies^ fuch as coffee mutton or^ny c,her
food. But habit is not confined to fuch. A con ta
train of trifling diverfions may form fuch a habit in
the mind, that it cannot be eafy a moment without
amufement: a variety in the objefts prevents a habit
"y one in particular : but as the train is uniform
with refpeft to amufement, the habit is formed accor¬
dingly ; and that fort of habit may be denominated
j gieric habit, in oppofition to the former which « a
fbecific habit. A habit of a town-life of country dpor ,
of folitude, of reading, or of bufinefs, wher^fuffici^-
ly varied, are inftances of generic habits, livery ipe
Lc habit hath a mixture of the generic ; for the ha-
Sof any one fort of food makes the tafte agreeable
j we /re fond of that tafte wherever found. I hus
. in deprived Of a„ habitual obieft takes up with
tvhat raoft refetnbles it ; deprived of ‘obacc.°’
ter herb will do rather than want; a hab.t of punch
^akes wine a good refource : accuftomed to the
fweet fociety and comforts of matrimony, the man un¬
happily deprived of his beloved objed, inclines the
fooPne/to a fticond. In general, when we are deprive
of a habitual objea, we are fond of its qualities m y
othe^objuft^ ^ afligned above, why the caufes of
intenfe pleafure become not readily habitual: but now
we difcover, that thefe reafons conclude only againft
fpecific habits. In the cafe of a weak pleafure, a ha-
blt is formed by frequency and uniformity of reitera¬
tion which, in ^he cafe of an intenfe pleafure, pro¬
duceth fatiety and difguft. But it is remarkable that
■fatietv and difwuft have no effea, except as to that
Ss fingly which occ.fions them ; a fur e.« of honey
produceth not a loathing of fugar i mtemper nee
with one woman produceth no difrehih of the lame
nleafure with others. Hence it is eafy to account fo
a generic habit in any intenfe pleafure : the deltg it
we had in the gratification of the appetite, inflames
the imagination,Sand makes us fearch, with avidity,
for the fame gratification in whatever other objea it
can be found. And thus uniform frequency m grati-
fying the fame paflion upon different objefts, produ¬
ceth at length a generic habit. In this manner one
acquires an habitual delight in high and poignant iau-
ces rich drefs, fine equipages, crowds of company, and
in whatever is commonly termed pleafure. 1 here con¬
curs at the fame time, to introduce this habit, a pe-
culiaritv obferved above, that reiteration of afts en¬
larges the capacity of the mind to admit a more plen¬
tiful gratification than originally, with regard to fre¬
quency, as well as quantity. r , ...
Hence it appears, that though a fpecific habit can¬
not be formed but upon a moderate pleafure, a gene¬
ric habit may be formed upon any fort of plealure,
moderate or immodei^te, that hath variety of obje&s.
The only difference is, that a weak pleafure runs na¬
turally into a fpecific habit j whereas an intenfe plea¬
fure is altogether averfe to fucb a habit. In a word,
it is only in Angular cafes that a moderate pleafure
produces a generic habit •, but an intenfe pleafure can¬
not produce any other habit. r . j
The appetites that refpeft the prefervation and pro¬
pagation of the fpecies, are formed into habit in a pe¬
culiar manner ; the time as well as mealure of their
gratification is much under the power of cuftom j
which, introducing a change upon the occafions
a proportional change in the appetites. Thus, it the
body be gradually formed to a certain quantity of food
at ftated times, the appetite is regulated accord,”S J >
and the appetite is again changed, vvTen a different
habit of body is introduced by a different praaice.
Here it would feem, that the change is not made upon
the mind, which is commonly the cafe m paflive la-
bits. but upon the body. , . *
When rich food is brought down by ingredients of
a plainer tafte, the compofition is fufceptible of a Ipe-
cific habit. Thus the fweet tafte of fugar, rendered
lefs poignant in a mixture, may, in courle of time,
produce a fpecific habit for fuch mode¬
rate pleafures, by becoming more intenfe, tend to ge^
neric habits-, fo intenfe pleafures, by becoming more
moderate, tend to fpecific habits.
The beauty of the human figure, by a ipecial
commendation of nature, appears to us fuprerne a
the great variety of beauteous forms beftowed iipon
animals. The various degrees in which individuals
enjoy that property, render it an objea fometimes
of a^oderate, fometimes of an intenfe, pamon. The
moderate paflion, admitting frequent rciter^ mn with-
out diminution, and occupying the mind without ex
haufting it, turns gradually ftronger ull it becomes
habit Nay, inftances are not wanting,_ ot a face at
firft difagreeable, afterwards rendered ^different y
familiarity, and at length agreeable by cuftom On
g
io that uf faint impreffions waxing giadnally more
to that “ nroduce a fpetilic habit. But the mind
C U S [
CnfTom by the pain of fatiety ; and thus a generic habit is
and Habit, formed, of which inconftancy in love is the neceffary
confequence ; for a generic habit, comprehending
every beautiful object, is an invincible obftru6Hon to a
fpecific habit, which is confined to one.
But a matter which is of great importance to the
youth of both fexes, deferves more than a curfory
view. Though the pleafant emotion of beauty differs
widely from the corporeal appetite, yet when both
are dire&ed to the fame objeft, they produce a very
ftrong complex paffion j enjoyment in that cafe muff
be exquifite ; and therefore more apt to produce fa¬
tiety than in any other cafe whatever. This is a ne¬
ver-failing effect, where confummate beauty in the
one party, meets with a warm imagination and great
fenfibility in the other. What we are here explain-
ing, is true without exaggeration j and they muff be
infenfible upon whom it makes no impreffion : it de*
ferves well to be pondered by the young and the amo¬
rous, who, in forming the matrimonial fociety, are too
often blindly impelled by the animal pleafure merely,
inflamed by beauty. It may indeed happen, after the’
pleafure is gone, and go it muff with a fwift pace,
that a new connexion is formed upon more dignified
and more lafting principles; but this is a dangerous
experiment ; for even fuppofing good fenfe, good tem¬
per, and internal merit of every fort, yet a new con¬
nexion upon fuch qualifications is rarely formed : it
commonly, or rather always happens, that fuch quali¬
fications, the only folid foundation of an indiffoluble
connexion, are rendered altogether invifible by fatiety
of enjoyment creating difguft.
One effeft of cuftom, different from any that have
been explained, muff not be omitted, becaufe it makes
a great figure in human nature : though cuftom aug¬
ments moderate pleafures, and leffens thofe that are
intenfe, it has a different effeft with refpeft to pain ;
for it blunts the edge of every fort of pain and diftrefs^
faint or acute. Uninterrupted mifery, therefore, is
attended wdth one good effeft; if its torments be in-
ceffant, cuftom hardens us to bear them.
The changes made m forming habits are curious.
Moderate pleafures are augmented gradually by reite¬
ration, till they become habitual j and then are at
their height : but they are not long ftationary : for
from that point they gradually decay, till they'vanifh
altogether. The pain occafioned by want of gratifica¬
tion runs a different courfe : it increafes uniformly ;
and at laft becomes extreme, when the pleafure of
gratification is reduced to nothing.
 —■ - • It fo falls out,
I hat wTat we have w^e prize not to the worth,
While we enjoy it ; but being lack’d and loft,’
Why then we rack the value ; then we find
The virtue that poffeflion would not flhow us
Whilft it was ours.
Much ado about Nothing, Adi iv. fc. 2.
The effedl of cuftom with relation to a fpecific habit
is difplayed through all its varieties in the ufe of to¬
bacco The tafte of that plant is at firft extremely
unpleafant; our difguft leffens gradually till it vaniftt
altogether j at which period the tafte is neither agree¬
able not difagreeable : continuing the ufe of the plant
we begin to relifh it j and our relifti improves by ufe,
7 ] c u s
till it arrive at perfedfion * from that period it gradu- Cuftofn
ally decays, while the habit is in a flate of increment, aild Habit,
and confequefttly the pain of want. The refult is, that ■"v—*^
when the habit has acquired its greateft vigour, the
relifh is gone ; and accordingly we often fmoke and
take fnuff habitually, without fo much as being con-
fcious of the operation. We mull expedf gratification
after the pain of want j the pleafure of which gratifi¬
cation is the greateft when the habit is the moft vi¬
gorous : it is of the fame kind with the pleafure one
feels upon being delivered from the rack. This plea¬
fure, however, is but occafionally the effedl of habit;
and, however exquifite, is avoided as much as poffible
becaufe of the pain that precedes it.
With regard to the pain of want, W’e can difcover
no difference between a generic and a fpecific habit :
but thefe habits differ widely with refpedl to the pofi-
tive pleafure. We have had occafion to obferve, that
the pleafure of a fpecific habit decays gradually till it
turn imperceptible : the pleafure of a generic habit,
on the contrary, being fupported by variety of gratifi¬
cation, fuffers little or no decay after it comes to its
height. However it may be with other generic ha¬
bits, the obfervation certainly holds with refpedl to the
pleafures of virtue and of knowledge ; the pleafure of
doing good has an unbounded fcope, and may be fo
vaiioufly gratified that it can never decay : fcience is
equally unbounded ; our appetite for knowledge ha¬
ving an ample range of gratification, where difeove-
nes are recommended by novelty, by variety, bv uti¬
lity, or by all of them.
In this intricate inquiry, we have endeavoured, but
without fuccefs, to difcover by what particular means
it is that cuftom hath influence upon us ; and now
nothing feems left, but to hold our nature to be fo fra¬
med as to be fufceptible of fuch influence. And fup¬
pofing it purpofely fo framed, it will not be difficult to
find out feveral important final caufes. That the nower
of cuftom is a happy contrivance for our good, cannot
have efcaped any one who refleas, that bufinefs is our
province, and pleafure our relaxation only. Now fa¬
tiety is_ neceffary to check exquifite pleafures, which
otherwife would engrofs the mind, and unqualify us
for bufinefs. On the other hand, as bufinefs is fome-
times painfu1, and is never pleafant beyond modera¬
tion, the habitual increafe of moderate pleafure, and
the converfion of pain into pleafure, are admirably
contrived for difappointing the malice of fortune, anil
for reconciling us to whatever cou-rfe of life may be
our lot :
How ufe doth breed a habit in a man !
I his fliadovvy defect, unfrequented woods,
I better brook than flourifhmg peopled towns.
Here I can fit alone, unfeen of any,
And to the nightingale’s complaining notes
I une my diftieffes, and record my woes.
7'wo Gentlemen of Verona, Ad v. fc. 4.
As the foregoing diftindions between intenfe and
moderate, hold in pleafure only, every degree of pain
being foftened by time, cuftom is a catholicon for pain
and diftrefs of every fort ; and of that regulation the
final caufe requires no illuftration.
Another final caufe of cuftom will be highly reliftied
by every perfon of humanity, and yet has in a great
2 meafure
C U s [2
Cuftoin meafure been overlooked; wbich is, that cuflom hath
and Habit. a greater influence than any other known caute, to
1 y ’ put the rich and the poor upon a level, "cav l'ea
lures, the (hare of the latter, become fortunately
ftronger by cuftom ; while voluptuous pleafures, the
fliare of the former, are continually lohng g.oun
bv fatiety. Men of fortune, who poffefs palaces, fump-
tuous gardens, rich fields, enjoy them lefs than paiTen-
pers do. The goods of Fortune are not unequally
diftributed ; the opulent poffefs what others enjoy.
And indeed, if it be the effeft of habn to produce
the paint of want in a high degree while there is little
pleafure in enjoyment, a voluptuous life is of ail the
lead to be envied. Thofe who are habituated to high
feeding, eafy vehicles, rich furniture, a crovvd of va¬
lets. much deference and flattery, enjoy but a (mall
(bare of happinefs, while they are expofed to mani¬
fold dillreffes. To fuch a man, enflaved by cafe and
luxury, even the pettv inconveniences in travelling, ot
a rough road, bad weather, or homely fare, are fen-
ous evils : he lofes his tone of mind, turns peevdh, and
would wreak his refentment even upon the common
accidents of life. Better far to ufe the goods ot for¬
tune with moderation : a man who by temperance
and activity hath acquired a hardy conftitution, is, o
the one hand, guarded againft external accidents , and,
on the other, is provided with great variety of enjoy¬
ment ever at command. r v,* A ...bb
We (hall clofe this branch of the fubjeft wit
article more delicate than abitrufe, viz. what authorny
cuftom ought to have .OVerh°Ul' abandon
One particular is certain, that we ctieenu y
to the authority of cuftom things that nature hat
indifferent. It is cullom, not nature that b» ^ -
bliftied a difference between the nght band and t e
left, fo as to make it awkward and dlfagreeable to one
the left where the right is commonly ufed. 1 be -
rious colours, though they affetl us differently are al
of them agreeable in their purity : but cufton, h s
regulated that matter in another manner , a black
upon a human being, is to us difagreeable and a
white fkin probably not lefs fo to a negro 1 bus
things, originally indifferent, become agreeable or dil¬
atable by the force of cuftom Xor w.H <b s be
furprifing after the difeovery made above, that the
original^greeablenefs or difagreeab enefs of an ob eB
h, by the Influence of euftom, often converted into
^Proceeding to matters of tafte, where the^."“‘“j
rally a preference of one thing before another , it
certain, in the firft place, that our faint and more de¬
licate feelings are readily fufceptible of a bias from
cuftom •, and therefore that it is no proof of a defec¬
tive tafte, to find thefe in fome meafure i^^ced
by^X™, drefrand the modes of external behavi
our are regulated by cuftom in every country , the
deep red orgvermilion with which the lad.es m France
cover their cheeks, appears to them beautiful m fp^te
of nature; and ftrangers cannot altogether be juft -
fied in condemning that praftice, confidermg the law¬
ful authority of cuftom, or of the faftnon, as it is call¬
ed • it is told of the people who inhabit the (kirts o
he'Xl ting the north, thnt the fwellmg they uni-
‘ e AlvF have in the neck is to them agreeable ^ So
far has onflow pow er to change the nature o. things,
8 ] C U S
and to make an objea originally difagreeable take on _
an oppofite appearance. . .
But as to every particular that can be denominated
proper or improper, right or wrong, cuftom has little
authority, and ought to have none. The principle ot
duty takes naturally place of every other j and_ it ar¬
gues a (liameful weaknefs or degeneracy of mind, to
find it in any cafe fo far fubdued as to fubmit to cul-
t0tII. Ej}eBs of Cujiom and Habit in the Animal Econo¬
my. Thefe may be reduced to five heads : i. On the
fimple folids. 2. On the organs of fenfe. 3. On the
moving power. 4. On the whole nervous power.
e On the fyftem of blood-veffels.
1 EffeEls on the Simple Solids. Cuftom determines
the degree of flexibility of which they are capable
Bv frequently repeated flexion, the feveral particles ot
which thefe folids confift are rendered more (upple
and moveable on each other. A piece of catgut, e. g.
when on the ftretch, and having a weight appended
to its middle, will be bended thereby perhaps halt an
inch •, afterwards, by frequent repetitions of the fatne
weight, or by increafing the weight, the flexibi 1 y
win be rendered double. The degree of flexibility has
a great effea in determining the degree of oicillation
provided that elafticity is not affeaed j if it go beyond
this, it produces flaccidity. Again, cuftom determines
the degree of tenflon ; for the (ame elaftic chord that
now ofcillates in a certain degree of tenfion, will, by
frequent repetition of thefe ofcillations, be 10 far re¬
laxed that the extenfion muft be renewed in order to
produce the fame tenfion, and confequently the fame
vibrations, as at firrt. This appears in many inftances-
in the animal economy, as when different mu.cles con¬
cur to give a fixed point or tenfion to each other,
and thus a weakly child totters as it walks 5 but by
giving it a weight to carry, and by thus increafing t e
tenfion of the fyAem, it walks move ileadily. In like
manner, the fullnefs of the fyftem gives ftrength by
dirtending the veffels everywhere, and (o giving _
fidn : hence a man, by good nounfliment from being
weak acquires a great increafe of drength in a iew
days : and, on the other hand, evacuations weaken y
talmp off the tenfton.
2. ^Efecls on the Organs of Sctfc. Repetition gives
a greater degree of fenfibility, in io far only as it ren-
derl perceptfon more accurate. Repetition alone gives
lading impreflion, and thus lays the foundation ot me-
mory8- for Angle impreflions are but retained for a-
(hort time, and are foon forgot. Thus a perfon, vvho
at prefent has little knowledge of cloths, wfll Y re‘
quently handling them, acquire ^ !kl11
them which to others feems almoft impoflible. h y
a ap. .0 nilft^ke this for a nicer fenlib.litv but .key
are much miftaken •, for it is an univerfal law, that the
repetition of impreflion renders us lefs acute,
well illuftrated by the operation of forfa“
medicines which aft on the organs of fenie mult, alter
W time, be increaled in their dofe to produce the
fame effeas as at firft. This affords a rule m pradlice
with regard to thefe medicines-, it becoming neceffary.
C U S [ 29 1 c u s
Cuftom otlier Jmpreflions. But to this general rule, that, by
and Habit, repetition, the force of impreffions is more and more
v diminifhed, there are fome exceptions. Thus perfons,
by a ftrong emetic, have had their ftomachs rendered
fo irritable, that one 20th of the firft dofe was fufficient
to produce the fame effeff. This, however, oftener
takes place when the vomit is repeated every day ;
for if the fame vomit be given at pretty confiderable
intervals, the general rule is obferved to hold good.
Thus two contrary effefts of habit are to be noted ;
and it is proper to obferve, that the greater irritability
is more readily produced when the firft impreffion is
great, as in the cafe firft given of the ftrong emetic.
This may be farther illuftrated by the eft'eft of fear,
which is commonly obferved to be diminilhed on repe¬
tition j which can only be attributed to cuftom ; while,
on the other hand, there are inftances of peifons, wTio,
having once got a great fright, have for ever after
continued flaves to fears excited by impreflions of the
like kind, however flight ; which muft be imputed en¬
tirely to excefs of the firft impreflion, as has been al¬
ready obferved. To this head alfo belongs the aflb-
ciation of ideas, which is the foundation of memory
and all our intelle&ual faculties, and is entirely the
effefl of cuftom : with regard to the body alfo, thefe
affociations often take place. And fometimes, in pro¬
ducing effects on the body, affociations feemingly op-
pofite are formed, which, through cuftom, become ab¬
solutely neceffary *, e. g. a perfon long accuftomed to
fleep in the neighbourhood of a great noife, is fo far
from being incommoded on that account, that after¬
wards fuch noife becomes neceflary to produce fleep.
It will be of ufe to attend to this in medical praftice ;
for we ought to allow for, however oppofite it may
feem at the time, whatever ufually attended the pur-
pofe we defign to effett. Thus, in the inftance of
fleep, we muft not exclude noife when w>e want to pro¬
cure reft, or any caufes which may feem oppofite to
fuch an effed, provided cuftom has rendered them ne¬
ceffary.
3. Ejfe&s on the Moving Fibres. A certain degree
of tenfion is neceffary to motion, w7hich is to be deter¬
mined by cuftom ; e. g. a fencer, accuftomed to one
foil, cannot have the fame fteadinefs or aflivity with
one heavier or lighter. It is neceffary alfo that every
motion fhould be performed in the fame fituation, or
pofture of the body, as the perfon has been accuftomed
to employ in that motion. Thus, in any chirurgical
operation, a certain pofture is recommended ; but if the
operator has been accuftomed to another, fuch a one,
however awkward, becomes neceffary afterwards to his
right performance of that operation.
Cuftom alfo determines the degree of ofcillation of
which the moving fibres are capable. A perfon accu¬
ftomed to ftrong mufcular exertions is quite incapable
of the more delicate. Thus writing is performed by
Small mufcular contra&ions ; but if a perfon has been
accuftomed to ftronger motions with thefe mufcles, he
will write with much lefs fteadinefs.
This fubjecft of tenfion, formerly attributed to the
Jimple jibres, is probably more ftriftly applicable to the
moving; for befides a tenfion from flexion, there is
alfo a tenfion from irritation and fympathy ; e. g. the
tenfion of the ftomach from food, gives tenfion to the
whole body. Wine and fpirituous liquors give tenfion :
e. g. a perfon that is fo affe£led with tremor as Scarce- Tnftom
ly to hold a^glafs of any of thefe liquors to his head, antl
has no fooner fwallowed it, than his whole body be¬
comes fteady ; and after the fyftem has been accu¬
ftomed to fuch ftimuli, if they are not applied at the
ufual time, the whole body becomes flaccid, and of
confequence unfteady in its motions.
Again, cuftom gives facility of motion. This feems
to proceed from the diftenfion wTich the nervous
power gives to the moving fibres themfelves. But in
whatever manner it is occafioned, the effeft is obvious j
for any new or unufual motion is performed with great
difficulty.
It is fuppofed that fenfation depends on a commu¬
nication with the fenforium commune, by means of or¬
gans fufficiently diftended with nervous influence. We
have found, that fenfibility is diminifhed by repetition.
And we have norv to obferve, that in fome cafes it
may be increafed by repetition, owing to the nervous
power itfelf flowing more eafily into the part on ac¬
count of cuftom. Attention to a particular objeiff may
alfo determine a greater influx into any particular part,
and thus the fenfibility and irritability of that particu¬
lar part may be increafed.
But with regard to facility of motion, the nervous
power, no doubt, flows moft eafily into thofe parts to
which it has been accuftomed : yet facility of motion
does not entirely depend on this, but in part alfo on
the concurrence of the aftion of a great many mufcles j
e. g. Window has obferved, that in performing any
motion, a number of mulcles concur to give a fixed
point to thofe intended chiefly to a£I, as well as to o-
thers that are to vary and modify their attion. This,
however, is aflifled by repetition and the freer influx *,
as by experience wc kn»w the proper attitude for gi¬
ving a fixed point in order to perform any aflion with
facility and fleadinefs.
Cuftom gives a fpontaneous motion alfo, which feems
to recur at ftated periods, even when the exciting caufes
are removed. Thus, if the ftomach has been accuf¬
tomed to vomit from a particular medicine, it will re¬
quire a much fmaller dofe than at firft, nay, even the
very fight or remembrance of it will be fufficient to
produce the effeft : and there are not wanting inftances
of habitual vomiting, from the injudicious adminiftra-
tion of emetics. It is on this account that all fpaf-
modic affe&ions fo eafily become habitual, and are fo
difficult of cure ; as we muft not only avoid all the ex¬
citing caufes, even in the fmalleft degree, but alfo
their affociations.
Cuftom alfo gives ftrength of motion ; ftrength de¬
pends on ftrong ofcillations, a free and copious influx
of the nervous power, and on denfe folids.- But in
what manner all thefe circumftances have been brought
about by repetition, has been already explained. The
effe<5i of cuftom in producing ftrength, may be thus
illuftrated : a man that begins with lifting a calf, by
continuing the fame prailice every day, will be able to
lift it when grown to the full fize of a bull.
All this is of confiderable importance in the pra&ice
of phyfic, though but too little regarded ; for the re¬
covery of weak people, in a great meafure, depends
on-the ufe of exercife fuited to their ftrength, or rather
within it, frequently repeated and gradually increafed.
Farthei, it is neceffary to oblerve, that cuftom regu-
2 lates
c u s
[ 3° 1
C U S
Ouftom lates the particular celerity with which each motion is
and Habit. to be performed j for a perfon, accuftomed, for a con-
' v fiderable time to one degree of celerity, becomes inca¬
pable of a greater j e. g. a man accuftomed to flow
walking will be out of breath before he can run 20
paces. ’ The train or order in which our motions are
to be performed, is alfo eftabliftied by cuftomj for if
a man hath repeated motions, for a certain time, in any
particular order, he cannot afterwards perform them
in any other. Cuftom alfo very frequently aftociates
motions and fenfations : thus, if a perfon has been in
ufe of affociating certain ideas with the ordinary fti-
Hiulus which in health excites urine, without thele
ideas the ufual inclination will fcarce excite that ex¬
cretion ; and, when thefe occur, will require it even
in the abfence of the primary exciting caufe : e. g. it
is very ordinary for a perfon to make urine when go-
incr to bed j and if he has been for any length of time
accuftomed to do fo, he will ever afterwards make
urine at that time, though otherwife he would often
have no fuch inclihatlon : by this means fome lecre-
tions become in a manner fubjeft to the will. I he
fame may be faid of going to ftool; and this affords
us a good rule in the cafe of coftivenefs •, tor by en¬
deavouring to fix a dated time for this evacuation, it
will afterwards, at fuch a time, more readily return. It
is farther remarkable, that motions are infeparably ai-
fociated with other motions: this, perhaps, very often
proceeds from the neceffary degree of tenfion ; but it
* alfo often depends merely on cuftom, an inliance oi
which we have in the uniform motions of our eyes.
4 EffeBt on the whole Nervous Power. V\ e have
found, that, by cuftom, the nervous influence may be
determined more eafily into one part than another •,
and therefore, as all the parts of the fyftem are ftrong-
lyconnefted, the fenfibility, irritability, and ftrength
of any particular part, may be thus increaled. Cu¬
ftom alfo has the power of altering the natural tem¬
perament, aud of inducing a new one. It is alio in
the power of cuftom to render motions periodical and
periodically fpontaneous. An inftance of this we have
in fleep, which is commonly laid to be owing to the
nervous power being exhaufted, the neceffary confe-
quence of which is fleep, e. g. a reft of the voluntary
motions to favour the recruit of that power •, but it
this were the cafe, the return of fleep fhould beat dif¬
ferent times, according as the caufes which dimimih
the nervous influence operate more or lefs powerfully
whereas the cafe is quite otherwife, thefe returns of
fleep being quite regular. This is no lefs remarkable
in the appetites, that return at particular periods, in¬
dependent of every caufe but cuftom. Hunger, e. g.
is an extremely uneafy fenfation *, but goes oft of it-
felf if the perfon did not take food at the ulual time.
The excretions are farther proofs of this, e. g. going
to ftool, which, if it depended on any particular nu¬
tation, fhould be at longer or fhorter intervals accord¬
ing to the nature of the aliment. There are many
other inftances of this difpofition of the nervous influ¬
ence. to periodical motions, as the flory oi the idiot of
Stafford, recorded by Dr Plot (Speftator, I\ 447*),
who, being accuftomed to tell the hours of the church-
clock as it ftruck, told them as exaftly when it did not
ftrike by its being out of order. Montaigne tells us
of fome oxen that were employed in a machine tor
drawing water, who, after making 300 turns, which
was the ufual number, could be ftimulated by no whip ?; 1 -
or goad to proceed farther. Infants, alio, cry foi and
expedf the bread at thofe times in which the nurle has
been accuftomed to give it.
Hence it would appear, that the human economy
is fubjcdl to periodical revolutions, and that thefe hap¬
pen not oftener may be imputed to variety 5 and this
feems to be the realon why they happen oftencr in the
body than mind, becauie that is fubjeft to greater va¬
riety. We fee frequent inftances of this in diieaies,
and in their crifesj intermitting fevers, epiltpfies, afth-
mas, &.c. are examples of periodical affedtions ; and
that critical days are not fo ftrongly marked m this
country as in Greece, and fome others, may be im¬
puted to the variety and inftability of oui climate ; but
perhaps (till more to the lefs fenfibility and irritability
of our fyftem *, for the exhibition of medicine has little
eftedl in difturbing the crifes, though it be commonly
affigned as a caule. , , . . , •,
We are likewife fubjeft to many habits independent
of ourlelves, as fiom the revolutions of the ctleihal
bodies, particularly the fun, which determines the bo¬
dy perhaps, to other daily revolutions befides ileepmg
and waking. T here are alfo certain habits depending
on the feafons. Our connexions, likewife, with re-
fpeX to mankind, are means of inducing habits. T bus
regularity from affociating in bufinefs induces regular
habits both of mind and body.
There are many difeafes which, though they arole
at firft from particular caufes, at laft continue mere y
through cuflom or habit. Thefe are chiefly o the
nervous fyftem. We ftiould therefore ftudy to coun-
teraX fuch habits-, and accoidingly Piippocrates,
among other things for the cure of epilepfy, orders an
entire change of the manner of life. W e htewife
imitate this in the chincough j which often refills all
remedies, till the air, diet, and ordinary train ol hie, are
change. ^ ^ ^ Blood-vejfch. From what has been
faid onthe nervous power, the diftribution of the fluius
muft neceffarily be varioufly affeXed by cuftom, and
with that the diftribution of the different excretions j
for though we make an eftimate of the proportion qt
the excretions to one another, according to the climate
and feafons, they muft certainly be veiy much varied
^ On this head we may obferve, that blood-letting
has a maniftft tendency to increale the quantity of the
blood ; and if this evacuation be repeated at itatea
times, fucb fymptoms of repletion, and fuch motions,
are excited at the returning periods, as rencer the ope¬
ration neceffary. The fame has been obierved in ionic
fpontaneous htmorrhagies. Thefe, indeed, at fir ,
may have fome exciting caufes, b«t afterwards tney
fetm to depend chiefly on cuftom. I he belt proof ot
this is with regard to the menfttual evacuation. 1 here
is certainly iomething originally m females, that deter¬
mines that evacuation to the monthly periods. Con-
ftart repetition of this comes to fix it, mdepencent of
ft rung caufes, either favouring or preventing repletion j
e c. blood-letting will not impede it nor flung the
body induce it : and, indeed, fo much is this evacua¬
tion conntXed with periodical motions, that it is httle
in our power to produce any efteX by medicines but
C U S [
Cuftoms. at thofe particular times. Thus if we would relax
1 the uterine fyftem, and bring back this evacuation
when fupprefled, our attempts would be vain and fruit-
lefs, unlefs given at that time when the menfes fhould
have naturally returned.
CUSTOMS, in political economy, or theTduties,
toll, tribute, or tariff, payable to the king upon mer-
chandife exported and imported, form a branch of the
perpetual taxes. See Tax.
The confiderations upon which this revenue (or the
more ancient part of it, which arofe only from exports)
was inverted in the king, were faid to be two : i. Be-
caufe he gave the fubjecf leave to depart the kingdom,
and to carry his goods along with him. 2. Becaufe the
king was bound of common right to maintain and keep
up the ports and havens, and to proteft the merchant
from pirates. Some have imagined they are called with
us cujloms, becaufe they were the inheritance of the
king by immemorial ufage and the common law, and
not granted him by any ftatute: but Sir Edward Coke
hath clearly drown, that the king’s firft claim to them
was by grant of parliament 3 Edw. I. though the re¬
cord thereof is not now extant. And indeed this is
in exprefs words confeffed by ftatute 25 Edw. I. c. 7.
wherein the king promifes to take no cuftoms from
merchants, without the common affent of the realm,
“ faving to us and our heirs the cuftoms on wool,
Ikins, and leather, formerly granted to us by the'
commonalty aforefaid.” Thefe were formerly called
hereditary cujloms of the crown ; and were due on the
exportation only of the faid three commodities, and
of none other : which were ftyled the Jlaple commodi¬
ties of the kingdom, becaufe they were obliged to be
brought to thofe ports where the king’s ftaple was
eftablifhed, in order to be there firft rated, and then
exported. They were denominated in the barbarous
Latin of our ancient records, cujluma, (an appellation
which feems to be derived from the French word ecu-
Jlum or coutumy which fignifies toll or tribute, and
Owes its own etymology to the word coujf, which fig¬
nifies price, charge, or, as ure have adopted it in
Englilh, cq/ly) ; not confuetudines, which is the language
of our law whenever it means merely ufages. The
duties on wool, fheep-fkins or woolfells, and leather
exported, w'ere called cujluma anti qua Jive magna^ and
were payable by every merchant, as well native as
ftranger : with this difference, that merchant-ftran-
gers paid an additional toll, viz. half as much again as
was paid by natives. The cujluma parva et nova were
an impoft of 3d. in the pound, due from merchant-
ftrangers only, for all commodities as w7ell imported as
exported ; which wras ufually called the aliens duty,
and was firft granted in 31 Edw. I. But thefe ancient
hereditary cuftoms, efpecially thofe on wool and wool-
fells, came to be of little account, wThen the nation be¬
came fenfible of the advantages of a home manufacture^
and prohibited the exportation of wool by ftatute n
Edw. III. c. 1.
Other cuftoms payable upon exports and imports
were diftinguiftied into fubfidies, tonnage, poundage,
and other imports. Subfidies were fuchl as were im-
pofed by parliament upon any of the ftaple commodi¬
ties^ before mentioned, over and above the cujluma
antiqua et magna : tonnage was a duty upon all wines
imported, over and above the prifage and butlerage
31 ] c u s
aforefaid : poundage was a duty impofed ad valorem, Curtoms.
at the rate of i2d. in the pound, on all other mer- v——1 *
chandife whatfoever : and the other imports were
fuch as were occafionally laid on by parliament, as
circumftances and times required. Thefe diftinCHons
are now in a manner forgotten, except by the officers
immediately concerned in this department} their pro¬
duce being in effeCl all blended together, under th©
one denomination of the cujloms.
By thefe we underftand, at prefent, a duty or {\da- Blacipom's
fidy paid by the merchant at the quay upon all im- Comment.
ported as well as exported commodities, by authority
of parliament j unlefs where, for particular national
reafons, certain rew’ards, bounties or drawbacks, are
allowed for particular exports or imports. The cuf¬
toms thus impofed by parliament are chiefly contain¬
ed in two books of rates, fet forth by parliamentary
authority; one figned by Sir Haibottle Grimefton,
fpeaker of the houfe of commons in Charles II.’s
time ; and the other an additional one, figned by Sir
Spencer Compton, fpeaker in the reign of George I.
to which alfo fubfequent additions have been made.
Aliens pay a larger proportion than natural fubjeds,
which is what is now generally underftood by the aliens
duty ; to be exempted from which is one principal
caufe of the frequent applications to parliament for aCls
of naturalization.
T hefe cuftoms are then, we fee, a tax immediate¬
ly paid by the merchant, although ultimately by the
confumer. And yet thefe are the duties felt leaft by
the people : and if prudently managed, the people
hardly confider that they pay them at all. For the
merchant is eafy, being fenfible he does not pay them
for himlelf j and the confumer, who really pays them,
confounds them with the price of the commodity ;
in the fame manner as Tacitus obferves, that the em¬
peror Nero gained the reputation of abolifhing the
tax of the fale of Oaves, though he only transferred it
from the buyer to the feller ; fo that it was, as he ex-
preffes it, remijjum magis fpecie, quam vi : quia cum
venditor pendere juberetur, in partem pretii emptoribus
accrejceoat. But this inconvenience attends it on the
other hand, that thefe imports, if too heavy, are a
check and cramp upon trade j and efpecially when the
value of the commodity bears little or no proportion
to the quantity of the duty impofed. This in confe-
quence gives rife alfo to fmuggling, which then be¬
comes a very lucrative employment: and its natural
and moft reafonable puniftunent, viz. confilcation of
the commodity, is in fuch cafes quite ineffeftual j the
intrinfic value of the goods, which is all that the
fmuggler has paid, and therefore all that he can lofe,
being very inconfiderable when compared with his
profpeft of advantage in evading the duty. Recourfe
muft therefore be bad to extraordinary puniffiments
to prevent it; perhaps even to capital ones: which
deftroys all proportion of punifliment, and puts
murderers upon an equal footing with fuch as are
rcaL} guilty of no natural, but merely a pofitive of¬
fence.
T here is alfo another ill confequence attending high
impofts on merchandife, not frequently confidered,
but indifputably certain j that the earlier any tax is
laid on a commodity, the heavier it falls upon the
conlumer in the end; for every trader, through
N whofe
GUT
[ 32 J
CUT
who fa hands it paffes, muft have a profit, not only up
on the raw material and his own labour and time m
preparing it, but alfo upon the very tax itlelf, which
he advances to the government-, otherwiie he .oies the
ufe and intereft of the money which he fo advances.
To inftance in the article for foreign paper. 1 he
merchant pays a duty upon importation, which he does
not receive again till he fells the commodity, perhaps
at the end of three months. He is therefore equally
entitled to a profit upon that duty which he pays at the
cuftomhoufe, as to a profit upon the original price
which he pays to the manufaaurer abroad j and con-
fiders it accordingly in the piice he demands ot the
llationer. When the ftationer fells it again, he re¬
quires a profit of the printer or bookfeller upon the
whole fum advanced by him to the merchants : and
the bookfeller does not fail to charge the fu 1 proper-
tion to the {Indent or ultimate confumer j who there¬
fore does not only pay the original duty, but the pro¬
fits of thefe three intermediate traders who have iuc-
ceffively advanced it for him. This might be carried
much farther in any mechanical, or more complicated,
branch of trade. , 1 1• 1
CusroM-Houfe, an office eftabbffied by the king s
authority in the maritime cities, or port towns, for the
receipt and management of the cuftoms and duties of
importation and exportation, impofed on merchandiies,
and regulated by books of rates. ...
GUSTOS brev 1 um, the principal clerk belonging
to the court of common pleas, whofe bufinefs it is to
receive and keep all the writs made returnable in that
court, filing every return by itfelf j and, at the end of
each term, to receive of the prothonotanes all the re¬
cords of the nifi prius, called the fo/leas.
Cvstos Rotulorum, an officer who has the cuftody
of the rolls and records of the feffion of peace, and alio
of the commiffion of the peace itfelf..
He ufually is feme perfon of quality, and always a
juftice of the peace, of the quorum, in the county
where he is appointed. t 1 r - % 1
Cvstos Spiritvalium, he that exercifes the f pi ritual
iurifdiaion of a diqcefe, during the vacancy of any fee,
which, by the canon law, belongs to the dean and
chapter -/but at prefent, in England, to the archffifhop
of the province by prefcription.
Gustos Temporatium, was the perfon to whom a va¬
cant fee or abbey was given by the kibg as fupreme
lord. His office was, as fteward of the goods and Pr«“
fits, to give an account to the efeheator, who did the
like to the exchequer. Tr •
CUT-a feather, in the fea-language. If a Iffip
has too broad a bow, it is common to fay, fle unUnot
cut a feather; that is, (he will not pafs through the wa¬
ter fo fwift as to make it foam or froth.
Cut-Purfe, in Law; if any perfon clam^ et fecrete,
and without the knowledge of another, cut his purfe or
pick his pocket, a d fteal from thence above the value
of twelve pence, it is felony excluded clergy.
Cut-purfes or facculariiy were more feverely pumfh-
ed than common thieves by the Roman and Athenian
CvT-Water, the ffiarp part of the head of a {hip be¬
low the beak. It is fo called, becaufe it cufs or di¬
vides the water before it comes to the bow, that it
may not come too fuddenly to the breadth of the (hip, Cutaneous
which would retard it.
uch would retard it. . . Cutting.
CUTANEOUS, in general, an appellation given
to whatever belongs to the cutis^ or Ikin. Thus, we
fay cutaneous eruptions ; the itch is a cutaneous dileaie.
CUTH,or Cuthah, in Ancient Geography, a pro¬
vince of Affyria, which, as feme fay, lies upon the A-
ra.xes, and is the fame with Cuffi : but others take it
to be the fame with the country which the Gieeks calk
Sufiana, and which to this very day, fays Dr Wells, is
by the inhabitants called Chufefan. F. Calmet is of
opinion that Cuthah and Scythia are the fame place,
and that the Cutbites who were removed into Samaria
by Salmanefer (2 Kings xvii. 24.) came from Cufh or
Cuth, mentioned in Gen. ii. 13. See the article Gush.
The Cuthites worfhipped the idol Nergal, Id. ibid. 30.
Thefe people were tranfplanted into Samaria in the
room of the Ifraelites, who before inhabited it. Calmet
is of opinion, they came from the land of Cuffi, or
Cuthah upon the Araxes; and that their hrft fet-
tlement was in the cities of the Medes, fubdued by
Salmanefer and the kings of Affyria his predeceffors.
The Scripture obferves, that the Cuth.tes, upon tie.r
arrival in this new country, continued to worfhip the
crods formerly adored by them beyond the Euphrates.
Efarbaddon king of Affyria, who fucceeded Senache-
rib, appointed an Ifraelitifh prieft to go thither, and
inftrua them in the religion of the Hebrews. _ But
thefe people thought they might reconcile their old
fuperflition with the worfhip of the true God. d hty
therefore framed particular gods for themfelves, which
they placed in the feveral cities wffiere they dwe t.
The Cuthites then worfhipped both the Lord and wu
falfe gods together, and chofe the loweft of the people
to make priefts of them in the high places , and they
continued this prance for a long time. aftei,'
wards they forfook the worffiip of idols, and adhered,
only to the law of Mofes, as the Samaritans, who are
defeended from the Cuthites, do at this day.
CUTICLE,the SCARF SKIN. See Anatomy Index.
CUTICULAR, the fame with Cutaneous.
CUTIS, the skin. See Anatomy Index. _ .
CUTTER, a fmall veffel, commonly navigated in
the channel of England. It is furnifhed with one
maft, and rigged as a (loop. Many of thefe veffels are
ufed in an illicit trade, and others are employed y
government to take them •, the latter of which are <u-
fher under the direftion of the admiralty or cuftom¬
houfe. See a reprefentation of a cutter of this
in the plate referred to from the article Vessel.
Cutter, is alfo a fmall boat ufed by hups of war.
Cutter of the Tallies, an officer of the exchequer
whofe bufinefs is to provide wood for the tallies, to
cut or notch the fum paid upon them J and^en t« caft
them into court, to be written upon. See i ally.
CUTTING, a term ufed in various Ln es
various arts j in the general it implies a dmfion or
rePCuTT"NG is particularly ufed in heraldry, where the
fhield is divided into two equal parts from right
left parallel to the horizon, or m the Lffe-w y.
The word alfo is applied to the honourabk ordma-
ries and even to animals and moveables, when they a e
divided equally the fame way j fo, however, as ^
CUT
Cutting, one moiety is colour, the other metal.
^ are faid to be cut, couped, when they do not come
full to the extremities of the fhield.
Cutting, in chirurgery, denotes the operation of
extracting the ftone out of the bladder by feCtion.
See Lithotomy, Surgery Index.
Cutting, in coinage. When the laminae or plates
of the metal, be it gold, lilver, or copper, are brought
to the thicknefs of the fpecies to be coined, pieces are
cut out, of the thicknefs, and nearly of the weight, of
the intended coin ; which are now called planchets, till
the king’s image hath been ftamped on them. The in-
ftrument wherewith they cut, confifts of two pieces of
fteel, very fharp, and placed over one another; the
lower a little hollow, reprefenting a mortar, the other
a peftle. The metal put between the two, is cut out
in the manner defcribed under Coinage.
Note. Medallions, where the relievo is to be great,
are not cut, but caft or moulded.
Cutting, in the manege, is when the horfe’§ feet
interfere ; or when with the ftioe of one foot he beats
off the Ikin from the paftern joint of another foot.
This is more frequent in the hind feet than the fore :
the caufes are either wearinefs, weaknefs in the reins,
not knowing how to go, or ill {hoeing.
Cutting, in painting, the laying one flrong lively
colour over another, without any {hade or foftening.
The cutting of colours has always a difagreeable effe6t.
Cutting in wood, a particular kind of fculpture
or. engraving ; denominated from the matter wherein
it is employed.
It is ufed for various purpofes ; as for figured let¬
ters ; head and tail pieces of books; and even for
ichemes and other figures, to fave the expences of en¬
graving on copper; and the prints and {lamps for pa¬
per, callicoes, linens, &c.
The invention of cutting in wood, as well as that
in copper, is afcribed to a goldfmith of Florence ; but
it is to Albert Durer and Lucas they are both in¬
debted for their perfedlion. See Engraving and
Printing.
One Hugo de Carpi invented a manner of cutting
in.wood, by means whereof the prints appeared as if
painted, in clair-obfcure. In order to this, he made
three kinds of {lamps for the fame de'fign ; which
ivere drawn one after another through the prefs for
the fame print : they were fo conduced, as that one
ferved for the grand lights, a fecond for the demi-
teints, and a third for the outlines and the deep
fliadows.
The art of cutting in wood was certainly carried
to a very great pitch above two hundred years ago ;
and might even vie, for beauty and juttnefs, with that
of engraving in copper. At prefent it is in a low con¬
dition, as having been long neglefted, and the appli¬
cation of artiils wholly employed on copper, as the
more eafy and promifing province : not but that wood¬
en cuts have the advantage of thofe in copper on many
accounts.; chiefly for figures and devices in books ; as
being printed at the fame time and in the fame prefs
as the. letters.; whereas for the other there is required
a particular impreffion. In the reprefentation of plants
tind flowers, and in defigns for paper-hangings, where
the outline only is wanted to be printed in a bold
Vol. VII. Part I.
[ 33 1 CUT
I he ordinaries full manner, this method will be found cheaper and Cutting
more effedlual than the ufe of copper-plates. v
The cutters in wood begin with preparing a plank
or block of the fize and thicknefs required, and very
even and fmooth on the fide to be cut ; for this, they
ufually take beech, pear-tree, or box ; though the lat¬
ter is the bed, as being the clofeft, and leall liable to
be worm-eaten. The wood being cut into a proper
form and fize, {hould be planed as even and truly as
pofiible : it is then fit to receive the drawing or chalk¬
ing of the defign to be engraved. But the effedl may
be made more apparent, and the ink, if any be ufed
in.drawing, be prevented from running, by fpreading
thinly on the furface of the wood white lead temper¬
ed with water, by grinding with a brulh pencil, and
afterwards rubbing it ivell with a fine linen rag whilft
it is wet: and when it is dry, brufhing off any loofe
or powdery part with a foft pencil.
On this block they draw their defign with a pen or
pencil, juft as they would have it printed. Thofe
who cannot draw their own defign, as there are many
who cannot, make ufe of a defign furniftied them by
another ; faftening it upon the block with palle made
of flour and water, with a little vinegar or gum
tragacanth ; the ftrokes or lines turned towards the
wood.
When the paper is dry, they wafti it gently over
with a fponge dipped in water ; which done, they
take off the paper by little and little, ftill rubbing it
a little firft with the tip of the finger ; till at length
there be nothing left on the block but the flrokes of
ink that form the defign, which mark out fo much of
the block as is to be fpared or left Handing. Fi-
gures are fometimes cut out of prints, by taking away
all the white part or blank paper, and cemented with
gum-water to the furface of the wood. The reft they
cut off, and take away very curioufly with the points
of Very {harp knives, or little chifels or gravers, ac¬
cording to the bignefs or delicacy of the work : for
they need no other inffruments.
It differs from engraving in copper, becaufe in the
former the impreflion comes from the prominent parts
or ftrokes left uncut ; whereas in the latter, it comes
from the channels cut in the metal.
1 he manner of printing with wooden prints is much
more expeditious and eafy than that of copper-plate :
.becaufe they require only to be dipt in the printing-
ink, and impreffed on the object in the fame manner
and with the fame apparatus as the letter-printing is
managed : and for purpofes that do not require great
correftnefs, the impreflion is made by the hand only,
a proper handle being fixed to the middle of the print,
by which it is firfi: dipped in the ink, fpread by means
of a brufti on a block of proportionable fize covered
with leather ; and then lifted up inftantly, and dropped
with fome little force on the paper which is to receive
the impreflion.
Moll of our readers are probably not ignorant that
the art of engraving on wood has been revived of late
years, and has been carried to great perfection by
Meffrs Bewick of Newcaftle, and other ingenious
artifts. Of this number we may mention Meffrs Nef-
bit and Anderfon of London. The Natural Hiftory
of Quadrupeds, in one volume 8vo, and the Natural
E Hiltory
Gutts.
CUT [34
Cuttings Hiftory of Britith Birds, in tvvo volumes, puMilhed
11 with engravings cut in wood by Meffrs I ewi ,
excellent fpecimens of the degree of perfeftion at which
this art has arrived. w car
Cuttings, or flips, in GurA-iwy, the branches or
fprigs of trees or plants, cut or flipped off to fet again .
which is done in any moift fine earth.
The beft feafon is from Auguft to April ; but care
is to be taken, when it is done, the fap be not too muc
in the top, left the cut die before that part in the e™
have root enough to fupport it : nor yet muft »t be too
dry or fcanty 5 the fap in the branches afliftmg it to
'^In"providing the cuttings, fuch branches as have
ioints, knots, or burrs, are to be cut oft two or three
inches beneath them, and the leaves to be ftr,PP^
fo far as they are fet in the earth. Small top branche ,
of two or three years growth, are fitteft for this opera-
U°CUTTLE-fish. See Sepia. The bo?e of the
cuttle-filh is hard on one fide, but foft and yiel mg on
^e other j fo as readily to receive pretty neat impref-
flons from medals, &c. and afterwards to ferve as a
mould for calling metals, which thus take the figure
7Z original ; Ac bone U likewife frequently em-
ployed for cleaning or policing filver. rhis filh con-
Lins in a certain diftinct veffel aflu.d as black as ink ;
which it is faid to emit when purfued, ^ thus
conceal itfelf by difcolouring the water. The parti
cular qualities of this liquor are not yet determined.
Dr Leigh fays, he faw a letter which had been written
with htenV-rs before, and which 11,11 conlmued.
Some report that the ancients made their wk. from « ,
and others, that it is the baft, of China or nd'an mk
but both thefe accounts appear to have ll' 'e 0 'r’t
Lon Pliny, fpeaking of the inks made ufe of in ins
time, after obferving that the cnttle-fifli is m thi»
fpcft of a wonderful nature, adds exprefsly, that ii,E
'TuTWriio, a foldier of mofl hardy bravery
in King William’s wars, was fon of Richard Cutis,
Ffn of Matching in Effex ; where the family were
faded about the time of Henry VI. and had a great
Sate He entered early into the ferv.ee ° the
duke of Monmouth, was aid-de-camp to the duke o
duke oi mo ’ d f al;zed himielf in a
Lorrain in rlungary, ^ R,1(4a hv
very extraordinary manner at the taking 7
S lavery i that fiege. Returning to England «
7 Co'nTf'c-owrt iSlmfa’d, Dec 6.’.690 ; ap-
pointed governor of the rfie “f Wight, Apnj 4-^693.
lion proj'S'SLSovered.’in 1695-6, was captain of
king’s guard. In 1698 he was complimented by
rmiht^ycommiffion, inferihed to him his (irftwoik,
The Chriftian Hero.” On the acceffion <>f ^e"
Anne, he was made a lieutenant-general of the -orces
-j C Y A
in Holland •, commander in chief of the forces in Ire- Cutts
land, under the duke of Ormond, March 23. 1704-5 > Cyaxares.
and afterwards one of the lords juftices of that king- ,   
dom, to keep him out of the way of adion •, a emmm-
ftance which broke his heart. He died at Dublin
Ian. 26. 1706-7, and is buried there in the cathedral
of Chrift church. He wrote a poem on the death o
Queen Mary ; and publiftied, in 1687, ‘ ex'
ercifes, written upon feveral occafions and dedicated
to her royal highnefs Mary prmcefs of £
contains, befides the dedication figned J. Cutts, veries
tolhat princefs j a poem on Wifdom •, another to Mr
Waller on his commending it ; feven more copies
verfes (one of them called La Mu/e Cavalier, which had
been aferibed to Lord'Peterborough, and as fuch men¬
tioned by Mr Walpole in the lift of that nobleman s
writings), and 11 fongs ; the whole compofing but a
very thin volume ; which is by no means fo Scarce as
m/Walpole fuppofes it to be. A fpecimen
poetry (of which the five firft lines are quoted by
Steele in his fifth Taller) is here added :
Only tell her that I love,
Leave the reft to her and fate ;
Some kind planet from above
May perhaps her pity move
Lovers on their ftars muft wait;
Only tell her that I love.
Why, oh, why (hould I defpair .
Mercy’s piftur’d in her eye \
If (lie once vouchfafe to hear,
Welcome hope, and welcome fear.
She’s to6 good to let me die j
Why, oh, why fhould I defpair r1
PITVETTE, or Cunette, in Fortification, is a
kind of ditch within a ditch, being a pretty deep
trench, about four fathoms broad, funk, and running
along the middle of the great dty ditch, to hold wa¬
ter ;Serving both to keep off the enemy, and prevent
him’fa^mining.^ m ^ verb f ns
aw), was a common mealure among '>>' Greeks and
Romans, both of the liquid and dry kind. Il ' “
equal to an ounce, °.r ^rLuLch-ladle.
The Roman topers were ufed to
modes o Thpv fav that the cyathus of the
Greeks wefg'hed to drachms ; and Galen fays the fame|
LoUgh eliewhere he fays, that a cyathus contains .2
fhysLthat among^the Veterinarii ,he cyathns contain-
Cd CYAXARES, fon of Phraortes, was king of M«-
diaC7nd P«f.a. He bravely ^/-ded ^kingdom,
which the Scythians had .nvaded. H d ^
at lfe b" VOIld thVnve; Hat- JHe died af-
ter a reign of 40 yea fome to be the fams
Cvaxares f Jfon of Aftyagcs king
SSrHe^d feven provinces to hither.
CYC [35
dominions, and made war againft the Afiyrians, whom
Cyrus favoured.
CYBEBE, a name of Cybele, from becaufe
in the celebration of her feftivals men were driven to
madnefs.
CYBELE, in Pagan mythology, the daughter of
Ctelus and Terra, and wife of Saturn. She is fup-
pofed to be the fame as Ceres, Rhea, Ops, Vefta, Bo¬
na Mater, Magna Mater, Berecynthia, Dindymene,
&c. According to Diodorus, Ihe was the daughter
of a Lydian prince, and as foon as Ihe was born fhe
was expofed on a mountain. She was preferved by
fucking fome of the wild beads of the foreft, and re¬
ceived the name of Cybele from the mountain where
her life had been preferved. When {he returned to
her father’s court, {he had an intrigue with Atys, a
beautiful youth, whom her father mutilated, &c. AH
the mythologifts are unanimous in mentioning the
amours of Atys and Cybele. In Phrygia the feflivals
of Cybele were obferved with the greateft folemnity.
Her priefls, called CorylanteSj Galli, &c. were not ad¬
mitted in the fervice of the goddefs without a previous
mutilation. In the celebration of the feftivals, they
imitated the manners of madmen, and filled the air with
fhneks and bowlings mixed with the confufed noife of
drums, tabrets, bucklers, and fpears. This was in com¬
memoration of the forrow of Cybele for the lofs of
her favourite Atys. Cybele was generally reprefented
as a robuft woman far advanced in her pregnancy, to
intimate the fecundity of the earth. She held keys in
her hand, and her head was crowned with rifing tur¬
rets, and fometimes with the leaves of an oak. She
fometimes appears riding in a chariot drawm by two
tame, lions : Atys follows by her fide, carrying a ball
in his hand, and fupporting himfelf upon a fir-tree
which is facred to the goddefs. Sometimes {he is re¬
prefented with a fceptre in her hand, with her head
covered with a tower. She is alfo fcen with many
breafts, to {how that the earth gives aliments to all li¬
ving creatures; and ftie generally carries two lions un¬
der her arms. From Phrygia the worfhip of Cybele
pa fled into Greece, and was folemnly eftabliftied at
Eleufis under the name of the Eleuftnian myjleries of Ce¬
res. The Romans, by order of the Sibylline books
brought the ftatue of the goddefs from Peflinus into’
Italy 5 and when the {hip which carried it had run on
a {hallow.bank of the Tiber, the virtue and innocence
of Claudia was vindicated in removing it with her
girdle. It is fuppofed that the myfteries of Cybele
were firft known about 257 years before the Trojan
war, or 1580 years before the Auguftan age. The
Romans W'ere particularly fuperftitious in waftiing eve¬
ry year, on the 6th of the kalends of April, the ftirine
of this goddefs in the waters of the river Almon.
There prevailed many obfcenities in the obfervation
o the feftivals ; and the priefts themfelves were the
moft eager to ufe indecent expreflions, and to {how
their unbounded licentioufnefs by the impurity of their
actions.
. CYBELLICUM m armor, a name given by the an¬
cients to a fpecies of marble dug in a mountain of that
name in Phrygia. It was of an extremely bright white
with broad veins of bluiftl black.
CYCAS, in Botany : A genus of plants belonging
to the natural order, Fahnce. See Botany Index.
] CYC
This is a valuable tree to the inhabitants of India, as Cyca?
it not only furnifhes a confiderable part of their conftant II
bread, but alfo fupplies them with a large article of,Cychulet’.
trade. Fhe body contains a farinaceous fubftance, ' m
which they extraft from it and make into bread in
this manner : they faw the body into fmall pieces, and
after beating them in a mortar, pour v/ater upon the
mafs; this is left for fome hours to fettle. When fit,
it is {trained through a cloth, and the finer particle*
of the mealy fubftance running through with the wa¬
ter, the grofs ones are left behind and thrown away.
After the farinaceous part is fufficiently fubfided, the
water is poured oft*, and the meal being properly dried,
is occafionally made into cakes and baked. Thefe
cakes are faid to eat nearly as well as wheaten bread,
and are the fupport of the inhabitants for three or four
months in the year.
The fame meal more finely pulverized, and reduced
into granules, is what is called/^, which is fent in¬
to all parts of Europe, and fold in the {hops as a great
ftrengthener and reftorative.
There is a fort of fago made in the W^eft Indies, and
fent to Europe in the fame manner as that from the
Eaft 5 but the Weft India fago is far inferior in quality
to the other. It is fuppofed to be made from the pith
of the areca oleracea. See Areca.
The brood boom (or bread-tree) of the Hotten¬
tots, a plant difcovered by Profeifor Thunberg, is
defcribed as a new fpecies of this genus, by the name
of cycas Caffra, in the No*oa ASa Reg. Soc. Sclent.
ulf. vol ii. p. 283. Table V. The pith, or medulla,
which abounds in the trunk of this little palm, Mr
Sparrman informs us, is colleded and tied up in drefled
calf or flieep-lkms, and then buried in the earth for
the {pace of feveral weeks, till it becomes fufficiently
mellow and tender to be kneaded up with water into
a pafte, of which they afterwards make fmall loaves or
cakes, and bake them under the allies. Other Hot¬
tentots, not quite fo nice, nor endued with patience
enough to wait this tedious method of preparing it,
are faid to dry and roaft the pith or marrow, and after-
w'ards make a kind of frumenty of it.
CYCEON, from ***<)«,», “ to mixa name given
by the ancient poets and phyficians to a mixture of
meal and water, and fometimes of other ingredients.
Thefe conftituted the two kinds of cyceon ; the coarfer
being of water and meal alone j the richer and
more delicate compofed of wine, honey, flour, wTater
and cheefe. Homer, in the nth Iliad, talks of cy¬
ceon made with cheefe and the meal of bailey mixed
with wine, but without any mention either of honey
or water j and Ovid, defcribing the draught of cyceon
given by the old woman of Athens to Ceres, mentions
only flour and water. Diofcorides underftood the
word in both thefe fenfes ; but extolled it moft in the
coarfe and Ample.kind : he fays, when prepared with
W'ateralone, it refrigerates and nourilhes greatly.
CYCINNIS, a Grecian dance, fo called from the
name of its inventor, one of the fatyrs belonging to
Bacchus. It confifted of a combination of grave and
gay movements.
CYCLADES insulae ; iflands anciently fo called,
as Pliny informs us, from the cyclus or orb in which
they lie 5 beginning from the promontory Germftum
of Euboea, and lying round the ifland Delos, (Plinv).
E 2 Where -
Cvelamen
II
Cycloid.
CYC [36
Where they are, and what their number, is not fo
generally agreed. Strabo fays, they were at firft
reckoned 12, but that many others were added : yet
moft of them lie to the fouth of Delos, and but. few to
the north ; fo that the middle or centre, afcribed to
Delos, is to be taken in a loofe, not a geometrical,
fenfe. Strabo recites them after Artemidorus, as fol¬
lows : Helena, Ceos, Cynthus, Seriphus, Melus, Si-
phus, Cimolus, Prepefinthus, Olearus, Naxus, Parus,
Syrus, Myconus, Terms, Andrus, Gyarus; but he
excludes from the number Prepefinthus, Olearus, and
Gyarus.
CYCLAMEN, sowbread : A genus ot plants,
belonging to the pentandria clafs •, and in the natural
method ranking under the 2lft order, Preoix. See
Botany Index. . .
CYCLE, in Chronology, a certain period or ienes
of numbers, which regularly proceed from the firft to
the laft, and then return again to the firft, and fo cir¬
culate perpetually. See Chronology, N 26.
Cycle of IndiBion, is a leries of 15 years, return-
ina conftantly around, like the other cycles, and com¬
menced from the third year before Chrift ; whence it
happens, that if 3 be added to any given year of Chrift,
and the fum be divided by 15, what remains is the year
of the indi&ion. .
Cycle of IndtHion, a period of 15 years, in ule a-
mong the Romans. It has no conneftion with the
celeftial motion, but was inftituted, according to Ba-
ronius, by Conftantine who. having reduced the time
which the Romans were obliged to ferve to 15 years,
he was confequently obliged every 15 years to impole,
or indicere according to the Latin expreflion, an extra¬
ordinary tax for the payment of thole who were dii-
charged •, and hence arofe this cycle, which, irom the
Latin wmrd indicere, was ftyled indithon.
Cycle of the Moon, called alfo the golden number,
and the Metonic cycle, from its inventor Melon the
Athenian, is a period of 19 years, which when they
are completed, the new moons and full moons return
on the fame days of the month, fo that on whatever
days the new and full moons fall this year, 19 years
hence they will happen on the very fame days of the
month, though not at the. fame hour, as Melon and
the fathers of the primitive church thought and
therefore, at the time of the council of Nice when'
the method of finding the time for obferving the teaft
of Eafter was eftabliftied, the numbers of the lunar cycle
were inferted in the kalendar, which, upon the ac¬
count of their excellent ufe, were fet in golden letters,
and the year of the cycle called the golden number of
that year.
Cycle of the Sun, a revolution of 28 years, which
being elapfed, the dominical or Sunday letters return
to their former place, and proceed in the fame order
as before, according to the Julian kalendar.
CYCLISUS, in Surgery, an inftrument in. the form
of a half moon, ufed in fcraping tne fkull, in Cafe of
fra&ures on that part.
CYCLOID, a curve on which the doctrine ot pen¬
dulums, and time-meafuring inftruments, in a great
meafure depends. Mr Huygens demonftrated, that Lorn
whatever point or height, a heavy body, ofcillatin.g on
a fixed centre, begins to defcend, while it continues
to move in a cycloid, the time of its falls or ofcillations
] C Y D
will be equal to each other. It is likewife demonftra-
ble. that it is the curve of quickeft defcent, i. e. a
body falling in it, from any given point above, to ano¬
ther not exactly under it, will come to this point in a *
lefs time than in any other curve palling through thofe
two points. This curve is thus generated : fuppofe a
wheel or circle to roll along a ftraight line till it has
completed juft one revolution j a nail or point in that
part of the circumterence of the circle, which at the
beginning of the motion touches the ftraight line, will,
at the end of the revolution, have defcribed a cycloid
on a vertical plane.
CYCLOPiLDIA, or Encyclopedia, denotes
the circle or compafs of arts and fciences. A cyclo¬
pedia, fay the authors of the French Encyclopedic,
ought to explain as much as poflible the order and
connexion of human knowledge. See Lncyclope-
Cyclo-
psedia
Cyder.
CYCLOPS, in Fabulous Hi/lory, the fons of Nep¬
tune and Amphitrite the principal of whom were
Brontes, Steropes, and Peracmon j but their whole
number amounted to above an hundred. Jupiter threw
them into Tartarus as foon as they were born j but
they were delivered at the interceflion of Tellus, and
became the aftiftants of Vulcan. T hey were of pro¬
digious ftature, and had each only one eye, which
was placed in the middle of their foreheads.
Some mythologifts fay, that the Cyclops fignify the
vapours railed in the air, which occafion thunder and
lightning : on which account they are reprefented as
forging the thunderbolts of Jupiter. Others repre-
fent them as the fir ft inhabitants of Sicily, who were
cruel, of a gigantic form, and dwelt round Moriht
iEtna.
CYCLOPTERUS, the sucker, a genus of fifties
belonging to the order of amphibia nantes. See Ich¬
thyology Index.
CYDER, or Cider, an excellent drink made of
the juice of apples, eipecially of the more curious table
kinds} the juice of thefe being efteemed more cordial
and pleafant than that of the wild or harfh kinds. . In
making this drink, it hath long been tnought neceftaiy,
in every part of England, to lay the harder cyder-
fruits in heaps for fome time before breaking their
pulps ; but the Devonftiire people have much impro¬
ved this prafhce. In other countries, the method is to
make thefe heaps of apples in a houfe, or unaer .ome
covering inclofed on every fide. Pnis method hath
been found defeftive, becaufe, by. excluding the free
air, the heat foon became too violent, and a great
perfpiration enfued, by which in a fhort time, the
lofs of juice was fo great, as to reduce the fruit to
half their former weight, attended with a general rot-
tennefs, rancid fmell, and difagreeable tafte. In the
South-hams, a middle way has been purfued, to avoid
the inconveniences and lofs attending the above. They
make their heaps of apples in an open part of an or¬
chard, where, by the means of a free air and lefs per¬
fpiration, the defired maturity is brought about, with
an inconfiderable wafte of the juices and decay of the
fruit entirely free of ranknefs j and though l@me ap¬
ples rot even in this manner, they are very few, and
are ftill fit for ufe ; all continue plump and full of
juices, and very much heighten the colour of cydeis,
without ill tafte or fmell.
C Y ,D . . f 37 ]
Cyder. In purfuing the Devonfhire method it is to be ob- bafon is compofed
 ferved, I. That all the promifcuous kinds of apples
that have dropped from the trees, from time to time,
are to be gathered up and laid in a heap by them-
felves, and to be made into cyder after having lo lain
about ten days. 2. Such apples as are gathered from
the trees, having already acquired fome degree of ma¬
turity, are likewife to be laid in a heap by themfelves
for about a fortnight. 3. The later hard fruits, which
are to be left on the trees till the approach of froft is
apprehended, are to be laid in a feparate heap, where
they are to remain a month or fix weeks, by which,
notwithftanding froft, rain, &c. their juices will re¬
ceive fuch a maturation, as will prepare them for a
kindly fermentation, and which they could not have
attained on the trees by means of the coldnefs of the
feafon.
It is obfervable, that the riper and mellower the
fruits are at the time of colle&ing them into heaps,
the ftrorter fhould be their continuance there •, and on
the contrary, the harfher, immaturer, and harder they
are, the longer they flrould reft.
Thefe heaps fhould be made in an even and open
part of an orchard, without any regard to covering
from rain, dews, or what elfe may happen during the
apples Haying there 5 and whether they be carried in
and broke in wet or dry weather, the thing is all the
fame. If it may be objefled, that during their having
lain together in the heap, they may have imbibed great
humidity, as well from the air as from the ground,
rain, dews, &c. w'hich are mixed with their juices j
the anfwer is, this will have no other effedl: than a
kindly diluting, natural to the fruit, by which means
a fpeedier fermentation enfues, and all heterogeneous
humid particles are thrown off.
The apples are then ground, and the pummice is
received in a large open-mouthed veffel, capable of
containing as much thereof as is fufficient for one ma¬
king, or one cheefe. Though it has been a cuftom to
let the pummice remain fome hours in the veffel, appro¬
priated to contain it, yet this praflice is by no means
commendable j for if the fruits did not come ripe from
the trees, or otherwise matured, the pummice remain¬
ing in the vat too long, wilTacquire fuch harlhnefs and
coarfenefs from the fkins as is never to be got rid of j
and if the pummice is of well ripened fruit, the con¬
tinuing too long there will occafion it to contra# a
ftrarpnefs that very often is followed with want of fpi-
rit and pricking : nay, fometimes it even becomes vi¬
negar, or always continues of a wheyifh colour ; all
which proceeds from the heat of fermentation that it
almoft inftantly falls into on lying together ■, the pum¬
mice therefore flrould remain no longer in the vat
than until there may be enough broke for one prefling,
or that all be made into cheefe, and preffed the fame
day it is broken. See farther on this fubje# Agri¬
culture Index.
In Plate CLXVIII. is a perfpe#ive view of the cy¬
der prefs and apple-mill. A, B, the bottom or lower
beam ; C, D, the upper beam; 5, 6, 7, 8, the up¬
rights ; 4, 4, e, e, fpurs; Z, 2, 12, braces, or crofs-
pieces; #, b, capitals; X, blocks; g, the ferew; E, the
back or receiver ; F, the cheefe or cake of pummice,
placed on the ftage or bafon ; G, the ftage or bafon ;
TOf 1 Of beams that fupport the pieces of which the
Cyrionia.
C Y D
11, perpendicular pieces for fup- Cyder-fpi-
porting thefe beams; H, the buckler; R, S, a cir- r|1|t
cular trough of the apple-mill; T, L, V, compart¬
ments or divifions, for different forts of apples; M,
the mill ftone ; L, M, axis of the mill-ftone ; N,
the fpring-tree bar.
CrDEK-Spirity a fpirituous liquor drawn from cyder
by diftillation, in the fame manner as brandy from
wine. The particular flavour of this fpirit is not the
moft agreeable, but it may with care be divefted
wholly of it, and rendered a perfedftly pure and infipid
fpirit upon rectification. The traders in fpirituous li¬
quors are well enough acquainted with the value of
filch a fpirit as this: they can give it the flavours of
fome other kinds, and fell it under their names, or
mix it in large proportion with the foreign brandy,
rum, and arrack, in the fale, w'ithout any danger of a
difeovery of the cheat.
CrDER-lVine. See Agriculture Index.
CYDERKIN. See Agriculture Index,
CYDIAS, a painter who made a painting of the
Argonauts in the iith Olympiad. This celebrated
piece was brought by the orator Hortenfius for 164
talents.
CYDNUS, in Ancient Geography, a river of Cili¬
cia ; rifing in Mount Taurus, to the north of Tarfus,
through whofe middle it ran, in a very clear and cold
ftream, which had almoft proved fatal to Alexander
on bathing in it; falling into the fea at a place called
Rhegma, a breach, the fea breaking in there, and af¬
fording the people of Tarfus a ftation or port for
their ftiips. The water of the Cydnus is commended
by Strabo, as of fervice in. nervous diforders and the
gout.
CYDONIA, in Ancient Geography, one of the
three moft illuftrious cities of Crete, fituated in the
north-weft of the ifland, with a locked port, or walled
round. The circumftances of the founding of Cydon
are uncertain. Stephen of Byzantium fays, that it was
at firft named Anollonia from Cydon the fon of Apol¬
lo. Paufanias aferibes the founding of it to Cydon
the fon of Tegetus, who travelled into Crete. Hero¬
dotus affirms, that it was founded by the Samians, and
that its temples were ereCled by them. Alexander,,
in the firft book of the Cretans, informs us, that it
received its name from Cydon the Ion of Mercury.
Cydon was the largeft city in the ifland; and was
enabled to hold the balance between her contending
neighbours. She fuftained fome famous fieges. Pha-
leucusj general of the Phocians, making an expedi¬
tion into Crete with a fleet and a numerous army, in¬
verted Canea both by fea and land ; but loft his army
and his life before its walls. In fucceeding times,
when Metellus fubdued the ifland, he affailed Cydon
with all his forces; and after combating an obftinate
refiftance, fubje#ed it to the power of Rome. Cydon
occupied the prefent fituation of Canea ; only extend¬
ing half a league farther towards St Odero ; where
on the fea-fhore the remains are ftill to be feen of fome
ancient walls which appear to have been of a very fo~
lid conftruftion. See Canea.
CYDONIA, the quince; fo called from Cydon,
a town of Crete, famous for its abounding with this
fruit. Linnaeus has joined this genus to the apple and
pear; but as there is fuch a remarkable difference be-
l tween
2
C Y M [
tween the fruits, Mr Miller, treats the quince as a
genus by itfelf. The fpecies are, I. The oblonga, with
an oblong fruit, lengthened at the bafe. 2. The mali-
forma, with oval leaves, woolly on their upper fide,
with fome other varieties. The Portugal quince is
the moft valuable; its pulp turns to a fine purple when
ftewed or baked, and becomes much fofter and lefs
auftere than the others ; fo is much fitter for making
marmalade. The trees are all eafily propagated, ei¬
ther by layers, fuckers, or cuttings; which muft be
planted in a moift foil. Thofe railed from fuckers are
feldom fo well rooted as thofe which are obtained from
cuttings or layers, and are fubjeft to produce fuckers
again in greater plenty ; which is not fo proper for
fruit-bearing trees. Thefe trees require very little
pruning : the chief thing to be obferved is, to keep
their ftems clear from fuckers, and cut off fuch branches
as crofs each other: likewife all upright luxuriant
flioots from the middle of the tree Ihould be taken off,
that the head may not be too much crowded with wmod,
which is of ill confequence to all fruit-trees. Thefe
forts may alfo be propagated by budding or grafting
upon (locks raifed by cuttings ; fo that the bed forts
may be cultivated this w^ay in greater plenty than by
any other method. Thefe are alfo in great elleem to
bud or graft pears upon; which for fummer or autumn
fruits are a great improvement to them, efpecially
thofe defigned for walls and efpaliers; for the trees
upon thefe ftocks do not fhoot fo vigoroufly as thole
upon free-ftocks, and therefore may be kept in_ lefs
compafs, and fooner produce fruit: but hard winter
fruits do not fucceed fo well upon thele (locks, their
fruit being fubjeft to crack, and are commonly llony,
efpecially all the breaking pears: therefore thefe Hocks
are only fit for melting pears and and a moift foil.
CYGNUS, the swan. See Anas, Ornithology
Index. .
Cygnus, the S’joan, in AJlronomy, a confledation
of the northern hemifphere, between Lyra and Cepheus.
The liars in the conllellation Cygnus, in Ptolemy’s ca¬
talogue, are 19 > *n lycho’s 18 ; in Ilevelius s 47 •
in the Britannic catalogue 81.
CYLINDER, in Geometry, a folid body fuppofed
to be generated by the rotation of a parallelogram.
Rolling or Loaded Ctlinder, a cylinder which rolls
up an inclined plane ; the phenomena of which are
explained under Mechanics.
CYLINDROID, in Geometry, a folid body ap¬
proaching to the figure of a cylinder, but differing from
it in fome refpefls, as having the bafes elliptical, but
parallel and equal.
CYLINDRUS, in Natural Hijlory; the name ol a
genus of Ihell-fiih, of which there are many elegant and
precious fpecies.
CYMA, in Botany ; the tender llalks which herbs
fend forth ’in the beginning of the fpring, particularly
thofe of the cabbage kind.
Cyma, or Cymatium, in ArchiteEiure, a member
or moulding of the corniche, the profile of which is
waved, that is, concave at top, and convex at bottom.
CYMBAL, a nrufical inllrument in ufe
among the ancients. The cymbal was made of brals,
like our kettle-drums, and, as fome think, in their form,
but fraaller, and of different ufe. Ovid gives cymbals
3e ] C Y 'N
the epithet ol genialia, becaufe they were ufed at wed- Cymbal
dings and other diverfions. Cyrsegirus,
Caffiodorus and Ifidore call this inftrument acetabu- > ^,
lum, the name of a cup or cavity of a bone wherein ano
ther is articulated ; and Xenophon compares it to a
horle’s hoof; whence it mull have been hollow ; which
appears, too, from the figure of feveral otherthings de¬
nominated from it; as a bafin, caldron, goblet, calk,
and even a Ihoe, fuch as thofe of Empedocles, which
were of brafs.
In reality, the ancient cymbals appear to have been
very different from our kettle-drums, and their ufe of
another kind: to their exterior cavity was fallened a
handle; whence Pliny compares them to the upper part
of the thigh, and Rabanus to phials.
They were (truck againft one another in cadence,
and made a very acute found. Their invention was
attributed to Cybele ; whence their ufe in fealts and
facrifices: fetting afide this occafion, they were feldom
ufed but by diffolute and’effeminate people. M. Lampe,
who has written exprefsly on the fubjeft, attributes
the invention to the Curetes, or inhabitants of Mount
Ida in Crete ; it is certain thefe, as well as the Cory-
bantes or guards of the kings ot Crete, and thole of
Rhodes and Samothracia, were reputed to excel in the
mufic of the cymbal.
The Jews had their cymbals, or at lead indruments
which tranllators render cymbals; but as tc their mat¬
ter and form, critics are dill in the dark. I he mo¬
dern cymbal is a mean indrument, chiefly in u'.e among
vagrants, gyplies, &c. It confids of deel wire, in a
triangular form, whereon are paffed five rings, which
are touched and diifted along the triangle with an iron
rod held in the left hand, while it is fupported in the
right by a ring, to give it the freer motion. Duran-
dus fays, that the monks uted the word cymbal for the
cloider-bell, ufed to call them to the refeftory.
CYME, in Ancient Geography, a city built by Pe-
lops on his return from Greece. Cyme the Amazon
gave it name, on expelling the inhabitants, according
to Mela. Latin authors, as Nepos, Livy, Mela, Pliny,
Tacitus, retain the appellation Cyme, after the Greek
manner. It dood in iEolia, between Myrina and
Phocaea (Ptolemy) ; and long after, in Peutinger’s
map, is fet down nine miles didant from Myrina.——
From this place was the Sibylla Cumaea, called Ery~
thrcea, from Erythrt, “ a neighbouring place.” It was
the country of Ephorus. Hefiod was a Cumean ori¬
ginally (Stephanus) ; his father coming to fettle at Ki-
cra in Boeotia. .
CYMENE, in Botany, a name given by the ancient
Greeks to a plant with which they ufed to dye woollen
duffs yellow, and with which the women of thofe
times ufed alfo to tinge the hair yellow, which was
then the favourite colour. 1 he cymene or the Greeks
is evidently the fame plant with the lulea herba ot the
Latins : or what is now called dyers weed. See Re-
seda, Botany Index. _ , .
CYNiEGIRUS, an Athenian, celebrated lor his
extraordinary courage. Pie was brother to the poet
JEfchylus. After the battle of Marathon he puriued
the flying Perfians to their fhips, and feized one of
their veffels with his right hand, which was imme¬
diately fevered by the enemy. Upon this he feized
I
C Y N [ 39 ] C Y N
Cynanche the veffel with his left hand, and when he had loft that
I! alfo, he ftill kept his hold with his teeth.
ty|lic^ CYNANCHE, in Medicine^ a difeafe, in which the
throat is inflamed and fwelled to fuch a degree as fome-
times to threaten fuffocation. See Medicine Index.
CYNANCHUM, BASTARD DOGSBANE : A genUS
of plants, belonging to the pentandria clafs; and in
the natural method ranking under the 30th order Con¬
tort*. See Botany Index.
CYNARA, the artichoke: A genus of plants
belonging to the fyngenelia clafs. See Botany Index.
The varieties of the artichoke are propagated by
flips or fuckers, arifing annually from the ftool or root
of the old plants in fpring, which are to be taken
from good plants of any prefent plantation in March
or the beginning of April, and planted in the open
quarter of the kitchen garden, in rows five feet afunder:
and they will produce artichokes the fame year in
autumn. It Ihould, however, be remarked, that
though artichokes are of many years duration, the an-
nual produce of their fruit will gradually leflen in the
fize of the eatable parts after the third or fourth year,
fo that a frefh plantation fhould be made every three or
four years. The cardoon is a very hardy plant, and
profpers in the open quarters of the kitchen-garden.
It is propagated by feed fowm annually in the full
ground in March : either in a bed for tranfplantation,
or in the place where they are defigned to remain.
The plants are very large, fo murt ftand at confiderable
diftances from one another. By this means you may
have fome fmall temporary crops between the rows, as
of lettuce, fpinach, endive, cabbage, favoy, or bro-
coli plants. In the latter end of September, or in Oc¬
tober, the cardoons will be growm very large, and their
footftalks have acquired a thick fubftance ; you muft
then tie up the leaves of each plant, to admit of earthing
them clofely all round for blanching, which will take
up lix or eight wrecks; and thus the plants will come
in for ufe in November and December, and continue
all winter.
CYN/EUS, of Theffaly, the fcholar of Demofthenes,
flouriihed 275 years before Chrift. Pyrrhus had fo
high an efteem for him, that he fent him to Rome to
folicit a peace ; and fo vaft was his memory, that the
day after his arrival he faluted all the fenators and
knights by name. Pyrrhus and he wrote a Treatife of
War, quoted by Tully.
CYNICS, a fe£l: of ancient philofophers, who va¬
lued themlelves upon their contempt of riches and
rtate, arts and fciences, and every thing, in ftiort, ex¬
cept virtue or morality.
The Cynic philofophers owe their origin and infti-
tution to Antifthenes of Athens, a difciple of Socrates •,
who being alked of what ufe his philofophy had been
to him, replied, “ It enables me to live with myfelf.”
Diogenes wras the moft famous of his difciples, in
whofe life the fyftem of this philofophy appears in
its greateft perfeflion. He led a moft wretched life, a
tub having fcrved him for a lodging, w-hich he rolled
before him wherever he went. Yet he was neverthe-
lels not the more humble on account of his ragged
cloak, bag, and tub ; for one day entering Plato’s
houfe, at a time when there was a fplendid entertain-
raent there for feveral perfons of diftinftion, he jump¬
ed upon a very rich couch in all his dirt, faying,
“ I trample on the pride of Plato.” “ Yes (replied
Plato), out with great pride, Diogenes.” He had the
utmoft contempt for all the human race ; for he walked
the ftreets of Athens at noon-day with a lighted lan-
thorn in his hand, telling the people, “ He was in
fearch of a man.” Among many excellent maxims
of morality, he held fome very pernicious opinions :
for he ufed to fay, that the uninterrupted good fortune
of Harpalus, who generally palled for a thief and a
robber, was a teftimony againft the gods. He re¬
garded chaftity and modefty as weaknefies. Hence
Laertius obferves of him, that he did every thing open¬
ly, whether it belonged to Ceres or Venus 5 though he
adds, that Diogenes only ran to an excels of impu¬
dence to put others out of conceit with it. But impu¬
dence was the charadleriftic of thefe philofophers ; who
argued, that what was right to be done, might be done
at all times, and in all places. The chief principle of
this fe£t in common with - the Stoics, w^as, that we
Ihould follow nature. But they differed from the Stoics
in their explanation of that maxim ; the Cynics being
of opinion, that a man followed nature that gratified
his natural motions and appetites ; while the Stoics un-
derftood right reafon by the word nature.
CrNic-Spafm, a kind of convulfion, wherein the pa¬
tient imitates the bowlings of dogs.
CYNIPS, a genus of infefts belonging to the hy-
menoptera order. See Entomology Index.
CYNOCEPHALUS, in "/.oology, the trivial name
of a fpecies of Simia. See Mammalia Index.
CYNOGLOSSUM, hound’s tongue; a genus
of plants belonging to the pentandria dais, and in the
natural method ranking under the 41ft order, ylfperifo*
Ha. See Botany Index.
CYNOMETRY, in Botany; a genus of plants
belonging to the decandria clafs, and in the natural
method ranking with thole of which the order is doubt¬
ful. See Botany Index.
CYNOMORIUM, in Botany, a genus of plants be¬
longing to the monoecia clafs, and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 50th order, Amentacece. See
Botany Index.
CYNOPHONTIS, in antiquity, a feftival obferv-
ed in the dog days at Argos, and fo called *7™
i. e. from killing dogs ; bccaufe it was ufual on
this day to kill all the dogs they met with.
CYNOREXY, an immoderate appetite, to the de¬
gree of a difeafe, called alfo fames canina and bulimy.
CYNOSARGES, a place in the fuburbs of Athens,
named from a white or fwift dog, rvho fnatched away
part of the facrifice offering to Hercules. It had a
gymnafium, in which ftrangers or thofe of the half-
blood performed their exerciles ; the cafe of Hercules,
to whom the place wras confecrated. It had alfo a court
of judicature, to try illegitimacy, and to examine whe¬
ther perfons were Athenians of the whole or half blood.
Here Antifthenes fet up a new fefl of philofophers call¬
ed Cynics, either from the place, or from the fnarling
or the impudent difpofition of that feft.
C YNOSCEPHALiTi, in Ancient Geography, a
place in Theffaly near Scotuffa ; where the Romans,
under Q^Flaminius, gained a great vidory over Philip,
fon of Demetrius king of Macedon. Thefe Cynofce-
phalce
Cynic-
fpafm
I!
Gynofce-
phaise.
C Y P
E
Cynoffema phalce are Email tops of feveral equal eminences •, named
il from their refemblance to dogs heads, according to
Cyplionifm. plutarch.
^ ( CYNOSSEMA, the tomb of Hecuba, on the pro¬
montory Maftufia, over againft Sigeum, in the fouth of
the Cherfonefus Thracica •, named either from the figure
of a dog, to which lire was changed, or from her fad
reverfe of fortune (Pliny, Mela).
' CYNOSURA, in AJlronomy, a denomination given
by the Greeks to urfa minor, “ the little bear,” by
which failors fleer their courfe.
of xiivecajic, q. d. the dog’s tail,
tion next our pole, conflfling
whereof are dilpofed like the
riot, and three lengthwife reprefenting the beam 3
whence fome give it the name of the chariot, or
Charles's wain. # .
Cynosura, CynofurcC) or Cy nofur is, in Ancient
Geography, a place in Laconia 3 but whether mari¬
time or inland, uncertain. Here Aifculapius, being
thunderflruck, was buried (Cicero).
Cynosura was alfo the name of the promontory of
Marathon in Attica, oppofite to Euboea.
Cynosura, in Mythology, a nymph of Ida in Crete.
She nurfed Jupiter, who changed her into a ftar which
bears the fame name. It is the fame as the urfa mi¬
nor.
The word is formed
This is the conftella-
of feven {tars 3 four
four wheels of a cha-
CYNOSURUS, in Botany; a genus of plants be¬
longing to the triandria clafs, and in the natural method
ranking under the 4^ order, Graminece. See Botany
j[n dex •
' CYNTHIUS and Cynthia, in Mythology, fur-
names of Apollo and Diana, derived from Cynthia,
the name of a mountain in the middle of the ifland of
Delos. . .
CYNTHUS, in Ancient Geography, a mountain ol
the ifland Delos, fo high as to overfhadow the whole
ifland. On this mountain Latona brought forth Apollo
and Diana : hence the epithet Cynthius (Virgil), and
Cynthia, (Lucan, Statius).
CYNURIA, or Cynurius Ager, in Ancient Geo¬
graphy, a diflria of Laconia, on the confines of Ar-
polis. A territory that proved a perpetual bone ot
contention between the Argives and Spartans (Thu¬
cydides). For the manner of deciding the difpute, fee
Thyrea.
CYPERUS, in Botany, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the triandria clafs, and in the natural method
tanking under the 3d order, Calamaria. See Botany
Index.
CYPHON, in antiquity, a kind of punifhment ufed
by the Athenians. It was a collar made of wood 3 Ip
called becaufe it conflrained the criminal who had this
punifhment inflifled on him to bow down his head..
CYPHONISM, (Cyphonifmus,) from x-vpav, which
has various fignifications 3 derived from kvQos, crooked;
a kind of torture or punifhment in ufe among the an-
CieThe learned are at a lofs to determine what it was.
Some will have it to be that mentioned by St Jerome
in his Life of Paul the Hermit, chap. 2. which con¬
futed in fmearing the body over with honey, and thus
expofing the perfon, with his hands tied, to the warm
fun to invite the flies and other vermin to perfecute
him.
40 1 C Y P
CYPRtEA, or Cowrie, a genus of {hells belong¬
ing to the order of vermes teflacea. See Concho-
logY Index. . —
This genus is called cypnea and venerea from its be¬
ing peculiarly dedicated to Venus, who is faid to have
endowed a fhell of this genus with the powers of a re¬
mora, fo as to impede the courfe of the {hip which was
fent by Periander tyrant of Corinth, with orders to
emafculate the young nobility of Corcyra.
CYPRESS. See Cupressus, Botany Index..
CYPRIANUS, Thascius-C/ecilius, a principal
father of the Chriftian church, wTas born at Carthage
in Africa, at the latter end of the fecond or beginning
of the third century. We know nothing more of his
parents than that they were Heathens 3 and he himfelf
continued fuch till the lafl 12 years of his life. He
applied himfelf early to the fludy of oratory 3 and,
fome of the ancients, particularly La£lantius, inform
us, that he taught rhetoric in Carthage with the high-
eft applaufe. Cyprian’s converfion is fixed by Pear-
fon to the year 246 3 and was at Carthage, where, as
St Jerome obferves, he had often employed his rhe¬
toric in the defence of paganifm. It was brought
about by one Caecilius, a prieft of the church of Car¬
thage, whofe name Cyprian afterwards took 3 and
between whom there ever after fubfifted fo clofe a
frendfhip, that Ciecilius at his death committed to Cy¬
prian the care of his family. Cyprian was alfo a
married man himfelf 3 but as foon as he was convert¬
ed to the faith, he refolved upon ftate of continence,
which was thought a high degree of piety, as not be¬
ing yet become general. Being now a Chriftian, he
was to give the ufual proof of the fincerity of his cors-
verfion 3 and that was by writing againft Paganifm
and in defence of Chriftianity. With this view he
compofed his^piece De Gratia Dei, or concerning
the errace of God,” which he addreffed to Donatus,
It is^a work of the fame nature with the Apologetic
of Tertullian, and the Oftavius of Minutius Felix. He
Cypraea
j!
Cyprianus.
next compofed a piece De Idolorum Vamtate, or ‘ up¬
on the vanity of idols.” Cyprian’s behaviour, both
before and after his baptifm, was fo highly pleafing
to the bifhop of Carthage, that he ordained him a
prieft a few months after. It was rather irregular to
ordain a man thus in his very noviciate 3 but Cyprian
was fo extraordinary a perfon, and thought capable
of doing fuch Angular fervice to the church, that it
feemed allowable in this cafe to difpenfe a little with
the form and difeipline of it. lor befides his knowft
talents as a fecular man, he had acquired a high re¬
putation of fanftity flnce his converfion 3 having not
only feparated himfelf from his wife, as we have ob-
ferved before, which in thole days was thought an ex¬
traordinary a£l of piety, but alfo configned over all
his goods to the poor, and given himfelf up entirely
to the things of God. It was on this account no doubt,
too, that when the bifhop of Carthage died the year
after, that is, in the year 248, none was judged io
proper to fucceed him as Cyprian. The quiet and re- .
pofe which the Chriftians had enjoyed during the laft
40 years, had, it feems, greatly corrupted their man¬
ners 3 and therefore Cyprian’s firft care, after his ad¬
vancement to the bifhopric, was to correct diforders
and reform abufes. Luxury was prevalent among
them) and many of their women were not fo ftri<3
C Y P [ /
€yprinus as they fliould be, efpecially in the article of drefs.
This occafioned him to draw up his piece De habitu
. '-'i^ llv virginum, or “ concerning the drefs of young wo¬
men in which, befides what he fays on that parti¬
cular head, he inculcates many leflbns of modefty and
fobriety. In the year 249, the emperor Decius be¬
gan to iflfue out very fevere ediils againft the Chri-
ftians, which particularly affetfled thole upon the coait
of Africa ; and in the beginning of 250, the Heathens,
in the circus and amphitheatre of Carthage, infilled
loudly upon Cyprian’s being thrown to the lions : a
common method of deltroying the primitive Chrilti-
ans. Cyprian upon this withdrew from the church at
Carthage, and lied into retirement, to avoid the fury
of the perfecutions. He wrote, in the place of his re¬
treat, pious and inftruflive letters to thofe who had
been his hearers ; and a!fo to the hbellatici, a name
by which thole pulillanimous Chriltians were called,
who procured certificates of the Heathen magiftrates,
to fhow that they had complied wfith the emperor’s or¬
ders in facrificing to idols. At his return to Carthage,
he held feveral councils on the repentance of thofe who
had fallen during this perfecution, and other points of
dilcipline ; he oppofed the fchemes of Novatus, and
Novatianus j and contended for the rebaptizing of thofe
who had been baptized by heretics. At lalf he died a
martyr in the perfecution of Valerian and Gallienus, in
258. Cyprian wrote 81 letters, and feveral treatifes.
The bell edition of his works are thofe of Pamelius in
I 568 •, of Rigaltius in 1648 ; and of Oxford in 1682.
His wmrks have all been tranflated into Englilh by Dr
Marfhal.
CYPRINUS, a genus of filhes, belonging to the
order of abdominales. See Ichthyology Index.
CYPRIPEDIUM, the lady’s slipper j a genus
of plants belonging to the gynandria clals, and in the
natural method ranking under the yth order, Orchidea.
See Botany Index.
CYPRUS, an illand fituated in the Levant, or molt
eafterly part of the Mediterranean fea, between 33 and
36 degrees of eaft longitude, and 30 and 34 of north
latitude. In ancient times this illand was known by
the names of Acamis, Ceraftis, Afpalia, Amathus,
Macaria, Cryptos, Colinia, Sphecia, Paphia, Salarninia,
/Erofa, and Cyprus. The etymologies of thefe names
are neither very eafily found, nor are they of much
importance. The name by which it was moil gene¬
rally known is that of Cyprus, faid to be derived from
cypros, the name of a fhrub or tree with which the ifiand
abounds ; fuppofed to be the cyprefs.
Cyprus, according to Eratollhenes, was firft difco-
vered by the Phoenicians, two or three, generations be¬
fore the days of Afterius and Minos, kings of Crete ;
that is, according to Sir Ifaac Newton’s computation,
2006 years before the Chrillian era. It was at that
time fij full of wood that it could not be tilled, and
the Phoenicians firlt cut down that wood for melting
copper, with which the illand abounded j and after-
wa rds, when they began to fail without fear on the
Mediterranean, that is, after the Trojan w-ar, they built
great navies of the wmod produced on this illand. Jo-
fephus, however, informs us, that the defeendants of
Cittim, the fon of Javan, and grandlon of Japhet, were
the original inhabitants of Cyprus. According to his
account, Cittim, leeing his brother Tarlhilh fettled in
Vol. VII. Part I.
1 1 GYP
Cilicia, where he built the city of Tarfus, fettled with Cyp
his followers in this oppofite iflahd j and either he or  
his defendants laid the foundation of the city of Cittim,
which according to Ptolemy, was the mofl ancient in
the illand. As Cyprus was too narrow to contain the
great numbers who attended him, he left here as many
as might feive to people the country, and with the relt
paffed over to Macedon.
The illand of Cyprus w’as divided among feveral
petty kings till the time of Cyrus the Great. lie lub-
dued them all j but left each in pcfTeffion of his king¬
dom, obliging them only to pay him an annual tribute,
and to fend iupplies of men, money, and fhips, when
required. The Cyprian princes lived thus luhjedl to
the Perfians till the reign of Darius Hyftafpes, when
they attempted to (hake off the yoke, but with bad iuc-
cels ; their forces being entirely defeated, and them-
felves again obliged to fubmit. They made another
more fuccefsful attempt about the year before Cbrilt
357 ; but, however, could never totally free them-
leives from their fubjeftion. It is very probable that
they fubmitted to Alexander the Great, though hilto-
rians are filent as to that event. On the death of the
Macedonian conqueror, the dominion of Cyprus was
diiputed by Antigonusand Ptolemy the fon of Lagus.
At laft Antigonus prevailed, and the whole iiland iub-
mitted to him about 304 years before Chrilf. He and
his fon Demetrius kept pofleflion of it for 11 years,
when it was recovered by Ptolemy, and quietly poi-
fefled by him and his defendants till 58 years before
Chrift, when it was moft unjuffly feized by the Ro¬
mans. In the time of Augulfus, it began to be rack¬
ed among the proconlular provinces, and to be govern¬
ed by magilfrates fent thither by the fenate. In the
year 648 it was conquered by the Saracens j but reco¬
vered by the Romans in 9<;7. They held it, however,
but for a very iliort time, and the barbarians kept pof-
ieffion of it till the time of the croifades. It was then
reduced by the croifaders; and Richard I. of England
gave it to the princes of the Lufignan family, who
held it till the year 1570. They divided it in;o 12
provinces, in each of which was a capital city from
which the province w^as denominated. So confider-
able was the ifland at this time, that befides the cities
above-mentioned, an^d others of lefs note, it contained
800 villages. In 1570 it wms taken by the Turks, and
though it hath ever fince continued under their tyran¬
nical yoke, is ftill fo confiderable as to be governed by
a beglerbeg, and feven fangiacs under him.
The air in this ifland is for the moll part very un-
wholefeme, on account of the many fens and marfhes
W'ith which the country abounds. The loil is an ex¬
cellent fertile clay j and would produce all the necef-
faries of life in abundance, if properly cultivated.
There are but few fprings or rivers in this illand ; fo
that when the rains do not fall plentifully at the uiual
feafons, the inhabitants are much dillreffed by the
fcarcity of water. By reafon of the uncultivated date
of the country» they are alfo greatly in felled with poi-
fonous reptiles of various kinds. The people are ex¬
tremely ignorant and lafeivious, as indeed they are re-
maiked to have been from the remotef! antiquity. An¬
ciently the worlhip of Venus was eftabliflied in this
ifland, whence her title among the poets of the Cyprian
queen ; and fuch an inclination had the inhabitants to
F become
C Y R [42
Cyrano become the votaries of this goddefs, both in theory and
" |{ practice, that the young women ufed to proditute
Cyrenaica t]ienifeives in l-,er temple in order to raife themfelves
' portions. Nor are their fucceffors-foid to be much bet¬
ter at this day. The exports of the ifland are filks,
oil, cotton, wine, fait, and turpentine : the imports
are French and Venetian broad cloths j and fometimes
a few bales of Englilh manufa&ure, cutlery wares, fu-
gar, tin, lead, &c.
Knights of Cyprus, an order inftituted by Guy de
Lufignan, titular king of Jerufalem, to whom Richard I.
of England, after conquering this ifland, made over
his right.
CYRANO, Bergerac, a French author, born in
Gafcony, about the year 1620. He firft entered into
the army, where his natural courage engaged him fre¬
quently in duels in the quality of a lecond ; which,
with other rafli aftions, procured him the title of the
Intrepid. But the little profpeft he faw of prefer¬
ment made him renounce the trade of w7ar for the
exercife of wit. His comic hiftories of the dates and
empires in the fun and moon, ftiow him well acquaint¬
ed with the Cartefian philofophy, and to have a lively
imagination. Our Lord Orrery clafies nim with Swilt
for his turn of humour, which he fays the latter adopt¬
ed and purfued.
CYRENAICA, an ancient kingdom of Africa, cor-
refponding to the prefent kingdom and defert of Baica
and Tripoli. It was originally inhabited by a number
of barbarous nations, differing little from great gangs
of robbers. Afterwards fome colonies from Greece let-
tied here, and Cyrenaica became lo powerful a ftate,
that it waged war with Egypt and Carthage, often
with fuccefs. In the time of Darius Hyftafpes, Arce-
filaus, the reigning prince in Cyrenaica, w as^ driven
from the throne : on w;hich his mother Pheretima ap¬
plied for afliftance to the king of Cyprus.. Her fon af¬
terwards returning to Barca, the chief city of Cyrene,
was there affaflinated, together with his father-in-law.
Pheretima finding herfelf dilappointed by the^king of
Cyprus, applied to Darius Hyftafpes, and by tne aflift-
tince of the Perfians reduced Barca. Here {he beha¬
ved with the utmoft cruelty, caufing all thofe who
had been concerned in her fon’s death to be impaled,
and the breafts of their wives to be cut off and affixed
near them. She is faid to have been afterwards devour¬
ed by worms j which was looked upon as a divine judg¬
ment for her exceflive cruelty. I he priloneis in the
mean time were fent to Darius, who lettled them in a
diftrift of Baftria, from them called Barca. Cyre¬
naica, however, feems to have remained free till the
time of Alexander the Great, who conquered it along
with Egypt. Soon after his death the inhabitants
recovered their liberty 5 but we e in a ftiort time redu¬
ced by Ptolemy king of Egypt. Under thefe kings
it remained till Ptolemy Phyfcon made it over to his
baftard fon Apian, who in the 658th year of Rome left
it by will to the Romans. The lenate permitted all
the cities to be governed by their own laws ; and this
immediately filled the country with tyrants, thofe who
were moft potent in every city or diftria endeavour¬
ing to affume the fovereignty of it. I hus the kingdom
was thrown into great confufion ; but Lucullus in a
good meafure reftoied the public tranquillity on his
coming thither during the firft Mithridatic war. It was
] C Y R
found impoflible, however, totally to fupprefs thefe Cyrenaks
difturbances till the country was reduced to the form C^;L
of a Roman province, w'hich happened about 20 years <  1
after the death of Apian, and 76 before Chrift. Upon
a revolt, the citv of Cyrene was ruined by the Romans ;
but they afterwards rebuilt it. In procefs of time it
fell to the Arabs 5 and then to the Turks, who are the
prefent mailers of it.
CYRENAICS, a fed! of ancient philofophers, jo
called from their founder Ariftippus of Cyrene, a dil-
ciple of Socrates. . _
The great principle of their dodlrine w7as, that the
fupreme good of man in this life is pleafure ; whereby
they not only meant a privation of pain, and a tran¬
quillity of mind, but an aflemblage of ail mental and
fenfual pleafures, particularly the l.aft. _ _ ?
Cicero makes frequent mention of Ariftippus’s
fchool, and fpeaks of it as yielding debauchees. Three
difciples of Ariftippus, after his death, divided the fe£t
into three branches under which divifion it languilh-
ed and funk : the firft called the Hegefiac fchool j the
fecond the Annicenan ; and the third the Iheodoran ;
from the names of their authors.
CYRENE, in Ancient Geography, the capital of
Cvrenaica, and one ol the cities called Pentapohs, di-
ftant from Apollonia, its fea-port, 10 miles, fituated
on a plain, of the form of a table, according to Stra¬
bo : A colony of the Thereans. Though they were
defeendants of the Lacedemonians, yet they differed
from them in their turn of mind or difpofition, apply¬
ing themfelves to philofophy ; and hence arofe the Cy-
renaic feft, at the head of which was Ariftippus, who
placed all happinefs in pleafure. The Cyreneans weie
a people much given to aurigation, or the ufe of the
chariot, from their excellent breed of horles, (Pindar,
Ephorus, Strabo).
CYRIL, St, bilhop of Jerufalem, fucceeded Maxi¬
mus in 350. He w’as afterward depoled lor the crime
of expofing to fale the treafures of the church, and ap¬
plying the money to the fupport of the poor during .a
great famine. Under Julian he was reftored to his
fee, and was firmly eftablilhed in all his old honours
and dignities under Thecdofius ■, in w hich he conti¬
nued unmolefted to his death in 386. The remains
of this father confift only of 23 catechefes, and one
letter to the emperor Conftantius.
Cyril, St, patriarch of Alexandria, fucceeded
Theophilus, his uncle, in 412.. Scarce was he mftal-
led, when he began to exert his authority with great
rigour j he drove the Novatians and Jews from Alex¬
andria, permitting their wealth and fynagogues to be
taken from them. This proceeding highly dilplealed
Oreftes, the governor of the city, who law that il the
bilhop’s authority was not foon fuppreffed, it might
grow too ftrong for that of the magiftrate. Lpon which
a kind of civil war broke out between Oreftes and the
bilhop ; many tumults were raffed, and feme battles
fought in the very ftreets of Alexandria. St Cyril alfo
diflinguilhed himfelf by his zeal againfl Neftorius.bi-
{hop of Conftantinople, who, in lome of his homilies,
had afferted that the Virgin Mary ought not to be cal¬
led the mother of God. The difpute at firft proved
unfavourable to Cyril, whole opinion was not only
condemned, but himielf deprived of his bilhopric and
thrown ipto prifon. But he was foon after releai^
C Y R [ 4.3 1 C Y R
Cyrus. and gained a complete viftory over Neftorius, who in
was depofed from his fee of Conftantinople. Cyril
returned to his fee at Conftantinople, where he died
in 444. St Cyril alfo wrote againft Theodoras of
Mopfuefta, Diodorus of Tarfus, and Julian the apo-
ftate. He compofed commentaries on St John’s gof-
pel, and wrote feveral other books. His works were
published in Greek and Latin in 1638, in fix volumes
folio.
CYRUS, the fon of Cambyfes the Perfian, by Man-
dane the daughter of Aftyages king of the Medes.
The two chief hiftorians, who have written the life of
Cyrus, are Herodotus and Xenophon ; but their ac¬
counts of him are different, in as much as the latter
makes his father a king of Perfia, and the former a
meaner man. The account of Herodotus, as Dr Pri-
deaux obferves, indeed contains narratives that are
much more ftrange and furprifing, and confequently
more diverting and agreeable to the reader : and for
this reafon more have chofen to follow him than Xeno¬
phon.
Herodotus informs us, that Aftyages king of the
Medes dreamed that a vine fprung from the w’omb
of his daughter Mandane, the branches whereof over-
Ihadowed all Afia j whereupon having confulted the
foothfayers, he was told that his dream portended the
future power and greatnefs of a child who fhould be
born of his daughter : and further that the fame child
Ihould deprive him of his kingdom. Aftyages, to pre¬
vent the accompliftiment of this prediftion, inftead of
marrying his daughter to fome powerful prince, eave
her to Cambyfes, a Perfian of mean condition, and one
who had no great capacity for forming any important
defign, nor for fupporting the ambition of his fon, by
his own riches and authority. Nor did Aftvages ftop
here : the apprehenfions he was under left Mandane’s
fon might perhaps find that affiftance in his own cou¬
rage, or fome lucky circumftances which his family
was not able to fupply him with, induced him to take
a refolution of defpatching the child, if there (hould be
any. As foon, therefore, as he underftood bis daugh¬
ter was with child, he^ commanded one of his officers,
whofe name was Harpagus, to deftroy the infant as
loon as it came into the world. Harpagus, fearing
the refentment of Mandane, put the child into the
hands of one who was the king’s ftiepherd, in order to
expofe him. The fhepherd’s wife was fo extremely
touched with the beauty of Cyrus, that file defired her
hufband rather to expofe her own fon, who was born
fome time before, and preferve the young prince. Af¬
ter this manner Cvrus was preferved, and brought up
among the king’s Ihephferds.
One day, as the neighbouring children were at play
together, Cyrus was chofen king ; and having punifti-
ed one of his little play fellows with fome feverity, for
difobeying his commands, the child’s parent complain¬
ed of Cyrus to Aftyages. This prince Cent for young
Cyrus, and obferving fomething great in his air, his
manner and behaviour, together with a great refem-
blance of his daughter Mandane, he made particular
inquiry into the matter, and difcovered that, in reality,
Cyrus was no other than his grandfon. Harpagus,
who was the inftrument of preferving him, was punch¬
ed with the death o'f his own fon : however, Aftyao-es
believing that the royalty which the foothfayers had
promifed to the young prince, was only that which he Cyi
had lately exercifed among the fhepherds children, v
troubled himfelfno more about it. Cyrus being grown
up, Harpagus difclofed the whole fecret of his birth to
him, together with the manner wherein he had deliver¬
ed him from the cruel refolution of his grandfather.
He encouraged him to come into Media, and promifed
to furnifh him with forces, in order to make him ma¬
iler of the country, and depofe Allyages. Cyrus heark¬
ened to thefe propofitions, engaged the Perfians to take
up arms againft the Medes, marched at the head of
them to meet Aftyages, defeated him, and poffeffed
himfelf of Media. He carried on many other w ars j
and at length fat down before Babylon, which after a
long fiege he took.
The relation of Cyrus’s life from Xenophon is as
follows : Aftyages king of Media married his daugh¬
ter Mandane to Cambyfes king of Perfia, fon to Achae-
menes king of the fame nation. Cyrus was born at
his father’s court, and was educated with all the care
his birth required. When he was about the age of
12 years, his grandfather Aftyages fent for him to
Media, together with his mother Mandane. Some
time after, the king of Affyria’s fon having in aded
Media, Aftyages, with his fon Cyaxares and his grand¬
fon Cyrus, marched againft him. Cyrus diftinguilh-
ed himfelf in this war, and defeated the Affyrians.
Cambyfes afterwards recalled him, that he might have
him near his owm perfon j and Aftyages dying, his Ion
Cyaxares, uncle by the mother’s fide to Cyrus, fuc-
ceeded him in the kingdom of Media.
Cyrus, at the age of 30 years, was, by his father
Cambyfes, made general of the Perfian troops; and
fent at the head of 30,000 men to the affiftance of his
uncle Cyaxares, whom the king of Babylon, with his
allies the Cappadocians, Carians, Phrygians, Cilicians,
and Paphlagonians, were preparing to attack. Cyax¬
ares and Cyrus prevented them, by falling upon them
and difperfing them. Cyrus advanced as far as Baby¬
lon, and fpread terror throughout the country. From
this expedition he retired to his uncle, towards the
frontiers of Armenia and Affyria, and w’as received
by Cyaxares in the tent of the Affyrian king svhom he
had defeated.
After this Cyrus carried the w'ar into the countries
beyond the river Halys, entered Cappadocia, and fub-
dued it entirely. From thence he marched againft
Croefus king of Lydia, beat him in the firft battle ;
then befieged him in Sardis his capital ; and after a
fiege of fourteen days obliged him to furrender. See
Croesus. After this, Cyrus having reduced almoft
all Afia, repafled the Euphrates, and made war upon
the Affyrians. He marched direftly to Babylon, took
it, and there prepared a palace for his uncle Cyaxares,
whither he might retire, if at any time he had an in¬
clination to come to Babylon ; for he was not then in
the army. After all thefe expeditions, Cyrus return¬
ed to his father and mother into Perfia, where they
were ftill living : and going fome time after to his
uncle Cyaxares into Media, he married bis coufin the
only daughter and heirefs of all Cyaxares’s dominions,
and went with her to Babylon, from whence he fent
men of the firft rank and quality to govern all the fe¬
veral nations which he had conquered. He engaged
again in feveral wars, and fubdued all the nations
F 2 which
C Y R
Cyrus, wliicli lie between Syria and the Red fen.
—v ' at the age of 70 years, after a reign of 30 : but au¬
thors differ verv much concerning the manner of his
death. Herodotus, Juftin, and Valerius Maximus re¬
late, that he died in the war againft tne Scythians.}
and that falling into an ambuih which Queen lomyris
had laid for him, (he ordered his head to be cut off,
and call into a veffel full of blood, faying, “ Thou
haft always thirrted after human blood, now glut thy-
felf with it.” Diodorus the Silician fays, that he was
taken in an engagement and hanged. Ctelias affures
us, that he died of a wound which he received in his
thigh : but by Xenophon’s account he died peaceably
in his bed, amidft his friends and fervants } and certain
' it is, that in Alexander’s time his monument was
fhown at Pafagarda in Perfia.
From all this it is eafy to conclude, that we are but
impcrfetlly acquainted with the hiftory of this great
prince, the founder of the Perfran, and deftroyer of the
Chaldean, empire. We learn fewer particulars ot it
from Scripture, but then they are more certain than
any that we have produced. Daniel (yin. 3^ 20.)
in the famous vifion wherein God (bowed him the ru n
of feveral great emperors, which were to precede the
birth of the Mefliah, reprefents Cyrus to us under the
idea of “ a ram, which had two horns} and the two
horns were high, but the one was higher than the
other, and the higher came up laft. Phis ram pulhed
weftward, and northward, and fouthward, (o that no
beads might Hand before him } neither was there any
that could deliver out of his hand, but be did ac¬
cording to his will, and became great.’.’ t he ram s
two horns fignify the two empires which Cyrus re¬
united in his petfon } that of the Medes, and that o
the Perfians. The laft was greater and more power¬
ful than the empire of the Medes } or otherwiie, theie
two horns fignify the two branches of Cyrus s iuccel-
fors. His Con Cambyfes dying, the empire was trans¬
ferred to Darius the fon of Hyftafpes, and was conti¬
nued down to Darius Codomannus, who, |s Calmet
✓thinks, is the great horn which the he-go.at, that de¬
notes Alexander, run againft. In chap.yii. 5. Daniel
compares Cyrus to a bear, with three ribs in the mouth
of it, to which it was (aid, “ Arile, devour.much
fpfti.” Cyrus fucceeded his father Cambyies m the
kingdom of Perfia, and Darius the Mede, by Xeno¬
phon called Cyaxares, and Aftyages in the apocryphal
chapter (xiii. 1.) of Daniel, in the kingdom of the
Medes and empire of Babylon. He was monarch ot
all the eaft } or as he fpeaks (2 Chr. xxxvi. 22, 23.
and Ezr. i. X, 2.) “ of all the earth,” when he per¬
mitted the Jews to return to their own country, m
the year of the world 3466, before Jefus Chnft 538.
The enemies of the Hebrews, making ufe ot this
prince’s affedion to his own religion, prevailed with
him to put a flop by his orders to the building of
, the temple at Jerufalem } (Ezra.iv. 5.) 1 he pio-
phets frequently foretold the coming of Cyrus } and
Ifaiah fxliv. 28.) has been fo particular as to declaie
his name 200 years before he was born. Jofepbus
(Antiq. lib. H. c. 2.) fays, that the Jews of Babylon
{bowed this paffage of the prophet to Cyrus } and that
this prince, in the edift which he granted them for
their return, acknowledged that he received the empire
of the world from the God of Ilrael} and that the
[ 44 1 C Y'S . , ..
He died fame God had defcribed him by name in the writings
of the prophets, and foretold that he thould buiid .a
temple to him at Jerufalem. Cyrus is pointed out in
Scripture under the name of the righteous man and
the (hepherd of Ifrael, (Ifaiah xli. 2. 10 xlvi. 11. and
xliv. 28.) Notwithftanding this, God lays ot him
(Ifaiah xlv. 5.) “I girded thee, though thou haft not
known me.” And Jeremiah calls Cyrus and his peo¬
ple who overthrew the Babylonith empire, thieves and
robbers. The taking of Babylon by Cyrus is clearly
fet* down by the prophets, and may be feen under the
articles Bav-ylon and Belshazzar. Archbilhop
Uflier fixes the birth of Cyrus to the year of the world
340c } his firit year at Babylon to 3466, and his
death to 347 C. The eaftern people will have it, that
Cyrus by' his mother’s fide was defcended from lome
of the Hebrew prophets : as alfo that his wife was a
Tew, which is the reafon (fay they) that this prince
fo attached himfelf to the Jews, to whom he was io
nearly allied. r ^ v *
Cyrus II. was the younger fon of Darius Nathus,
And the brother of Artaxerxes. He was lent by . his
father at the age of 16 to affift the Lacedaemonians
againft Athens. Artaxerxes fucceeded to the throne
at the death of Nothus} and Cyrus, who was ot an
afpiring foul, attempted to affaftinate him. He »vas
difcovered, and had been puniftied with death, had not
his mother Paryfatis faved him from the hands of tae
executioner by her tears and entieaties. f J,,s cl^cl'Jn*
fiance did not in the leaft check the ambition of Cy¬
rus } he was appointed over Lydia and the iea-coalts,
where he fecretly fomented rebellion and levied troops
under various pretences. At laft he took the held
with an army of 100,000 barbarians, and 13,000
Greeks under the command of Clearchus. Artaxer¬
xes met him with 900,000 men near Cunaxa. I he
battle was long and bloody } and Cyrus might have
perhaps obtained the victory, had not his uncommon
raftineis proved his ruin. It is faid that the two royal
brothers met in perfon, and their engagement ended
in the death of Cyrus, 401 years bemre the Auguftan
aoe Artaxerxes was fo anxious of its being umver-
ially reported that his brother had fallen by his hand
.lT tn 8path two of his fabled!s for boaitin*
Cy-us.
Gyft.
that he put to death two of his fubjeds for boafting
that they had killed Cyrus. The Greeks, who .were
engaged in the expedition, obtained much glory in the
bank} and after the death of Cyrus they remained
vidorious in the field without a commander. 1 hey
were not difcouraged, though at the d.ftance of above
600 leagues from their country, and furrounded on
every fide by a powerful enemy. They unammoufiy
united in the eledion of commander s, and traverfed all
Afia in fpite of the continual attacks ot the Perfians ,
and nothing is more truly celebrated in ancient hiftory
than the bold retreat of the ten thoufand . Hie jour¬
ney that they made from the place of their firft em¬
barkation till their return, has been calculated at I 1.55
leagues, performed in the fpace of 15 months, including
all'the time which was devoted to take reft and re-
frefhment. This retreat has been celebrated by Xe¬
nophon, who was one of their leaders, and among the
friends and fupporters of Cyrus.
CYST, the bag or tunic including all incyfted tu¬
mors, as the fcirrhus, atheroma, fteatoma, mehceres,
&c- CYSTIC,
t'vftic
II
Czar.
C Z A [ 45 ] C Z E
CYSTIC, in Anatomy, a name given to two arte¬
ries and two veins.
Cystic DuB. See Anatomy Index.
CY THERA, -orum, in Ancient Geography, an ifland
oppofite to Mallea, a promontory, and to Boise, a town
of Laconia ; with a cognominal town, which has an
excellent port called Scandea. The ifland w'as facred
to Venus, with a very ancient temple of that goddtfs
exhibited in armour at Cythera, as in Cyprus : now
Cerigo.
CYTHEREA, in Mythology, the furname of Ve¬
nus, fo called from Cythera an ifland, where Are had
a temple efleemed the moft ancient in Greece, and on
the fhores of which Are was believed to be borne by the
Zephyrs, furrounded by the Loves, the Tritons, and
Nereides, reclining in a languifhing pofture in a fea-
flrell. They give the name of Cytheriades to the
Graces which attended her on the fliore without quit¬
ting her, except on thofe occaflons when Are rather
chofe to be waited upon by the Plealutes.
CYTINUS, a genus of plants belonging to the
gynandria clafs } and in the natural method ranking
under the iith order, Sarmentacece. See Botany
Index.
CYTISUS, tree trefoil, a genus of plants be¬
longing to the diadelphia clafs, and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 3 2d order, Papilionacea. See
Botany Index.
CYZICEN3, Cyzicena, among the ancient Greeks,
were a fort of magnificent banqueting houies, always
looking toward the north, and ufually opening upon
gardens.
They had their name from Cyzicus, a city very con-
fiderable for the grandeur of its buildings ; fituated in
an ifland of Myfia, bearing the fame name.
CYZICUM, or Cyzicus, in Ancient Geography, one
of the nobleft cities of the Hither Alia; fityated in a
cognominal ifland of the Propontis, on the coaft of My-
fla \ joined to the continent by two bridges (Strabo) ;
the firft by Alexander : the city, a colony of the Mi-
lefians (Pliny). Rendered famous by the fiege of Mi-
thridates* which was raifed by Lucullus.—The inhabi¬
tants were made a free people by the Romans, but for¬
feited their freedom under Tiberius. It was adorned
with a citadel and walls round it ; had a port and
marble towers; and three magazines, one for arms,
another for warlike engines, and a third for corn.
Cyzieeni, the people \ noted by the ancients for their
timidity and effeminacy : hence the proverb in Zeno-
dotus and others, Tindlura Cy%enica, applied to perfons
guilty of an indecency through fear ; but Stateres Cy-
%icenii minimi Cyziceni, denote things executed to per¬
fection.
CZACKTHURN, a flrong town of Germany, in
Aufl ria, and near the frontiers of Hungary. It is feat-
ed between the rivers Drave and Muhir, in E. Long.
17. 19. N. Lat. 46. 24.
CZAR, a title of honour, affumed by the grand
dukes, or, as they are now ftyled, emperors of Ruflia.
The natives pronounce it tzar, cr zaar ; and this, by
corruption (it has been fancied), from Cafar, “ em¬
peror,” from fome imagined relation to the Roman
emperors. But this etymology does not feem correCL
When the czar Peter formerly required of the Euro¬
pean courts an acknowledgment of his imperial titles,
and that the appellation of Emperor fhould never be
omitted, there was great difficulty made about it,
efpecially at the court of Vienna ; which occafioned
him to produce the famous letter, written in the Ger¬
man tongue, from Maximilian I. emperor of Germany,
to Vaffili Ivanovitch, confirming a treaty of alliance
offenfive and defenfive againfl: Sigifmond king of Po¬
land. In this difpatch, which is dated Auguft the
4th, 1514, and is ratified with the feal of the golden
bull, Maximilian addreffes Vaffili by calling him Kayftr
and Herrfcher alter RuJJ'en, “ emperor and ruler of all
the Ruffias.” But independently of this document,
there could be no doubt that the foreign courts, in
their intercourie with that of Mofcovv, ftyled the love-
reigns indiferiminately Great Duke, Czar, and Em¬
peror. With refpeCl to England in particular, it is
certain, that in Chancellor’s Account of Ruffia, fo
early as the middle of the 16th century, Ivan Vaffilie-
vitch II. is called Lord and Emperor of all Ruffin ; and
in the Englifh difpatches, from the reign of Elizabeth
to that of Anne, he is generally addreffed under the
fame appellation. When the European powers, how¬
ever, ft vied tire czar Emperor of Mufcovy, they by no
means intended to give him a title fimilar to that
which w!as peculiar to the emperor of Germany ; but
they bellowed upon him that appellation as upon
an Afiatic fovereign, in the fame manner as we
now fay the emperors of China and Japan. When
Peter, therefore, determined to affume the title of em¬
peror, he found no difficulty in proving that it had
been conferred upon his predeceffors by moft of the
European powers ) yet when he was defirous of affix¬
ing to the term the European fenfe, it wras conftdered
as an innovation, and was produfHve of more negocia-
tions than would have been requifite for the termina¬
tion of the moft important ftate affair. At the fame
time it occafioned a curious controverfy among the
learned, concerning the rile and progrefs of the titles
by which the monarchs of this country have been di-
ftinguifhed. From their refearches it appeared, that
the early fovereigns of Ruflia were called great dukes,
and that Vaffili Ivanovitch was probably the firft wffio
ftylcd himfelf tzar, an expreffionwffiich in the Sclavonian
language fignifies king; and that his fucceffors con¬
tinued to bear within their, own dominions. that title
as the moft; honourable appellation, until Peter the
Great firft took that of Povelitel, or emperor. After
many delays and objecVions, the principal courts of
Europe confented, about the year 1722, to addrefs the
fovereign of Ruffia with the title of Emperor ; without
prejudice, neverthelefs, to the other crowned heads of
Europe.
CZASLAU, a town of Bohemia, and capital of a
circle of the fame name. Here is the higheft tower
in all Bohemia ; and near this place the king of Pruffia
gained a viftory over the Auftrians in 1742. It is
feated on the river Crudenka, in E. Long. 15. 33. N.
Lat. 49. 50.
CZENSTOKOW, a town of Poland in the pala¬
tinate of Cracovia, with a fort, in which they keep a
rich treafure, called “ the treafure of the Virgin Mary.”
The pilgrims flock hither fo much for the fake of a
convent near it, that it is called the T^oretta of Poland.
The town is fituated on the river Warte. E. Long.
Tzar
Czenftc-
kenv.
19. 15. N. Lat. 50. 48.
CZERNIC,
D A C [46
Czernic, CZERNIC, a town of Carniola, in Auftria, fitua-
Czernikou.te^ ;n Long. 15. o. N. Lat. 46. 12. It is remark-
able for its lake * for a particular defcription of which
fee the article Circhnitzer.
CZERNIKOU, a confiderable town of Mufcovy,
and capital of a duchy of the fame name, with a caille.
1
D A C
It is feated on the river Dezna, in E. Long. 32. 13. Czongrodt,
N. Lat. 51. 20.
CZONGRODT, a town of upper Hungary, and
capital of a territory of the fame name, at the conflu¬
ence of the rivers Teilfe and Keres. E. Long. 20. 57*
N. Lat. 46. 50.
D.
D
' 11
Dacca.
D
THE fourth letter of the
^ third confonant.
alphabet, and the
Grammarians generally reckon D among the lingual
letters, as fuppofing the tongue to have the princi¬
pal (hare in the pronunciation thereof; though the Ab¬
bot de Dangeau feems to have reafon in making it a
palate letter. The letter D is the fourth in the He¬
brew, Chaldee, Samaritan, Syriac, Greek, and ^Latin
alphabets ; in the five firft of which languages it has
the fame name, though fomewhat differently fpoke,
e. g. in Hebrew', Samaritan, and Chaldee Daleth, in
Syriac Doleth, and in Greek Delta.
The form of our D is the fame with that of the
Latins, as appears from all the ancient medals and in-
fcriptions, and the Latin D is no other than the Greek
A, rounded a little, by making it quicker and at two
ilrokes. The A of the Greeks, again, is borrowed horn
the ancient chara&er of the Hebrew Daleth .- which
form it ftill tetains, as is fhown by the Jefuit Souciet,
in his Differtation on the Samaritan Medals.
D is alfo a numeral letter, fignifying jive hundred,
which arlfes hence, that in the Gothic char-afters, the
D is half the M, which fignifies a thoufand. Hence
the verfe.
Litcra D velut A ttuingenlos Jignijicahit.
A dafli added a-top D, denotes it to hand for jive
thoufand. . . .
Ufed as an abbreviation, it has various fignifications:
thus D (lands for Doftor j as, M. D. for Doftor of
Medicine ; D. T. Doftor of Theology *, D. D. im¬
plies Doftor of Divinity, or “ dono dedit * D. D. L>.
is ufed for “ dat, dicat, dedicat and D. D. D. D.
for “ dignum Deo donum dedit. ’ _
DAB, the Enghfh name of a fpecies of 1 leuro-
nectes. See Ichthyology Index.
DABUL, a town of Afia, in the Eaft Indies, on
the coaft of Malabar, and to the fouth of the gulf of
Cambaye, on a navigable river. It was formerly very
flourifhing, but is now much decayed. It belongs to
the Portuguefe, and its trade confifts principally in
penper and fait. E. Long. 72. 50. N. Lat. 1 7. 30.
DACCA, a town of Afia, in the kingdom or Ben¬
gal in the Eaft Indies, fituatcd in E. Long. 86. 10.
N Lat 24. O—The advantages of the fituation of
this place, and the fertility of the foil round it, have
long fince made it the centre of an extenfive commerce.
The courts of Delhi and Muxadavad are furniftied nom
thence with the cottons wanted for their own con-
I
fumption. They each of them maintain an agent on ^
the fpot to fuperintend the manufafture of them 5 and w
he has an authority, independent of the magiftrate,
over the brokers, weavers, embroiderers, and all the
workmen whofe bufineis has any relation to the object
of his commiflion. Thefe unhappy people are forbid¬
den, under pecuniary and corporeal penalties, to fell, to
any perfon whatever, a piece exceeding the value of
three guineas: nor can they, but by dint of money,
relieve themfelves from this oppreflion.
In this, as in all the other markets, the Europeans
treat with the Moorifti brokers fettled upon the fpot,
and appointed by the government. They likewife lend
their name to the individuals of their own nation, as
well as to Indians and Armenians living in their fettle-
ments, who, without this precaution, would infallibly
be plundered. The Moors themfelves, in their private
tranfaftions, fometimes avail themfelves of t.^e fame
pretence, that they may pay only two, inftead of five
per cent. A diftinftion is obferved, in their contrafts,
between the cottons that are befpoke and thofe which
the weaver ventures, in fome places, to manulafture on
his own account. 1 he length, the number .oi threads,
and the price, of the former are fixed: nothing further
than the commiflion for the latter is ftipulated, becaufe
it is impoflible to enter into the fame detail. Thefe
nations that make a point of having fine goods, take
proper meafures that they may be enabled to advance
money to their workmen at the beginning of the year.
The weavers, who in general have but little employ¬
ment at that time, perform their work with lefs hurry
than in the months of Oftober, November, and De¬
cember, when the demand is prefling.
Some of the cottons are delivered unbleached, and
others half bleached. It w^ere to be wifhed that this
cuftom might be altered. It is very common to lee
cottons that look very beautiiul go eft in the bleach¬
ing. Perhaps the manufafturers and brokers iorewe
how they will turn out j but the Europeans have not
fo exquifite a touch, nor fuch an experienced eye, to
difeern this. It is a circumftance peculiar to India,
that cottons, of what kind foever they are. can never
be well bleached and prepared but in the place wnere
they are manufaftured. If they have the misfortune
to get damage before they are {hipped for Europe,
they muft be fent back to the places from whence they
came.
DACE, a fpecies of Cyprinus. See Ichthyo-
wcy Index. This
Dace.
DAG
Dachaw
. fiHi Is extremely common In our rivers, and
Dacier. Sjves the expert angler great diverfion. The dace will
■—-y—■ ■ ^,te any but he is more than ordinarily fond of
tne ftone caddis, or May fly, which is plentiful in the
latter end of April and the whole month of May.
Great quantities of thefe may be gathered among the
reeds or fedges by the water-fide j and on the hawthorn
bufhes near the waters. Thefe are a large and hand-
fome bait} but as they only laft a fmall part of the year
in feafon, recourfe is to be had to the ant-fly. Of thefe
the black ones found in large mole-hills "or ant-hills
are the beft. Thefe may be kept alive a long time in a
bottle, with a little of the earth of the hill, and fome
roots of grafs j and they are in feafon throughout the
months of June, July, Auguft, and September. The
bed feafon of all is when they fwarm, which is in the
end of July or beginning of Auguft} and they may
be kept many months in a veflel waflied out with a fo-
lution of honey in water, even longer than with the
earth and grafs-roots in the vial; though that is the
mod convenient method with a fmall parcel taken for
one day’s fifliing. In warm weather this fifh very fel-
dom refufes a fly at the top of the water; but at other
times he mud have the bait funk to within three
inches of the bottom. T he winter fifhing for dace
requires a very different bait : this is a whfte ma^aot
with a reddidi head, which is the produce of the eggs
of the beetle, and is turned up with the plough in
great abundance. A parcel of thefe put in any veffel,
with the earth they were taken in, will keep many
months, and are an excellent bait. Small dace may
be put into a glafs jar with frefti w7ater; and there pre-
ferved alive for a long time, if the water is properly
changed. They have been obferved to eat nothing
but the animalcula of the water. They will grow very
tame by degrees.
DACHAW, a town of Bavaria in Germany. It is
pretty large, well built, and feated on a mountain, near
the river Amber, 10 miles N. W. of Munich. Here
the eleftor has a palace and fine gardens. E. Long-
II. 30. N. Lat. 48. 20. 6’
DACIA, in Ancient Geography, a country which
I rajan, who reduced it to a province, joined to Moelia
by an admirable bridge. This country lies extended be¬
tween the Danube and Carpathian mountains, from the
river Tibifcus, quite to the north bend of the Danube ;
io as to extend thence in a dired line to the mouth of
the Danube and to the Euxine ; on the north fide,
next the Carpates, terminated by the river Hierafus’
now the Truth; on the weft by the Tibifcus or Teifs |
compnfing a part of Upper Hungary, all Tranfylvania
and VV allaehia, and a part of Moldavia. Daci, the
people ; a name which Strabo takes to be the fame
with the^ Davi of comedies ; neighbours, on the weft,
to the Getee, an appellation common alfo in come-
dies. Jofephus mentions a fet of religious men among
* ^ Dad, whom he calls Plifti, and compares with the
. em * tbefe Plifti no other author makes any men¬
tion. Dacicus, the epithet affumed by fome empe-
rors, (Juvenal). There was a Dacia Aureliana, a
part ot Ulyncum, which was divided into the eaftern
and weftern ; Sirmium being the capital of the latter,
and Sardica of the former. But this belongs to the
lower age. 0
DACIER, Axdilew, born at Caftres in Upper
[ 47 1
D A C
Languedoc, 1651, had a great genius and Inclination
for learning, and ftudied at Saumur under Tannegui
le Fevre, then engaged in the inftrudion of his daugh¬
ter, who proved afterwards an honour to her lex. This
gave rife to that mutual tendernefs which a marriage
of 40 years could never weaken in them. The duke of
Montaufier hearing of his merit, put him in the lift of
commentators for the ufe of the Dauphin, and enga¬
ged him in an edition of Pompeius Feftus, which he
publilhed in 1681. His edition of Horace, printed at
Paris in ten vols izmo, and his other works, raifed
him a great reputation. He was made a member of
the academy of inferiptions in 1695. When the hif-
tory of Louis XIV. by medals wras finilhed, he was
chofen to prelent it to his majefty; who being inform¬
ed of the pains which he had taken in it, fettled upon
him a penlion of 2000 livres, and appointed him keep¬
er of the books of the king’s clolet in the Louvre.
When that poll was united to that of library-keeper to
the king, he was not only continued in the privilege of
his place during life, but the lurvivance rvas granted to
his wife; a favour of which there had been no inftance
before. But the death of Madame Dacier in 1720, ren¬
dered this grant, which was fo honourable to her, in-
effe&ual. He died September 18. 1722, of an ulcer
in the throat. In his manners, lentiments, and the
whole of his condudt, he ivas a complete model of that
ancient philofophy of which he was fo great an ad¬
mirer, and which be improved by the rules and prin¬
ciples of Chriftianity.
Dacier, Anne, daughter of Tannegui le Fevre,
profeffor of Greek at Saumur in France. She early
Ihowed a fine genius, which her father cultivated with
great care and fatisfa&ion. After her father’s death
Ihe went to Paris, whither her fame had already reach¬
ed ; Ihe was then preparing an edition of Callimachus,
which flie publifhed in 1674. Having ftiown fome
ftieets of it to Mr Huet, preceptor to the dauphin, and
to feveral other men of learning at the court, the work
was fo highly admired, that the duke of Montaufier
made a propofal to her of publiftiing feveral Latin au¬
thors for the ufe of the dauphin. She rejedled this pro-
polal at firft, as a talk to which ftie was not equal.-
But the duke infifted upon it; fo that at laft; he gain¬
ed her con fen t; upon w'hich flie undertook an edition
of Florus, publiftied in 1674. Her reputation being
notv fpread over all Europe, Chriftina, queen of Swe¬
den, ordered Count Konigfmark to make her a compli¬
ment in her name : upon which Mademoifelle le Fevre
fent the queen a Latin letter, with her edition of Flo¬
rus ; to which her majefty wrote an obliging anfwer,
and not long after fent her another letter, to perfuade’
her to abandon the Proteftant religion, and made her
confiderable offers to fettle at her court. In 1683 flie
married Mr Dacier; and foon after declared her defign
to the duke of Montaufier and the biftiop of Meaux of
reconciling herfelf to the church of Rome, which ftie
had entertained for fome time : but as Mr Dacier was
not yet convinced of the reafonablenefs of fuch a
change, they retired to Caftres in 1684, where they
had a fmall eftate, in order to examine the points of
controverfy between the Proteftants and the Roman
Catholics. They at laft determined in favour of the
latter, and made the public abjuration in 1685. Af¬
ter this, the king gave both hulhand and wife marks
of
Dacier.
“ vc:r ofe.t“
tylTc meafure. See Curetes and Corybahtes.
Daxay!, of his favour, m loy^, u*^ “ft'—   . .
Daftyli. cation 0f her fon and daughter, who made a prodigi-
 *   ous progrefs : the fon died in 1694, and the daughter
became a nun in the abbey of Longchamp. She had
another daughter, who had muted in her ad the vir¬
tues and accomplishments that could adorn the (ex *, but
Pm died at 18. Her mother has immortalized her me¬
mory in the preface to her tranflation of the Iliad.
Madame Dacier was in a very infirm ftate of health the
two lad years of her life 5 and died, after a very pain¬
ful ficknefs, Auguft 17- aged 69- f‘e ^ re*
markable for her firmnefs, generofity, equality 01 tem-
P DACTYL, (daBylus), a foot in the Latin and Greek
poetry, confiding of a long fyliable, followed by two
fhort ones •, as carmine. c „
Some fay it U derived from a onger.
becaafe it is divided into three jomts, tire firft of vvh.ch
is longer than the other two.
The da£lvl is faid to have been the invention of
Dionyfius or Bacchus, who delivered oracles m this
meafure at Delphos, before Apollo. 1 he Greeks ca
it The daftyl mid fpondee are the molt
ccnfiderable of the poetical feet ; as being the mea-
fures ufed in heroic verie by Homer, Virgil, & •
Thefe two arc of equal time, but not equal motion
The fpondee has an even, ftrong, and fie ad y Pac^lk^
a trot : the daftyl refembles the nimbler ilrokes of a
g D \CTYLI idjei > the Fingers of Mount Ida.
Concerning thefe, Pagan theology and fable give very
different accounts. The Cretans paid divine worflup
to them, as thofe who had nurfed and brought up he
god Jupiter 4 whence it appears, that they were he
fame as the Corybantes and Curetes. Neverthelefs
Strabo makes them different •, and fays, tha* the trad‘-
tion in Phrygia was, that “ the Curetes and Corybantes
v ere defcendfid from the Daftyli Idmi : that there were
originally an hundred men in the .(land, whoweie cal-
\jDaclyli Idetii from whom fprang nine Curetes, and
each of thefe nine produced ten men, as many as the
fingers of a man’s two hands *, and that this gave the
name to the anceftors of the Daftyh Idam He re¬
ntes another opinion, which is, that there were hut
five Daftyli Idee! 4 who, according to Sophocles, were
the inventors of iron : that thefe five brothers had five
bftcrs and that from this number they took the nmne
of Fibers of Mount Ida, becaufe they were in number
fen : and that they worked at the foot of this moun¬
tain Diodorus Siculus reports the matter a i'ttk dif-
ferently. He fays, “ the firfl inhabitants of the ifland
of Crete were the Daftyli Id?i,
dence on Mount Ida : that feme faid they were a
Z ?°A . ntbers only five in number, equal to the fin-
hundred , , , whence they had the name of
Ly -giria„s, a„d addifled to
Syffical ceremonies : that Orpheus
mid carried their myftenes mto Greece . that he W
tvli invented the ufe of iron and fire and y
• had been recompenfed with dmne ''‘T™"; ;
Diomedes the^rammana^fcy.. the^^ ^
caufe^hafgoddefs lias chiefly worlhipped on Mount
Ida in Phrygia ; and DaOrli, becaule that, to prevent
Saturn fiom^heaVing the cries of infant Jup.ter, whom
2
DACTYLIC, fomething that has a relation to
da‘Anciently there were daftylic as well as fpondaic
flutes, tibdJany/ic. The daByltc flutes confided of
unequal interval's ; as the daflyhc toot does of unequal
meafures^ ic ^ hexameter verfes, ending in a
daftyl inftead of a fpondee;, as fpobdaic ver es aie
thofe which have a fpondee m the fifth foot inftead
°f A^hiftance of a daftylic verfe we have in Virgil 4
Bis patri* cecidere mantis; quin protinus omnia
Perlegerent oculis.- TEn. vi. 33.
DACTYLIOMANCY, {DaByliomantia), a fort
of divination performed by means of a ring. I he
word is compofed of the Greek .ring> 0l
^xtvA.c, “ a finger,” and ftutruct, “ divination.
Daftviiomancy confifted principally in holding a
ring, fufpended by a fine thread, over a round tab e,
on the edge whereof were made divers marks ^^b the
twenty-four letters of the alphabet The ring m {bak¬
ing. or vibrating over the table, flopped over certain
of the letters, which, being joined together, compofed
the anfwer required. But the operation was preceded
and accompanied by feveral fuperftitious ceremonies
for firft the ring was to be confecrated with a great
deal of myftery : the perfon who held it was to be clad
in linen garments to the very Iboes; his head was
be fhaved all round 4 and in bis hand he was to hold
vervain. And before be proceeded^ any thing, .e
god. were firft to be appeafed by a formulary ot pray¬
ers, &-c. Ammianus Marcellinus gives the procefs at
DACTYXIS, cock’s roor grass, a genus or
plants belonging to the triandria clais; and in the na-
turalmethofl linking unfler the t
Dactyls, the fruit of the palm-tree, more uiually
^DACTYLUS, a fort of dance among the an¬
cient Greeks, chiefly performed, Hefychius obfenc ,
a name given by Pliny to .he PHOuas.
SeD^UCHe0In":.lq°uiIyf' ire'fls of Ce.es That
god Shaving 'loft he. daugb.e. P.o erp.n^^my-
.hologifls be^an.o make fc.ch for
fl.e^ighted a torch, and thus fet forth her travels
hand. On this account, and in “m”'mora“n "f
H r and holding it with his hand, ran with it to a cer-
altar, amt no c g , e ave lt to another,
tai„ par, of the tan after the
Ker ,0 UF.Pom' this feT-
” ^ tL'ptftruc^den'ontinat-ed
D iE D L 49 ] D iE M
Daetlala, q, rf, lt torch-bearers 5” from (l an undfuous refi-
Daeuaius. nous as pine, fir, &c.” whereof the ancients
"" made torches ; and “ I have, I hold.”—The A-
thenians alfo gave the name daduchus to the high-prieft
of Hercules.
DALDALA, a mountain and city of Lycia, where
Daedalus was buried, according to Pliny.—Alfo two
feltivals in Bceotia, fo called ; one of them obferved
at Alalcomenos by the Plataeans in a large grove,
where they expofed in the open air pieces of boiled
flefh, and carefully obferved whither the crows that
came to prey upon them directed their flight. All the
trees upon which any of thefe birds alighted were im¬
mediately cut down, and with them ftatues wTere made,
called Dada/a, in honour of Daedalus. The other fef-
tival was of a more folemn kind. It was celebrated
every 60 years by all the cities of Boeotia, as a com-
penfation for the intermiffion of the fmaller feftivals,
for that number of years, during the exile of the Pla¬
taeans. Fourteen of the ftatues called D&da/a were
diftributed by lot among the Plataeans, Lebadceans,
Coroneans, Orchomenians, Thefpians, Thebans, Ta-
nagraeans, and Chaeroneans, becaufe they had effe&ed
a reconciliation among the Plataeans, and caufed them
to be recalled from exile about the time that Thebes
was reftored by Caffander the fon of Antipater. Du¬
ring this feftival a woman in the habit of a bridemaid
accompanied a ftatue which was dreffed in female gar¬
ments, on the banks of the Eurotas. This proceflion
was attended to the top of Mount Cithaeron by many
of the Boeotians, who had places affigned them by lot.
Here an altar of fquare pieces of wood cemented to¬
gether like ftones was ereffed, and upon it were thrown
large quantities of combuftible materials. Afterwards
a bull was facrificed to Jupiter, and an ox or heifer to
Juno, by every one of the cities of Boeotia, and by
the moft opulent that attended. The pooreft citizens
offered fmall cattle ; and all thefe oblations, together
with the Dtedala, were thrown into the common heap
and fet on fire, arid totally reduced to allies. They
originated in this: When Juno, after a quarrel with
Jupiter, had retired to Euboea, and refufed to return
to his bed, the god, anxious for her return, went to
confult Cithaeron king of Platoea, to find fome effeftual
meafuie to break her obltinacy. Cithaeron advifed
him to drefs a ftatue in woman’s apparel, and carry it
in a chariot, and publicly to report it was Platoea the
daughter of Afopus, whom he was going to marry.
1 he advice was followed ) and Juno, informed of her
hufband’s future marriage, repaired in hafte to meet
the chariot, and was eafily united to him, when Ihe
difeovered the artful meafures he made ufe of to effeft
a reconciliation.
DAiDALUS, an Athenian, fon of Eupalamus, de¬
fended from Erichtheus king of Athens. He was
the moft ingenious artiif of his age ; and to him we are
indebted for the invention of the wedge, and many
other mechanical inftruments, and the fails of fhips.
He made ftatues which moved of themfelves, and feem-
ed to be endowed with life. Talus his filler’s fon
promiled to be as great as bimfelf by the ingenuity of
his inventions; and therefore from envy he threw
him down from a window and killed him. After the
murder of this youth, Daedalus, with his fon Icarus,
fled from Athens to Crete, where Minos king of the
Vol. VII. Part I.
country gave him a cordial reception. Daedalus made Dasmon.
a famous labyrinth for Minos, and aftifted Pafiphae
the queen to gratify her unnatural paflion for a bull.
For this aflion Daedalus incurred the difpleafure of
Minos, who ordered him to be confined in the laby¬
rinth which he had conftrufted. Here he made him-
1’elf wings with feathers and wax, and carefully fitted
them to his body and that of his fon, who was the
companion of his confinement. They took their flight
in the air from Crete : but the heat of the fun melted
the wax on the wings of Icarus, whofe flight was too
high, and he fell into that part of the ocean which
from him has been called the Icarian fea> The father,
by a proper management of his wings, alighted at
Cumae, where he built a temple to Apollo, and thence
diredfted his courfe to Sicily, where he was kindly re¬
ceived by Cocalus, who reigned over part of the coun-
try. He left many monuments of his ingenuity in
Sicily, which ftiil exifted in the age of Diodorus Si¬
culus. He was defpatched by Cocalus, who was afraid
of the power of Minos, who had declared war againil
him becaufe he had given an afylum to Daedalus. The
flight of Daedalus from Crete with wings is explain¬
ed by obferving that he was the inventor of fails, which
in his age might pafs at a diftance for wings. He lived
1400 years before the Chriftian era. There were two
flatuaries of the fame name ; one of Sicyon, fon of Pa-
troclus ; the other a native of Bithynia.
DAEMON, a name given by the ancients
to certain fpirits or genii, which they fay appeared to
men, either to do them fervice or to hurt them.
The Greek word 'h&iy.ui, is derived (according to
Plato, in his Cratylus, p. 39^- Serrani, Vol. i. (from
“ knowing or intelligent j” but according to
others from ^otiopxi, “ to diftribute,” (fee the Scholiaft
on Homer, II. i. ver. 222.). Either of thefe deriva¬
tions agrees with the office aferibed to daemons by the
ancient heathens, as the fpirit intrufted with the in-
fpe6tion and government of mankind. For, accor¬
ding to the philofophers, daemons held a middle rank
between the celeftial gods and men on earth, and car¬
ried on all intercourfe between them ; conveying the
addreffes of men to the gods, and the divine benefits
to men. It was the opinion of many, that the ce-
leftial divinities did not themfelves interpofe in hu¬
man affairs, but committed the entire adminiftration
of the government of this lower world to thefe fubal-
tern deities: Neque emm pro 7?wjejlate deum eerie ft mm
fterit, here curare ; J Apuleius de deo Socratis, p. 677.)
Cun&a c cel eft in in vuluntate, numine, et author it ate, fed
d.emonum ohfequio, et opera et minifterto fieri arbitran-
dum eft; (Id. p. 675). Hence they became the ob-
je6!s of divine worfhip. “ If idols are nothing,” fays
Celfus (apud Origen. cont. Celf. lib. viii. p. 393.) “ what
harm can there be to join in the public feftivals ? If
they are daemons, then it is certain that they are gods,
in whom we are to confide, and to whom we fhould
offer facrifices and prayers to render them propitious.”
Several of the heathen philofophers held that there
were diffeient kitids of daemons ; that fome of them
were fpiritual fubftances of a more noble origin
than the human race, and that others had once been
men.
But thofe daemons who w^ere the more immediate
objefts of the eftabliftied worfhip among the ancient
G nations
D M M
[ 5° 1
D JE M
Dxmon. nations Were human fpirits, luch as were believed to
1— become daemons or deities after their departure from
their bodies. Plutarch teaches (Vit. Romul. p. 36.
ect. Paris), “ that according to a divine nature and ju-
flicCj the fouls of virtuous men are advanced to the
rank of daemons ; and that from daemons, if they are
properly purified, they are exalteo into gods, not by
any political inftitution, but according to right reafon.”
The fame author fays in another place {dr If. e/ Ofir.
p. 361.), “ that Ifis and Ofnis were, for their virtue,
changed from good daemons into gods, as were Her¬
cules" and Bacchus afterwards, receiving the united ho¬
nours both of gods and daemons.” Heiiod and other
poets, who have recorded the ancient hiftory 01 tradi¬
tions on which the public faith and worfliip were foun¬
ded, affert, that the men of the golden age, who were
fuppofed to be very good, became daemons after death,
and difpen'ers of good things to mankind.
Though Jt/non is often ufed in a general fenle as
equivalent to a deity, and is accordingly applied to
fate or fortune, or whatever elfe was regarded as a god-,
vet thole dmmons who were the more immediate ob-
;e£ls of divine worfhip amongfl the heathens, were hu¬
man fpirits as is ftiown in Farmer on Miracles, chap.
iii. fedt. 2. . • j j
The word daemon is ufed indifferently m a good and
a bad lenfe. In the former fenfe, it was very com¬
monly ufed among the ancient heathens. “ VV e mutt
fiot (fays Menander) think any daemon to be evil,
hurtful to a good life, but every god to be good.
Neverthelefs, thofe are certainly miftaken who atium,
that daman never fignifies an evil being till after the
times of Chrift. Pythagoras held daemons who lent
difeafes to men and cattle {Diog. Laert. J it. Pytha-
por. p. 514, ed. Amfel.) Zaleucus, in his preface to
his Laws (apud Stobaum, Serm. 42.) luppofes. that an
evil daemon might be prefent with a man, to influence
him to iniuftice. The daemons of Empedocles were
evil fpirits, and exiles from heaven (Plutarch ra
Suv 'ttra&ilcu). And in his life of Dion (p. 938.)
he fays “ It was the opinion of the ancients that evil
■and mifchievous daemons, out of envy and hatred to
good men, oppofe whatever they do.” Scarce, did
any opinion more generally prevail m ancient times
than this, viz. that as the departed fouls of good men
became good daemons, fo the departed fouls of bad men
became evil daemons.
It has been generally thought, that by damans we
are to underftand devils, in the. Septuagmt v.erfion of
the Old Teftament. Others think the word is in that
verfion certainly applied to the ghofts.of Inch dead men
as the heathens deified, in Deut. xxxii. 17. PI. cvi. 37.
That daman often bears the fame meaning in the New
Teftament, and particularly in Acts xvu. 18. 1 Cor. x.
21 1 Tim. iv. 1. Rev. ix. 13. is ihown at large by
Mr lofeph Mede (Works, p. 623, etfeq.)^ That the
word is applied always to human fpirits in the.New
Teftament, Mr Farmer has attempted to fhow m his
Effay on demoniacs, p. 208, et feq. As^to tire mean¬
ing of the word deemon in the fathers of the Ch.nftian
church, it is ufed by them in the fame fenfe as it was
by the heathen philofophers, efpecially the latter P.la-
tonifts ; that is, fometimes for departed human ipirits,
and at other times for fuch fpirits as had ^ev^r inha-
bited human bodies. In tEe fathers, indeed, the word
is more commonly taken in an evil fenfe, than in the Djemofi,
ancient philofophers. Befides the two foremcntioned
kinds of daemons, the fathers, as well as the ancient
philofophers, held a third, viz. fuch as fprang from the
congrefs of fuperior beings with the daughters of men.
In the theology of the fathers, thefe were the woxlt
kind of daemons. . .
Different orders of daemons held different nations and
employments affigned them by the ancients. Good f
daemons were confidered as the authors of good to
mankind j evil daemons brought innumerable evils both
upon men and beafts. Amongft evil daemons there
was a great dittimftion with relpeft to the offices ai-
figned them j fome compelled men to wickednefs,
orhers ftimulated them to madnefs. See Demoniac.
Mtich has been faid concerning the daemon of So¬
crates. He pretended to his friends and difciples, and
even declared to the world, that a friendly fpirit,
whom he called his daman, direfted him how to a& on
every important occafion in his life, and reliiained
him from imprudence of conduct.
In contemplating the chara&er of this great philo-
fopher, while wp admire him as the noblelt patron
of virtue and moral wifdom that appeared in the hea¬
then world, we are naturally led to inquire, whether
what he gave out concerning his da-mon were a trick
r. n ... q Vipat-pd imaeination. or
of impofture, or the reverie of a heated imagination, or
a fober and true account of a favour which heaven de-
figned to confer on fo extraordinary a man.
To afeertain in this cafe the objeft of our inqui¬
ries, is by no means fo eafy as the iuperficial thinker
may be apt to imagine. W hen we confider the dig¬
nity of fentiment and ftmplicity of manners which So¬
crates difplayed through the general tenor of his life,
we cannot readily bring ourfelves to think that he
could be capable of fuch a trick of impofture. . No¬
thing of the wildnefs of an enthufiaft appears m his
charafler ; the- modefty of his pretenficns, and the
refpta which in his converfation and conduct he um-
formlv teftified for the ordinary duties oi iocial hiey
fufficiently prove that he was tree from the influence
of blind enthufiafm : we cannot infer, therefore, tnat,
like the aftronomer in Rafelas, he was deceived with
refpta to his daemon by an overheated imagination.
It is no lefs difficult to believe, that God would di-
ftinguifli a heathen in fo eminent a .manner, and y et
leave him uninftruaed in the principles of true reli¬
gion. Surely, if ever fcepticiim be reafonable, it mult
be in fuch matters as the prefent. . . r
Yet, if it be ftill infilled, that fome one of thele
three notions concerning the daemon of Socrates min
be more probable than the others we would rather
efteem Socrates an enthufiaft in this mftance than
degrade him to the bafe charaaer of an >«Jpoftor, or
fuppofe that a fpiritual being aflually revealed himfei
to the philofopher, and condefeended to become his
conftant attendant and counfellor. People are often
under the influence of an over-heated imagination with
regard to fome one thing, and cool and fober as to
every thing elfe. . , r 1
14 JEM ONI AC (from daman), a human being whole Definition-
volition and other mental faculties are overpowered
and retrained, and his body poffeffed and aftnated by
fome created fpiritual being of fupenor pow-er. .
Such feems to be the determinate fenfe of the word , _
D JE M
mans con¬
cerning
pofl'effion.
Demoniac.but it is difputed whether any of mankind ever 'were
* v in this unfortunate condition.
Difpute ^ *s generally agreed, that neither good nor evil
concerning fpirits are known to exert fuch authority at prefent
daeinoniacs over the human race : but in the ancient heathen world,
and among the Jews, particularly in the days of our
Saviour, evil fp’uits at lead are thought by many to
, have been more troublefome.
Notions of The Greeks .and Romans imagined, that their dei-
the Greeks ties, to reveal future events, frequently entered into
ftn the prophet or prophetefs who wras confulted, over¬
powered their faculties, and uttered relponfes with
their organs of fpeech. Apollo was believed to enter
into the Pythonefs, and to didate the prophetic an-
fwers received by thofe who confulted her. Other
oracles befides that of Delphi were fuppofed to unfold
futurity by the fame machinery. And in various
other cafes, either malignant daemons or benevolent
deities were thought to enter into and to aduate hu¬
man affairs. The Lymphatic!, the Cerriti, the Larvati,
of the Romans, were all of this delcription ; and the
Greeks, by the ufe of the word (how that
they referred to this caufe the origin of madnefs.
Among the ancient heathens, therefore, it appears to
have been a generally received opinion, that fuperior
beings entered occafionally into men, overpowered the
faculties of their minds, and aduated their bodily or¬
gans. They might imagine that this happened in in-
ffances in which the effeds were owing to the opera¬
tion of different caufes $ but an opinion fo generally
prevalent had furely fome plaufible foundation.
The Jews, too, if we may truft the facred writings
and Jofephus, appear to have believed in dtemoniacal
poffeffion. The cafe of Saul may be recolleded as one
among many in which fuperior created beings were
believed by the Jews to exert in this manner their in¬
fluence over human life. The general tenor of their
hillory and language, and their dodrines concerning
good and evil fpirits, prove the opinion of daemoniacal
poffeffion to have been well known and generally re-
j ceived among them.
Of mankind In the days of our Saviour, it would appear that
in fhed™* ^‘Ern0™acaI poffeffion was very frequent among the
ofLrSaT Jews.^.d t^e neighbouring nations. Many rvere the
viour. ev*l fpirits whom Jefus is related in the gofpels to have
ejeded from patients that were brought unto him as
poffeffed and tormented by thofe malevolent dsemons.
His apoflles too, and the firft Chriftians, who were
mod adive and fuccefsful in the propagation of Chri-
flianity, appear to have often exerted the miraculous
powers with which they were endowed on fimilar oc-
cafions. The daemons difplayed a degree of know¬
ledge and malevolence which fufficiently diftinguifhed
them from human beings : and the language in which
the daemoniacs are mentioned, and the adions and
fentiments afcribed to them in the New7 Teffament,
fhow that our Saviour and his apollles did not confi
der the idea of daemoniacal poffeffion as being merely '
a vulgar error concerning the origin of a difeafe or dif-
eafes produced by natural caufes.
T he more enlightened cannot alw-ays avoid the ufe
of metaphorical modes of expreffion ; which, though
founded upon error, have yet been fo eftablilhed in
language by the influence of cullom, that they cannot
-be Uiddenly difmiffed. When we read.in the book of
[ 51 ]
D M
4
Of the
Jews.
Jofhua, that the fun on a certain occafion flood flill,Daemoniac»
to allow that hero time to complete a vidory ; w7e J
eafily find an excufe for the condud of the facred hi- tcj- f
ftorian, in accommodating his narrative to the popular chnft and
ideas of the Jews concerning the relative motions ofhis apofties
the heavenly bodies. In all fimilar inflances, we domu.^^< vc
not complain much of the ufe of a Angle phrafe, ori-
ginally introduced by the prevalence of fome ground-Cal puflef-
lefs opinion, the falfity of which is w7ell known to thefiontobe
writer. real.
But in deferiptions of charaders, in the narration of
fads, and in the laying down of fyftems of dodrine,
we require different rules to be obferved. Should any
perfon, in compliance with popular opinions, talk in
ferious language of the qxirtence, difpofitions, declara¬
tions, and adions of a race of beings whom he knew
to be abfolutely fabulous, w7e furely could not praife
him for candid integrity : we muft fuppofe him to be
either exulting in irony over the weak credulity of
thofe around him, or taking advantage of their weak-
nefs, with the difhoneft and the felfifli view's of an
impoftor. And if he himfelf (hould pretend to any
connexion w’ith this imaginary fyftem of beings, and
ffiould claim, in confequence of his connexion with
them, particular honours from his contemporaries;
whatever might be the dignity of his charader in all
other refpeds, nobody could hefitate even for a mo¬
ment to brand him as an impoftor of the bafeft charac¬
ter.
Precilely in this light muft w7e regard the condud:
of our Saviour and his apofties, if the idea of daemo-
niacal poffeffion were to be confidered merely as a vul¬
gar error. They talked and aded as if they believed
that evil fpirits had adually entered into thofe who
were brought to them as poffeffed with devils, and
as if thofe fpirits were adually expelled by their au¬
thority out of the unhappy perfons w7hom they had
paffeffed. They expeded, they demanded too, to
have their profeffions and declarations believed, in con¬
fequence of their performing fuch mighty works, and
to be honoured as having thus triumphed over the
powers of hell. The reality of dsemoniacal poffeffon
ftands upon the fame evidence with the gofpel fyftem
in general. ^
Neither is there any thing abiurd or unreafonable in^eaf°n-
this dodrine. It does not appear to contradid thofea^e‘Je^s°I’
ideas w'hich the general appearance of nature and thetnne.°C"
feries of events fugged concerning the benevolence
and wifdom of the Deity, and the counfels by which
he regulates the affairs of the univerfe. We often
fancy ourfelves able to comprehend things to which
our underftanding is wholly inadequate : we perfuade
ourfelves, at times, that the whole extent of the works
of the Deity muft be well known to us, and that his
defigns muft always be fuch as w7e can fathom. We
are then ready, whenever any difficulty arifes to us, in
confidering the condud of Providence, to model things
according to -our owm ideas ; to deny that the Deity
can poffibly be the author of things which w;e cannot
reconcile ; and to affert, that he muft ad on every oc¬
cafion in a manner corrfiffent with our narrow view's.
This is the pride of reafon ; and it feems to have fug-
gefted the ftrongeft objedions'that have been at any
time urged againft the reality of daemoniacal poffef¬
fion. But the Deity may furely conned one order .of
G 2 his
D JE M [5
Demoniac, his creatures with another. We perceive mutual re-
  lations and a beautiful connexion to prevail through
all that part of nature which falls within the fphere
of our obfervation. The inferior animals are con-
nefted with mankind, and fubje-aed to their autho¬
rity, not only in inftances in which it is exerted for
their advantage, but even where it is tyrannically abu-
ied to their deftruaion. Among the evils to which
mankind have been fubjeaed, why might not their
being liable to demoniacal pofTeffion be one ? \\ hile
the Supreme Being retains the fovereignty o the
univerfe, he may employ whatever agents he thinks
proper in the execution of his purpofes •, he may either
commiflion an angel or let loofe a devil j as well as
bend the human will, or communicate any particular
impulfe to matter. ,
All that revelation makes known, ail that human
reafoncanconjeaure, concerning the exiftence of va¬
rious orders of fpiritual beings, good arid bad, is
perfeaiy confiftent with, and even favourable to, the
doarine of daemoniacal poffeflion. It was generally
believed through the ancient heathen world ; it was
equally well known to the Jews and equally refpeaed
bv them j it is mentioned in the New leftam.nt in
fuch language, and fuch narratives are related concern¬
ing it, that the gofpels cannot well be regarded in any
other light than as pieces o{ itnpoftare, and Jefus
Chrift mud be confidered as a man who ddhoneftly
took advantage of the vveaknefs and ignorance ot ms
contemporaries, if this doarine be nothing but a vulgar
error : it teaches nothing inconfiftent with the genera!
conduft of Providence *, it is not the caution of phi o-
fophy, but the pride of reafon, that fuggefts objeaions
8 ap-ainft this doarine. . „ , t
Arguments -p^ofe, again, who are unwilling to allow that angels
of the Anti- d Ils have ever intermeddled fo much with the
dtecon.ft.. concerns of lmman lifei urge a numbet of fpecious ar-
gTretbrrid°Ri;nfof old ^ ^
the Greeks i;eve in the reality of daemoniacal poffeffion. They
andRomansfu fed that fpiritual beings did at times e"ter °
iuppofed, J/p or daUghters of men, and diftmguifh them-
felves in that fituation by capricious fte?ks, deeds of
were only wanton mifchief, or prophetic enun .
inftances the inftances in which they fuppoied this to ^ppen it
of madnefS’ is evident that no fuch thing took place. / heir ac'
counts of the date and conduft of thofe perfons whom
they believed to be poffeffed in ths fupernatural man-
nerf fhow plainly that what they alcribed to the in¬
fluence of daemons were merely the effects of natural
difeafes. Whatever they relate concerning the larvati,
the cerriti, and the lymphatici, ^ that thefe were
merely people difordered m mind, in the fame un or-
tunate fituation with thofe madmen and “hots and
melancholy perfons whom we have among ourielves.
Fedus defcribes the Larvati as being funoft et mente
moti. Horace fays,
Hellade percujfa, Marius cum prscipitat fe,
Cerrilus fuit ?
Hie fame Plato, in Ms fays, <>’“<
aDi.b:;Pi«eftM more evidently, that all the perfons
2 1 D iE M
fpoken of as poffeffed with devils in the New Tef-Demoniac,
lament, were either mad or epileptic, and precilely
in the fame condition with the madmen and epileptics
of modern times- The Jews, among other reproaches
which they threw out againd our Saviour, laid, tie
hath a devil, and is mad: why hear ye him? Ine ex-
predions he hath a devil, and is mad, were certainly ufed
on this occafion as fynonymous. With all their vi¬
rulence, they would not furely afcnbe to him at once
two things that were inconfident and contradiftory.
Thofe who thought more favourably of the character
of Tefus, afferted concerning his dncourfes, in reply to
his adverfaries, Ihefe are not the words of him that hatfj
a “demon; meaning, no doubt, that he fpoke in a more ra¬
tional manner than a madman could be expected to ipeak.
The Jews appear to have afcvibed to the influence of
daemons, not only that fpecies of madnefs in which the
patient is raving and furious, but alfo melancholy ma -
nefs. Of John, who fecluded himfelf from mtercourie
with the world, and was didinguiflied for abdinence
and a&s of mortification, they faid, He hath a dcemon.
The youth, whofe father applied to Jefus to free him
from an evil fpirit, defcribing his unhappy condition
in thefe words, Have mercy on my fon, for he is lunatic
and fore vexed with a demon ; for oft times hefalleth into
the fire, and oft into the water, was plainly epileptic.
Every thing indeed that is related in the New I eda-
ment concerning doemoniacs, proves that they were
people affeaed with fuch natural difeafes as are far
from being uncommon among mankind m the prelent
age When the fymptoms of the diforders cured by
our Saviour and his apodles as cafes of demoniacal
poffeOion, correfpond fo exaaiy with thofe of difeales
well known as natural in the prefent age, it would be
abfurd to impute them to a fupernatural cauie. It is
much more confident with common fenfe and lound
philofophy to fuppofe, that our Saviour and his apo¬
dles wifely, and with that condefcenfion to the weak-
nefs and prejudices of thofe with whom they converfed,
which fo eminently didinguilhed the charaaer of the
Author of our holy religion, and mud always be a pro¬
minent feature in the charaaer of the true Chrilfian,
adopted the vulgar language in fpeakmg m thofe unfor¬
tunate perfons who were groundlefsly imagined to be
poffeffed with daemons, though they well knew the
notions which had given rile to fuch modes of ex-
predion to be ill-founded-, than to imagine that dd-
eafes which arile arprefent from natural cauies, were
produced in days of old by the intervention ot dae¬
mons, or that evil fpints dill continue to enter into
mankind in all cafes of madnefs, melancholy, or epi-
^ Befides, it is by no means a fufficient reafon for
receiving any doftrine as true, that it has been ge¬
nerally received through the world Error, like an epi¬
demical difeafe, is communicated from one to another.
In certain circumdances, too, the influence oi' ”"agi-
nation predominates, and redra.ns the exertions of
reafon. Many falfe opinions have extended their in-
fluence through a very wide circle, and ^^med it:
long. On every fuch occafion as the pieient, there¬
fore^ it becomes us to inquire, not fo how. '
rally any opinion has been received, or how long it
has prevailed, as from what caufes it has originated,
and on what evidence it reds. When
DAG
[ 53 1
D A H
Drtjron.
Inference
from the
analogy of
nature.
Demoniacs When we contemplate the frame of nature, we behold
" a grand and beautiful fimplicity prevailing through
the whole : Notwithftanding its immenfe extent, and
though it contains fuch numberlefs diverfities of being j
yet the fimpleft machine conftru&ed by human art
does not difplay eafier fimplicity, or an happier connec¬
tion of parts. We may therefore venture to draw an
inference, by analogy, from what is obfervable of the
order of nature in general to the prefent cafe. 1 o
permit evil fpirits to intermeddle with the concerns of
human life, would be to break through that order
which the Deity appears to have eftablifiied through
his works ; it would be to introduce a degree of
confufion unworthy of the wifdom of Divine Provi¬
dence.
Such are the mofi: rational arguments that have been
urged on both fides in this controverfy. Perhaps the
daemonianifts have the ftronger probabilities on their
fide 5 but we will not prefume to take upon ourfelves
the office of arbitrators in the difpute.
DyElVIONIACS, in church hifiory, a branch of the
Anabaptifts $ whofe diftinguifhing tenet is, that the de¬
vils fh .11 be laved at the end of the world.
DAFFODIL. See Narcissus, Botany Index.
DAGELET, an ifland on the coaft of Corea, dif-
covered by La Peroufe in the year 1787, It is about
three leagues in circumference, and is encircled with
fteep rocks, excepting a few fandy creeks, which
form convenient landing-places. The ifland is covered
with fine trees $ and at the time the French navigator
vifited it, fome boats were found on the flocks of a
Chinefe conftruftion. The workmen, who were fup-
pofed to be Corean carpenters, were employed upon
them, but fled to the woods on the approach of the
ftiips. La Peroufe fuppofes that the ifland is unin¬
habited, and that thefe people go from Corea, and
live there during the fummer, for the purpofe of build¬
ing boats. The north-eaft point of this ifland is in
N. Lat. 3= 15. E. Long. 129. 2. from Paris.
DAGHESTAN, a country of Afia, bounded by
Circaflia on the north, by the Cafpian fea on the eaft,
by Chirvein a province of Perfia on the fouth, and by
Georgia on the weft. Its chief towns are Tarku and
Derbent, both fituated on the Cafpian fea.
DAGNO, a town of Turkey in Europe, in Albania,
with a bithop’s fee. It is the capital of the diftrift of
Ducagini, and is feated on the rivers Drino and Nero,
near their confluence. It is 15 miles fouth-eaft of Scu¬
tari, and 15 north-eaft of Aleflio. E. Long. 19. 48.
N. Lat. 42. o.
DAGO, or Dagho, an ifland in the Baltic fea,
on the coaft of Livonia, between the gulf of Finland
and Riga. It is of a triangular figure, and may be
about 20 miles in circumference. It has nothing con-
fiderable but two caftles, called Dagger-wort and Pa-
den. E. Long. 22. 30. N. Lat. 58. 48.
<;jia ^ DAGON, the falfe god of Aftidod *, or as the
‘' V’ Greeks call it jd^otus. He is commonly reprefented as
a monfter, half man and half fifli ; whence moft learned
men derive his name fiom the Hebrew dag, which fig-
nifies “ nfh.,, Tbofe who make him to have been the
inventor of bread corn, derive his name from the He¬
brew Dagon, which fagnifes frumen turn ; whence Philo
Biblius calls him Zsvs Agsel^a?, 'Jupiter Aratrius.
I his deity continued to have a temple at Afhdod
Dahomy.
*See \Sam.
during all the ages of idolatry to the time of the Mac- Dahalac
cabees •, for the author of the firft book of Maccabees
tells us, that “ Jonathan, one of the Maccabees, having
beaten the army of Apollonius, Demetrius’s general,
they fled to Azotus, and entered into Bethdagon (the
temple of their idol) : but that Jonathan fet fire to
Azotus, and burnt the temple of Dagon and all thole
w?ho had fled into it.
Dagon, according to fome, was the flame with Ju¬
piter, according to others Saturn, according to others,
Venus, and according to moft, Neptune.
DAHA.LAC is the largeft ifland in the Red fea,
and is placed by Mr Bruce, who has given a minute
defeription of it, between 15. 27. and 15. 54. N. Lat.
It is a low, flat ifland, with a fandy foil, mixed with
fhells, and in lummer deftitute of every kind of herb¬
age, excepting a {mall quantity of bent grafs, which is
barely fufficient to feed a few antelopes and goats. In
many places the ifland is covered with extenfive plan¬
tations of acacia trees, which rarely exceed eight feet
in height, fpreading wide, and turning flat at top,
probably from the influence of the wflnd, which blows
from the fea. No rain falls in Dahalac f^om the end
of March to the beginning of Oftober •, but in the in¬
termediate months there are heavy fhowers, during
which the water is colletfted in a great number of ar¬
tificial cifterns, to ferve the inhabitants during the en-
fuing fummer. Of thefe cifterns, wfliich are faid to be
the work of the PerfiaiTs, or, as fome fuppofe, of the
firft Ptolemies, 370 yet remain, cut out of the folid
rock.
The inhabitants of Dahalac are a Ample, fearful,
and inoffenfive people. It is the only part of Arabia
where no one is furnifhed with arms of any kind. Af¬
ter the rains fall, the grafs fprings up with great luxu¬
riance, and then the goats give the inhabitants a copi¬
ous fupply of milk, which in winter is the principal
part of their fubfiftence. The poorer fort live entirely
on fhell and other fiftr. The foie employment of the
inhabitants is to work the vefiels which trade to the
different parts of the coaft. Dahalac contains 12 vil¬
lages or towns, each of which is furrounded with a
plantation of doom trees. Of the leaves of this tree,
which are of a gloffy white when dried, the inhabitants
make balkets of great beauty and neatnefs. This
feems to be the only thing like manufadlure in the
ifland. Dahalac, as well as the other illands of the
Red fea, is dependent upon Mafuah. Each of the 12
villages furnifhes a goat monthly to the governor, and
every veffel putting in there for Mafuah, pays him a
pound of .coffee, and every one from Arabia a dollar.
Thefe are his principal revenues. In the time of the
Ptolemies, the pearl fiflrery in the vicinity of Daha¬
lac flouriihed greatly, as well as another valuable filhery,
namely, that of tortoifes,
DAHOMY, orDAUMA, a powerful -kingdom of
Africa, on the coaft of Guinea. Abomy, the modern
capital, lies in N. Lat. 7. 59. This kingdom occurs
in its true pofition, in the maps of Sanuto, Plancius,
and Mercator, where Dawhee, the ancient capital, is
denominated Danina. In 1700, it was crazed from
the maps of Africa, and the exiftence of the ancient
nation of Dauma denied, till 1727, when it emerged
from obfeurity, and became known by the conquefts of
the maritime ftates of Whidah and Ardra. Between
Dauma
D A H
Bauma and Gago the lake Sigefmes
[ 54
j.^aumd hiiu vjdgu iut mn-v.  j ot’ Guarda,
(which extends about too leagues from eaft to well,
and 50 from north to fouth, which lies about 370 miles
N. N. E. of Arada, and is reprefented as the fource of
various large rivers, which deicend into the gulf of
Guinea) is placed by Barbot and Snelgrave, who de¬
rived their authority from the native traders. It nei¬
ther occurs in Ed rid nor Leo, though it is found in
the maps to Rufcelli’s edition of Ptolemy, in 1561.
Dahomy is a fertile cultivated country ; the foil is a
deep rich reddiih clay, intermixed with fand, fcarcely
containing a done of the iize of an egg in the whole
country. It is extremely produftive of maize, millet,
beans, yams, potatoes, caffada, plantain, and the ba¬
nana ; indigo, cotton, tobacco, palm-oil, and lugar,
are railed, as well as a ipecies of black pepper. Bread,
and a fpecies of liquor, or rather diluted gruel, are
formed of the lotus berry. Animals, both wild and
tame, are numerous, and the lakes abound in filh. I he
maritime diftricls of Whidah and Ardra, betore they
were ruined by the Dfthomam, where highly cultivated
and beautiful.
The charafter of the Daumanefe, or Dahomans, is
original and ftrongly marked ; they have retained pe¬
culiar manners, and have had little intercourfe with
cither Europeans or Moors. They exhibit the germ
of peculiar inftitutions and modifications of manners,
31 pecuiiai    . .
that have appeared incredible to modern nations, when
they perufed the ancient records, of the Egyptians,
Hindus, and Lacedaemonians. Like the Lacedemo¬
nians, they difplay a fingular mixture of ferocity and
politenefs, of generofity and cruelty. I heir conduct
towards Grangers is hofpitable, without any mixture of
rudenefs or infult. Their appearance is manly, and
their perfons ftrong and aftive ; and though they are
lefs addicted to the pradtice of tatowing than their
neighbours, their countenance rather dilplays ferocity
than courage. Their government is the pureft deipo-
tifm ; every fubjetf is a have 5 and every flave impli¬
citly admits the right of the fovereign to difpofe ol his
property and of his perfon. “ I think of my king,
laid a Dahoman to Mr Norris, “ and then I dare en¬
gage five of the enemy myfelf. My head belongs to
the king, not to mvfelf: if he pleafe to fend for it, I
am ready to refign it *, or if it be {hot through in bat¬
tle, I am fatisfied—if it be in his fervice. This at¬
tachment continues unftiaken, even when, their neareft
relations become the viftims of the avarice or caprice
of the king, and his enormities are always attributed
to their own indifcretions. With this devoted Ipint,
the Dahoman ruihes fearlefs into battle, and fights as
lonp as he can wield his labre.
The modern hiftory of the Dahomans realizes all
that hiftory has recorded of ancient Lacedaemon,
and of thofe Lacedaemonians of the north, the in¬
habitants of Tomfburgh, who were forbidden to men¬
tion the name of Fear, even in the moft imminent
dangers, and who proudly declared that they would
fight their enemies, though they were (Longer than
the gods. Saxo relates, that when Frotho, king ot
Denmark, was taken prifone.r in battle, he obfti-
nately refufed to accept of life, declaring, that the
reftoration of his kingdom and treafures could ne¬
ver reftore his honour, but that future ages would al¬
ways fay, Frotho has been taken by his enemy.
] DAI
The palace of thekingofDahomy isan extenfive build- Cahomy,
ing of bamboo and mud-walled huts, furrounded by a ,
mud-wall about 20 feet high, inclofing a quadrangular
fpace of about a mile fquare. The entrance to the
king’s apartment, is paved with human lculls,.the late¬
ral walls adorned with human jaw-bones, with a few
bloody heads intermixed at intervals. The whole
building refembles a number of farm-yards, with long
thatched barns and {beds for cattle, interfered with
low mud-walls. On the thatched roofs, numerous hu¬
man {kulls are ranged at intervals, on linall wooden
flakes. In allufion to thefe, when the king illues or¬
ders for war, he only announces to his general, that
his houfe wants thatch. In this palace, or large houfe,
as it is termed by the Dahomans, above 3000 females
are commonly immured, and about 5CO are appropri¬
ated by each oTthe principal officers. From this inju¬
rious and deteftable practice, originate many flagrant
abufes j the population is diminiftied, the fources at
private happinels deftroyed, and the beft feelings of
human nature being outraged, the energies of paflion
are converted into bitternefs and feiocit)'.
The religion of Dahomy is vague and uncertain m
its principles, and rather confifts in the performance of
fome traditionary ceremonies, than in any fixed iyitem
of belief, or of moral conduct. They believe mors
firmly in their amulets and fetiches, than m the deity ;
theirVationd fetiche"is the Tiger ; and their habita-
tions are decorated with ugly images, tinged with
blood, ftuck with feathers, belmeared with palm-oil,
and bedaubed with eggs. As their ideas of deity do
not coincide with thofe of Europeans, they imagine
that their tutelary gods are different. “ Perhaps,
faid a Dahoman chief to Snelgrave, “ that god may be
yours who has communicated fo many extraordinary
things to white men •, but as that God has not been
pleafed to make himfelf known to us, we muff be la-
tisfied with this we worftiip.” The Dahomans manu-
fa&ure and dye cotton-cloth, and form a fpe.cies of
cloth of palm-leaves. They are tolerably (kilful in
working in metals. The bards, who celebrate the ex¬
ploits of the king and his generals, are hkewife the hi-
ftorians of the country. . „ .
DAILLE, John, a Proteftant mimfter near i'ans,
was one of the moft learned divines of the 17th centu¬
ry and was the moft efteemed by the Catholics of all
the controverfial writers among the Proteftants. He
was tutor to two of the grandfons of the i.lluftnous M.
Du Pleflis Mornai. M. Daille having lived 14 ye^s
with fo excellent a mafter, travelled into Italy with his
two pupils: one of them died abroad j with the other
he faw Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Flanders^ Ho -
land, and England, and returned in 1621. He was
received minifter ip 1623, and firft exercifed his office
in the family of M. Du Pleffis Mornai •, but this did
not laft long, for that lord died foon after. The me¬
moirs of this great man employed M. DMle the fol¬
lowing year. In 1625 he was appointed mmifter of
the church of Saumur, and in 1626 removed to Pans.
He fpent all the reft of his life in the fervice of this
laft church, and compofed feveral works. His fiift
piece was his mafterpiece, and an excellent woik, O
the Ufe of the Fathers, printed 1631. It is a ftrong
chain of reafoning, which forms a moral demonftration
againft thofe who would have religious difputes decid^
DAL [ 55 ] DAL
ed by the authority of the fathers. He died in 1670,
aged 77. . r .
DAIRI, or Cairo, in the hiftory of Japan, is the
fovereign pontiff of the Japanefe ; or, according to
Kaempfer, the hereditary ecclefiaftical monarch of Ja¬
pan. In effeft, the empire of Japan is at prefent un¬
der two fovereigns, viz. an eccleiiaftical one called the
dairo, and a fecular one who bears the title of kubo.
the laft is the emperor, and the former the oracle of
the religion of the country.
DAIRY, in rural affairs, a place appropriated for
the management of milk, and the making of butter,
cheefe, &c. See Agriculture Index.
The dairy-houfe Ihould always be kept in the neatefl
order, and fo fituated as that the windows or lattices
never front the fouth, fouth-eaft, or fouth-weft. Lat¬
tices are alfo to be preferred to windows, as they ad¬
mit a more free circulation of the air than glazed
lights poffibly can do. It has been objedled, that they
admit cold air in winter and the fun in fummer ; but
the remedy is eafily obtained, by making a frame the
fize of or fomewhat larger than the lattice, and con-
ilrufting it fo as to Hide backward* and forward at
pleafure. Packthread drained acrofs this frame, and
oiled cap-paper palled thereon, will admit the light,
and keep out the fun and wind.
It is hardly poflible in the fummer to keep a dairy-
Ijoufe too cool ; on which account none fhould be fi¬
tuated far from a good fpring or current of water.
They fhould be neatly paved either with red brick or
fmooth hard done ; and laid with a proper defcent, fo
that no water may lodge. This pavement diould be
well walked in the fummer every day, and all the uten-
fils belonging to the dairy fhould be kept perfe£fly
clean. Nor fhould we ever differ the churns to be
fcalded in the dairy, as the deam that arifes from hot
water will injure the milk. Nor Ihould cheefe be kept
therein, nor rennet for making cheefe, nor a cheefe-
prefs be fixed in a dairy, as the whey and curd will
diffufe their acidity throughout the room.
The proper receptacles for milk are earthen pans,
or wooden vats or trundles ; but none of thefe diould
be lined with lead, as that mineral certainly contains a
poifonous quality, and may in fome degree affed! the
milk : but if people are fo obdinate as to perfid in
ufing them, they fhould never forget to fcald them,
fcrub them well with fait and water, and to dry them
thoroughly, before they depofit the milk therein. In¬
deed all the utenfils diould be cleaned in like manner
before they are ufed ; and if after this, they in the lead
degree fmell four, they mud undergo a fecond fcrub-
bing before they are fit for ufe.
DAIS, a genus of plants belonging to the decandria
cla.'s ; and in the natural method ranking under the
3 id order, Veprecula. See Botany Index.
DAISY. See Bellis, Botany Index.
DAKIR, in our datutes, is ufed for the twentieth
part of a la’ll of hides. According to the ftatute of
51 Hen. III. De compo/ltione ponderum et menfurarun7t
a lad of hides confids of twenty dakirs, and every da-
kir of ten hides. But by 1 jac. cap. 33. one lad of
hides or fkins is twelve dozen. See Dicker.
DALACA, an ifland of the Red fea, which is faid
to be very fertile, populous, and remarkable for a
pearl fifliery. It is probably the fame with Dahalac,
which fee.
DALBERGIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
diadelphia clafs.
DALEA, a province of Sw'eden, bounded on the
north by Dalecarlia, on the ead by the Wermeland
and the lake Wener, on the fouth by Gothland, and
on the north by Norway and the fea.
DALEBURG, a town of Sweden, and capital of
the province of Dalea, feated on the wedern batik of
the lake Wener, 50 miles north of Gottcnburg. E.
Long. 13. o. N. Lat. 59. o.
DALECARLIA, a province of Sweden, fo called
from a river of the fame name, on which it lies, near
Norway. It is divided into three parts, which they
call valleys ; and is about 175 miles in length and 100
in breadth. It is full of mountains, which abound in
mines of copper and iron, fome of which are of a pro¬
digious depth. The towns are very fmall, and Idra is
the capital. The inhabitants are rough, robud, and
warlike : and all the great revolutions in Sweden had
their rife in this province. The river riles in the Dof-
rine mountains, and, running fouth-ead through the pro¬
vince, falls into the gulf of Bothnia.
DALECHAMP, James, a phyfician, was born at
Caen in Normandy, in 1513. He was didinguiihed
for his indultry in botany, as wHl as in other branches*
of literature. Pie wrote notes on Pliny’s Natural Hif-
tary, and trandated Athenaeus into Latin. He added
30 plates of rare plants to the Diofcorides of Rutllius,
printed in 1552. After his death appeared his'“ Hif-
tona generalis Plantarum in xviii. hbros digejla” Lugd.
1587, two vols folio. In this work, which is faid to
have been the labour of 30 years, the author propofed
to include all the botanical difcoveries previous to his
owm time, as well as thofe which he had made himfelf.
in the vicinity of Lyons and the Alps. Pie alfo pub-
lidied editions of “ Paulus iEgineta,” and Cselius Au-
relianus, wuth notes 5 a wTork on furgery, and another
De PeJie, Y\b. iii.
Pie pradbfed phyfic at Lyons from 1552 to 1558,
when be died, aged 75.
DALECHAMPIA, a genus of plants belonging
to the monoecia clafs ; and in the natural method rank¬
ing under the 38th order, Tricoccie. See Botany
Index.
DALEM, a towm of the united provinces of Hol¬
land, and capital of a diltridl of the fame name. It
was taken by the French in 1672, who demolilhed the
fortifications. It is feated on the river Bervine, five
miles north-eaft of Liege. E. Long. 5. 59. N. Lat.
50. 40.
D’ALEMBERT. See Alembert.
DALKEI PH, a town of Scotland, in Mid-Lothian,
fix miles louth-eaft of Edinburgh 5 W. Long. 2. 20.
N. Lat. 55 50. It is the principal refidence of the
duke of Buccleugh, who has here a noble houfe and
extenfive parks. In this houfe, which at the time was
the head quarters of General Monk, the reftoration
of Charles II. was' planned.—The duke’s eldeft fon
has the title of Earl of Dalkeith. Here is a confider-
able corn market weekly on Thurfdays, which fupplies
in part both Edinburgh and Glafgow.
DALMATIA, a province of Europe, bounded on
tha-
Dalbergia
11.
Dalkeith.
DAL
f 56 ]
DAL
Dalrymple.the north by Bofnia, on the fouth by the gulf of Ve-
n*ce^ on the eaft by Servia, and on the weft by Mor-
lachia. Spalatro is the capital of that part belonging
to the Venetians •, and Raguza, of a republic of that
name ; the Turks have a third, whofe capital is Herze¬
govina. The air is wholefome, and the foil fruitful ;
and it abounds in wine, corn, and oil.
D VLRYMPLE, Sir David, a Scottifh lawyer and
judge was born in Edinburgh, on the 28th Oaober new
ftyle, 1726. His father was Sir James Dalrymple, of
Hailes, Bart, and his mother Lady Chriftian Hamilton,
a daughter of the earl of Hadington. His grandfather
Sir David Dalrymple was the youngeft fon of the firft
Lord Stair, and is faid to have been the ableft of that
family, fo much diftinguilh^d for ability. He was
lord 'advocate for Scotland, in the reign of George I.
and his fon, Sir James had the auditorlhip of the ex¬
chequer for life. Sir David Dalrymple was bred at
Eton fchool, where he was diftinguiftied as a fcholar,
and remarkable as a virtuous and orderly youth ; from
thence he went to the univerfity of Utrecht, where he
remained till after the rebelliorj in 1746. He was cal¬
led to the bar at Edinburgh, 23d February 1748 J where
he was much admired for the elegant propriety of the
cafes he drew. He did not attain indeed to the high-
eft rank as a praftifing lawyer, but his charafter for
found knowledge and probity in the profeflion was
great. He was appointed one of the judges or the
Court of Seflion in the room of Lord Nelbit, Marcn
6th 1776. with the warmeft approbation of the public ;
and in May 1776, one of the lords commiflioners of
fufticiary, in the room of Lord Coalfton, who refign-
ed. He took his feat on the bench, according to the
ufage of the Court of Seflion, by the title of Lord
Hailes, the name by which he is generally known a-
mong the learned of Europe. As a judge of the iu-
fuch dexterity of argument, as clearly to eftabhfh theDalryf^e*
right of his pupil, and to form a precedent, at the
fame time, for the decifion of all fuch queftions in fu¬
ture. In the year 1773? ^ie publiftied a fmall volume,
entitled, “ Remarks on the Hiftory of Scotland.”
Thefe appeared to be the gleanings of the hiftorical
refearch which he was making at that time, and dit-
covered his lordftrip's turn for minute ano. accurate in¬
quiry into doubtful points of hiftory, and at the lame
time difplayed the candour and liberality ol his judge¬
ment. This publication prepared the public for the
favourable reception of the Annals of. Scotland, in
2 vols 4to, the firft of which appeared in 1776, and
the fecond in I779> an(^ fully anfwered the expecta¬
tions which he had raifed. The difficulties attending
the fubjeft, the want of candour, and the fpirit.ot *
party, had hitherto prevented our having a genuine
hiftory of Scotland, in times previous to thofe of Queen
Mary ; which had been lately written, in a mafterly
manner, by the elegant and judicious Dr Robertlon.
Lord Hailes carried his attention to the Scottilh hi¬
ftory, as far back as to the acceffion of Malcolm Can-
more, in 1057, and his work contains the annals of
14 princes, from Malcolm III. to ti»e. dea.h of
David II. And happy it wras that the affairs of Scot¬
land attrafled the talents of fo able a wuiter, .w ho to
the learning and fkill of a lawyer, joined the induftry
and curiofity of an antiquarian ; to whom no objedf
appears fiivolous or unimportant, that ferves to eluci¬
date his fubjeft. Lord Hailes has fo well authenti¬
cated his work by references to hiftonans of good
credit, or deeds and writings of undoubted authority ;
and has fo happily cleared it from fable, uncertainty,
and conjeflure, that every Scotfman, fince its appear¬
ance, has been able to trace back,, with confidence m
genuine memoirs, the hiftory of his country, for^ 736
mong the learned of Europe. As a judge o tne.iu- ^ of the refpCaable
p^e -1 and cnW h. ^ ^ indefaUg»u. and
of his country ; from which he merited, and obtained
high confidence and approbation.
But he was not only confpicuous as an able and'up-,
right judge, and a found lawyer •, he was alfo eminent
as a profound and accurate fcholar *, being a thorough
matter’ of claffical learning, the belles lettres, and
hiftorical antiquities-y particularly of his own country,
to the ftudy of w’hich he was led by ms. prortlhon.
Indefatigable in the profecution of the ftudies he culti¬
vated, his time was feduloufly devoted to the promo¬
tion of ufeful learning, piety, and virtue. Numerous
are the works that have iffued from his pen, all of them
diftinguiffied by uncommon accuracy, tafte, and learn¬
ing Befides fome occafional papers, both lerious
and humorous, of his compofing, that appeared in the
World ; and a variety of communications, critical, and
biographical, in the Gentleman’s Magazine, and other
publications of like nature ; he allotted Lome part , of
his time to the illuftration and defence of primitive
Chriftianity. In the year 1771 he compofed a very
learned and ingenious paper, or law-cale, in the dii-
puted peerage of Sutherland. He was one of the
truftees of the Lady Elizabeth, the daughter o. the
laft earl •, and being then a judge., tlm names of two
eminent lawyers were annexed to it. In tbit cate, he
difplaved the greateft accuracy of refe.arch, and the
xnoft profound knowledge of the antiquities and rules
of defcent, in this country *, which he managed w ith
judge, who with indefatigable induftry, and painful
labour, has removed the rubbifti under which the pre¬
cious remains were concealed.
Lord Hailes at firft intended, as appears by an ad-
vertifement prefixed to his work, to carry down his An¬
nals to the acceffion of James I. but to the great dif-
appointment of the public, he flopped ftiort at the death
of David II. and a very important period of our hiftory
ftill remain^ to be filled.up by an able writer. Lord
Hailes’s Annals of Scotland, it is believed, ftand un¬
rivalled in the Englifti language, for a purity and fim-
plicity of ftyle, an elegance, perlpicmty, and concue-
nefs of narration, that particularly fuited the form of
his work ; and is entirely void of that fahe ornament
and (lately gait, which makes the works of iome other
writers appear in gigantic, but fiftitious majel y. n
1786, Lord Hailes came forward with the excellent
DrWatfon, and other writers.in England, rePel
Mr Gibbon’s attack on Chriftianity, and publfthed a
4to volume, entitled, “ An Enquiry into the Secon¬
dary caufes which Mr Gibbon, has affigned for the ra-
pid Progrefs of Chriftianity,” m which theie is a great
difplay of literary acumen, and of zeal for the can ft he
efpouies, without the rancour of theological contro-
verfy. This was the laft work he fent from the prefs,
except a few biographical {ketches of. eminent Scotch¬
men defigned as fpecimens of a Biographic, Scotico,
which he juftly confidered as a defideratum in ouiMi-
DAL t 57 J DAM
t>alfymple. terature ; and which it is much to be regretted, the in-
’ ' » 1 firmities of age, increafing faft upon him, did not allow
him to fupply j for he was admirably qualified for the
undertaking, not only by his Angular diligence and
candour, but from the uncommon extent and accuracy
of his literary and biographical knowledge : in which,
it is believed, he excelled all his contemporaries.
Although his lordlhip’s conftitution had been long
in an enfeebled date, he attended his duty on the bench
till within three days of his death, which happened on
the 29th of November 1792, in the 66th year of his
age. His lordlhip was twice married. By his firft
wife, Anne Brown, daughter of Lord Coalfton, he left
ifiueone daughter, who inherits the family eftate. His
fecond marriage, of which there is ifiue alfo one
daughter) was to Helen Ferguffon, youngeft daughter
of Lord Kilkerran, who furvived him. Though our
church does not encourage funeral difcourfes in gene¬
ral, becaufe they are liable to much abufe, a very
laudable endeavour was made, in thefe degenerate
times, to render his lordfhip’s pre-eminent talents and
virtues a theme of inftruftion to mankind, in a fermon
preached, foon after his death, in the church of In-
verefk, by his learned friend, and venerable pallor,
Dr Carlyle 5 from which we lhall tranfcribe a fum-
mary view of his charafter as a judge, a fcholar, a
Chriftian, and a citizen. “ His knowledge of the
laws was accurate and profound, and he applied it in
judgment with the moll fcrupulous integrity. In his
proceedings in the criminal court, the fatisfaction he
gave to the public could not be furpaffed. His ab¬
horrence of crimes, his tendernefs for the criminals,
his refpe£l for the laws, and his reverential awe of the
Omnifcient Judge, infpired him on fome occafions,
with a commanding fublimity of thought, and a feeling
folemnity of exprellion, that made condemnation feem
jult, as the doom of Providence, to the criminals
themfelves, and railed a falutary horror of crimes in
the breads of the audience. Confcious of the dignity
and importance of the high office he held, hp never
departed from the decorum that becomes that reverend
character : which indeed it coll him no effort to fup-
port, becaufe he a£led from principle and fentiment,
both public and private. Affectionate to his family and
relations, fimple and mild in his manners, pure and
confcientious in his morals, enlightened and entertain¬
ing in his converfation j he left fociety only to regret,
that, devoted as he was to more important employ¬
ments, he had fo little time to fpare for intercourfe
with them. He was well known to be of high rank
in the republic of letters, and his lots will be deeply
felt through many of her departments. His labours in
illullration of the hillory of his country, and many
other works of profound erudition, remain as monu¬
ments of his accurate and faithful refearch for mate¬
rials, and his found jugdment in the feleftion of them.
Gf his unfeigned piety and devotion, you have very
often been witneffes where we now are. I mull add,
however, that his attendance on religious ordinances,
was not merely out of refpeft to the laws, and for
the fake of example, (motives which Ihould never fail
to have influence on perfons of fuperior rank, for the
moll obvious reafons) but from principle and con¬
viction, and the mod confcientious regard to his duty ;
for he not only praClifed all the virtues and charities
Vot. VII. Part L
in proof of his faith, but he demonltrated the fincerity Dalrymple
of his zeal, by the uncommon pains he took to illullrate
primitive Chrillianity, and by his elaborate and able , , . ‘ il-j
defences of it againft its enemies. His profound re-
fearches into hillory, and his thorough knowledge of
the laws, made him perfectly acquainted with the pro-
grefs of the conllitution of Britain, from the firll
dawn of liberty in the common law of the land, and
the trial by jury, which precede all written records,
and afterwards in the origin and eftablilhment of par¬
liaments, through all its viciffitudes and dangers, till at
lall, by the bleffing of divine Providence, which
brought many wonderful events to concur to the fame
end, it was renewed, llrengthened, and finally con¬
firmed by the Revolution. It was this goodly and ve¬
nerable fabric of the Britilh conllitution, which the
deceafed moll refpeClable charaCler contemplated with
admiration and delight, (of late indeed with a mixture
of anxiety and fear) as the temple of piety, as the ge¬
nuine fource of greater happinefs and freedom, to a
larger portion of mankind, than ever flowed from any
government upon earth. Ill indeed can the times
bear the lofs of luch an affeClionate patriot, and able
guardian of the laws of his country. But we mull
not murmur at the will of Providence, which in its
mercy may have withdrawn the good man from the
evil to come. In mercy, I fay, to him, whofe righte¬
ous fpirit was fo deeply grieved, when he faw the
wicked rage, and the people imagine a vain thing.”
Such is the memorial which, in the hour of recent
forrow, followed this excellent man to the grave ! Be-
fide the works already mentioned, Lord Hailes publilh-
ed a great number of others, which confilled chiefly of
re-editions and tranllation of old works, and editions of
MS. papers.
DALTON, a town of Lancalhire, in England. It
is feated on the fpring-head of a river, in a champaign
country, not far from the fea j and the ancient callle
is made ufe of to keep the records, and prifoners for
debt in the liberty of Fumes. W. Long. 3. o.
N. Lat. 54. 18.
Dalton, John, D. D. an eminent divine and poet,
was the fon of the Rev. Mr John Dalton, reflor of
Dean near Whitehaven in Cumberland, where he was
born in 1709. He was educated at Queen’s College,
Oxford ; and became tutor or governor to the Lord
Beauchamp, only fon of the earl of Hertford, late
duke of Somerfet ; during which time he adapted
Milton’s admirable malk of Comus to the ftage, by a
judicious infertion of feveral fongs and different paffages
fele£led from other of Milton’s works, as well as of
feveral fongs and other elegant additions of his own,
fuited to the charaflers and to the manner of the ori¬
ginal author. During the run of this piece he indullri-
oufly fought out a grand-daughter of Milton’s, who
wras then oppreffed with age and poverty j and .pro¬
cured her a benefit from it, the profits of which a-
mounted to a very confiderable fum. He rvas promo¬
ted by the king to*a prebend of Worceller ; wdrere he
died on the 22d of July 1763. Befides the above, he
wrote a deferiptive poem, addreffed to two ladies at
their return from viewing the coal-mines near White¬
haven 5 and Remarks on 12 hiftorical defigns of Ra¬
phael, and the Mufeum Grcecum et Egyptiacum.
DAM, a boundary or confinement, as to dam up or
H dam
DAM
[ 53 1
DAM
Damage
II.
Damatcus.
dam Out. Infra damnum fuutn, within the bounds or
limits of his own property or jurifdiftion.
DAMAGE, in Law, is generally underftood of.a
hurt or hinderance attending a perfon’s eftate : but, in
common lav\T, it is a part of what the jurors are to in¬
quire of in giving verdnfl for the plaintiff or defendant
in a civil action, whether real or perfonal j lor after
giving verd’61 on the principal caufe, they are hkewife
afked their confciences touching cofts and damages,
which contain the hinderances that one party hath fuf-
fered from the wrong done him by the other. See
Costs. t- n. t j*
DAMAN, a maritime town of the Eaft Indies, at
the entrance into the gulf of Cambay. It is divided
by the river Daman into two parts ; one of which is
called New Daman, and is a handfome town, well
fortified, and defended by a good Portuguefe garrifon.
The other is called Old Daman, and is very ill built.
There is a harbour between the two towns, defended
bv a fort. It was taken by the Portuguefe in 1535.
The Mogul has attempted to get poffeflion of it ieveral
times, but always without effe£I. E. Long. 72. 35.
N. Lat. 21. 5.
DAMASCENUS, John, an illuftrious lather ot
the church in the 8th century, born at Damafcus,
where his father, though a Chrilfian, enjoyed the office
of counfellor of Hate to the Saracen caliph •, to which
the fon fucceeded. He retired afterwards to the mo-
naftery of St Sabas, and fpent the remainder of his life
in writing books of divinity. His works have been often
printed : but the Paris edition in 1712, two vols folio,
is efteemed the belt. _ ,
DAM ASCI US, a celebrated heathen philoiopher,
born at Damafcus in the year 540, when the Goths
reigned in Italy. Pie wrote the life of his mailer Ifi-
dorus 5 and dedicated it to Theodora, a very learned
and philofophical lady, who had alfo been a pupil to
Jfidorus. In this life, which was copioully written, he
frequently made oblique attacks on the. Chriftian reli¬
gion. We have nothing remaining of it but fome ex-
trafls preferved by Photius. Damafcius fucceeded
Theon in the rhetorical fchool, and Ifidorus in that ot
philofophy, at Athens. . _ . . .
DAMASCUS, a very ancient city oi Syria, in A-
fia, feated in E. Long. 47. 18. N. Lat. 35. o. Some
of the ancients fuppofe this city to have been built by
one Damafcus, from whom it took its name 5 but the
mod generally received opinion is, that it was found¬
ed by Uz the eldeft fon of Aram. It is certain, from
Gen. xiv. 5. that it was in being in Abraham’s time,
and confequently may be looked upon as one of the
mod ancient cities in the world. In the time of King
David it feems to have been a very confiderable place *,
as the facred hidorian tells us, that the Syrians of Da¬
mafcus fent 20,000 men to the relief of Hadadtzer
king of Zobah. We are not informed whether at that
time it was governed by kings, or was a republic. A -
terwards, however, it became a monarchy which pro¬
ved very troublefome to the kingdom of Ifrael, and
would even have dedroyed it entirely, had not tne Dei¬
ty miraculoufiy interpofed in its behalf- ^.t lad this
monarchy was dedroyed by Tiglath Pilefer king of
Aflyria, and Damafcus was never afterwards governed
by its own kings. From the Affyrians and Babylonians
it paffied to the Perfians, and from them to the Greeks
under Alexander the Great. After his death it belong- Damafcus
ed, with the red of Syria, to the Seleucidse •, till t jeir ■Damajk<
empire was fubdued by the Romans, about 70 years be- ^,
fore Chrid. From them it was taken by the Saracens
in 633 ; and it is now in the hands of the Turks.—
Notwithdanding the tyranny of the Turkilh govern¬
ment, Damafcus is dill a confiderable place. It is fi-
tuated in a plain of fo great extent, that one can but
hid difcern the mountains which compafs it on the
other fide. It dands on the wed fide .of the plain,
about two miles from the head of the river Bariady,
which waters it. It is of a long, draight figure, extend¬
ing about two miles in length, adorned with moiques
and deeples, and encompaffed with gardens computed
to be full 30 miles round. The river Barrady, as foon
as it iffues from the clefts of the Antilibanus into the
plain, is divided into three dreams, whereof the mid*
dlemod and bigged runs diredly to Damafcus, and is
didributed to all the cifterns and fountains of the city.
The other two feem to be artificial 5 and are drawn
round, one to the right and the other to the left, on
the borders of the gardens, into which they are let by
little currents, and difperfed everywhere. The houfes
of the city, whofe dreets are very narrow, are all built
on the out fide either with fun-burnt brick or Flemidi
wall: and yet it is no uncommon thing to fee the
gates and doors adorned with marble portals, carved
and inlaid with great beauty and variety ; and within
thefe portals to find large fquare courts beautified with
fraorant trees and marble fountains, and companed
round with fplendid apartments. In thefe apartments
the ceilings are ufually richly painted and gilded.; and
their duans, which are a fort of low dages feated in the
pleafanted part of the room, and elevated about 16 or
18 inches above the door, whereon the Turks eat, deep,
fay their prayers, Sec. are doored, and adorned on the
fides with variety of marble mixed in mofaic knots and
mazes, fpread with carpets, and furnifhed all round
with holders and cufhions, to the very height of luxu¬
ry. In this city are ffiown the church of John the Bap-
tid, now converted into a famous mofque ; the houfe
of Ananias, which is only a fmall grotto or cellar,
wherein is nothing remarkable ; and the houie or Ju¬
das with whom Paul lodged. In this lad is an old
tomb, fuppofed to be that of Ananias ; which the
Turks hold in fuch veneration, that they keep a lamp
continually burning over it. There is a cadle belong¬
ing to Damafcus, which is like a little town, having
its^ own dreets and houfes; and in this cafile a maga-
of the famous Damafcus deel was formerly kept.
The fruit-tree called the damafeene, and the flower
called the damafkrofe, were tranfplanted from thegar-
dens belonging'to this city *, and the filks and linens
known by the name of damafus, were probably invented
by the inhabitants.
Damascus Steel. See Damask.
DAM ASIA, in Ancient Geography, a town ot
Vindelicia, on the Licus. Afterwards ciWz&AuguJta.
Now Augjburg in Suabia, on the Lech. E. Long.
10. 50. N. Lat. 48. 20. . r
DAMASK, a fort of filken duff, having fome parts
raifed above the ground, reprefenting othfr
fioures. Damalk diould be of dreffed filks, both in
warp and woof. It has its name from its being ori¬
ginally brought from Damafcus in Syria. There
DAM [ 59 1 DAM
Damafk There is alfo a fluff in France called the caffart da-
Damiens made imitation of the true damafk, having
 woof of hair, coarfe filk, thread, wool, or cotton. Some
have the warp of filk and the woof of thread 5 others
are all thread or all wool.
Damask is alfo a kind of wrought linen, made in
Flanders; fo called, becaufe its large dowers referable
thofe of damafks. It is chiefly ufed for tables; a ta¬
ble cloth and a dozen of napkins are called a damajk-
fervice.
Damask is alfo applied to a very fine fteel, in fome
parts of the Levant, chiefly at Damafcus in Syria :
whence its name. It is uled for fword and cutlafs
blades, and is finely tempered.
DAMASKEENING, or Damasking, the art or
operation of beautifying iron, fteel, &c. by making
incifions therein, and filling them up with gold or filver
wire ; chiefly ufed for adorning fword-blades, guards
and gripes, locks of piftols, &c.
Damafkeening partakes of the mofaic, of engraving,
and of carving : like the mofaic, it has inlaid work ;
like engraving, it cuts the metal, reprefenting divers
figures; and, as in chafing, gold and filver is wrought
in relievo. There are two ways of damafking : the
one, which is the fineft, is when the metal is cut deep
with proper inftruments, and inlaid with gold and filver
wire : the other is fuperficial only.
DAMELOPRE, a kind of bilander, ufed in Hol¬
land for conveying rnerchandife from one canal to ano¬
ther ; being very commodious for pafling under the
bridges.
I)AMIANISTS, iii church-hiftory, a branch of
the ancient acephali feveritse. They agreed with the
catholics in admitting the fixth council, but difowned
any diftin&ion of perfons in the Godhead ; and pro-
feffed one Angle nature, incapable of any difference :
yet they called God “ the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghoft.”
DAMIENS, Robert Fran^ais, an affaflin by
whom Louis XV. of France was wounded in the year
1757. He was born in the fuburbs of Arras, in the
year 1714; and feems rather to have been adluated by
phrenzy or infanity in the perpetration of the horrid
deeds of which he w^as guilty, than by any of the mo¬
tives to which they have been afcribed. This fpirit
appeared in the early period of his life ; and fuch w^ere
the extravagance and violence of his condudt, that he
was diftinguifhed, while a boy, by the appellation of
Robert the Devil.
When he grew up he entered into the army, ferved
as a foldier at the fiege of Philipfburgh, and was pre-
fent at feveral engagements. He returned afterwards
to France, and became a domeftic fervant in the col-
lege of Jeluits at Paris. He married in 1738, which
rendered it neceffary for him to refign this fervice.
He was then employed in the fame capacity by diffe¬
rent mafters, one of whom, it is faid, he poifoned ;
and having robbed another, he was obliged to abfcond
to efcape the punifliment due to his crimes. During
a period of five months after the difcovery of the rob-
bery, he lurked in the neighbourhood of St Omer,
Dunkirk, and Bruffels ; and was obferved to exprefs
himfelf in an abfurd and incoherent manner concern¬
ing fome difputes which at this time prevailed in France.
1 he following folilociuy is faid to have been uttered
by him in a fmall town near Ypres ; ** If I return to Damiens.
France—Yes, I will return, I will die there, and the   
greateft man on earth fliall die likewife, and you fliall
hear news of me.” Thefe expreflions were uttered in
the month of Auguft 1756 ; and it is probable that
they were regarded at the time only as the ravings of
a madman. He fpoke indeed in a fimilar drain in the
December following, at the houfe of a relation, at
Falefque near Arras, faying, “ That the kingdom,
his wife, and daughter were all ruined!” It was a-
bout this time that he fet out for Paris, and arrived
there on the °f December. He was feen at Ver-
failles, on the firft day of January 1757. To blunt
his feelings, and to prepare himfelf for the perpetration
of the horrid a£I, it is faid that he fwallowcd opium
for feveral days. But the ftate of mind in which.
Damiens is defcribed to have been for fome time be¬
fore, feemed-to render fuch auxiliaries unneceffary.
It was on the 5th of January, between five and fix
in the evening, that Louis XV. was wounded by the
hand of this frantic afTaflin. Fie ftruck with a knife
the right fide of the king, while he was furrounded
with his courtiers, and juft as he w as entering his car¬
riage to go to Trianon. Damiens was inftantly leized,
examined at Verfailles, and afterwards fent to Paris
and confined in the tower of Montgommeri, in an a-
partment prepared for him, near to that which w^as for¬
merly occupied by Ravaillac the murderer of Hen¬
ry IV. The great court of parliament W'as charged
by the king to inftitute his procefs; and although he
was fubje&ed to the moft cruel toitures, which he bore
with unexampled fortitude, no confeflion or acknow'-
ledgment could be extorted which afforded the fmalleft
ground for fufpicion that he had a Angle accomplice.
When it was found that the torture failed of the pur-
pofe for which it was inflidled, he was condemned to
die by the fame punifhment which Ravaillac fufiered.
The 28th of March following was fixed as the day
of his execution. On that day he was brought to the
Place de Greve, where the apparatus and inftruments
of his deftruftion were prepared. All thefe he beheld
with an undifmayed countenance and a tearlefs eye,
although he muft have known well that new and more
dreadful tortures yet awaited him. His punifhment
commenced with burning his right hand ; his flefli was
then torn with red-hot pincers ; and the wounds were
filled with melted wax, pitch, and lead. In attempt¬
ing to quarter his body, the four horfes which were
employed pulled in vain for 50 minutes. All their
efforts ieemed to be ineffedlu-l, till the executioners
cut with knives the ligaments with which the limbs
are attached to the body. Even after the legs were
cut he w'as ftill alive, and it was only after the arms
were treated in the fame way that he ceafed to breathe,
and his body was difmembered. The period of his pu¬
nifhment, from the time he was put upon the fcaffold
till his death, was not lefs than an hour and a half;
during the greater part of it he feemed to retain his
1 ecolleftion ; for he raifed his head many times, and
caft his eyes on his mangled and burned limbs, and on
the horfes which were then exerting their whole force
to tear his body afunder. And even during the fe¬
vered of his tortures, the firmnefs of his mind was fo
little fhaken, that he aifedled fome degree of jocula¬
rity.
H 2
Thus
DAM [ 60
Bamiens, Thus perWhed this unfortunate affaffin, the hiftory
Damietta. 0f whofe life, confidered in itfelf, is fcarcely worthy
    1 of a place even for the Ihorteft Iketch ; and indeed we
fhould probably not have introduced it here, were it
not for the purpofe of reaifying the miftaken views of
forae of his biographers. While we are told that he
was an infane affaffm, he is charged with the fame de¬
cree of guilt, as if he had been all his life in full pol-
fefTion of every rational faculty. But the events of his
life leave no doubt of his infanity j and the laft horrid
deed which he perpetrated ftrongly confirms it. He
was not a floated by either public or private revenge •,
he had no accomplices ; and it does not appear that he
had any purpofe whatever to ferve by taking away the
life of the monarch, even if he had fucceeded and el-
caped. In the midft of his moll cruel tortures, he ob-
llinately perfifted that it was not his intention to kill
the king. According to his own fanatical language,
he wifhed that God would touch his heart to induce
him to give peace to his kingdom. Our readers will
probably anticipate us in remarking the needlefs excefs
of lingering punilhment which was inflifted on the infane
Damiens •, and fome of them will perhaps be furprifed
to be told that the execution was attended by lome ot
the ladies of the court. Many of them too will natu¬
rally compare this event with what has happened more
lately in our own country •, and rec°lle^ .that a Nl*
cholfon and a Hadfield, influenced by a fimilar frenzy
which urged them to a fimilar attempt, have been on¬
ly doomed to perpetual confinement, not as a pumlh-
ment, but merely to preclude^ the poflfibility of P^r.Pe-
trating fuch deeds j becaufe in fuch a ftate of mind
they are not recognized by our milder and more equi¬
table laws, as rational beings •, and therefore they are
improper objeas of punilhment. . „
DAMIETTA, a port-town of Egypt, fituated on
the eaftern mouth of the river Nile, four miles from the
fea and IOO miles north of Grand Cairo. E. Long.
’ and N. Lat. 3T. The prefent town ftands upon
a different fite from the ancient Damietta, fo repeated¬
ly attacked by the European princes. I he latter ac¬
cording to Abulfeda, was “ a town furrounded by
walls, and fituated at the mouth of the eaftern branch
of the Nile.” Stephen of Byzantium informs us, that
it was called Thamiatis under the government ot the
Greeks of the lower empire, but that it was then very
inconfiderable. It increafed in importance every day,
in proportion as Pelufrum, which was frequently plun¬
dered ^ loft its power. The total ruin of that ancient
town occaftoned the commerce of the eaftern parts of
the Delta to be transferred to Damietta. It was how¬
ever, no longer a place of ftrength, when, towards the
year 238 of the Hegira, the emperors of Conftantino-
ple took pofleflion of it a fecond time. The import¬
ance of a harbour fo favourably fituated opened the
eyes of the caliphs. In the year 244 of the Hegira,
Elmetouakkel furrounded it with ftrong walls. This
obftacle did not prevent Roger king of Sicily from ta¬
king it from the Mahometans in the year 550 of the
Hegira. He did not, however, long enjoy his con-
queft Salah Eddin, who about that period mounted
the. throne of Egypt, expelled the Europeans from Da¬
mietta. Fifteen years after they returned to befiege
it *, but this able fultan baffled all their efforts. No -
withftanding their land army was fupported by a fleet
]
dam
of 1200 fail, they were obliged to make a difgraceful Damiet^
^^rwas the fate of this place to be conftantly be-
fieeed. In the year 615 of the Hegira, under the
reign of Eladel, the crufaders attacked it with a very
confiderable force. They landed on the weftern ftiore
of the Nile; and their firft care was to furround their
camp with a ditch and pallifado. The mouth of the
river was defended by two towers, furniftied with nu¬
merous garrifons. An enormous iron chain, ftretch-
ing frorn one fide to the other, hindered the approach
of veffels. The crufaders carried by ftorm the tower
on the fame fide with their camp, broke the chain,
and opened the entrance of the river for their fleet
Neim Eddin, the fultan’s fon, who was encamped near
Damietta, covered it with an army. To flop the ene¬
mies veffels he threw a bridge over the Nile. The
Franks overturned it, and the prince adopted the mea-
fure of choking up the mouth of the river, which he
almoft rendered impaffable by feveral large boats he funk
there. After alternate and various fuccefies many
bloody battles, and a fiege of 17 nionths the Chriftian
princes took Damietta by ftorm. They did not, how¬
ever, long enjoy the fruit of fo much blood Ipilt, and of
an armament which had coft immenfe turns. Completely
invefted near the canal of Achmoun by the waters of
the Nile and by the Egyptian army, they pmchafed their
lives and their liberty by the facnfice of thar conqueft.
One-and-thirty years after this defeat St Louis car¬
ried Damietta without ftnking a ftroke. The Arabs,
however, foon recovered it ; but tired of keeping a
place which continually drew upon them the moi-
warlike nations of Europe, they totally deftroyed it
and rebuilt it further up in the country. This “odern
Damietta, firft called Menchie, as Abulfeda tells u ,
has preferved the memory of its origin in a fquare ft.il
called by that name. Writers in general have con¬
founded thefe two towns, afcribing to the one the at¬
tributes of the other. The modern Dam.etta is round¬
ed in a femicircle on the eaftern bank of the ^ ^ °
leagues and a half from the mouth of it. The eye,
placed at one of the extremities of the crefcent, takes
fn its whole extent. It is reckoned to contain 80,000
fouls. It has feveral fquarcs, the mott conffflerable of
which has retained the name of Menchie. The bazars
are filled with merchants. spac1ous or^W,
colleaing under their porticoes the fluffs of India, the
inks of Mount Lebanon, fal ammomac, and pyram,ds
of rice, proclaim that it is a commero.al town. The
houfes tiiofe in particular which are on the banks o
the river, are very lofty. They have in general hand-
fome faloons built on the top ot their terraces^ wh ch
are cheerful belvideres, open to every wind, whe e h=
Turk, effeminately reclining on a fopha, paifo h s h e
in fmoking, ,n looking on ^“"nds U-
the°other,e*and on L Nile, which, tunning
between ^I'dffperifd
ove^the town. The public baths, lined with marble,
are diftributed in the fame manner as thole of Grand
Cairo The linen you are ferv,ed with is clean, and
fhe water very pure. The heat and the treatment m
ttem fo far from injuring the health, lerve to ftrength-
en, nay even to improve it, it uied with moderation.
DAM [ 61 ] DAM
This cuftom, founded on experience, is general in
*   Egypt.
The port of Damietta is continually filled with a
multitude of boats and fmall vefiels. Thole called
fcherrn ferve to convey the merchandife on board the
{hips in the road, and to unload them j the others car¬
ry on the coafting-trade. This town carries on a great
trade with Syria, with Cyprus, and Marfeilles. The
rice called me%elaoni, of the fined quality there is in
Egypt, is cultivated in the neighbouring plains. The
exports of it amount annually to about fix millions of
livres. The other articles of the produce of the coun¬
try are linens, fal ammoniac, corn, &c. A ruinous
policy for the country prohibits the exportation ot this
laft article ; but the law is evaded, and it pafies under
the name of rice.
The Chriltians of Aleppo and Damafcus, fettled in
this town, have for feveral ages carried on its principal
commerce. Turkilh indolence, content with extort¬
ing from them from time to time, fuffers them to be¬
come rich. The exportation of rice to foreign coun¬
tries is prohibited ; but by means of fome douceurs to
the cullomhoufe-officers, the people of Provence load
annually feveral (hips with it. The Boga* preventing
them from entering the Nile, their cargoes are con¬
veyed on board by the boats of the country. This in¬
convenience is the fource of endlefs vexation and abu-
fes. The boat, which is loaded in the evening with
rice of the firft quality, is frequently not that which
arrives at the fhip ; an inferior quality is fubftituted for
it during the night. The Marfeilles captains, aware
of thefe rogueries, without being able to prevent them,
endeavour to play off trick againft trick, fo that this
commerce has become a general fcene of knavery. But
the badnefs of the port is dill more detrimental to Da¬
mietta. The road where the veifels lie being expofed
to every wind, the dighted gale obliges the captains
to cut their cables and take (belter at Cyprus, or to
dand off to fea. It would be eafy, by cutting a canal
only of half a league, to open a paflage for drips into
the Nile, where there is deep water. This work,
which might be executed at very little expence, would
render Damietta a noble harbour j but defpotifm, in-
fenfible to the intered of the people, is always fur-
rounded by dedru&ion in its progrefs, and wTants both
the will and the power to create.
The tongue of land on which Damietta is fituated,
ftraitened on one fide by the river, and on the other
by the wedern extremity of lake Menzale, is only from
two to fix miles wide from ead to wed. It is inter¬
fered by innumerable rivulets in every direrion, which
render it the mod fertile fpot in Egypt. The foil
there produces, communibus annis, 80 bufiiels of rice for
one. The other produce is in the fame proportion.
It is there that nature, lavidfing profufely her pomp
and riches, prefents flowers, fruits, and harveds, at
every feafon of the year. Winter never deprives it of
thefe advantages j its beauties are never impaired by
fummer. Dedru&ive heats, as well as chilling colds,
are equally unknown in that happy fpot. The ther¬
mometer varies only from 9 to 24 degrees above the
freezing point. Damietta is indebted for this charm¬
ing temperature to the immenfe quantity of water
with which it is furrounded. The verdure is no¬
where fo frelh} the trees are nowhere covered with
fuch quantities of fruit. The riyulets around the Damtetta
fields of rice are lined with feveral kinds of reeds, j)an|gC|e„
fome of which rife to a great height. The reed ca/a- . -- —
mus is here found in abundance, which is made ufe of
for writing by the orientals. Its {lender dalks bear
long narrow leaves, which hang gracefully, and fpread-
ing branches covered with white flowers. Here alfo
are to be feen foreds of papyrus, of which the ancient
Egyptians made their paper. Strabo, who calls it
biblius, gives an accurate defcription of it. It is here
alfo that the lotus, of which the Arabs have preferved
the primitive name of nuphar, exalts its lofty dalk above
the wraters. Its large calyx blows either of an azure
blue or of a brilliant white, and it appears wdth the ma-
jedy of the king of the aquatic plants. The marflies
and the canals in the interior parts of the country are"
filled with this fuperb flower, which diffules a mod
agreeable odour.
There are a great many villages around Damietta,
in mod of which are marmfadtures where the mod
beautiful linens of the country are fabricated. The
fined napkins in particular are made there, fringed
with filk. You are lerved at table with them, but
tfpecially on ceremonial vifits, when the flave prefents
you with one to wipe your mouth with, after you have
drank your flierbet, or eat the Iweatmeats, w’hich are
carried round on a filver plate to all the company.
Thefe fmall towns, generally furrounded with little
w’oods, or trees promifcuoufly planted, form a w’him-
fical and pidlurelque affemblage. By the fide of the
lycamore and the melancholy tamarind, one fees the
elegant caflia tree, with its cluflers of yellow flowers,
like thofe of the cytifus. The top of the date-tree,
loaded with enormous bunches, rifes above the grove.
The caflra, with its fweet-fcented flower, grows under
its (hade. The orange and lemon trees cover the la¬
bourer’s cabin with their golden fruit. The banana-
tree with its long leaves, the pomegranate with its
fcarlet flower, and the fig-tree with its fugary fruit,
throw a vafl variety into thefe landfcapes.
DAMNII, anciently a people of Britain ; fituated
between the Selgovae to the fouth and the Caledonii
to the north. Now Clydefdale.
DAMNONII. See Danmonii.
DAMOCLES, one of the flatterers of Dionyfius
the Elder of Sicily. He admired the tyrant’s wealth,
and pronounced him the happieft: man on earth. Dio¬
nyfius prevailed upon him to undertake for a while the
charge of royalty, and be convinced of the happinefs
which a fovereign enjoyed. Damocles afcended the
throne, and while he gazed upon the wealth and fplen-
dor that furrounded him, he perceived a fword hang¬
ing over his head by a horfe hair. This fo terrified
him that all his imaginary felicity vanifhed at once, and
he begged Dionyfius to remove him from a fituation
which expofed his life to fuch fears and dangers.
DAMON, the name of feveral illuftrious ancients j
particularly of a Pythagorean philofopher very inti¬
mate with Pythias. When he had been condemned to
death by Dionyfius, he obtained from the tyrant leave
to go and fettle his domeftic affairs, on promife of re¬
turning at a ftated hour to the place of execution.
Pythias pledged himfelf to undergo the puniihment
which was to be inflidted on Damon, fhould he not re¬
turn in time, and he confequently delivered himfelf in-
I to
D A M
[ 62 1
dam
Diunpier, to the'hands of the tyrant. Damon returned at the ap-
'■■'■—v  pointed moment, and Dionyhus was fo flruck with the
fidelity of thofe two friends, that he remitted the pu-
r nilhment, and intreated them to permit him to fhare
their friendfhip and enjoy their confidence.
DAMPIER, William, an Englilh navigator, was
born at Eaft Coker in Somerfetihire, about the year
1652. His parents died tvhile he was young, and ha¬
ving thus become an orphan, he was removed from
the Latin fchool, and placed with the mafter of a {hip
at Weymouth. In this {hip he made a voyage to New¬
foundland y but, on his return, he left his mafter, with
the refolution, as he himfelf ohferves, of never again
expofing himfelf to the pinching cold of that northern
climate. As the acquifition of experience in the art
of nagivation was ever his great obje£l, he engaged
himfelf as a common failor in a voyage to the Eaft:
Indies. He ferved in the Dutch war under Sir Ed¬
ward Sprague, and was prefcnt at two engagements.
The declining ftate of his health would not permit him
to remain on board the fleet} he therefore came on
fhore, and removed to the country, where he remained
fome time. The year following he accepted an offer
of employment in Jamaica as an under manager of an
eftate j but he only continued a ftiort time in that fitu-
ation ; after which he engaged in a coafting trader,
and thus acquired an accurate knowledge of all the
ports and bays of that ifland. Soon after he entered
on board a veflel bound to the bay of Campeachy, and
returning a fecond time to the fame coaft, he remained
with the logwood-cutters, and engaged himfelf as a
common workman. During his flay in this country
be colle&ed the materials for the minute and intertft-
ing account which he has given of the laborious life
of tbefe people, as well as of the geographical de-
fcription and the natural biftory of the traft which
they occupy. .
Satisfied with the knowledge which he bad obtained
of the nature of the trade and country, he returned to
Jamaica, and from thence to England, where he ar¬
rived in 1678. About the beginning of the year fol¬
lowing he went out to Jamaica as a paffenger, with the
intention of revifiting the bay of Campeachy but he
was perfuaded to aflociate himfelf with a body, of
privateers, as they wrere called, who were then lying
in feveral veflels in a bay of that ifiand. T hefe peo¬
ple who were called privateers were pirates, who,
having no commiffion whatever from any government,
undertook a predatory warfare on the commerce and
lettlements of the Spaniards. This body of plunderers
was compofed of Englifli, Dutch, and French. In
this expedition Dampier crofled the illhmus of Darien
with his afibciates, and fpent the year 1680 on .the Pe¬
ruvian coaft, and w7as cccationally fuccefsful in plun¬
dering the towns. The following year, in confequence
of a diflenfion which arofe among, them, Dampier and
the minority with whom he had joined, recrofled the
i-fthmus, and entered with another fleet or privateers,
which w’as then ftationed on the Spamlh main *, and,
having fpent another yVar among the Weft. India
iHands, he, with fome others, proceeded to Virginia
in a fingle fhip to difpofe of their prize goods. Here
be remained for a year ; and afterwards engaged with
a Captain Cook, who, with about 70 men, undertook
an expedition againft the Spaniards in the oouth
They failed In 1683 in the month of Auguft, touched Dampier.
at the coaft: of Guinea, and then proceeded round Cape y——
Horn into the Pacific ocean. Having fallen in with
a ftiiip from London, wduch had failed on a ixniilar ex¬
pedition, they joined company ”, and, having touched
at the ifland of Jean Fernandez, they made the coaft
of South America, cruifing along Chili and Peru,
They took fome prizes, and with them they proceeded
to the Mexican coaft, which they fed in with near
Cape Blanco. While they lay here Captain Cook
died, and the command devolved on Captain Davis.
Having feparated from the London {hip, they were
joined by another commanded by Captain Swan. An
attempt to plunder the town ol Guaiaquil was unfuc-
cefsful, but'at the mouth of the river they took lome
veflels which had about 1000 flaves on board. With
thefe negroes Dampier propoled to work.the gold
mines in the neighbourhood of Santa Maria on tne
ifthmus of Darien, from which the Spaniards had been
driven away by fome privateers. But this plan was
not adopted. The next objeft of plunder was the
Spanifh fleet having on board the treasure of the Peru¬
vian mines \ but the Englilh being ill fupported oy
fome French {hips which had joined them, the fleet,
after a running fight, got fafe into Panama.
The Englilh Ihips afterwards cruifing along the
coaft of Mexico, landed, took the town of Puebla
Nova, and burnt two others. Dampier leaving Davis,
went on board of Swan’s ftiip, and proceeded with him
along the northern parts of Mexico, as far as . the
fouthern part of California. During this expedition
they frequently landed for the puvpofe of plunder, but
particularly when they were in want of provifions.
Returning from the plunder of one pjaee, 50 of the
party were killed by the Spaniards. 'Phis difafter fo
difeouraged them that they relinquilhed all farther at¬
tempts on thefe coafts. Swan then propofed to run
acrofs the Pacific ocean, and return by. the Eaft
Indies ; and in hopes of a fuccefsful crude off the
Manillas the crew were perfuaded, with a very {lender
provifion, to riik this long paflage. On the laft day of
March 1686, they took their departure from Cape
Corrientes, and on the ?zd day reached Guam, one ot
the Ladrone Hands. About this time the crew talked
of killing and eating Swan and the officers, in cale
their flock of provifion fliould be exhaufted before it
could be fupplied. From Guam they proceeded to
Mindanao. While the ffiip lay here a mutiny arofe
a mono' the crew, and the majority earned her oft, Swan
and fome of his people being left on the Hand. Among
the former was Dampier, although it is laid that he
had no concern in the mutiny. After cruizing iome
time off Manilla, and having careened their vefle! at
Polo Condore, in 1687 they were driven tothe L hinele
coaft, made the circuit of Luzonia and Mindanao,
paffed through the group of fpice Hands, and reached
the coaft of New Holland in the beginning of 1688.
They left this in March, and having paffed along the
weft co a ft of Sumatra, they arrived at tne Nicobar
Hands, where Dampier, at his own requeft, and two
other EngHflimen, a Portuguefe, and fome Malays,
were fet on {bore. Dampier’s objea was to eftablHi
a trade in ambergris. Attempting^ navigate a canoe
to Acheen in Sumatra, they were overtaken by a jev.ere
ftorm, in which they experienced great hardftnps.
DAM [ 63 ] DAM
Dampier. They at laft reached Sumatra j but the fatigues and conrfe of Trade-winds, Seafona, Tides, &c. in the
v diftrefs of the voyage proved fatal to feveral of them, Torrid Zone. 5. A Voyage to New Holland. His
who were carried off by a fever. Dampier himfelf obfervations are curious and important, and conveyed
was fcarcely recovered at the end of a twelvemonth. in a plain manly ftile. His nautical remarks dilcover
After making feveral voyages to different places of a great deal of profeffional knowledge. His know-
the Eaft Indies, he afted for fome time as gunner at ledge in natural hiftory is not fcientific ; but it ap-
the Englilh fort of Bencoolen. In 1691, wilhing to pears to be accurate, and has been frequently quoted,
revifit his native country, he embarked onboard a DAMPS, in (from the Saxon word
fliip for England, where he arrived in September. da*n[>, fignifying vapour or exhalation), are certain
At this time he brought with him a native of Meangis, noxious exhalations iffuing from fome parts of the
one of the fpice illands, who was fuppofed to be the earth, and which prove almoft inftantly fatal to thofe
fon of a chief, and after being exhibited aS a fight, died who breathe them.
of the. fmallpox at Oxford. Fhefe damps are chiefly obferved in mines and coal-
It is not known in what manner Dampier was em- pits j though vapours of the fame kind often iffue from
ployed fijr fome years after this period. It appears, old lavas of burning mountains, and, in thofe countries
however, that he was at laft engaged in the king’s where volcanoes are common, will frequently enter
fervice. He had the command of the Roebuck, a houfes, and kill people fuddenly without the leaf! warn-
Hoop of 12 guns and jo men. Phis veffel, it is fup- ing of their approach. In mines and coal pits they
pofed, was fitted out for fome voyage of difeovery, for are chiefly of two kinds, called by the miners and col¬
ine had 20 months provifions on board. He failed liers the choke andyfre damps; and both go under one
from Britain in 1699, touched at the coaft of Brafil, general name of foul air. The choke-damp, known in
and then ran acrofs to the coaft of New Holland, and modern chemiflry by the name of fixed air, os carbonic
arrived there on the iff of Augufl, about latitude 26*. and gas, ufually infefls thofe places which have been
He proceeded northwards along the coaft, exploring formerly worked, but long neglefted, and are called
the country in different places where he landed. To by the miners wafes. No place, however, can be
procure refrefhments he found it neceffary to dire<ff his reckoned fafe from this kind of damps, except where
courfe tovrards .Timor ; and from this he failed to the there is a due circulation of air ; and the procuring of
coaft of New Guinea, where he arrived on the 3d of this is the only proper means of preventing accidents
December. By failing along to its eafternmoft ex- from damps of all kinds. The choke-damp fuffocates
tremity, he difeovered that it was terminated by an the miners fuddenly, with all the appearances found in
ifla.nd., which he circumnavigated, and named New thofe that are fuffocated by fixed air. Being heavy,
Britain. . it defeends towards the loweft parts of the workings,
Here it would appear from his own journal that he and thus is dangerous to the miners, who can fcarce
encounteied confiderable difficulties from the fmall avoid breathing it. Theyfre damp, which is inflamma-
number of his men, and their eager defire to haften ble air, hydrogen gas, rifes to the roof of the wTork-
home. On account of thefe difficulties he was pre- ings, as being fpecifically lighter than the common
vented from profecuting his difcOveries. In May he atmofphere ; and hence, though it will fuffocate as
returned to I imor, and from thence proceeded home- wTell as the other, it feldom proves fo dangerous In
ward by Batavia and. the Cape of Good Hope. In this way as by its inflammable property, by wdiich it
February 170.1 he arrived off the ifland of Afcenfion, often takes fire at the candles, and explodes wfith ex-
where the veflel fprung a leak and foundered } and it treme violence.
was with much difficulty that the crew, reached the In the Phil. Tranf. N° 119. there is an account of
ifiand. They remained at Afcenfidn till they were fome explofions by damps of this kind, on which we
taken away by an Eaft India fhip, and conveyed to have the following obfervations. 1. Thofe who are in
England. This clo.fes. the account of Dampier’s life the place where the vapour is fired fuddenly find
and adventures, as it is detailed by himfelf. It ap- themfelves furrounded w-ith flames, but hear little or
pears, however, from the preface to the third volume, no noife j though thofe who are in places adjacent, or
t jat he was preparing in 1703 for another voyage. It above ground, hear a very great one. 2. Thofe who
is mentioned alfo in W.oodes Rogers’ Voyage round are furrounded by the inflamed vapour feel themfelves
the World, that Dampier had the command of a fhip fcorched or burnt, but are not moved out of their
m the South feas about the year 1705, along with places; though fuch as unhappily Hand in the way of
Captain Stradling,. whofe vefiel foundered at fea. it are commonly killed by the violence of the lliock,
Dampier accompanied Woodes Rogers in his voyage and often thrown with great force out at the mouth of
round the world,, in the years 1708,. 1709, 1710, and the pit 5 nor are the heavleft machines found able to re-
1711; but only in the capacity of pilot, which is fup- fift the impetuofity of the blaft. 3. No fmell is perceived
pofed to be owing to fomething faulty in his condutf. before the fire, but a very ftrong one of brimftone is
During this expedition Guaiaquil was taken, and Dam- afterwards felt. 4. The vapour lies towards the roof,
pier had the command of the artillery. Nothing far- and is not perceived if the candles are held low j but
ther is known of the life of Dampier ; and we are when thefe are held higher, the damp defeends like a
equally ignorant of the place and time of his death. black mift, and catches hold of the flame, lengthening
l he works of Dampier are well known, and have it to two or three handfuls; and this appearance ceafes
been often reprinted. They confift of, 1. A Voyage when the candles are held nearer the ground. 5. The
round the World, 3 vol. oftavo. 2. A Supplement flame continues in the vault for feveral minutes after
to it, delcnbmg the countries of Tonquin, Malacca, the crack. 6. Its colour is blue, fomething inclining
etc. 3. i wo Voyages to Campeacby. 4. A Dif- to green, and very bright. 7. On the explofion of the
vapour,
dam
f 64 ]
DAM
Bamps. vapour, a dark imoke like that proceeding from fired
gunpowder is perceived. 8. Damps are generally ob-
ferved to come about the latter end of May, and to
continue during the heat of fummer. I hey return le-
veral times during the fummer feafon, but obierve no
certain rule.
Befides thefe kinds of damps, which are very com¬
mon, we find others deferibed in the Phiiofophical
Tranfaftions, concerning the nature of which we can
fay nothing. Indeed the account feems fomewhat iui-
picious. They are given by Mr jeffop, from whom
we have the foregoing obfervations concerning the fire¬
damp, and who 'had thefe from the miners in Deiby-
Ihire. After deferibing the common damp, which
confifts of fixed air, “ They call the fecond fort (fays
he) the peafe-bloom damp, becaufe, as they fay, it Imells
like peafe-bloom. They tell me it always comes in the
fummer time 5 and thofe grooves are not free which
are never troubled with any other fort of damps. 1
never heard that it was mortal j the feent, perhaps,
freeing them from the danger of a furpnfe : but by
reafon of it many good grooves lie idle at the beft and
moft profitable time of the year, when the lubterrane-
ous waters are the lowed. They fancy it proceeds from
the multitude of red trefoil flowers, by them called bo-
veyftickles, with which the limeflone meadows in the
Peake do much abound. The third is the flranged and
mod pedilential of any; if all be true which is faid con¬
cerning it. Thofe who pretend to have feen it (for it
is vifible) deferibe it thus : In the highed part of the
roof of thofe paffages which branch out from the mam
groove, they often fee a round thing hanging, about
the bignefs of a foot-ball, covered with a {kin of the
thicknefs and colour of a cobweb. This, they fay, ii it
is broke by any accident, as the fplinter of a done, or
the like, difperfeth itfclf immediately, and fu doc ate s
all the company. Therefore, to prevent cafualties, as
foon as they have efpied it, they have a way, by the
help of a dick and long rope, of breaking it at a di-
dance *, which done, they purify the place well with
fire, before they dare ehter it again. dare not a-
vouch the truth of this dory in all its circumdances,
becaufe the proof of it feems impoflible, fince they ia_y
it kills all that are likely to bear witnefs to the parti¬
culars : neither do I deny but fuch a thing may
have been feen hanging on the roof, fince I have heard
many affirm it.”—Some damps, feemmgly of the lame
nature with thofe lad mentioned, are noticed by the
author of the Chemical Didionary, under the w-ord
Bamfis. « Amongd the noxious mineral exhalations
(fays he), we may place thofe which are found in t e
mines of S»1 gem in Poland. Thefe frequently appear
in form of light flocks, threads, and fprders webs. They
are remarkable for their property of fuddenly catching
fire at the lamps of the miners with a terrible node
and explofion. They indantly kill thofe whom they
touch. Similar vapours are found in fome mines oi
foflil coal.” . . t, oc
With regard to the formation of damps we have a.
yet no cerlain theory j nor, though the experiments
of aerologids are abundantly able to fhow the compo-
fation and manner of forming thefe noxious airs arti¬
ficially, have they yet thrown much light on the me¬
thod by which nature prepares them on a large lea e.
There are two general ways in which we may fuppoie
Damps.
this to be done j one by the dagnation of atmofphem
cal air in old wade places of mines in coal-pits, and
its converfion into thefe mephitic exhalations ; the
other by their original formation from the phlogdtic
or other materials found in the earth, without any in¬
terference of the atmofphere. In favour of the for¬
mer opinion it may be urged, that old waftes are ne¬
ver free from damps, efpecially thofe of the kind re-
fembling fixed air-, nor are they always deficient in
the inflammable kind. The fame is alfo true of old
wells, or even cellars, and in ftiort every place
where the air ftagnates for any cOnfiderable time. But,
on the other hand, we have many indances ot fixed
air coming but of the earth, and that in vad quanti¬
ties where no confiderable flagnation of the atmo-
fphere could be fufpeaed •, as for indance, in the grot¬
to del Cani in Italy, where a continual dream ot it has
iffued from time immemorial. The fame feems to be
the cafe with the tops of fome high mountains, parti¬
cularly Mont Blanc, the highed in Europe j on the
top of which M. Sauffure found the atmofphere lo
much impregnated with fixed air, that lime water ex-
pofed to it very quickly gathered a crud on its iurface.
Sir William Hamilton, in his account of the eruptions
of Vefuvius, informs us, that the inhabitants m the
neighbourhood of that mountain are infeffed with a
kind of pedilential vapours named by them mofetes,
which iflue from the old lava thrown out by the vol¬
cano Thefe are of the nature of the damps in our
mines or coal-pits, and iffue forth in fuch quantity as
either to infeft the atmofphere for a very confiderable
way round, or to do mifehief by.being carried from
place to place by the atmofpherical currents, which
are not drong enough to diflipate them for fome time.
Erom fome late accounts the famiel (or fcorching
winds, as they have been reprefented) in the
countries, feem to be no other than dreams of fixed
air of confiderable extent, which exert their ufual and
fatal effeas on thofe who breathe them. A drong ar¬
gument in favour of this opinion is, that thefe winds
cannot crofs a river, it being the nature of water to
abforb fixed air, and thus deflroy them.
Hence it is rendered probable that thefe mephitic
vapours are often to be met with in the open atmo¬
fphere, and confequently cannot always be the edert
of dagnation-, nor indeed does it at all appear .a.
mere dagnation can affea the quality of the atmo-
Tphere efther one way or other. This fluid cannot
have its properties altered but by fometbing immerfed
in it upon which it can aa, and by means of which
aaion its component parts may be changed or iepa-
rated. While this procefs is going on, there is gene¬
rally, if not always, an abforption of air, accompame
indeed frequently with an emiflion of fome aerial u
equal in quantity to that which is ab orbed. 1
Scheele, in his Effay on Eire, has drown by a number
of experiments the effea of expofing certain lublfan-
ces to^ the aftion of air, both on the fubdances them-
felves and on the aerial fluid. I he result of all the e
is no other than what we might expeft from a very flow
combudion, and which perhaps may on inquiry be
found to be the only way by which air can be deco
pofed. H the fubdance expofed to the air was capa¬
ble of abforbing that part of the fluid which had un¬
dergone a change, there was always an evident^
*
DAM [ 6j ] DAM
Damp*;, nution, but not otherwife. Thus, on inclofing fome
■"’“"'v cauftic fixed alkali in a phial of atmofpheric air, a con-
fiderable diminution took place 5 and the alkali, by be¬
coming faturated with fixed air, fiiowed that a decom-
pofition had taken place, and that the dephlogifticated
part of the air had feparated from the other, attached
itfelf to the fixed alkali, and become fixed air by uni¬
ting with a certain proportion of phlogiftic matter.
Hence we may conceive, that in any place where the
air was confined over a vaft quantity of cauflic alkaline
lalt, it would foon become unfit for the purpofes of
animal life, and we might fay that a damp would be
formed. But this would be a damp of a very different
kind from that ufually met with in mines \ for here
the dephlogifticated part of the atmofphere being con¬
verted into fixed air, and abforbed by the fait, only the
azotic gas, or as it has been called phlogi/hcated, air
would remain, fo that no fixed air could ever be fepa¬
rated from it.
Let us now fuppofe, that inftead of the alkaline
fait a quantity of burning charcoal is confined in a
place where there is not a proper circulation of air,
and we fhall foon fee that a damp of the very fame
kind with that called by miners \X\z choke-damp will be
formed. But this takes place by reafon of the dif-
fipation of the charcoal by heat, and its union with the
pure part of the atmofphere, or oxygen gas, which
always conftitutes fixed air. In this cafe, however,
the damp muft be but of ftiort continuance, and will
foon be diflipated after the charcoal is extinguifhed ;
but if, inftead of the charcoal, we fubftitute a large
quantity of fermenting liquor, from whence the fixed
air is naturally emitted, a damp will be formed much
more difficult to be diffipated than the former, becaufe
it renews itfelf in a very ffiort time 5 and, unlefs there
is a very conftant circulation of air, it will be danger¬
ous to enter the place where it is.
From the laft example we may form an idea of the
manner in which thefe damps, confiding chiefly of
fixed air, are formed. We know not indeed thorough¬
ly the nature of fermentation ; but w’e are allured,
that it is always accompanied by an internal heat 5
which, in fome cafes, is raifed to the utmoft height’
infomuch that large quantities of moift vegetable fub-
ftances, packed together, will fometimes bui lt out into
flame. It is not, however, at all times necelfary for
the extrication of fixed air, that the heat fhould come
to this extremity. The example of fermenting liquors
ffiows, that in fome cafes a very moderate heat is fuf-
ficient for the purpofe. Now, though the compari-
fon may feem fomewhat inadequate between the folid
fubftance of the earth and a fermenting liquid, yet
we know that a gentle heat conftantlv takes place in
the bowels of the earth ; and that alm’oft all terreftrial
fubftances will emit fixed air on being expofed to
heat. It is not at all improbable, therefore, that, on
# the large fcale of nature, the quantity of materials may
compenfate for the weaknefs of the heat, and thus oc-
calion a conftant emiffion of fixed air; which, though
flow in comparifon of what is effetted in our experi¬
ments by a violent artificial heat, may yet accumu¬
late in the narrow fpaces of mines in fuch a manner
as to be very troublefome. In volcanic countries,
where the heat of the earth is much greater, the emif-
iion of fixed air is in proportion ; and thus we may
Vox.. VII. Part I. 7
account for that continued ftream of it, which iflues Damp?,
from the grotto del Cani, and perhaps other places. l—“"v-—
The mofetes, which are faid to proceed from old lavas,
can only be accounted for by fuppofing the heat,
which originally took place in them, to be in fome
meafure renewed ; or that they have been again, bv
fome means or other, difpofed to take fire as formerly :
but this we offer merely as a conjefture ; there not
being as yet fufficient data to determine any thing po-
fitively upon the fubjeft.
It may be objedfed to the hypothefis juft now laid
down, that, if there is a continual difpofition in the
earth to produce fixed air, the whole furface of it muft
pour out fuch a quantity as would deftroy every living-
creature upon it. This indeed might be granted,
were the furface of the earth quite bare, and deflitute
of vegetation : but there is no abfurdity, in fuppofing-
that the fixed air may be continually decompofed by
the vegetables which grow' all over the furface of the
earth ; and the atmofphere not only thus preferved
from any taint from it, but fupplied wnth a quantity of
pure air, which it is certain vegetables give out. It is
alfo certain, that wffierever the atmofphere is fuffered
to be in contact wdth the bare furface of the ground for
fome time, a confiderable quantity of fixed air will
be produced, unlefs there is a conftant circulation
of atmofpherical air to carry off the former before it
has time to produce any fenfible effeft. Hence we
may account for the damps in wells, cellars, and even
in the confined places of old caftles and ruinous build-
ings, where the air is not in contact with the furface
of the ground of itfelf, but with mere heaps of rubbifh
and old walls.
With regard to what is called the fire-damp, the
cafe feems to be more plain. In the Phil. Tranf. N°
136. we have the following account of one of this
kind, which feemed evidently to iflue from the earth :
“ This work is upon a coal of five yards in thicknefs,
and hath been begun upon about fix or eight and
thirty years ago. When it w^as firft found, it was
extremely full of water, fo . that it could not be
wrought down to the bottom of the coal ; but a ’wit-
chet, or cave, was driven out of the middle of it, upon
a level, for gaining room to work, and drawdng down
the fpring of water that lies in the coal to the eye of
the pit. In driving of w hich witchet, after they had
gone a confiderable way under ground, and were fcant-
ed of wind, the fire-damps began by little and little to
breed, and to appear in crevices and flits of the coal,
wdiere water had lain before the opening of the coal,
with a fmall bluifh flame, working and moving conti¬
nually •, but not out of its firft feat, unlefs the work¬
men held their candles to it $ and then being weak,
the blaze of the candle would drive it out with a hid¬
den fizz away to another crevice, where it would foon
after appear blazing and moving as formerly. 1 his
wTas the firft knowledge of it in this work, wdiich the
workmen made but a (port of, and fo partly negle&ed,
till it had gotten fome ftrength ; and then upon a
morning the firft collier that went down, going for¬
wards in the wfitchet with his candle in his hand, the
damp prefently darted out fo violently at his candle,
that it ftruck the man clear dowm, finged all his hair
and clothes, and difabled him from working for a while
after. Some other fmall w-arnings it gave them, info-
I much
DAM [ 66 ]
Damps, much that they refolved to employ a man on purpofe mulate in
 v" ' that was more refolute than the reft, to go down a
while before them every morning, to chafe it from
place to place, and fo to weaken it. His ufual man¬
ner was to put on the worft rags he had, and to wet
them all in water, and when he came within the dan¬
ger of it, then he fell down grovelling upon his belly,
and fo went forward, holding in one hand a long wand
or pole, at the head whereof he tied candles burning,
and reached them by degrees towards it; then the
damp would fly at them, and, if it miffed of putting
them out, would quench itfelf with a blaft, and Have
an ill-fcentcd fmoke behind. Thus they dealt with it
till they had wrought the coal down to the bottom,
and the water following, and not remaining as before
in the body of it, among fulphureous and braffy metal
that is in fome veins of the coal, the fire-damp was not
feen nor heard of till the latter end of the year 1675,
which happened as followeth : r j
“ After long working of this coal, it wras Hun
upon the rifing grounds that there lay another roach
of coal at the depth of 14 yards under it, which proved
to be 5^- yards thick, and fomething more fulphure¬
ous. This encouraged us to fink in one of the pits we
had formerly ufed on the five-yards coal. As we funk
the lower part of it, we had many appearances ot e
fire-damp in the watery crevices of the rocks we fun
through,1 flaftiing and darting from fide to fide of the
pit, and {bowing rainbow-like colours upon the furface
of the water in the bottom $ but upon drawing up oi
the water with buckets, which ftitred the air in the pit,
it would leave burning, till the colliers at work, with
their breath and fweat, and the fmoke of their candles,
thickened the air in the pit, and then it would appear
again ; they lighted their candles at it fometimes whe
they went out j and fo in this pit it did no farther
113 In’another'pit, however, it foon appeared, and at
laft produced a moft terrible explofion. This was oc-
cafioned by one of the workmen going imprudently
down witl/a lighted candle, after a ceflation of work
for fome days, and the force exerted by it feemed equal
to that of gunpowder. . . . . . .
The formation of inflammable an in mines is to be
aicribed, according to the Joannes of modern chem-
rtrv to the decompofition of water ; a procefs which
is conftantlv going on in places where metallic fob-
ftances are'e^pofed to i.s aaion. As the metals are
oxidated by their combination with the oxygen, one
of the component parts of water, the hydrogen, its
other component part, is fet at liberty and accumn-
lates in thofe places where it is generated.
A much more important conf,deration than he for-
main of damns, however, is the proper method of
avoiding their pernicious effacls. The inflammability
of one kind affords an eafy method of preventing it
from accumulating, viz. by fet.ing fir' t0 ‘‘j
may be done with fafety, unlefs it has been Meted to
go too far before the experiment is made : for the -
flammable air being much lighter than any other
kind will naturally rife to the top ; fo that a man ly-
fllt 0„ the ground to avoid the force of the ex-
plofion, and holding up a c,‘ndfe f^tSlel
nole may at once free the mine from fuch a trouble-
Lae guefl. But where it has been allowed to accu-
D A N
muiaic ... too great quantity fo that this mertiod
cannot be ufed, or in the other kind, "M K to ' o-
flammable, the method commonly '• t0 ^ ,
duce a conftant circulation of a,r as much as poffible
through all parts of the mine. To procure ’•by Y
rnake^a perpendicular opening, which they call a/wii
or [haft to that the mine may have two or more open¬
ings-and thus by reafon of the difference of tempera-
ture Llween the open atmofphere A
mine there is a continual draught of air thioug
them*both. This current will always be ftronger m
proportion to the difference between the external at
proportion the mine ; and hkewife in pro-
mofphere and that or tne mmc , ,1 r t]-. two
portion to the difference between ,dePj
{hafts. But as the temperature of ^ atmosphere
variable it happens, at certain feafons ot the year,
thTt there is not a fufficient difference between that
of the atmofphere and in the mine to produce the n -
ceffary circulation. This happens principally in the
fpring and autumn *, at which feafons it is neceffary to
fight8fires in the fhafts, which are always efficacious
^AmongThe'otherufes to which dephlogifticated air
might be applied, Mr Cavallo reckons that of fecunng
people frotn^the dangerous .fleas o damps in mines,
L,d‘other fubterraneous places.
favs he “ into which a folution of lime , r w
troduced be filled with dephlogifticated air, and a fmall
wooden or glafs pipe be adapted to its neck, —an
t-Viat- nine in Ins nioutn^ and m^y
r/dethfogmic^ed air t and
enter into thefe fub.erranean places, tbe van
ons elaftic fluids contained in them. A l«ige Diaaoer
bladders of dephlogifticated air along with him, ai a
mav ft, ft as foon as the air of one is contaminated.
r^us °the ladder s^ful^o^dephlogifldcated^ainmay^lwj
beD AMSEt1 tom'the French or iamoif^u
an^ppellation anciently given to all young peopk o
either fex that were of noble or genteel extraftion, as
L fLs and daughters of princes knight, and barons
thus we read of Damfel Pepm, Damfel Louis le Gros,
Damfel Richard Prince of W ales.
,oS°oS of e^aiS l0ordksiDand' barons,£ and” at length to
mDANPTdlok-'bl».bC'vWtoh° laft litemlly denotes
.. the riv’er Dan Jo -“tke c“ led St, tm'ifs
has its fource, which IS J la . t rifing from
round figure, to toe north of ^“‘difcovU by
MirTe’trrch'oTTrac'i^eL ’for on throwing light
I hillp, te tliem (0 emerge again
bodies into th' Phiala, ^ ^ it Iuns i„ a dt-
a, Pancum (JofePh“ > ‘lied SamachomM, as far as
-d thence ..be
DAN [ 67 J DAN
Dan lake Genefareth, or of Tiberias, where it comes in-
I! creafed by the lake Samachonites and its fprings, and
» ani*HLS-; is called the Greater Jordan; continuing its direfl
courfe fouthwards, till it falls into the Aiphaltites.
Dan, in Ancient Geography, a town to the weft of
the fource of the Jordan 5 formerly called Lais (Jo-
fhua, Judges, Jofephus). This was the north, as
Beerlheba was the fouth, boundary of the Ifraelites j
as appears from the common expreflion in Scripture,
from Dan to Beerjheba.. At Dan Jeroboam eredted
one of the golden calves (1 Kings xii.)
Dan, the tribe, extended itfelf weftward of Judah,
and was terminated by Azotas and Dora on the Me¬
diterranean (Jofephus).
DANAE, in antiquity, a coin fomewhat more than
an obolus, ufed to be put into the mouths of the dead,
to pay their paffage over the river Acheron.
Danae, in fabulous hiftory, was the daughter of
Acrifius king of Argos, by Eurydice. She was con¬
fined in a brazen toxver by her father, who had been
told by an oracle that his daughter’s fon would put
him to death. His endeavours to prevent Danae from
becoming a mother proved fruitlefs ; and Jupiter, who
was enamoured of her, introduced himfelf to her bed
by changing himfelf into a golden ftiower. From his
embraces Danae had a fon, with whom (he was ex-
pofed on the fea by her father. The wind drove the
bark which carried her to the coafts of the illand of Se-
riphus, where ftie was faved by fome fiftiermen, and
carried to Polydedles king of the place, whofe bro¬
ther, called DiBys, educated the child called Perfeus,
and tenderly treated the mother. Polyde&es fell in
love with her ; but as he was afraid of her fon, he fent
him to conquer the Gorgons, pretending that he wifli-
ed Medufa’s head to adorn the nuptials which he was
going to celebrate with Hippodamia the daughter of
CEnomaus. When Perfeus had viftorioufly finiflied his
expedition, he retired to Argos with Danae to the
houfe of Acrifius, whom he inadvertently killed. Some
fuppofe that it was Proetus the brother of Acrifius
who introduced himfelf to Danae in the brazen tower $
and inftead of a golden ftiower, it was maintained that
the keepers of Danae were bribed by the gold of her
feducer. Virgil mentions that Danae came to Italy
with fome fugitives of Argos, and that ftie founded a
city called Ardea.
DAN AIDES, in fabulous hiftory, the fifty daugh¬
ters of Danaus king of Argos. When their uncle tE-
gyptus came from Egypt with his fifty fons, they were
promifed in marriage to their coufins ; and before the
celebration of their nuptials, Danaus, who had been
informed by an oracle that he was to be killed by the
hands of one of his fons-in-law, made his daughters fo-
lemnly promife that they would deftroy their huibands.
They were provided with daggers by their father 5 and
all except Hypermneftra ftained their hands with the
blood of their coufins the firft night of their nuptials ;
and as a pledge of their obedience to their father’s in-
jun&ions, they prefented him each with the head of
the murdered fons of TEgyptus. Hypermneftra was
fiimmoned to appear before her father, and anfwer for
her difobedience in fuffering her hufband Lynceus to
tfcape ; but the unanimous voice of the people declared
her innocent, and Ihe dedicated a temple to the god-
defs of Perfuafion. The fifters were purified of this
murder by Mercury and Minerva by order of Jupiter} Danaus
but according to the more received opinion, they were c
condemned to fevere punilhment in hell, and were :
compelled to fill with water a veflel full of holes, fo
that the water ran out as foon as poured into it •, and
therefore their labour was infinite, and their punilhment
eternal. The heads of the fons of Aigyptus rvere bu¬
ried at Argos ; but their bodies were left at Lerna,
where the murder had been committed.
DANAUS, in fabulous hiftory, a fon of Belus and
Anchinoe, who after his father’s death reigned con¬
jointly with his brother iEgyptus on the throne of E-
gypt. Some time after, a difference arofe between the
brothers, and Danaus fet fail with his fifty daughters
in quell of a fettlement. He vifited Rhodes, where he
confecrated a ftatue to Minerva, and arrived fafe on
the coaft of Peloponnefus, where he w as hofpitably re¬
ceived by Gelanor king of Argos. Gelanor had late¬
ly afcended the throne, and the firft years of his reign
wTere marked with diffenlions with his fubje6ts. Da¬
naus took advantage of Gelanor’s unpopularity, and
obliged him to leave the crown. In Gelanor, the race
of the Inachidce was extinguilhed, and the Belides be¬
gan to reign at Argos in Danaus. Some authors fay,
that Gelanor voluntarily refigned the crown to Danaus,
on account of the wrath of Neptune, who had dried
up all the w’aters of Argolis, to punilh the impiety of
Inachus. The fuccefs of Danaus invited the fifty fons
of Aigyptus to embark for Greece. They wTere kind¬
ly received by their uncle ; who, either apprehenfive of
their number, or terrified by an oracle which threaten¬
ed his ruin by one of his fons in-law, caufed his daugh¬
ters, to whom they were promifed in marriage, to mur¬
der them the firft night of their nuptials. His order
was executed. Hypermneftra alone fpared the life of
Lynceus : (See Dan aides). Danaus at firft perfe-
cuted Lynceus with unremitted fury j but he was af¬
terwards reconciled to him, and he acknowledged him
for his fon-in-law and fucceffor after a reign of 50 years.
He began his reign about 1586 years before the Chri-
ftian era } and after death he w'as honoured with a
fplendid monument in the town of Argos, which Hill
exifted in the age of Paufanias. According to ^Ef-
chylus, Danaus left Egypt, not to be prefent at the
marriage of his daughters with the fons of his bro¬
ther ; a connexion which he deemed unlawful and im¬
pious.
DANCE, or Dancing, as at prefent praflifed,
may be defined “ an agreeable motion of the body, ad-
jufted by art to the meafures or tone of inftruments,
or of the voice.”—But, according to what fome rec¬
kon more agreeable to the true genius of the art, dan¬
cing is “ the art of exprefling the fentiments of the
mind, or the paflions, by meafured fteps or bounds
that are made in cadence by regulated motions of the
body, and by graceful geftures } all performed to the
found of mufical inftruments or of the voice.”
There is no account of the origin of the praflice
of dancing among mankind. It is found to exill
among all nations whatever, even the moft rude and
barbarous; and, indeed, however much the afiiftance
of art may be neceffary to make any one perfedl in the
pradtice, the foundation muft certainly lie in the me-
chanifm of the human body itfelf.
The connexion that there is between certain founds
, I 2 and
DAN [ 68
Dance, and thofe motions of the human body called dancing,
 v ’ hath feldom or never been inquired into by philoio-
phers, though it is certainly a very curious fpeculation.
The power of certain founds not only over the human
fpecies, but even over the inanimate creation, is indeed
very furprifing. It is well known, that the mod iohd
walls, nay the ground itfelf, will be found to lhake at
fome particular notes in mufic. This ftrongly indi¬
cates the prefence of fome univerfally dihufed and ex¬
ceedingly elaftic fluid, which is thrown into vibrations
by the concuflions of the atmofphere upon it, produced
bv the motion of the founding body.—If thefe con¬
cuflions are fo ftrong as to make the large quantity oi
elatiic fluid vibrate that is difperfed through a hone
wall or a confrderable portion of earth, it is no won¬
der they flrould have the fame effeft upon that invifi-
ble and exceedingly fubtle matter that pervades and
feems to refide in our nerves. ,
Some there are that have their nerves conArucled
in fuch a manner, that they cannot be abeded by the
founds which affed others, and fome fcarce with any 5
while others have fuch an irritability of the nerves in
this cafe, that they cannot, without the greated dnh-
culty, fit or ft and ftill when they hear a favourite piece
of mufic played. ’ , , * .
It is conieftured by very eminent philofophers, that
all the fenfations and paflions to which we are lubjett,
do immediately depend upon the vibrations excited m
the nervous fluid above mentioned. Hence, muhea
founds have the greateft power over thofe PeoPle who
are of a delicate fenfible frame, and who have ftrong
paflions. If it be true, therefore, that every paflion
in the human nature immediately depends upon a cer¬
tain affe&ion of the nervous fyftem, or a certain mo¬
tion or vibration in the nervous fluid, we fliall immedi¬
ately fee the origin of the different dances among dif¬
ferent nations. One kind of vibration, for inftance,
raifes the paflions of anger, pride, &c. which are m-
difpenfably neceffary in warlike nations. The found.,
for fuch there are, capable of exciting a fimilar vi¬
bration, would naturally conftitute the martial mufic
among fuch nations, and dances conformable to it
would be inftituted. This appears to be the cafe p r-
ticularly among barbarous nations as we ihall Prtlent-
lv have occafion to remark. Other vibrations of the
nervous fluid produce the paflions of joy,Jove, See.,
and founds capable of exciting thefe particular vibra¬
tions will immediately be formed into mufic for dan¬
cers of another kind. . „
\s barbarous people are obferved to have the ftrong-
eft paflions, fo they are alfo obferved to be the moft
cafify affeaed by founds, and the moft addiaed t0 d ’
c;nJ Sounds to us the moft difagreeabie, the drum¬
ming with flicks upon an empty cafe, or the node made
by blowing into reeds incapable of yielding one mufi-
cal note tolerable to us, is agreeable mufic to them.
Much more are they affeaed by the found of mftru-
ments which have any thing agreeable in them. Mr
GaHini informs us, that “ The fpmt of dancing pre¬
vails almoft beyond imagination among both nien and
wmmen in moft parts of Africa. It if evefn,raf°rea
mftina, it is a rage, in feme countries of tha part of
the globe—Upon the Gold coaft efpecially, the inha¬
bitants are fo p rflionately fond of it, that in the midft
of their hardeft labour, if they hear a perfon fing, or
]
DAN
any mufical inftrument played, they cannot refrain from ^
dancing. There are even well attefted ftories of iome
negroes flinging themfelves at the feet or an European
playing on a fiddle, intreating him to defift, unlefs he
had a mind to tire them to death ; it being impoffible
for them to ceafe dancing while he continued playing.”
The fame thing is found to take place in America,
though, as the inhabitants of that continent are found
to be of a more fierce and barbarous nature than tne
African nations, their dances are ftill more uncouth
and barbarous than thofe of the negroes. “ In Mexi¬
co, fays Gallini, they have alfe their dances and mu¬
fic, but in the moft uncouth and barbarous fiyle. For
their fymphony they have wooden drums, lomething
in form of a kettle-drum, with a kind of pipe or fla-
gellet, made of a hollow cane or reed, but very gra¬
ting to an European ear. It is obferved they love
every thing that makes a noife,_ how diiagreeable fe-
ever the found is. They will alio hum over fomething
like a tune when they dance 30 or 40 in a circle,
ftretching out their hands, and laying them on each
others (boulders. They ftamp and jump, and ule the
moft antic geftures for feveral hours, till they are hear¬
tily weary. And one or two of the company feme-
times ftep out of the rings to make fport for the reft,
by (bowing feats of aftivity, throwing their lances up
into the air, catching them again, bending^backwards,
and fpringing forwards with great agility.”
The origin of dancing among the Greeks was moft
certainly the fame as among all other^nations •, but as
they proceeded a certain length in, civilization, their
dances were of confequence more regular and agree¬
able than thofe of the more barbarous nations. I bey
reduced dancing into a kind of regular lyftem ; and bad
dances proper for exciting, by means of the lympathy
above mentioned, any paflion whatever m the minds of
the beholders. In this way they are faid to_ have pro¬
ceeded very great lengths, to us abfolutely incredible.
At Athens, it is faid, that the dance of the Eume. i-
des or Furies on the theatre had exPreJlve a cba'
rafter as to ftrike the fpeftators with irrefiftrble terror :
men grown old in the profeflion of arms trembled j
the multitude ran out •, women with child mi learned,
people imagined they faw in earneft thofe terrible dei¬
ties commiffioned with the vengeance of heaven to pur-
fue and punifli crimes upon earth.
The Greeks had martial dances, which they reckon¬
ed to be very ufeful for keeping up the warlike fpnit
of their youth; but the Romans, though equally war¬
like with the Greeks, never had any thing of the kmdw
This probably may be owing to the want ^ that ro¬
mantic turn for which the Greeks were fo remarkable.
The Romans had no heroes among them, lueh as Her¬
cules, Achilles, or Ajax ; nor does the whole Roman
hiftory furnifh an example of a general that made war
after the manner of Alexander the Great. T hough their
foldiers were as valiant as ever the Greeks could pie-
tendtobe, the objeft with them was the honour of
the republic, and not their own perfonal praue. Hence
there was lefs fury, and much more cool deliberate va¬
lour, exercifed by the Romans than any other nation
whatever. The paffions of pride, refentment, obftmacy,
&c. were excited in them, not by the mechanical means
of mufic and dancing, but by being ^ught that it was
their chief honour to fight for the republic. It does
Dance.
\
DAN [ % j DAN
Dance, not however appear, that the Romans were at all lefs
“■"“v" capable of being affedted in this mechanical manner
than the Greeks. When dancing was once introdu¬
ced, it had the very fame effedls at Rome as at Athens.
Among the Jews, dancing feems to have made a
part of the religious worfhip on fome occafions, as we
learn from fome paffages in the Pfalms, though we do
not find either that or finging pofitively enjoined as a
divine precept. In the Chriftian churches mentioned
in the New Teftament, there is no account of dancing
being introduced as an adl of worlhip, though it is cer¬
tain that it was ufed as fuch in after ages. Mr Gal-
lini tells us, that “ at Limoges, not long ago, the
people ufed to dance the round in the choir of the
church which is under the invocation of their patron
faint ; and at the end of each pfalm, inftead of the
Gloria Patri, they fung as follows : St Marcel, pray
for us, and we will dance in honour of you.—Though
dancing would now be looked upon as the higheft de¬
gree of profanation in a religious afifembly, yet it is
certain, that dancing, confidered as an expreflion of
joy, is no more a profanation than finging, or than
fimple fpeaking j nor can it be thought in the leait
more abfurd, that a Chriitian fiiould dance for joy that
Jelus Chrift is rifen from the dead, than that David
danced before the ark when it was returned to him
after a long abfence.
Plato reduces the dances of the ancients to three
clafies. 1. The military dances, which tended to make
the body robult, adlive, and well difpofed for all the
exetcifes of war. 1. The domeftic dances, which had
for their object an agreeable and innocent relaxation
and amufement. 3. The mediatorial dances, which
were in ufe in expiations and facrifices.—Of military
dances there were two forts : the ^ymnopedirjue dance,
or the dance of children ; and the enoplian, or armed
dance. The Spartans had invented the firil for an
early excitation of the courage of their children, and
to lead them on infenfibly to the exercife of the armed
dance. This children’s dance ufed to be executed in
the public place. It was compofed of two choirs; the
one of grown men, the other of children : whence, be¬
ing 'chiefly defigned for the latter, it took its name.
They were both of them in a date of nudity. The
choir of the children regulated their motions by thole
of the men, and all danced at the fame time, finging
the poems of Thales, Aleman, and Dionyfodotus.—
The enoplian or pyrrhic was danced by young men
armed cap-a-pee, who executed, to the found of the
flute, ail the proper movements either for attack or
for defence. It was compofed of four parts.—The
f*r.l^ .the podifm or footing; which confifted in a quick
fhifting motion of the feet, fuch as was neceflary for
overtaking a flying enemy, or for getting away from
him when an overmatch.— Fhe fecond part was the
xiphifm : this was a kind of mock fight, in which the
dancers imitated all the motions of combatants ; aim¬
ing a ftroke, darting a javelin, or dexteroufly dodging,
parrying, or avoiding a blow or thruft. The third
part, called the komos, confifted in very high leaps or
vaultings, which the dancers frequently repeated, for
the better ufing themfelves occafionally to leap over a
ditch, or fpring over a wall. The tetracomos was the
murth and laft part: this was a fquare figure, execu¬
ted by flow and majeftic movements; but it is uncetv
tain whether this was everywhere executed in the fame Dance,
manner.*
Of all the Greeks, the Spartans were thofe who moft
cultivated the Pyrrhic dance. Athenams relates, that
they had a lawT by which they were obliged to exercife
their children at it from the age of five years. This
warlike people conftantly retained the cuftom of accom¬
panying their dances with hymns and fongs. The
following was fung for the dance called trichoria, faid
to be inftituted by Lycurgus, and which had its name
from its being compofed of three choirs, one of
children, another of young men, and the third of old.
The old men opened the dance, faying, “ In time pail
w'e were valiant.” The young men anfwered, “ We
are fo at prefent.” “ We ftiall be ftill more fo when
our time comes,” replied the chorus of children. The
Spartans never danced but with real arms. In procefs
of time, however, other nations came to ufe only wea¬
pons of wood on fuch occafions. Nay, it was only fo
late as the days of Athenaeus, who lived in the fecond
century, that the dancers of the Pyrrhic, inftead of
arms, carried only flalks, ivy-bound wands (thyrfus)
or reeds. But, even in Ariftotle’s days, they had be¬
gun to ufe thyrfufes inftead of pikes, and lighted tor¬
ches in lieu of javelins and fwords. With thefe torches
they executed a dance called the conflagration of the
•world.
Of the dances for amufement and recreation, fome
were but Amply gambols, or fportive exetcifes, which
had no chai after of imitation, and of which the greater
part exift to this day. The others were more complex,
more agreeable, figured, and w’ere always accompanied
with finging. Among the firft or limple ones was the
afcoliafmus : which confifted in jumping, with one foot
only, on bladders filled with air or wine, and rub¬
bed on the outfide wuth oil. The dypodium was jumped
wfith both feet clofe. The kyheflefls was what is called
in this country the fomerfet.—Of the fecond kind w-as
that called the wine-prefs, of w7hich there is a defeription
in Longinus, and the Ionian dances : thefe laft, in ths
original of their inftitution, had nothing but what
was decent and modeft ; but, in time, their movements
came to be fo depraved, as to be employed in expref-
ling nothing but voluptuoufnefs, and even the grofieit
obfeenity.
Among the ancients there wrere no feftivals nor reli¬
gious aflemblies but what w^ere accompanied with fongs
and dances. It was not held poflible to celebrate any?
myftery, or to be initiated, without the intervention of
thefe two arts. In Ihort, they were looked upon to be
fo efiential in thefe kinds of ceremonies, that to exprefs
the crime of fuch as were guilty of revealing the facred
myfteries, they employed the word kheiflee, “ to be out
of the dance.” The moft ancient of thefe religious
dances is the Bacchic ; which was not only confecrated
to Bacchus, but to all the deities whofe feftival was ce- /
lebrated with a kind of enthufiafm. The moft gravs
and majeftic- was the hyporchematic ; it was executed to
the lyre, and accompanied with the voice. At his re¬
turn from Crete, Thefeus inftituted a dance at w'hich
he himfelf aflifted at the head of a numerous and fplen-
did band of youths, round the altar of Apollo. The
dance was compofed of three parts ; theflrophe, the an-
tiflropke, and the flationary. In the ftrophe, the move j
ments were from the right to the left; in the antiftro,
P.he,,
DAN
[ 7° 1
DAN
Dance, phe, from the left to the right. In the ftatior.ary, they
• r—* danced before the altar ; fo that the ftationary did not
mean an abfolute paufe or reft, but only a more flow
or grave movement. Plutarch is perfuaded, that in
this dance there is a profound myftery. He thinks, that
by the ftrophe is indicated the motion of the world from
eaft to weft ; by the antiftrophe, the motion of the pla¬
nets from the weft to the eaft •, and by the ftationary,
the liability of the earth. To this dance Thefeus gave
the name oigeranos, or “ the crane becaufe the fi¬
gures which charafterifed it bore a refemblance to thofe
defcribed by cranes in their flight.
With regard to the modern pra&ice of dancing as
an art, there are few diredlions that can be of much fer-
vice. The following is extrafted from Mr Gallini’s
defcription of the feveral fteps or movements.
“ The dancing (fays he) is generally on a theatre,
or in a faloon or room. At the theatre there are four
parts to be confidered. I. The neareft front to the
fpedators. 2, and 3. The two fides or wings. 4. The
fartheft front from the fpe&ators.
“ In a faloon or room, the place in which are <.ne
fpeftators decides the appellation refpeftively to them
of right and left. The dancer fhould place himfelf in
as advantageous a point of view to them as poffible.
“ In the dance itfelf, there are to be diftinguifhed,
the attitude of the body, the figure, the pofition,
the bends, the rifings or leaps, the fteps, the cabriole,
the fallings, the Aides, the turns of the body, the
cadences.
“ The attitude of the body requires the prefentmg
one’s felf in the moft graceful manner to the com-
pany. , ,
“ The/^/r*- is to follow the track prefcribed to the
fteps in the dance. _ . ...
“ The pofition is that of the varied attitudes, which
muft be at once ftriking and eafy, as alfo of the diffe¬
rent exertions of the legs and feet in dancing.
“ The bends are infleftions of the knees, of the
body, of the head, of the arms.
“ The rifings are the contrail to the bends, the ex-
tenfion of the knee. One of thefe two motions necef-
farily precedes the other.
“ Thefiep is the motion by the foot or feet from
one place to another. . . .
“ The leap is executed by fpringing up into the air •,
it begins with a bend, and proceeds with a quick ex-
tenfion of the legs, fo that both feet quit the ground.
“ The cabriole is the crofting, or cutting of capers,
during the leap, before the return of the feet to the
k “ The falling is the return of the feet to the ground,
by the natural gravitation of the body.
” “ The fide is the aftion of moving the foot along
the ground without quitting it.
“ The turn is the motion of the body towards
either fide, or quite round.
“ The cadence is the knorvledge of the difterent
meafures, and of the times of movement the moft
marked in the mufic. . , ,
“ The track is the line marked by the dance : it
may be either ftraight or curve, and is fufceptible of all
the inflexions correfpondent to the various defigns o
the compofer. There are the right, _ the diametral
line, the circular line, and the oblique line. I he right
line is that which goes lengthwife, reckoning from one
end of the room towards the other. I he diametral vme.
is acrofs the room, from one fide to the other. 1 tie
circular line is waving, or undulatory, from one place
to another. The oblique line proceeds obliquely from
one quarter of the room towards another.—Each of
thefe lines may direXly or feparately form the dancer s
track, diverfified wdth fteps and pofitions.
“ The regular figure is when two or more dancers
move in contrary direXions •, that is to fay, that when
one moves towards the right, the other moves to the
left. The irregular line is when the couples figuring
together are both on the fame fide.
“ Commonly the man gives the right hand to the
lady in the beginning or ending of the dance, as we
fee in the minuet, louvre, &c.
“ When a great number of dancers figure together,
they are to execute the figure agreeably to the compo-
fition of the dance, with fpecial attention to keep an
eye conftantly on the partner. When, m any given
dance, the dancers have danced for fome time m the
fame place, the track is only to be confidered as the
conduXor of thebut not of figure ; but when
the dance continues, without being confined to the
fame place, then the track muft be confidered as the
conduXor both of the fteps and of the figure.
“ Now, to obferve the figure, the dancer muft have
placed himfelf at the beginning of the track upon
which he is to dance, and comprehend the figure before
he himfelf begins it. He is to remark, and conceive
whether the figure is right, diametral, circular, or ob¬
lique ■, if it is progreflive or retrogreflive, or towards
the right or left. He ftiould have the ^ played or
fung to him, to underftand the movement.—\\ nerethe
tracks crofs one another, the fteps of each of the couples
muft leave a fufficient diftance between them not to
confufe the figure. . . , r _„/•
“ There are commonly reckoned ten kinds of pofi¬
tions, which are divided into true zxi& falfe, five each.—
There are three principal parts of the foot to be oblei-
ved ; the toes, the heel, and the ancle.
“ The true pofitions are when the two feet are in a
certain uniform regularity, the toes turned equally out¬
wards.—The falfe are divided into regular and irregu¬
lar. They differ from the true, in that the toes are either
both turned inwards ; or if the toes of one foot are
turned outwards, the others are turned inwards.
“ In the firft of the true pofitions, toe heels of the
two feet are clofe together, fo that they touch j the
toes being turned out. In the fecond, the two feet are
open in the fame line, fo that the diftance between the
two heels is precifely the length of one foot. In the
third, the heel of one foot is brought to the ancle
of the other, or feems to lock m with it. In the fourth
the two feet are the one before the other a foot s length
diftance between the two heels which are on the lame
line. In the fifth, the two feet are acrofs the one
before the other •, fo that the heel of one foot di-
reXly oppoiite to the toes of the other. <- l ,1,
“ In tL firft of the falfe pofitions, the toes of both
feet are turned inwards fo that they touch, the heels
being open- The fecond is, when the feet are afunder
at a foot’s diftance between the toes o each, which are
turned inward, the heels being on a line. The tb
is, when the toes of one foot are turned outwards,^he
Dance.
DAN r 71 ] DAN
Dance, other inwards, fo that the two feet form a parallel.
  1 The fourth is, when the toes of the two feet are turn¬
ed inwards; but the toes of one foot are brought nearer
the ancle of the other. The fifth is, when the toes of
the two feet are turned inw’ards, but the heel of one
foot is oppofite to the toes of the other.
“ There are mixed pofitions, compofed of the true
and falfe in combination ; which admit of fuch infi¬
nite variety, and are in their nature fo unfufceptible
of defcription by words, that it is only the fight of the
performance that can give any tolerable idea of them.
“ Of the bends of the knee there are two kinds;
the owzjiniple, the other forced. The fimple bend is
an inflexion of the knees without moving the heel,
and is executed with the foot flat on the ground. The
forced bend is made on the toes with more force and
lower.
“ Much is to be obferved on the head oifeps. Fit ft,
not to make any movement before having put the body
in an upright pofture, firm on the haunches.
“ Begin with the inflexion of the knee and thigh ;
advance one leg foremoft, with the whole foot on the
ground, laying the ftrefs of the body on the advanced
leg.
“ There are fome who begin the ftep by the point
of the toes ; but that has an air of theatrical affefla-
tion. Nothing can be more noble than a graceful eafe
and dignity of ftep. The quantity of fteps ufed in
dancing are almoft innumerable : they are neverthelefs
reducible under five denominations, which may ferve
well enough to give a general idea of the different
movements that may be made by the leg, viz. the di-
red! ftep, the open ftep, the circular ftep, the twifted
ftep, and the cut ftep.
“ The direft ftep is when the foot goes upon a right
line, either forwards or backwards.
“ The open ftep is when the legs open. Of this ftep
there are three kinds : one when they open outwards;
another, when, defcribing a kind of circle, they form
an in-knee’d figure ; a third, when they open fide-
vvife ; this is a fort of right ftep, becaufe the figure is
in a right line.
“ The round ftep is when the foot, in its motion,
makes a circular figure, either inwards or outwards.
“ The twijled ftep, or pas tortille, is when the foot
in its motion turns in and out. There are three kinds
of this ftep ; one forwards, another backwards, the
third fidelong.
“ The cut ftep is when one leg or foot comes to
ft l ike againft the other. There are alfo three forts of
this ftep ; backwards, forwards, and fidelong.
“ The fteps may be accompanied with bendings,
rifings, leaps, cabrioles, fallings, Hidings, the foot in
the air, the tip-toe, the reft on the heel, quarter-turns,
half-turns, three-quarter turns, and whole turns.
“ There may be pradlifed three kinds of bends, or
finkings, in the fteps ; viz. bending before the ftep
proceeds, in the ad! of ftepping, and at the laft of the
fteps.
“ The beginning or initial fink-pace is at the firfi:
fetting off, on advancing the leg.
“ The bend in the adl of ftepping continues the
march or walk.
“ The final fink-pace clofes the march.
“ The rifing is juft the reverfe of the bend, or fink- Dance,
pace, which (hall have preceded it. 'r~
“ Some great mafters in the art of dancing, having
obferved that mufic, which is infeparable from it, was
capable of being preferved and conveyed by the mufi-
cal charadters, imagined by analogy, that the like ad¬
vantage could be procured to the compofition of dan¬
cers. Upon this plan they attempt what is called
the chorography, an art which they fuppofe was either
utterly unknown to the ancients, or not tranfmitted to
us from them.
“ It may indeed be eafily allowed, that the track or
figure of a dance may be determined by written or en¬
graved lines ; but thofe lines will neceffarily appear fo
perplexing, fo intricate, fo difficult, if not impoflible
to feize in their various relations, that they are only
fit to difguft and difeourage, without the poflibility of
their conveying a fatisfadlory or retainable inftrudfion.
—Whence it is, that the article Chorography in the
French Encyclopedic is univerfally exploded as unintel¬
ligible and ufelefs : though nothing more than an ele¬
mentary indication of the art; and an explanation,
fuch as it is, of fome of the technical terms of it.”
Stage-DANCES. The Greeks were the firft wdro uni¬
ted the dance to their tragedies and comedies ; not
indeed as making part of thofe fpedtacles, but merely
as an acceffary.
The Romans, as ufual, copied after the Greeks ;
but in the reign of Auguftus they left their inftru&ors
far behind them. Two very extraordinary men made
their appearance at that time : they invented a new
fpecies of entertainment, and carried it to an aftonifli-
ing degree of perfection. Nothing was then talked of
but the wonderful talents and amazing performances
of Pylades and Bathylus, who were the firft to in¬
troduce among the Romans what the French call the
ballet d'adlion, wherein the performer is both aCtor and
dancer.
Pylades undertook the hard talk of reprefenting,
wuth the affiftance of the dance alone, ftrong and pa¬
thetic fituations. He lucceeded perhaps beyond his
own expectation, and may be called the father of that
ftyle of dancing which is known to us by the name of
grave or fenous pantomitne.
Bathylus an Alexandrian, and a freedman of Me-
cenas, took upon himfelf to reprefent fuc h fubjeCts as
required a certain livelinefs and agility. He was hand-
fome in his perfon ; and the two great fcourges of
Roman follies, Perfius, and efpecially Juvenal, fpeak
of him as the gallant of every woman in Rome. The
latter, in his cynic ftyle, even goes fo far as to fay,
that when Bathylus performed the dance called, after
the name of a celebrated female dancer, Cheromenos-
Leda, the graveft matron was turned off her guard,
and the young virgin longed for the dancer’s ad-
dreffes.
Nature had been exceffively partial to thofe two
men. They were endowed with genius, and all the
exterior charms that could captivate the eye. By their
ftudy, application, and the defire to eftablilh a lafting
reputation, they difplayed to the greateft advantage
all the refources which the art of dancing could fupply.
Thefe, like two phenomena, difappeared, and never
did the world fee “ their like again.” Government
withdrew
DAN [7;
tS.uicc. withdrew its prote&ion, the art gradually funk into
“”~v obfcurity, and became even entirely forgotten on the
acceflion of Trajan to the empire.
Thus buried with the other arts in entire oblivion,
dancing remained uncultivated till about the 15th cen¬
tury, when ballets were revived in Italy at a magnifi¬
cent entertainment given by a nobleman of Lombardy
at Tortona on account of the marriage between Galeas
duke of Milan and Ifabella of Arragon. Every re-
lource that poetry, mufic, dancing, and machinery
could fupply, was employed and exhaufted on the oc-
cafion. The defcription given of fo fuberb an enter¬
tainment excited the admiration of all Europe, and ex¬
cited the emulation of feveral men of genius, who im¬
proved the hint to introduce among their countrymen
a kind of fpe£tacle equally pleafing and novel.
It would feem, however, that at fid! the women had
no (hare in the public or theatrical dance ^ at leal! we
do not fee them mentioned in the various entertain¬
ments given at the opera in Paris till the 21ft of Janu¬
ary 1681, when the then dauphinefs, the princefs of
Conti, and fome other ladies of the firft diflinaion in
the court of Louis XIV. performed a ballet with the
opera called Lc Tnomphe de l"1 Amour. I his union of
the two fexes ferved to enliven and render the fpeaacle
more pleafing and more brilliant than it ever was at
any other period. It was received with fo much ap-
plaufe, that on the [6tli of May following, when the
fame opera was acted in Paris at the theatre of the Pa¬
lais Roval, it was thought indifpenfable for the fuccefs
of that kind of entertainment to introduce female dan¬
cers. They have continued ever fince to be the prin¬
cipal fupport of the opera.
The dance is now in fuch commendation, that, par¬
ticularly in France, the opera-houfe feems rather an
academy for dancing than calculated for the reprefen-
tation of lyric poems. T he difgufting and immoderate
length of their recitatives is one of the chief caufes of
that general tafte for dancing which prevails amongft
them. A wit being afked one day what could be done
to keep up an opera threatened with a mod complete
damnation? “Do! (fays he)-, why, lengthen the
dances and (horten the petticoats.1’ So evident it is,
that finging, though apparently the chief purpofe of
an opera, is by no means the moft pleafing part of the
entertainment for the fpedlators.
Thus, what was at firft introduced as a mere accef-
fary to the mufical performance, became in procefs of
time its only fupport ; and this circumftance excited
the emulation of feveral eminent ballet-mafters. The
art, however, of compofing thofe grand dances, which
are now fo much admired, was for many years in a
Hate of infancy, till Monfieur Noverre fiept forth and
gave it that degree of peife£lion which it feems impof-
iible to exceed. This celebrated ballet-mafter and per¬
former, in a work lately publifhed, has with great ele¬
gance and ingenuity delineated the nature, objefls,
and powers of dancing, enumerated the proper requi-
lites to give it effedl, and ftiown how much it may be
ennobled by an acquaintance with the kindred arts..
Ballets, he obferves, have hitherto been the faint
Iketch only of what they may be one day. An art
entirely fubfervient, as this is, to tafte and genius, may
receive daily variation and improvements. Hiftory,
painting, mythology, poetry, all join to vaife it from
2
] DAN
that obfeurity in which it lies buried ; and it is truly Dance,
furprifing, that compofers have hitherto difdained io v~~
many valuable refources.
According to our author, the reafon why this art
has remained fo long in its infancy, is becaufe its ef-
fefls have been reftrained to the tranfitory ones of
fire works calculated only to pleafe the eye : and it
never was fuppoied to have powrers fufficient to fpeak
to the heart : whereas it may vie, he fays, with the
beft dramatic pieces, prove equally interefting, and
captivate the fpedlator by the charms of the moft com¬
plete illufion.
If ballets, therefore, fays he, “ are. for the moft
part uninterefting and uniformly dull : if they fail in
the charadteriftic expreffion which conftitutes their ei-
fcnce, the defied! does not originate from the art itielf,
but (hould be aferibed to the artifts. Are then the
latter to be told that dancing is an imitative art? I am
indeed inclined to think that they know it not, fince
we daily fee the generality of compofers facrifice the
beauties of the dance, and give up the graceful naivete
of fentiment, to become the fervile copyift of a cer¬
tain number of figures, known and hackneyed for
above a century } fo that the ballets of Phaeton, or
of any ancient opera, revived by a modern compofer,
would prove fo very fimilar to former ones, that one
would think they have undergone no alteration, and
are the fame in every ftep.
“ Ballet-mafters Ihould confult the produdlions ol
the moft eminent painters. T. his w ould bring them
nearer to nature, and induce them to avoid, as often
as poftible, that fymmetry of figures, which, by repeat¬
ing the objed!, prefent two different pidlures on one
and the fame canvas.
“ Thofe fymmetrical figures from right to left, ac¬
cording to my judgment, are fupportable only in the
entrees, which are not meant to exprefs any thing in
particular, but are only calculated to afford foiue relief
to the principal dancers. They may be introduced in
a general dance at the conclufion of an entertainment y
they may alfo be admitted in the pas of four, fix,
&c. though in my opinion it be ridiculous even in
this cafe to prefer the difplay of bodily {Length and
agility to expreffion and fentiment. But fuch figures
muft give way to nature in what we call ballets d?ac¬
tion. An inftance, though perhaps not very forcible,
may ferve to elucidate and fupport my argument.
“ At the fudden and unexpedled appearance of
fome young fauns, a troop of nymphs take them-
felves to (light with equal affright and precipitation.
The former are in purfuit of the latter with that
eagernefs which the very hope of pleafure can in-
fpire. Now they flop to obferve wftiat impreffion they
have made on the nymphs; thefe at the fame time,
and for a fimilar reafon, check their career j with
fear they furvey their purfuers, endeavour to guefs at
their intentions, and provide for a retreat to iome
fpot, where they may reft fecure from the dangers
that threaten them. Both troops now join, the nymphs
refill, defend themfelves, and at laft eftett their elcape
with no lefs fwiftnefs than dexterity. ^
“ This I call a bufy aftive feene, in which the
dance, as it were, fhould fpeak with energy. -Here
ftudied and fymmetrical figures cannot be introduced,
without a manifeft violation of the truth, without cie-
ftroymg
DAN [ 73 ] DAN
Dance, ftroying the rules of probability, and without weaken-
v ' ing the aftiou and leffening the effeft.—This fcene
fiiould be confpicuous ; for its beautiful diforder, and
the art of the corupofer, mLift here be the handmaid of
nature.
“ A ballet-mailer, devoid of talle and difcermnent,
wdll make of this a mechanical piece of dancing, and
thus deprive it of the effect it was calculated to pro¬
duce for want of entering into the fpirit of it. His
nymphs and fauns will be arranged upon a parallel
hne : he will place the former in attitudes awkwardly
uniform, and infill on the latter holding up their aims
to an even altitude ; rather than deviate from the
beaten path, and the antique rules of opera-dancing,
he will cautioufly avoid to have, on the right and
left, his nymphs placed in unequal numbers, but will
reduce a fcene of action, which ought to be fupported
with Ipirit, to an exercife equally affected and unin-
terelting.
“ Perhaps fome ill-difpofed critics, fo far Itrangers
to the art as not to judge of it from its various effects,
will maintain, that the above fcene Ihould prefent only
two different objeCts, the one pourtrayed in the love-
fick fauns, the other expreffed by the affiight of the
nymphs. But how many lliades may ferve to embel-
hih thofe pictures ? how varied may be the Itrokes
of the pencil ? how oppofite the lights ? and what a
number of tints ought to be employed in order to
draw trom this twofold lituation a multiplicity of ima¬
ges, each more lively and fpirited than the other >
“ As all men (hare the fame paflions, and thefe dif¬
fer in proportion to their fenfations and feelings, they
may therefore be worked upon more or lefs powerful¬
ly in proportion as they manifeft themfelves outward¬
ly with more or lefs force and impetuofity. This
principle once acknowledged, and nature indeed en¬
forces it daily, it would certainly be more to the pur-
pofe to diverfify the attitudes and vary the expreffion ;
for then the pantomime aCtion of each perfonape
would be diverted of a dilgulting uniformity. The
truth of imitation and the Ikill of the painter would
confpicuoufly appear in giving a different afpeCt to
the. features, fome of them expreffing a kind of fe¬
rocity, others betraying lefs eagernefs, thefe caiting a
more tender look ; and to the reff, the languifhing
air of voluptuoufnefs. The flcetch of this firft picture
naturally leads to the compofftion of the fecond : heie
fome nymphs appear divided between fear and defire ;
there fome others exprefs by the contraft of their at¬
titudes the various emotions of their foul. Some
are more fcornful than their companions, whilft others
betray a curiofity equal to their fears. This enfemble
gives hfe to the whole picture, and is the more plea-
fing tnat it is perfectly confiftent with nature. From
tnis expofition, you will not hefitate to agree with me,
that fymmetry, the offspring of art iifelf,' ffiould never
find place in the ballets d"1 aBion.
I (hall beg leave to inquire of all thofe who rea-
fon from habitual prejudice, whether they will look
for their favourite lymmetry in a herd of ffieep dying
fiom tue wolf, or among ft wretched peafants leaving
tneir hms knd fields, in order to fhelter them-
felves from the fury of a party of enemies? By no
means. But the art lies in concealing art itfelf: my
aim is by no means to introduce difordcr and confu-
Vol. VII. Part I.
fion ; on the contrary, I will have regularity even in Dance.
irregularity. What I moft infill on is, the intio-  *—1
ducing of well concerted groups, fituations foicibly
expreffed, but never beyond nature, and above all, a
certain eafe in the compofition, which betrays not the
labour of the compofer. As for the figures, they are
likely to pleafe only in proportion as they quickly
iucceed each other, and are deviled with equal tafte
and elegance.”
A ballet perfeCt in all its parts, our author proceeds
to oblerve, is a picture drawn from life, of the man¬
ners, drefles, ceremonies, and cuftoms of all nations.
It muff therefore be a complete pantomime, and
through the eyes fpeak, as it were, to the very foul
of the fpeClator. If it wants expreffion, if it be de¬
ficient in point of fituation and feenery, it degenerates
into a fpeClacle equally flat and monotone.
According to Plutarch, a ballet is, if the expreffion
may be allowed, a mute conyerfation, or a fpeaking-
and animated picture, whole language confifts of mo¬
tions, figures, and geftures.—Thefe figures, lays our
author, are unlimited in their number, becaufe there
are a thouland things that the ballet may exprefs.
Phrynicus, one of the oldelt tragedy writers, fays, that
he could find in our ballet as many figures as the fea
rolls waves in a high winter tide.
A well compofed ballot, therefore, may do without
the affiftance of words : M. Noverre even remarks that
thefe only ferve to weaken the aCtion, and partly deffroy
its effeCts. He has no opinion of a pantomime which,
in order to be underffood, muff borrow the help of a
verbal explanation. “ Any ballet whatever (fays he)
deftitute of intrigue, aCtion, and intereff, difplaying
nothing more than the mechanical beauties of the art,
and though decorated with a pompous title, unintel¬
ligible throughout, is not unlike thofe portraits and
pictures to which the painters of old fubferibed the
names of the perfonages and aCtion they meant to re¬
present : becaufe they were imperfeCt in point of imi¬
tation, the fituations weakly exprefled, the outlines in-
correCl, and the colours unfeemly.
“ When dancers fhall feel, and, Proteus-like, trans¬
form themfelves into various flrapes to exprefs to the
life the conflict of paflions ; when their features, their
very looks, fhall fpeak their inward feelings ; when
extending their arms beyond the narrow circle pre-
feribed by the rigid rules of pedantry, and with equal
grace and judgment giving them a fuller fcope, they
Ihall by proper fituations deferibe the gradual and fuc-
ceflive progrefs of the paflions; when, in fine, they
call good fenfe and genius to the afiiitance of their art 5
then they may expect to diftinguifh themfelves ; ex¬
planatory fpeeches will become ufelefs ; a mute but
powerful eloquence will be lubllitu'ed to much better
effvCt \ each motion will be a Sentence; every attitude
will pourtray a fituation; each gefture convey a thought,
and each glance a new Sentiment : every part will
pleafe., becaufe the whole will be a true and faithful
imitation nature.
A ballet, in whatever ffyle it may be, Ihould, ac¬
cording to Ariftotle, be compofed, as well as poetry,
of two different parts, which he calls parts of quality
and parts of quantity. Nothing exiffs in nature with¬
out matter, form, and figure : the ballet therefore be¬
comes a mere nonentity, ii it be deficient in any of
K thofe
DAN [74
tliol'e effential parts which mark and col-.flltute the be-
inR of any one thing animate or inanimate. I he mat¬
ter here is the fubjed intended for reprefentationits
form confifts in the ingenious diftnbution of the plan •,
and the various compounding parts conthtute its hgure-
Form therefore contains the parts of quality, and the
extent the parts of quantity. .
Thus it appears, that ballets are in fome degree
fubied to the rules of poetical compofition. 1 hey,
neverthelefs, differ from tragedies and comedies, in
that the former are not fubjed to the three unities of
time, place, and adion : Yet they require an unity of
plot, in order that the various fcenes may meet and
end on the fame point.-The ballet, therefore, may be
termed the brother of the drama, though not reftiain-
ed to its ftrider rules, which only ferve to cramp the
imagination, check its flight, and confine genius j and
if adhered to, muff fet afide all thought of compofition
of ballets, by depriving them of their chie. ornamen ,
Noverr J confiders tragedy as the fubjed moft
fuitable for the art of dancing. I he fortn^r abo“nds
in noble incidents, fituations, &c. and theie produce
the beft ftage effeds. Befides, the paflions are more
forcibly expreffed by great chaiaders than by common
men : the imitation is of courfe lefs difficult, the ac
tion in the pantomime more fignificant, natural, air
int» The'burmef. of a fkilful matter (be obferves) is
to forefee, as it were at one glance, the general effea
that may refult from the enfemble and never give the
preference to one Tingle part over the whole The only
way for him to beftow his thoughts on the greatelt
number is to forget for a while the principal charac¬
ter, of the drama; if his whole attention Ihould entire¬
ly be taken up with the parts of his fit.! dancers of
both fexes, the aflion is fnfpended, the fcenes are flow
in their progrefs, and the whole performance mult fall
ffiort of its defired efted. , . •
“ In the tragedy of Merope by Voltaire, the princi¬
pal charaders are Merope, Polifonte, _ Egdte, an
Narbas : But although the parts of the inferior a dors
are not of equal importance, yet they all concur to the
general adion, and to the progreffion of the drama,
which would appear deficient m fome Part“’ ]
ther of thofe charaders be wanting in the reprelenta
tion. No ufelefs perfonage ffiould be obtruded on the
ftaRe. Every thing therefore that may tend to -
en^the effed of the drama ought to be care u y avo -
ed and onlv that number of adors ,introduced which
is barely requifite for the execution of the perform-
tni“ *A ballet is a produdion of the fame kl"d- lt
muff be divided into ads and fcenes, each of which, as
well as the ad itfelf, muff have its beginning, its
middle, and its end ; that is, in other words, expofi-
tinn nlot, and denouement. . . ,
I have obferved above, that the principal per¬
formers in a ballet ffiould be °r a fue
MV reafon is, that, in my opinion, it is eaher to give
flriking parts to Hercules and Omphale, Ariadne and
Bacchus^Aiax and Ulyffes, &c. than to 24 P^fons
in their retinue. If thefe have noth’^
are fuperfluous, and of courfe ^
edj but if they are to fpeak, let their converia
i DAN
tion be confonant with that of the principal charac-
The difficulty, therefore, does not lie m
a primary and diftindive part to Ajax or Ulyfles >
fince it fprings naturally from the importance of
their fituation in the play, but in introducing the fi¬
gures in a becoming ftyle, giving them parts of more
or lefs importance, conneded with the-adion of the
two heroes*, in introducing women, fome ot whom
will appear concerned for Ajax, and te greae
number ffiowing their partiality for Ulyffes.
triumph of the latter, the former s death, prefent to
the man of genius a feries of images that vie with
each other in point of interefling and pidurefque fixa¬
tions. Thefe, by means of a colouring fkilful y con-
trafted, cannot but produce the moft lively (eolations.
In fine, a ballet pantomime ffiould be dramatic in all
its parts ; and the figure-dancers, who fucceed to the
principal performers, ought to continue the kene,
not by a number of fymmetnral figures and ftudied
fteps but by that kind of animated expreffions which
keens up the attention of the fpedators to the mam
fubjed for which the preceding adors have prepared
the audience. . r
“ Yet, either through ignorance, or in coniequence
of a vitiated habit, there are bat few well fupported
ballets. Dance is introduced for the mere purpok ot
dancing the end is fuppofed to be anfwered by the
mechanical motions of the feet or by high JumP
and that the idea which people of real tafte may ha e
of a ballet is fully ani'wered, when inadive performei
are introduced in it, who mix and joftle each other,
prefenting a confukd heap of pidures, fketched with¬
out taftef awkwardly grouped, and “
that harmony and expreffion, the offspring of the foul,
which alone can embelliffi art by giving it life.
M. Noverre, in confidenng the knowledge neceffa y
for attaining perfedion in the prefent art, oblerves,
that mythology, ancient poetry, and chronology, ough
to be the primary ftudy of a ballet-mafter, who ought
alfo to poffefs a genius for poetry and painting fince
the art borrows all its charms fiom a perfed imitation
°F Affight knowledge of geometry cannot but prove
very advantageous, Is it will help the matter to m.ro-
duce his figures in due proportion, to calculate ex ft-
and execute with precifion. By means of that un-
Dance-
lv, and execute wun picv-.nw... -
erring guide, he will retrench every fuperfluous accef-
farv/and thus enliven the performance. laft.e "lU
introduce elegance, genius create variety, and ju g
ment cliru£t tlic wliolc# ^ r
What is a ballet but a piece of more or kfs com¬
plicated machinery, which ftnkes or furpnks the be¬
holder bv its vanous effeds, only in proportion as
thofe are diverfified and hidden That chain and
conuedicta of figures, thole motions fucceed.ng each
other with rapidity, thofe various ^rms turning con¬
trary ways, that mixture of different incidents, the
enfemble and harmony which mark the Heps and ac¬
company the exertions of the dancers ; do not aB thefe
give^you the idea of a mecbamfm moft ingemoufly
“"BaUe'tVare often built on preternatural fubjefts;
feveral of them require rhe affittance of machrnery.
For inflance, few of the fubjeas taken from Ov.d mil
T)ance.
DAN [ 75
be fit for reprefentation, without a change of fcenery,
flights through the air, metamorphofes. &c. This
author, therefore, muft never be taken for a model, un-
lefs the ballet-mafter himfelf be an expert mechanift.
None are to be found out of the capital, but journey¬
men and ftage-fweepers, whom the patronage of fome
mighty fon of the fock has preferred by degrees to that
employment. The talents of thofe upftarts confift in,
and reach not beyond, the capacity of putting up the
lights which they were wont to fnuft' for many years,
or letting down awkwardly a glory of the moft wretch¬
ed ftyle. The theatres in Italy are not remarkable for
their machinery ; thofe of Germany, built upon the
fame plan, are not lefs deficient in point of that en¬
chanting part of ftage-exhibition ; fo that a ballet-
mafter muft, in thefe countries, find himfelf greatly em-
barrafled, if, unfkilled in the mechanical arts, he cannot
convey his ideas with perfpicuity, by building for that
purpofe fmall models, which are better underftood by
the generality of workmen than the cleareft verbal ex¬
planation.
The theatres of Paris and London are the beft fup-
plied with thefe refources. The Englifti are very in¬
genious ; their ftage machinery is more Amplified than
the French, and of courfe produces a quicker effe6f.
Among them all thele kinds of works are moft ex-
q>iifitely finiflied ; that neatnefs, care, and exaftitude,
which is remarkable throughout every part, greatly
contribute to the preeifion of the whole. Thofe chef-
d’oeuvres of mechanifm particularly difplay themfelves
in their pantomimes; which, however, are low and
trivial, devoid of tafte and intereft, and built upon the
meaneft incidents. It may be faid that this kind of en¬
tertainment, which is got up at a prodigious expence,
is only calculated to pleafe thofe eyes which are ftiocked
at nothing ; and that it would meet with no fuccefs on
the French theatres, where no other pleafantry is per¬
mitted but fuch as is not incompatible with decency,
abounds with delicacy and wit, and is nowife levelled
againft morals and humanity.
A compofer who wifties to rife fuperior to the gene¬
rality of ballet-mafters, Ihould ftudy the painters, and
trace them in their various manners of drawing and
compofing. Both arts have the fame objedft in view,
whether it be for taking likeneffes, mixing the colours
and preferving the clare-obfcure ; or for grouping the
figures properly, laying on the draperies, throwing the
former into elegant attitudes, and giving them life and
expreflion.
Upon the fame principle, the knowledge of anatomy
will ferve to render more clear and intelligible the pre¬
cepts which he has to lay down for his pupils. It will
be an eafy matter for him to diftinguifti properly be¬
tween the natural and habitual defers in their confor¬
mation. Thefe are the greateft obftacles that fo often
impede the progrefs of young beginners. Thus once
knowing the caufe, he will be able to remedy the evil;
as his leflon and precepts will then be the refult of
ilritft attention they never can fail of becoming pro¬
fitable.
Drawing is too ufeful in the compofition of ballets
for the mafter not to pay a ferious attention to that art;
it will contribute to the beauty of the forms; will give
to the figures an air of novelty and elegance, animate
j DAN
the groups, throw the body into graceful pofitidns,
and (how the attitudes in a juft precifion.
A ballet-mafter who is no proficient in mufic, will
make a bad choice of his airs. He will not enter into
the fpirit or charafler of them. The motions of his
dancers will not-beat time with that precifion and de¬
licacy which are abfolutely neceffary, unlefs he is en¬
dued with that fenfibility of organ which is more com¬
monly the gift of nature that the refult of art, and is
far above what may be acquired by long pradtice and
fteady application.
A good choice of raufic is as elfential to dancing, as
the choice of words and the phrafing of a fpeech is to
eloquence. It is the tune and time of the mufic that
fix and determine the motion of the dancers. If the
former be uniform and devoid of tafte, the ballet will,
like its model, be dull and unmeaning.
By this immediate connexion between mufic and
dancing, it clearly appears, that, from a pradlicai
knowledge of the former,'the ballet-mafter will derive
the greateft advantages. He will then be able to im¬
part his thoughts to the compoler ; and if tafte and
knowledge combine together, he tvill either fet the
mufic himfelf, or at leaft furnifli the compofer with
the principal outlines, to charadlerife the adtion of
the dancer ; as this will be varied and expreflive,
the ballet cannot fail of being equally fo. Mufic
well compofed ftiould paint and fpeak; and the
dance fet to thofe founds, will be, as it were, the echo
to repeat the words. If, on the contrary, it be mute,
if it fpeak not to the ear of the dancer, then all fen-
timent and expreflion are banifhed from the perform¬
ance.
As nothing can appear trifling to the man of ge¬
nius, nothing ftiould feem fo to the ballet-mafter. It
is impoftible for him to diftinguifti himfelf in his pro-
feflion, unlefs he applies to ftudy thofe arts which have
been juft mentioned. Yet to infill that he ftiould be
mafter of them all in that degree of perfedlion which is
attainable only by thofe who give themfelves entirely
up to the ftudy of each of them in particular, would
be requiring a mere impoffibility.
All that can be deemed ftridlly requifite, therefore,
is a general knowledge, a flight tindlure of thofe feien-
ces which, by the connedlion they have with each
other, are likely to contribute to the improvement of
the art and to its reputation. From the natural
union, however, that fubfifts between the arts, and
from the harmony which reigns amongft them, that
ballet-mafter will ennoble his compofition with the
moft fire, fpirit, livelinefs, and intereft, who has moft
genius and imagination, and whofe knowledge is moft;
extenfive.
As to performers and their perfonal qualifications:
The firft point to which it is direfled to pay attention
when one takes up the profe{lion of a dancer (at leaft
fo foon as he becomes capable of refleftion), is his bo¬
dily formation : If one is confcious of any natural de-
fed! which feems irremediable by art, it will be beft
immediately to renounce every idea that may have been
formed of the advantage arifing from popular appro¬
bation. But where perfonal defedls can be reformed
by application, ftudy, or the advice and afliftance of
judicious mailers, then it becomes an efl'ential concern
K 2 quickly
Dance.
DAN [ 76 1
quickly to cxcr, every effort, before .be parts to be of tbe e«,re-cha,.
corrected have acquired ftrength and eonfiftence be-
fore nature has unalterably taken ber ben^, and the
error becomes too habitual and inveterate.
Among other pe.fonal defeat, there are two wb.ch
deferve particular notice: The firft ,s that of bet, g
jarrete, “ knock-knee’d the other of being arque, or
A^man^ faid to be jarrcte or inknee’d when the
haunches are ftrait, and incline tb,fh’
lie near and the knees are protuberant, and io dole
that they touch and knock together at every ftep,
even when the feet are a. a diifance ; fo that fuch a
nerron, from the knees to the feet, makes the figure of
! triangle ; in people of this formation, likewife, there
U a clumfinefs in the infide of the ancle a great eleva-
t;on in the inftep, while th« tendo Acbilhs is not on¬
ly very (lender, but much extended m the articma-
tl0The other dePeft, of being arque or bow-legged, is
the oppofite of the former, and exiifs in the fame part ,
namely, from the haunches to the feet, which delcribe
a fort of bow ot arch •, for the haunches being in ns
cafe hollow, the thighs and knees ftand open, and at a
diftance fo that they can never be brought m proper
contaft ’like thofe of a well-fhaped perfon j their -ee
alfo are long and flat, the ancle juts out, and the Wo
Tthiul is large and clofely inferted. A Angle view of
thefe diametrically f^^rftmarnT which
miUtTorrea thl errors of one of this fort of dancers,
- -dta; oughtTbe
him with to’feparate and widen the too clofely con-
n^-aed parts. The firft ftep to this end is to turn the
thighs outwardly, endeavouring to m°ve them “1.
o^^p'r. fr.'wbUc^.blj^nd leg
tb" placed dcfcribe a line that will enfurc firmncfs and
“tI!'/“con’d remedy’to be nfed is, to keep .be knees
to the former vicious pofition, without caufin„ an
«o^d^^-Uas
entirely undifcoverable, unUs •"fb"-
ot i„ very qmch movement ^ ^ contr,a;on of
Set i . the efc ” of leaping makes them ftiff
ltU™t articulation, and forces every pat. rn.o.,
former and natural fituat , a;„ their uf„al
protu’beiance^'tvhich becomes anobffacle to the difplay
dan
of the enirhm,. The more thefe parts connefl, to the ^
greater dillance will the lower extremities be thrown ,
hence the legs, neither being able to beat nor croft
remain motionlefs at the time of the knees rolling over
each other, while the entre-chat, being neither cut bea ,
nor croffed by the feet, is deprived of that life and hr
lianev which are its chief merit. _ ,
A perfon thus formed, (hould ent.re y renounce the
"'^t;„a;dcom^a«d mov^tt Is it
-willTnfidlibly"render him weak and P^'f ^ched
t i fr> drait lbe mulcles that are attacneu
to’thenrjwdiereon the’motions of the trunk depend)
have no/a proper and eafy play, which - >
in Drooortion to the dimenfion of thefe bones, becauie
SinX mulcles fi.oot out or ^vide from a pom. n,„r
diftant from the centre of gravity . «'•« *'«« 1 ft
grander fort of dancing, and nrre o rerj, ‘^
adauted to fuel, dancers ; ano we may add, that what
ever they lole on the fcore of firength, they regam m
i onrl addvefs Thev are luxuriant and Ihm ng
Dance.
no erreat ertorts are retjuticu , -- i,v„vs
elegant in their airplay them ^8 ^
employ wr/refource which the motion of the mitep
yjyg them. Thefe are advantages which atone .or
The art of concealing or overcommg the defeas_ of
kd^di^ejd«: at!
tural’difloition’^of’the bone,^ labour wiil be as ufeleis
^r1'rAifltouldpreferve a flight ge^fiexron or bend,n
.heir P-f—4p''t1'b1‘!r'Hmbs rather extended or
fon, ought to k p clofely, by that means
ftretched, and to crofs more cloiely, ^ fe_
diminiftiing the vacancy occafioned y
IX^S^iKnrn^andrefifl^^their
articular ligaments , ivt> ^ requiring on
crofs '““p/tace t bc .bg time, the, perform
that account kds ipace ^ ore brilliancy,
it with more hvehnefs . tn ^ P between the limbs
becaufe the light becomes vifible^bet _ ^ ^ is
at the moment of c'°ffinS , d.,ncing •, for if the time
precifely the ^r-objeure of dam
in the entre-chat or crols-Ccp . ,• to give
but rolled or huddled over, there i^ no g
diflinaion to the_ ^Z
joined, prefent an indiftintt ana enec Thefe
DAN [77
Dance. Thefe dancers have lefs addrefs than the others, as
they generally depend on their ftrength ; and indeed
that ftrength is a conftant obftacle to eafe and pliancy;
iF it forfakes them a Angle moment, they appear awk¬
ward and ridiculous : nor can they conceal their fitua-
tion by any trifling difplay ; that requiring mere ad¬
drefs, would give them time to recover, which their
want of natural elafticity otherwife prevents.
Dancers who are jarretes, are weak, flender, and de¬
licate ; the others, ftrong and vigorous, large made,
and nervous. It is a common opinion, that ftout,
fquat-Lmilt men are heavy and flnggifh ; which they
doubtlels are in refpeft of bodily weight ; but the.
notion is erroneous fo far as regards dancing ; for
activity ow'es its very exiftence to mufcular ftrength,
and every man who has not a requifite (hare of that
wdll always fall heavy. The reafon is evident ; the
weak parts, in the inftant of falling, not being able to
refift the ftronger (that is, the weight of the body,
which acquires a momentum in proportion to the height
it falls or defcends from), yield and bend ; and it is at
the moment of relaxation or flexion that the noife of
the fall is heard ; a circumftance greatly leffened, or
rather entirely avoided, when the body is able to main¬
tain itfelf in a perpendicular diredftion ; and while the
mufcular fpring is fufficient to oppofe that defcending
force, and vigoroufly reftft a fhock which would other-
wife deftroy it.
Nature has not exempted the fairfex from thofe im-
perfe£lions we have been taking notice of; but art,
and the ufe of petticoats, come fortunately to the help
of the female dancer. The hoop conceals a multitude
of defedfs, which the critic’s curious eye cannot afcend
to difcover. Moll of them dance wdth their knets
open, as if they were naturally arquees ; but, thanks to
this bad habit, and to the petticoats, they appear more
brilliant than the men ; becaufe, as they beat from the
lower part of the leg, they perform the time quicker
than we, who, concealing nothing from the fpedlator,
are obliged to beat at a greater extent, and to do it
originally from the haunch.
The vivacity of the fex contributes much to the
brilliancy of their execution ; though certainly not
lefs is owing to the petticoats, which, by concealing
the length of the limbs, catch the attention, and fix
it more advantageoufly : thus all the fire of the beats
being united in one point, appears more lively and
brilliant ; while the eye embraces one objeft only,
without being hurried and confufed in proportion to
the fpnce it has to overlook.
To perfeiftion in dancing, M. Noverre obferves,
nothing is more neceflary than the outward turn of the
thigh ; yet nothing is more natural to mankind than
the contrary pofition ; it is born with us. It will be
fuperfluous, in eftabliftiing this truth, to cite for ex¬
ample the Afiatics, the Africans, or any people who
dance, or rather leap and move, without art or prin¬
ciple. If we attend only to children, or the ruftic in¬
habitants of the villages, we (hall fee that they all turn
their feet inwardly. The other pofition is purely in¬
vention ; and a proof, far from equivocal, of this fault
being an imaginary one, is, that a painter would tranf-
grefs as much againft nature as the rules of his art,
were he to place the feet of his portrait in the fitua-
tion of a dancer’s. It is plain, then, that to dance
] DAN'
elegantly, walk gracefully, or addrefs ourfelves with •Earre-
eafe and manlinefs, we muft abfolutely reverie the na- ^
ture of things ; and force our limbs, by artificial ap¬
plications equally tedious and painful, to affume a very
different fituation from what they originally received.
Such a change, however neceffary in this art, can
only be accomplifhed by laying its foundation in the
earlieft itages of infancy, when every bone and muf-
cle is in a ftate of pliability, and capable of receiving
any direction which we choofe to give them.
The difficulty of attaining the outward pofition of
the limbs, is owing to our ignorance of the proper aits
to be employed. Moft beginners perluade tbernielves
that it is to be acquired by forcing the feet to turn
outward ; and though this part may readily take lucli
a diredtion, from their fupplenefs, and being fo eafily
moved at their articulation with the leg : yet this me¬
thod is fo far falfe, as it tends to difplace the ancle-
bones, and befides has not any effedl upon either the
knees or thighs.
Neither is it poffible to throw the knees outwardly'
wdthout the’ afliftance of the thigh. The knees have
only twm motions, bending and extenfion ; the one
drawing the leg backward, the other throwing it for¬
ward : they have no power, therefore, of themfelves
to determine or affume an outward pofition ; but muft;
eventually depend on the thigh, w!hich entirely com-,
mauds all the lower parts of the body, and turns them
in conftquence of its owm rotatory motion ; fo that,
in fadl, whatever motion or pofition that takes, the
knee, foot, and leg, are obliged to follow.
M. Noverre condemns the tourne-baunch as a clum-
fy and ufelefs invention, wfliich, infttad of producing
any good effedf, ferves only to lame thofe who ufe it,
by giving a diftortion to the waift, much more dif-
agreeable than what it w'as intended to remove.
The fimpleft and moft natural means are thofe which
reafon and good fenfe ought to adopt ; and of thefe a
moderate but continual exercife is indifpenfable : the
prasftice of a circular motion or turning of the legs,
both inwardly and outwardly, and of bodily beating
at full extent from the haunch, is the only certain ex¬
ercife to be preferred. It infenfibly gives freedom,
fpiing, and pliancy ; while the motions acquired by
ufing the machine have more an air of conftraint,
than of that liberty and eafe which ihould ihine con-
fpicuous in them.
It has been maintained, that a ftrong and vigorous
perfon ought to fpring higher and better than a flen¬
der or weaker man. But experience (fays M. Noverre)
daily proves the contrary. We fee many dancers, wha
cut the time very ftrong, who beat with much vigour
and firmnefs, and yet cannot fpring to any confiderable
perpendicular elevation : for an oblique elevation, or on
one fide, ought here to be diftinguifhed from the former;
the latter is faint, and depends entirely upon addrefs in
the dancer. There are others, again, whofe flender
form renders their execution lefs bold, and rather ele¬
gant than forcible, rather lively than nervous, but who
can rife to an extraordinary height : it is to the lhape
and formation of the foot, and to the length and ela¬
fticity of the tendon, that this power of elevation is
originally owing ; the knees, the loins, and the arm',
all co-operate in this adfion ; the ftronger the preffure
upon the mufcles, the greater is the re-adlion, and the
fpriug
DAN
Dance, fprlng or leap is proportionably high.
'■""■''v'*—motion of the knees participates with thofe of the in-
ftep and tcndo Achillis, though the latter are ftill the
moft eflential auxiliaries j the mufcles of the trunk
lend their afliftance, and preferve the body in a per¬
pendicular direftion •, while the arms, running imper¬
ceptibly to the mutual afliftance of all the parts, ferve
as wings to counterbalance the machine.
Obferve all thofe animals that have long and (lender
ancles, as (lags, roebucks, (keep, cats, monkeys, &c.
and you will perceive that they have a quicknefs and
facility of fpringing and leaping, which animals dif¬
ferently formed in that part can never obtain.
But were a man endowed wuth all the other quali¬
ties eflential to the perfeftion of the art, yet ftill with¬
out ftrength and firmnefs in his loins he never can be
a good dancer. This ftrength is certainly the gift.of
nature ; but it may be much improved by the afliduity
of an able teacher. We daily fee dancers who have
neither perpendicularity nor firmnefs, and W'hofe per¬
formance is altogether unftable and irregular; and we
likewife fee others, who, though they poflefs not fo
great a degree of native force, have all the appearance
of finewy firmnefs and mufcular ftrength, in their
haunches, back, and loins. Art has furnifhed a fub-
ftitute for nature, in the leflbns of fome excellent
teacher, who has convinced them, that when once
they forego an attention to the loins, it is impoflible
to keep themfelves in a right perpendicular line ; and
therefore all their exertions will be devoid of tafte :
that all wavering and inftability in this part is incon-
liftent with perpendicularity and firmnefs, and will cer¬
tainly caufe diftortion of the drape and waift: that tne
depreflure and finking of the body deprives the lower
parts of that liberty which is neceflary to their eafy
motion : that hence the body is undetermined in its
pofitions *, frequently drags the limbs •, and conftantly
lofes the centre of gravity } and therefore cannot re¬
cover an equilibrium, but after various efforts and con¬
tortions totally repugnant to the gracetul and harmo¬
nious motions of good dancing.
Such is the performance of thofe dancers who have
no ftrength in their loins, or at lead do not exert what
they poflefs. In order to dance well, the body (hould
be firm and fteady ; it (hould particularly be naotion-
lefs and free from wavering while the legs are in exer¬
tion ; for when the body follows the actions of the
feet, it difplays as many grimaces and diftortions as
the legs execute different fteps} the perfoimance is
then robbed of its eafe, uniformity, harmony, exaft-
nefs, firmnefs, perpendicularity, and equilibrium j in
a word, of all thofe beauties and graces which are fo
eflential to make dancing give pleafure and delight.
Many dancers are of opinion, that to be foft and
luxuriant, the knees mud be bent very low. But in
this they are moft certainly miftaken ; for a more than
ordinary flexion of the knees gives rather a drynefs
and infipidity to dancing ; and a dancer may be very
inelegant, and jerk, as it were, all his movements, as
well in bending very low as in not bending at all. I he
reafon will appear natural and evident, when we refleft,
that the time and motions of the dancer are ftriclly
fubordinate to the time and movements of the mufic ;
purfuing this principle, it is not to be doubted, that
when the flexion of the knees is greater than what the
[ 78 1 DAN
The alternate air or time of the dance requires, the mealiire then
drawls along, languifhes, and is loft. I o recoyei and
catch again the time which this unneceffary flexion had
deftroyed, the extenfion of the knee muft be equally
quick'; and it is this fudden tranfition which gives fuch
a harflmefs and fterility to the execution, and renders
it as difguftful as the oppofite fault of ftiffnefs and in¬
flexibility.
That luxuriant foftnefs requires more to its perfec¬
tion that merely an exa£ flexion and extenfion of the
knees ; the fpring of the inftep muft add its affiftance,
while the loins muft balance the body to preferve thefe
fprings in proper bounds. It is this rare harmony of
motion (fays M. Noverre) which has procured the ce¬
lebrated Dupr6 the glorious title of the God of Dance.
There are manv dancers, and of an inferior clafs
only, who can difplay a great variety of fteps, badly
enough cbofen to be fure, and often difplayed without
either judgment or tafte ; but it is very uncommon to
find among them that exaftnefs of ear (that rare but
innate talent of a dancer), which gives life to and
damps a value upon fteps, and which diffufes over all
their motions a fpint that animates and enlivens them.
There are fome ears ftupid and infenfible even to the
moft Ample, plain, and ftriking movements ; there are
others, more cultivated or refined, that can feel and
comprehend the meafure, but cannot feize its intrica¬
cies 5 and there are others again to whom the moft dif¬
ficult airs and movements are eafy and intelligible, and
at once comprehended. It is neverthelefs certain, that
a dancer may have a very perfeft and nice feeling, and
yet not make his feelings intelligible to the audience,
if he has not the art of commanding thofe refources
which depend upon a proper exertion of the coup de
pied: awkwardnefs becomes vifible where the exafteft
proportion was neceffary *, and every ftep which would
have been becoming, and produced the happieft effeft,
had it been fmartly introduced at the conclufion of the
meafure, will now be cold and lifelefs, if all the limbs
are in motion at once. It requires more time to move
the whole body than to exert any (ingle member 5 the
flexion and extenfion of the inftep is more readily and
quickly made than the reciprocal motion of all the
joints. This principle allowed, that the dancer is de-
ftitute of precifion, who (iuppefing he poflefles a mu-
fical ear) knows not how to time his fteps ; the elafti-
city of the inftep, and the more or lefs a£ive play of
the mufcles, add to the natural fenfibility of the esr,
and (lamp value and brilliancy on the dance. The
joint charms of the harmony fpringing from the move¬
ments of the mufic, and the motions of the dancer,
captivate even thoie whofe ears are the moft mienfiblw
and lead fufceptible of mufical imprcflioiu
There are fome countries where the inhabitants in
general are endowed with this innate mufical tafte.
The Palatinate, Wirtemberg, Saxony, Brandenburg,
Auftria, and Bohemia, fupply the orcbeftras of the
German princes with many excellent muficians and emi¬
nent compofers. T he Germans, indeed, are born
with a very lively and juft tafte ror mufic, and have in
them the feeds of true harmony ; nothing is more com¬
mon than to hear concerts, both in the ftreets. and in
the (hops of their mechanics, performed vith the
greateft fkill and exa&nefs.
Such a natural and native tafte for mufic as we have
been
Dance.
DAN [ 79 ] DAN
Dance, been mentioning, is ufually accompanied by, or in-
—’Y-—*•' eludes in it, a fimilar one for dancing •, they are kin¬
dred arts •, the tender and harmonious accents of the
one excite and produce the agreeable and exprel-
five motions of the other, and their union entertains
the eye and ear with animated pidlures of fentiments j
thefe two fenfes, again, convey to the heart the inte-
reffing images which affedf them, while the heart, in
its turn, communicates them to the mental faculty :
thus the pleafure refulting from the harmony and in¬
telligence of thefe two arts, enchants the fpeftator,
and fills him with the mofl feducing pleafures of vo-
luptuouinefs.
Dancing is probably nowhere valued to fuch a de¬
gree as in the provinces of Germany ; where the well
known dances of one village are ftrangers in the adja¬
cent hamlet j their fongs of mirth and merriment have
no lefs different airs and movements, though they are
all marked with that of gaiety. Their dances are
pleafing and engaging, becaufe the offspring of fimple
nature ; their motions exprefs joy and pleafure j and
the exaftnefs with which the whole is performed, gives
a peculiar agreeablenels to their fteps, gelfures, and
attitudes. Do they fpring ?—a hundred perfons, af-
fembled round an oak, or fome ancient pillar, feize
the time at one inftant, bound up and defeend with the
fame exaiffnefs. Do they wifh to mark the meafure
by a coup-de-pied?—^all ftrike with one confent ; or
when they catch up their women, you fee them all in
the air at an equal height, nor do they defeend but at
the precife note that marks the time.
The counter-point, which is doubtlefs the touch-
flone of a delicate ear, is to them an objeft of no dif¬
ficulty ; hence their dance is fo particularly animated,
and the nicety of that organ has the effedf of giving
their different motions an air of gaiety and variety al¬
together exquifite.
A dancer whofe ear is untuned to harmony, difplays
his fteps without order or regularity, wanders from his
part, and purfues the mealure without being able to
reach it : devoid of judgment, his dancing has nei¬
ther fentiment nor expreffion •, and the mufic which
fliould direft his motions, regulate his fteps, and guide
his time, ferves only to expofe his imperfedtions and
infufficiency. The ftudy of mufic ihuuld therefore be
applied to for the purpofe of obviating this defeft, and
moie fenfibility and exadtnefs to the organs of
It will not be expected that we fhould proceed to
give a defeription of all the intricacies and combina¬
tions of fteps that are or can be exerted in dancing ;
or enlarge on the mechanical particulars of the art.
A differtation on the latter would be infipid and dif-
guftful ; for the language of the feet and limbs is
addreffed to the eyes, not to the ears : and a detail
of the former would be endlefs, fince every dancer has
his peculiar manner of joining or varying the time.
It may be fufficient juft to mention on this point, that
it is in dancing as in mufic, and with dancers as with
muficians : Dancing does not abound with more fun¬
damental fteps than mufic with notes j but there are
odtaves, breves, femibreves, minims, crotchets, double
and treble crotchets ; times to count, and meafures to
follow. This mixture, however, of a fmall number of
fteps, and a few notes, furnifhes dapeers with a mul-
giving
hearing
titude of connexions and a variety of figures j tafte
and genius will always find a fource of novelty in ar¬
ranging them in different manners, and to exprefs va¬
rious ideas. Slow and lengthened, or quick and pre¬
cipitate fteps, and the time correfpondently varied,
give birth to this endlefs diverfity.
Cou?Ury-'DAticz. See CoumKY-Datice.
Country-Dance, commonly fo written, and hence
feeming to imply a ruftic way of dancing borrowed
from country people or peafants, is by others fuppofed
to be a corruption of the French Contre-danfe, where
a number of perfons placing themfelves oppofite one to
another begin a figure.
i?o/,e-DANCER, (fchcenobates), a perfon who walks,
leaps, dances, and performs feveral other feats, upon
a fmall rope or wire.
The ancients had their rope-dancers as well as we.
Thefe had four feveral wjays of exercifing their art :
The firft vaulted, or turned round the rope like a wheel
round its axis, and there hung by the heels or neck.
The fecond flew or did from above, refting on their
ftomach, with the arms and legs extended. The third
ran along a rope ftretched in a right line or up and
down. Laftly, the fourth not only walked on the
rope, but made furprifing leaps and turns thereon.
They had likewife the cremnobates or orobates; that
_is, people who walked on the blinks of precipices.
Nay more, Suetonius in Gaiba, c. 6. Seneca in his
85th Epiftle, and Pliny, lib. viii. c. 2. make men¬
tion of elephants, that were taught to walk on the
rope.
St Vitus's Dance. See Medicine Index.
DANCETTE, in Heraldry, is when the outline of
any bordure, or ordinary, is indented very largely, the
largenefs of the indentures being the only thing that
diftinguifties it from indented.
DANCING. See Dance.
Dancing Girls of Egypt. See Alme.
Dancing-girls are employed all over the eaft, as af¬
fording great diverfion at all public entertainments.
They are all proftitutes ; and by the law s of their fo-
ciety, are bound to refufe no one for their price,
which is rated according to their beauty and other
accompliftnnents. T here are even particular lets of
them appropriated to the fervice of the Gentoo
temples, and the ufe of the Bramin priefts who attend
them. Thefe poor creatures fay that they were firft:
debauched by their god, and afterwards by him con-
figned over to the uie of the priefts who belong to his
temples.
Thefe dancing-girls, whether in a fettled or unfet¬
tled condition, live in a band or community under the
direftion of feme fuperannuated female of the fame pro-
feflion, under whom they receive a regular education,
and are trained up in all the arts of love and pleafing,
like fcholars in an academy. Thus they acquire the
art of captivating the affections of the other (ex to fuch
a degree, that nothing is more common than for one
of the princes or chief people of the country to take a
liking to one of thefe girls, and wafte immenfe fums on
her, though at the fame time their own haram is ftocked
wdth beauties far fuperior, and who are befides poffef-
fed of the natural modefty of the fex, to which the others
have not the fmalleft pretenfions. Thus fome of thefe
girls acquire immenfe wealth. In the neighbourhood
of
DAN
■francing. of Goa, for inftance, on a part of the
[ So ]
continent bor- them to
derTng'on the diftrift of that ifland, the dancing-girls
founded a village, after being driven from Goa by the
zeal of the archbilhop. Here they refide in a^ body
corporate, and attend the parties ot pleafure of the no¬
blemen and principal inhabitants, for it is not e\try
one’s purfe that can afford them. Here many of them
acquire considerable fortunes by this Scandalous traffic,
and throw it into a common Slock for the fake of car¬
rying on merchandife •, being concerned in {flipping and
the moft profitable voyages, lor wnich tney have iegu-
lar faftors and brokers.
The drefs of thefe women varies according to the
country they live in j but in all it is the moll goi-
geous imaginable. They are loaded with jewels, lite¬
rally from top to toe, fince even on their toes they
wear rings. Their necks are adorned with carcanets,
their arms with bracelets, and their ancles with chains
of gold and filver, often enriched with precious Slones.
They alfo wear nofe jewels, which at firll have an odd
appearance, but to which the eye is foon reconciled.
In IndoSlan, thefe dancing-girls, as well as the other
women of the country, have a peculiar method of pre-
ferving and managing their breads, which at the lame
time makes no inconfiderable part of their finery-
They inclofe them in a pair of hollow cafes, exadtly
fitted to them ; made of very light wood, linked to¬
gether and buckled at the back. Thefe at once con¬
fine their breads fo that they cannot grow to any dii-
gudfully exuberant fize j though, from their fmooth-
nefs and pliancy, they play fo freely with every mo-
DAN
ujcm be mad women than morris-dancers. I he Dancing
band of mufic that attends them is not lefs Singular in Da «dini>
in its way : it is chiedy compoled of three or four men, (   j
who hold two pieces of bell-metal in their hands, with
which they make an inceflant noife ; another man beats
what he is pleafed to call a drum j and that they may
not want vocal mufic to complete the band, there are
always two others appointed to ling. 1 hefe lad gene¬
rally lay in their mouths a good loading ca betel-nut
before they begin; which, after having been wed
chewed, tinges the faliva with Such a rednefs, that a
dranger would judge them to bleed at the mouth by
too violent an exertion of their voice. 1 hefe gentry
are called ticky tenv boys, from the two words ticky taw,
which they continually repeat, and chant with great
vehemence. The dancing-girls are fometimes made
ufe of in their religious ceremonies, as when the priedsi
bring forth the images of their gods into the open
fields on a car ornamented with lafcivious figures, theie
girls dance before the images amidd a great crowd or
people ; and having been felefted for their fupenor
beauty, are very profitable to their mailers the pritds,
who are faid to proditute them to all comers.”
Mr Grofe informs us, that “ thefe dances would
hardly at fird reliib with Europeans, efpccially as they
are accompanied with a mufic far from delightful, con¬
fiding of little drums called gumgums, cymbals, and a
fort of fife, which makes a hideous din, and are played
on by men, whofe effeminacy, grimaces, and uncouth
{drivelled features, all together diock the eye and tor¬
ture the ear. However by ufe we become reconciled
tion of the body, that they do not crudi the tender
texture of the fledi in that part, like the diff whale¬
bone days in ufe among the Europeans. 1 he out-
fide of them is fpread over with a thin-plate of go d or
filver, or fet with gems, if they can afford it. Ano¬
ther occafional ornament the dancing-girls put on, par¬
ticularly when they refort to their gallants, viz. a
necklace of many loofe turns, compofed of flowers
drung together, which they call mogrees, fomewhat
refembling Spanidi double jeffamy, but of a much
dronger and more agreeable fragrant odour, and iar
preferable to any perfumes. “ 'I bey have nothing,
fays Mr Grofe, “ of that naufeous boldnefs which cha¬
racterizes the European proditutes, their dyle of ie-
duftion being all foftnefs and gentlenefs.
With regard to the performances of tbefe women as
dancers, we have various accounts. Hie author ot
Memoirs of the late War in Afia, acquaints us “ that
their attitudes as well as movements are not ungrace¬
ful. Their perfons are delicately formed, gaudily at¬
tired, and highly perfumed. By the continuation ot
wanton attitudes, they acquire, as they grow warm m
the dance, a frantic lafeivioufnefs themfelves, and com¬
municate, by a natural contagion, the mod voluptuous
defires to the beholders.” Mr Ives feems to have been
verv cool on this fubjeft. “ I could not (fays he) fee
any thing in their performance worthy of notice.
Their movements are more like tumbling or fliowing
podures than dancing. Their drefs is thm and light ;
and their hair, necks, cars, arms, wrids, fingers, legs,
feet, and even their toes, are covered with nngs ot
Kold and filver, made after a clumfy manner. I hey
wear two rings in their nofes ; and by their flaring
foQks and odd gefliculations, you would rather luipect
Z
IUIC tut tai.    -J \ r '
to the noife, and may obferve fome not unpleafing airs,
with which the dancers keep time: the words often
exprefs the matter of a pantomime dance, inch as a
lover courting his midrefs ; a procurefs bringing a let¬
ter and endeavouring to feduce a woman from one
gallant in favour of another ; a girl, timorous and a-
fraid of being caught in an intrigue. All thefe loye-
feenes the girls execute in charatter dances, and wiUi
no defpicable expreflion, if they are proficients in tne.r
art ; for then their geftures, air, and fteps, are mark¬
ing and well adapted. In fome of their dances, even
in public, modedy is not much refpeaed by the lafci-
vicus attitudes into which they throw themfelves, with¬
out expofing any nudity ; being richly clad_ and be¬
decked with jewels after their manner. But in private
parties to which they are called, as in gardens,. they
give themfelves a great loofe, and have dances in re¬
serve ; in which, though dill without any groffl,e‘S
difeovering their bodies, they are m.dreffes of luch
motions and lewdnefs of looks and gefiures as are pei-
haps more provoking.
‘DANDELION. See Leontodon, Botany Index.
DANDINI, Pietro, an eminent painter, was born
at Florence in 1646, and received his fird indruaions
in the art of painting from Valero Spada, who exce -
led in fmall drawings with a pen. Whfidhe was un¬
der the care of that artid, he gave fuch evident proofs
of a ready genius, that he was then placed as a dii-
ciple with his uncle Vicencio Dandmi, a maker of
great reputation through all Italy who had been
bred up under Pietro da Cortona. He afterwards tra¬
velled through mod of the cities of Italy dudymg the
works of thofe who were mod didinguilbed ; and re¬
dded for a long time at Venice, where he copied the
DAN [
Danclini paintings of Titian, Tintoretto, and Paolo Veronefe.
II .He next vifited Parma and Modena, to defign the
ane ' , works of Gorregio ; omitting no opportunity that
might contribute to improve his hand or his judgment.
When he returned to Florence, the grand duke Cof-
mo III. the grand duchefs Vitoria, and the prince
Ferdinand, kept him perpetually employed, in frefco
painting as well as in oil; his fubje&s being taken not
only from facred or fabulous hiftory, but from his own
invention and fancy, which frequently furnilhed him
with fuch as were odd and fingular, and efpecially with
whimlical caricatures. He died in 1712.—This ma¬
iler had a moll extraordinary talent for imitating the
ilyle of even the moll celebrated ancient painters qf
every fchool, particularly Titian, Veronefe, and Tin¬
toretto $ and with a force and elegance, equal to his
fubjefts of hiltory, he painted portraits, landfcapes,
architedlure, flowers, fruit, battles, animals of all
kinds, and likewife fea-pieces; proving himfelf an uni-
verfal artift, and excellent in every thing he under¬
took.
He had a fon, Oftavio, who proved not inferior to
him in any branch of his profeflion, and was an honour
to his family and his country.
Dandini, Ca-fare, hiftory painter, was born at Flo¬
rence ; and was the elder brother and firft inftru61or of
Vincentio Dandini, the uncle of Pietro. This mafte-r
had fucceflively lludied as a difciple with Cavalier Cur-
radi, Paflignano, and Criftofano Allori $ from whom
he acquired a very plealing manner of defigning and
colouring. He was extremely corre61 in his drawing,
and finilhed his piftures highly. Several noble altar-
pieces in the churches of Florence are of his hand ;
and one, which is in the chapel PAnnonciata, is par¬
ticularly admired.
D ANDOLO, Henry, doge of Venice, a brave ad¬
miral and politician. With a Venetian fleet he took
Conftantinople in 1203, and had the moderation to re-
iufe to be emneror. He died in 1250.
DANEGELT, an annual tax laid on the Anglo-
Saxons, firft of is. afterwards of 2s. for every hide of
land throughout the realm, for maintaining fuch a num¬
ber of forces as were thought fufficient to clear the Bri-
tifh feas of Danifh pirates, which heretofore greatly
annoyed our coafts.
Danegelt was firft impofed as a ftanding yearly
tax on the whole nation, under King Ethelred, A. D.
991. That prince, fays Camden, Britan. 142. much
diftreflfed by the continued invafions of the Danes, to
procure a peace, was compelled to charge his people
with heavy taxes, called Danegelt.—At firft he paid
lo.-oool. then i6,oool. then 24,000!. after that
36,0001. and laftly 48,000!.
Edward the Confefibr remitted this tax : William I.
and II. reaflumed it occafionally. In the reign of
Henry I. it was accounted among the king’s ftanding
revenues; but King Stephen, on his coronation-day,
abrogated it for ever.
No church or church-land paid a penny to the dane¬
gelt ; becaufe, as is fet foi'th in an ancient Saxon law,
the people of England placed more confidence in the
prayers of the church than in any military defence they
could make.
DANEF, Peter, abbot of St Nicholas de Verdun,
was one of the perfons chofen by the duke of Montau-
Vot. VII. Part I.
81 ] DAN
fier to write on the claffics for the ufe of the dauphin. Daniel,
He had a (hare in Phaedrus, which he publiftied with
notes and explications in Latin. He alfo wrote a dic¬
tionary in Latin and French, and another in French
and Latin. He died at Paris in 1709.
DANIEL, the fourth of the greater prophets, was
born in Judea, of the tribe of Judah, about the 25th
year of the reign of Jofiah. He was led captive to
Babylon, with other young Hebrew lords, after the
taking of Jerufalem by Nebuchadnezzar, who took
them into his fervice. That prince gave them mafters
to inftrudt them in the language and fciences of the
Chaldeans, and ordered them to be fed with the moft
delicate viands: but they, fearing that they ftiould eat
meat forbidden by the law of Mofes, defired the king’s
officers to allow them only pulfe. The wifdom and
conduit of Daniel pleafing Nebuchadnezzar, that
prince gave him feveral polls of honour. It is com¬
monly believed, that this prophet, rvhen but 12 years
of age, made known the innocence of the chafte Su-
fannah: but the learned are not agreed, that the young
Daniel, who confounded the old men, was the fame
with this prophet. However, he explained Nebuchad¬
nezzar’s dream of the myfterious ftatue, which foretold
the four great monarchies ; on which account he was
made prefeil of the province of Babylon. In the reign
of Darius, the king of the Medes, he refufed to adore
the golden ftatue of the king, and was c-.ft into the
lions den, when thofe beafts, though pinched with hun¬
ger, did him no manner of hurt. And he explained
the charadlers written on the wall of the room where
Belffiazzar was feafting.
It is believed that Daniel died in Chaldea, and that
he did not take advantage of the permiffion granted by
Cyrus to the Jews of returning to their own country.
St Epiphanius fays he died at Babylon ; and herein he
is followed by the generality of hiftorians.
The prophecies of Daniel concerning the coming of
the Meffiah, and the other great events of after-times,
are fo clear and explicit, that, as St Jerome tells us,
Porphyry obje&ed to them, that thofe which related
to the kings of Syria and Egypt, chap. xi. muft have
been written after the times of Antiochus Epiphanes }
whereas his prophecy was tranflated into Greek 100
years before his time, and the .tranflation was in the
hands of the Egyptians, who had no great kindnefs
for the Jews and their religion. And thofe prophecies
foretelling the fuccefs of Alexander, chap. viii. 5. xi. 3.
were ffiown to Alexander by the Jews, in confequence
of which they obtained feveral privileges from him ;
(j4nt. lib. xi. c. 8.) The ftyle of Daniel is not fo lofty
and figurative as that of the other prophets 5 it is clear
and concife, and his narrations and deferiptions Ample
and natural : in fliort, he writes more like a hiftorian
than a prophet.
The Jews do not reckon Daniel among the pro¬
phets ; part of his book, that is, from the fourth verfe
of his fecond chapter to the end of the feventh chap¬
ter, was originally written in the Chaldee language $
the reafon of which was, that in that part he treats
of the Chaldean or Babylonifli‘affairs : all the reft of
the book is in Hebrew. The firrt fix chapters of the
book of Daniel are a hiftory of the kings of Babylon,
and what befel the Jews under their government. In
the .laft fix he is altogether prophetical, foretelling not
L only J
/
DAN [ 82 ]
t>aniel, only what fliould happen to his own church and nation,
Danmonii. events in which foreign princes and kingdoms were
' v concerned. _ .
Daniel, Samuel, an eminent poet and hiitonan,
was born near Taunton in Somerfetfhire in the year
1562, and educated at Oxford ; but leaving that um-
verfity without a degree, he applied himfelf to Enghfh
hiftory and poetry under the patronage of the earl ot
Pembroke’s family. He was afterwards tutor to the
lady Anne Clifford ; and, upon the death of Spenler,
was created poet-laureat to Queen Elizabeth. In King
Tames’s reign he was appointed gentleman extraordi¬
nary, and afterwards one of the grooms of the privy-
chamber to the queen confort, who took great delight
in his converfation and writings. He wrote an hiitory
of England, feveral dramatic pieces, and fome poems ;
and died in 1619. , T c
Daniel, Gabriel, a celebrated Jefuit, and one ot
the belt French hilforians, was born at Rouen in 1649.
He taught polite literature, philolophy, and divinity,
among the Jefuits *, and was fuperior of their houfe at
Paris, where he died in 1728.. There are a great
number of his works publilhed in French, of which
the principal are, 1. An Hiftory of France, of which
he alfo wrote an abridgment in nine volumes, X2mo.
2. An Hiftory of the French Militia, in two vols
Mo. 2. An Anfwer to the Provincial Letters. 4. A
Voyage to the World of Defcartes. 5. Letters on
the doftrines of the Theorifts, and on Probability.
6. New difficulties relating to the knowledge ot
Brutes : And, 7. A theological treatife on the Effica¬
cy of Grace. . . r r ,
DANMONII, an ancient Bntiffi nation, luppoied
to have inhabited that traft of country which is now
called Cornwall and Devonjhire, bounded on the iouth
by the Britiffi ocean, on the weft by St George’s chan¬
nel, on the north by the Severn fea, and on the eaft
by the country of the Durotriges. Some other Britiffi
tribes were alfo feated within thefe limits j as the Coi-
fini and Oftidamnii •, and, according to Mr Baxter,
thev were the keepers of their flocks and herds. As the
feveral tribes of the Danmonii fubmitted without much
refiftance to the Romans, and never joined in any re¬
volt againft them, that people were under no neceffity
of building many forts, or keeping many garnfons
in their country. This is the reafon why fo few Ro¬
man antiquities have been found m that country, and
fo little mention is made of it and its ancient inhabi¬
tants by Roman writers. Ptolemy names a few places,
both on the fea-coafts and in the inland parts of this
country, which were known to, and frequented by, the
Romans. The mort confiderable of thefe places ai_e
the two famous promontories of Bolerium and Ocn-
uun,, now the LandVend and the L.zard i and the
towns of Ifca Danmoniomm and 1 ..marc, now Exeter
and Saltafli. As the Danmonii fubmitted lb tamely
to the Romans, they might perhaps permit them to
live for fome time at leaft, under their own princes
and their own laws •, a privilege which we know they
granted to fome other Britiffi Hates. In the moft per-
feft ft ate of the Roman government in Britain, the
country of the Danmonii made a part of the province
called Flava Caefarienfis, and was governed by the pre-
fident of that province. After the departure of the
Romans, kingly government was immediately revived
J D A -N
among the Danmonii in the perfon of Vortigern, who
was perhaps defcended from the race of their ancient
princes, as his name fignifies in the Britifti language
a chieftain or the head of a family. .
DANTE, Aligheri, one of the firft poets ot ltal7*
was born at Florence in 1265, of an ancient and ho¬
nourable family. Boccacio, who lived in the lame
period, has left a very curious and entertaining treatile,
on the life, the ftudies, and manners of this extraor¬
dinary poet, whom he regarded as his matter, and tor
whofe memory he profeffed the higheft veneration.
This biographer relates, that Dante, before he was
nine years old, conceived a paffion for the lady whom
he has immortalized in his fmgular poem. Her age
was near his own ; and her name was Beatrice, the
daughter of Folco Portinari, a noble citizen o Flo¬
rence. The paffion of Dante, however, like that at
his fucceffor Petraich, feems to have been of the chalte
and platonic kind, according to the account he has
himfelf given of it, in one of his early productions, en¬
titled Vita Nuova; a mixture of myftenous poetry and
profe : in which he mentions both the origin of his
affe&ion and the death of his miftrels, who, according
to Boccacio, died at the age of 24. T he fame author
afferts, that Dante fell into a deep melancholy in con-
fequence of this event, from which his friends endea¬
voured to raife him, by perfuading him to marriage.
After fome time he followed their advice and repent¬
ed it ; for he unfortunately made choice of a lady who
bore fome refemblance to the celebrated Xantippe.
The poet, not poffeffing the patience of Socrates, ie-
parated himfelf from her with fuch vehement exFe('
fions of diffike, that he never afterwards admitted her
to his prefence, though ffie had born him feveral chil¬
dren. In the early part of his life ^ gamed fome.
credit in a military charaCIer ; diftinguiffimg himlelt by
his bravery in an aftion where the Florentines obtain¬
ed a fignal viClory over the citizens of Arezzo. Fie
became ftill more eminent by the acqmfition of civi
honours ; and at the age of 25 he rofe to be one o
the chief magiftrates of Florence, when that dignity
was conferred by the fuffrages of the people. From
this exaltation the poet himfelf dated his principal
misfortunes, as appears from the fragment of a letter
quoted by Leonardo Brum, one of his early biogra¬
phers, where Dante fpeaks of his political failure w. h
that liberal franknefs which integrity infpires Italy
was at that time diftraaed by the contending faaions
of the Ghibellins and the Guelphs : the latter, among
whom Dante took an aftive part, were again divlded
into the Blacks and the Whites. Dante, fays Gravi-
na exerted all bis influence to unite thefeJ1"fe"°'. Pf "
tie’s ; but his efforts were ineffeaual, and he had the
misfortune to be unjuftly perfecuted by thofe of his
own fadion. A powerful citizen of Florence, named
Corfo Donati, had taken meafures to terminate thefe
inteftine broils, by introducing Charles of Valois, bro¬
ther to Philip the Fair king of France Dante, with
great vehemence oppofed, this difgraceful projea, and
obtained the baniffiment of Donati and h,« Part’ZanS^
The exiles applied to the pope (Boniface VI1L), and
by his affittance fucceeded in their defign. dj_ es o
Valois entered Florence in triumph, and thofe who had
oppofed his admiffion were bamffied m the,r *
Dante had been difpatched to Rome as the ambaffa-
BAN f
^ante‘ ^or °f his party ; and was returning, when he received
“"~V-W intelligence of the revolution in his native city. His
enemies, availing themfelves of his abfence, had procu¬
red an iniquitous fentence againft him, by which he
was condemned to banifliment, and his poffeflions
were confifcated. His two enthufiaftic biographers
Boccacio and Manetti, exprefs the warmeft indigna¬
tion againft the injuftice of his country. Dante, on
receiving this intelligence, took refuge in Sienna, and
afterwards in Arezzo, where many of his party were
affembled. An attempt was made to furprife the citv
of Florence, by a fmall army which Dante is fuppo-
fed to have attended : the defign mifcarried, and our
poet is conjectured to have wandered to various parts
of Italy, till he found a patron in the great Candella
Scala, prince of \ erona, whom he has celebrated in
his poem. 1 he high fpirit of Dante was ill fuited to
courtly dependence ; and he is faid to have loft the
favour of his Veronefe patron by the rough franknefs
of his behaviour. From Verona he retired to France,
according to Manetti ; and Boccacio affirms that he
difputed in the theological fchools of Paris with great
reputation. Bayle queftions his vifiting Paris at this
period of his life 5 and thinks it improbable, that a man,
who had been one of the chief magiftrates of Florence’
fhould condefcend to engage in the public fquabbles of
the Parifian theologifts j but the foirit both of Dante
and the times in which he lived fufficiently account
for this exercife of his talents ; and his refidence in
France at this feafon is confirmed by Boccacio, in his
life of our poet, which Bayle feems to have had no
opportunity of confulting.
The eleftion of Henry count of Luxemburgh to
the empire, in November 1308, afforded Dante a pro-
IpeCt of being reftored to his native city, as he attached
mmfelf to the intereft of the new emperor, in whofe
lervice he is fuppofed to have written his Latin trea-
tife De Monarchia, in which he afferted the rights of
the empire againft the encroachments of the Papacy.
In the year 13ix, he inftigated Henry to lay fiege to
rlorence 5 in which enterprife, fays one of his bio-
graphers, he did not appear in perfon, from motives of
reipeCt towards his native city. The emperor was re-
pulled .by the Florentines j and his death, which hap¬
pened in the fucceeding year, deprived Dante of all
hopes concerning re-eftabliffiment in Florence. After
this disappointment, he is fuppofed to have paffed Some
years m roving about Italy in a ftate of poverty and
autre Is, till he found an honourable eftabliffiment at
Kaverina, under the protection of Guido Novello da
i olenta, the lord of that city, who received this illuf-
tnous exile with the moft endearing liberalitv, continu-
ed to protect him through the few remaining years of
is life, and extended his munificence to the allies of
the poet.
Eloquence was one of the many talents which Dante
pciidied in an eminent degree. On this account he
lU!Tt0- , beCn emPloyed on fourteen different
embaffies in the courfe of his life, and to have fuc-
ceeded of them.. His patron Guido had occa-
difnatrh 7 V * ,n a ferv,ce of this nature, and
with thhe Vh,m -aS hlS a["baffador to negociate a peace
avainft R enetIans’ who were preparing for hoflilities
againft Ravenna Manetti afferts that he was unable
o procure a public audience at Venice, and returned
S.3 ] DAN
to Ravenna by land, from his apprehenfions of the
Venetian fleet ; when the fatigue of his journey, and'
the mortification of failing in his attempt to preferve
his generous patron from the impending danger, threw
him into a fever, which terminated in death on the
14th of September 1321. He died, however, in the
palace of his friend 5 and the affeClionate Guido paid
the moft tender regard to his memory. This muni¬
ficent patron (fays Boccacio) commanded the body to
be adorned with poetical ornaments, and, after being
carried on a bier through the ftreets of Ravenna by the
moft illuftrious citizens, to be depolited in a marble
coffin. Fie pronounced himfelf the funeral oration,
and expreffed his defign of ere&ing a fplendid monu¬
ment in honour of the deceafed : a defign which his
fubfequent misfortunes rendered him unable to accom •
plilh. At his requeft, many epitaphs were written on
the poet:. the beft of them (fays Boccacio) by Giovan¬
ni del Virgilio of Bologna, a famous author of that
time, and the iptimate friend of Dante. Boccacio then
cites a few Latin verfes, not wrorth tranfcribing, fix of
which are quoted by Bayle as the compofition of Dante
himfelf, on the authority of Paul Jovius. In 1485
Bernardo Bembo, the father of the celebrated cardinal,
raifed a handfome monument over the neglefted allies
of the poet, with the following infcription :
Exigua tumuli Danthes hie forte jacehas
Squalenti nulli cognita pane ftu ;
j$t nunc marmoreo Jubmxus con dens arcu^
Omnibus et cultu fplendidiore nites ;
Nitnirum Bembus, Mufs incenfus Etrufcis,
Hoc tibi, quern in primis ha cohere, dedit.
Before this period the Florentines had vainly endea¬
voured to obtain the bones of their great poet from
the city of Ravenna. In the age of Leo X. they
made a fecond attempt, by a folemn application to the
pope for that purpofe j and the great Michael Angelo,
an enthufiaftic admirer of Dante, very liberally offered
to execute a magnificent monument to the poet. The
hopes of the Florentines were again unfuccefsful. The
particulars of their lingular petition may be found in
the notes of Codivi’s Life of Michael Angelo.
At what time, and in what place, he executed the
great and lingular work which has rendered him im¬
mortal, his numerous commentators feem unable to
determine. Boccacio afferts, that he began it in his
35th year, and had finilhed feven cantos of his Infer¬
no before his exile ; that in the plunder of his houfe
on that event, the beginning of his poem w^as fortu¬
nately preferved, but remained fonfome time neglect¬
ed, till its merit being accidentally difeovered by an
intelligent poet named Dino, it was fent to the mar¬
quis Marcello Malefpina, an Italian nobleman, by whom
Dante wTas then protected. The marquis reftored thefe
loft papers to the poet, and intreated him to proceed
m a work which opened in fo promifing a manner. To
this incident we are probably indebted for the poem of
Dante, which he muft have continued under all the
difadvantages of an unfortunate and agitated life. It
does not appear at what time he completed it ;* per¬
haps before he quitted Verona, as he dedicated the Pa-
radife to his Veronefe patron. The critics have vari-
oully accounted for his having called his poem Ccme-
dia. He gave it the title (faid one of his fons), be-
k 2 eaufe
Dante.
Dante,
Dantzic.
DAN [ 84 1
caufe it opens with diftrefs and clofes with felicity. Poland.
The very high eftimation in which tins produa.on was
’ held by his country, appears from a Angular mftitution.
The republic of Florence, in the year 1373, affigped a
public llipend to a perfon appointed to read lettures
on the poem of Dante: Boccacio was the firft perlon
engaged in this office-, but his death happening m two
vears after his appointment, h.s comment extended
only to the feventeen firft cantos of the Inferno. I he
critical differtations that have been written on Dan
are almoft as numerous as thofe to which Homer has
given birth ; the Italian, like the Grecian hard, has
been the fubjeft of the higheft panegyric and ot the
groffeft inveaive. Voltaire has fpoken of him mth
that precipitate vivacity, which fo frequen y e
lively Frenchman to infult the reputation ot the nobkft
writers. In one of his entertaining letters, he fays to
an Italian abbe, Je fais grand cas du couraSe'J™C
lenuel vous avtz ofe dire que Dante etoit un fou et Jon
linage un monJre.-Le Dante P^a entrerdar, /es
bib/iotheques des curieux, mats il. ne /era j
But more temperate and candid critics have not been
wanting to difplay the merits of this original poet. Mr
Warton has introduced into bis laft volume on "g
poetry, a judicious and fpmted fummary of Dante
PeDA™TEC>&« BaptiJU a native of Perugia, an ex-
celknt mathcmatkian. called the new for the
wings he made himfelt, and with which he flew fevetal
tin.* over the lake Thrafymenus. He tell tn one ot
his' enterprifes, the iron work with which he managed
one of his wings haying failed; by which acctden
broke his thigh: but it was fet by the furgeons, and
he was afterwards called to Venice to profefs mathe-
“DANTZIC, the capital of Poliih Pruffia fituated
on a branch of the Viftula, about four tmles above
where it falls into the Balttc; tn E. Long. ‘8 36.
N Lat. 20. This city is famous n hiftory on
many accounts, particularly that of its being oimer-
ly at^the head of the Hanfeatic affociation, commonly
caUed the Uanfe-towns. It is large, beautitul, po¬
pulous, and rich ; its houfes general y are ^
high : and many of its ftreets are planted with chel^
niU trees. One of the fuburbs is called^ Scotland,
and the Scots have great privileges, m confeqJC"CCf°
their gallant defence of the town, under one of the fa-
m-dy ogf Douglas, when it was befieged by the Pole .
It is faid there are upwards of 30,000 Pe^la!S ° ^
much eiteemed Hijloria fui Tempo™, wherein, under
rtte veartSoT, he fo highly celebrates «s commerce
and' grandeur. It is a repubbc, datmtug ajmall
r oTthe king and the republic of
dan
Dantzic.
Poland. Its magiftracy, and the majority of its'inha
bitants are Lutherans although the Romamfts and
Calvinifts be equally tolerated in it. It has 26 paidhes,
with many convents and holpitais. I he inhabitants
have been computed to amount to 200,000 but latei
computations fall very confiderably *hort otit, as ap¬
pears by its annual bill ot mortality, exhibited by Dr
Bufching, who tells us, that in the year 1752, there died
but 1846 perfons. Its own ihippmg is numerous^ but
the foreign ffiips conftantly reiorting to it are more
fo wheicof 1014 arrived there m the year 1752 , m
Uich year alio 1288 Poliih veffels came down the
Viftula chiefly laden with corn tor its matchkis gra-
It!? from whence .hat grain is dillr.bu.ed to many
foreign nations, Poland being juftly deemed the great-
eft magazine of corn in all Lurope, and Dantzic the
greateft port for diftributing it every where: betides-
which, Dantzic exports great quantities ot naval ftoies
and a vaft variety of other articles. Dr Bulching a -
firms, that it appears from ancient records, as early as
,1? year 997, that Dantzic was a large commercial
city yand not a village or inconfiderable town, as fome
pretend. The inhabitants of Dantzic have olten
ch nVed their mailers, and have iometimes been un¬
der the protection of the Enghffi and Dutch; but ge¬
nerally have ffiown a great predikaion kr the king¬
dom and republic of Poland, as being lets likely to ri¬
val them in their trade, or abridge them ot their im¬
munities, which reach even to the privilege of coining
money. Though ttrongly fortified, and poffeffed of
! ro large brafs cannon, it could not, horn its fitua-
tion Hand a regular fiege, being iurrounded with emi¬
nences. In 1734, the inhabitants dilcovered a remark¬
able attachment and fidelity towards Stamflaus king
of Poland, not only when his enemies the Ru ia
were at their gates, but even in pofftffion ot C1^-
This city was exempted by the late king of Piuffia
from thok claims which he made on the neighbouring
countries; notwithftanciing which, his Pru^an
jefty loon after thought proper to fe.ze on ^ te r
tones belonging to Dantzic, under pretence of their
having beenformerly part of Polith Pruffia. He then
proceeded to poffefs himfelf of the port-duties belong-
C to tbat city, and ereded a cuftomhoufe in the
harboui, where he laid arbitrary and infupportable du-
ties upon goods exported or imported. Po
the fyftem of oppreffion, cuftomhoutes were ereaed
at the very gates of Dantzic, fo that no perfons
could go in or out of the town without being learch-
ed in ffie ftriaeft manner. Such is the treatment
which the city of Dantzic has received from the king
nf Pruffia though few cities have ever exifted which
n compLended in fc many general and par-
ricular treaties, and whole rights and liberties have
been fo frequently fecured, and guaranteed y °
„reat powers, and by fuch a long and regular tucceffi
of public aas, as that of Dantzic has been. In the year
°7 f was blockaded by his troops on various pre¬
dicts- but by the inte.pof.tion ot the emprefs ot Ruf-
fla and of th/king of Poland «hey were withdrawn
and a compromife having taken place, the city was
reftored to its former immun.ttes. Neverthelefs, its
trade has frnce been rather upon the <1'cllne> th^ “ b;
chants chooling to fettle whete the.r property may be
more fecure. -DANUBE,
D A P [ S5
Danube, D ANUBE, the largeft and moft confiderable river
Daphne. ;n Europe, rifing in the Black Foreft, near Zunberg j
" and running north-eaft through Swabia, by Ulna, the
capital of that country, then running eait through Ba¬
varia and Auftria, paffes by Ratiibon, Paffau, Ens, and
Vienna. It then enters Hungary, and runs fouth-eall
from Prefburg to Buda, and fo on to Belgrade ; after
which it divides Bulgaria from Walachia and Molda¬
via, difeharging itfelf by feveral channels into the
Black fea, in the province of BelTarabia. Towards
the mouth, it was called the IJler by the ancients ; -
and it is now faid, that four of the mouths are choked
up with fand, and that there are only two remaining.
It begins to be navigable for boats at Ulm, and re¬
ceives feveral large rivers as it pafies along. It is fo
deep between Buda and Belgrade, that the I urks
and Chriftians have had men of war upon it •, and yet
it is not navigable to the Black fea, on account of
the catarafts. The Danube was generally fuppofed
to be the northern boundary of the Roman empire
in Europe. It was worlhipped as a deity by the Scy¬
thians.
DAPFINE, a daughter of the river Peneus by
the goddefs Terra, of whom Apollo became enamour¬
ed. This paflion had been railed by Cupid j with
whom Apollo, proud of his late conquelt of the fer-
pent Python, had difputed the power of his darts.
Daphne heard with horror the addreffes of the god,
and endeavoured to remove herfelf from his importu¬
nities by flight. Apollo purfued her, and Daphne,
fearful of being caught, intreated the affiftance of the
gods, who changed her into a laurel. Apollo crown¬
ed his head with the leaves of the laurel, and for
ever ordered that that tree fhould be facred to his di¬
vinity. Some fay that Daphne was admired by Leu¬
cippus, fon of CEnomaus king of Pifa, who to be in
her company difguiied his fex, and attended her in the
woods in the habit of a huntrefs. Leucippus gained
Daphne’s efteem and love ; but Apollo, who was his
powerful rival, difeovered his fex, and Leucippus was
killed by the companions of Diana. Daphne was al-
fo the name of a daughter of Tirefias, prieftefs in the
temple of Delphi. She was confecrated to the fervice
of Apollo by the Epigoni, or according to others by
the goddefs Tellus. She was called Sibyl, on account
of the wildnefs of her looks and expreffions when die
delivered oracles. Her oracles were generally in verfe;
and Homer, according to fome accounts, has introdu¬
ced much of her poetry in his ccmpofitions.
Daphne, in Ancient Geography, a fmall village
near to, or in the fuburbs of, Antiochia of Seleucis in
Syria j with a large grove, well watered with fprings:
In the middle of the grove flood the temple of Apollo
apd Diana. Its extent was 80 ftadia or 10 miles ; the
diftance from the city five miles: A place pleafant and
agreeable, from the plenty of water and the tempera¬
ture of the air, and its foft-breathing breezes. The
grove was of bay-trees, intermixed with cyprefs: which
laft multiplied fo fall, as to occupy the whole of it.
Pompey gave fome land for enlarging the grove. An-
tiochus Ephiphanes built a very large temple of Daph-
nasus Apollo. The place at length became fo infa¬
mous, that people of modefiy and charadler avoided
reforting thither j fo that Daphnici mores became pro¬
verbial.
] DAP
Daphne, in Ancient Geography, a fmall diflrifl on
the lake Samachonitis, in the Higher Galilee, very
pleafant, and plentifully watered with fpiings, which
feed the Lefs Jordan ; whence its name feems to arife,
probably in imitation of that near Antioch of Syria
on the river Orontes.
Daphne, Spurge-laureli a genus of plants, belong¬
ing to the oflandria clais \ and in the natural method
ranking under the 3ill order, Vepreculte. See Bo¬
tany Index.
DAPHNEPHORIA, a feftival in honour of A-
pollo, celebrated every ninth year by the Boeotians. It
was then ufual to adorn an olive bough with garlands
of laurel and other flowers, and place on the top a
brazen globe, on which were fufpended fmaller ones. In
the middle was placed a number of crowns, and a globe
of inferior fize, and the bottom was adorned with a
faft'ron-coloured garment. The globe on the top re-
prefented the fun or Apollo. That in the middle was
an emblem of the moon, and the other of the flars.
The crowns, which were 65 in number, reprefented the
fun’s annual revolution. This bough was carried in fo-
lexqn proceflion by a beautiful youth of an illuftrious fa¬
mily, and whole parents were both living. The youth
was dreffed in rich garments which reached to the
ground, his hair hung loofe and difhevelled, his head
was covered with a golden crown, and he wore on his
feet fhoes called Iphicratidcc, from Iphicrates an A-
thenian, who firft invented them. He was called
Actpn foe,og, laurel-hearer; and at the time he executed
the office of prieft of Apollo. He was pieceded by
one of his nearell relations, bearing a rod adorned
with garlands, and behind him followed a train of vir¬
gins with branches in their hands. In this order the
proceffion advanced as far as the temple of Apollo,
furnamed Ifmenius, where fupplicatory hymns were
fung to the god. This feflival owes its origin to the
following circumltance.—When an oracle advifed the
Aitolians, who inhabited Arne and the adjacent coun¬
try, to abandon their ancient poffeffions, and go in
quefl of a fettlement, they invaded the Theban terri-
toiies, which at that time were pillaged by an army of
Pelafgians. As the celebration of Apollo’s feftival
was near, both nations, who rcligioufly obferved it,
laid afide all hoflilities, and according to cuflom cut
down laurel boughs from M »unt Helicon, and in the
•neighbourhood of the river Melas, and walked in pro¬
ceffion in honour of the divinity. The day that this
folemnity was obferved, Polematas the general of the
Boeotian army faw a youth in a dream, that prelented
him with a complete fuit of armour, and commanded
the Boeotians to offer folemn prayers to Apollo, and
walk in proceffion with laurel boughs in their hands
every ninth year. Three days after this dream, the
Boeotian general made a Tally, and cut off the greateft
part of the befiegers, who were compelled by this
blow to relinquiffi their enterprife. Polematas imme¬
diately inflituted a novennial fellival to the god, who
feemed to be the patron of the Boeotians.
DAPIFER, the dignity or office of grand mafter
of a prince’s houfehold. This title was given by the ~
emperor of Conftantinople to the czar of Ruffia as a
teftimony of favour. In France the like officer was in-
ftituted by Charlemagne, under the title of dapiferat;
and the dignity of dapifer is Hill fubfifting in Germany,
the
D A R [ 86 ] D A R
Dapple-bay the ele&or of Bavaria affuming the title of arch-dapi-
D fer c,n^re* whofe office is, at the coronation of
, ‘u Ju:iW, the emperor, to carry the firft difli of meat to table on
horfeback.
DAPPLE-bay, in the manege: When bay horfes
have marks of a dark bay, they are called dapple bays.
DAPPLE-B/acks: When a black horfe has got fpots
or marks more black or fhining than the reft of his
fkin, he is called a dapple-black.
DAR ANT ASIA, in Ancient Geography, called
Forum Claudti by the Romans ", a town of the Cen-
trones in Gallia Narbonenfis, fituated between Lemin-
cum and Augufta Praetoria. Now Moujhers, and
Moujliers en Tarantaife, in Savoy.
DARAPTI, among logicians, one of the modes of
fyllogifms of the third figure, whofe premifes are uni-
verfal affirmatives, and the conclufion is a particular
affirmative : thus,
Dar- Every body is divifible 5
ap- Every body is a fubftance j
ti. Therefore, fome fubftance is divifible.
DARDA, a town and fort of Lower Hungary,
built by the Turks in 1686, and taken by the Impe-
rialifts the next year, in whofe hands it remains. It is
feated on the river Drave, 10 miles from its confluence
with the Danube, and at the end of the bridge of Ef-
feck. E. Long. 19. 10. N. Lat. 45. 45.
DARDANELLES, two ancient and ftrong caftles
of Turkey, one of which is in Romania, and the other
in Natolia, on each fide the channel formerly called the
Hellefpont. This keeps up a communication with the
Archipelago, and the Propontis or fea of Marmora.
The mouth of the channel is four miles and a half over ;
and the caftles were built in 1659, to fecure the Turk-
iili fleet from the infults of the Venetians. The fhips
that come from Conftantinople are fearched at the
caftle on the fide of Natolia, to fee what they have on
board.
DARDANIA, in Ancient Geography, a diftridl of
Moefia Superior to the fouth. Now the fouth part of
Servia, towards the confines of Macedonia and Illyri-
cum.—Dardani wfas the name of the people, who
feem to have been defeendants of the Dardam of
Troas. Alfo a fmall diftridl of Troas, along the
Hellefpont, (Mela, Virgil) j and the ancient name of
Samothracia, (Pliny), from Dardanus, who removed
thither.
DARDANUM promontorium, ('Pliny) 5 Dar-
danis, (Strabo) j a promontory of Troas, near Aby-
dos, running out into the Hellefpont $ with a cogno¬
mina! town at it, called alfo Bardanus, and Dardanum;
all which gave name to the Dardanelles.
D ARDANUS, a fon of Jupiter and Ele&ra, who,
after the death of his brother Jafion, left Samothrace
bis country, and paffed into Afia Minor, wfliere he mar¬
ried Bath, the daughter of Teucer king of Teucria.
After the death of his father-in-law he afeended the
throne, and reigned 62 years. He built the city of
Dardania, and was reckoned the founder of the king¬
dom of Troy. He was fucceeded by Erichthonius.
According to fome, Corybas, his nephewr, accompani¬
ed him to Teucria, where he introduced the worlhip
,of Cybele. Dardanus taught his fubjeds to worfliip
Minerva, and he gave them two ftatues of the goddefs,
one of which is well known by the name of Palla-
dium. According to Virgil, Dardanus W’as an Italian
by origin.
DARE, the fame with dace. See Dace, Ichthy¬
ology Index.
DARES, a Phrygian, who lived during the Tro¬
jan war, in which he w'as engaged, and of which he
wrote the hiftory in Greek. This hiftory was extant
in the age of iElian j the Latin tranllation, now ex¬
tant, is univerfally allowed to be fpurious, though it
is attributed by fome to Cornelius Nepos. This tranf-
lation firft made its appearance A. D. 1477, at Milan.
Homer fpeaks of him, Iliad, v. 10. and 27.
DARFOOR, or Darfur, a country or kingdom
of Africa, which has been vifited by no other European
traveller excepting Mr Browne. This country is of
confiderable extent, and in many places covered with
wood. During the dry feafon, the appearance of the
open country is fterile and barren, but when the rains
commence, the dry fandy foil is foon changed into
green fields covered with luxuriant vegetation. Con¬
fiderable quantities of maize, fefame, beans, and legu-
mens, are raifed by the inhabitants for food. There
are feveral fpecies of trees in Darfoor $ but the tama¬
rind alone is valuable for its fruit, or rifes to a confi¬
derable fize. The date, which is diminutive, does not
appear to be indigenous. Domeftic animals are, the
camel, the fheep, the goat, and horned cattle, which
are numerous. Of the milk of the cow, fome of the
inhabitants make a kind of cheefe, but the procefs is
not generally knowm. The camel is of an inferior
quality $ and the horfe and the afs are imported from
Egypt and Nubia. Their wild animals are, the lion,
the leopard, the hyaena, the wolf, and the wild buf-
faloe. The termites, or white ant, abounds; and the co¬
chineal infeft is frequently met with, though it has ne¬
ver been applied to any ufeful purpofe in Darfoor. The
rocks are chiefly compofed of gray granite, but in a
few places alabafter and marble are found. Nitre is
produced in confiderable quantities, fofiil fait is found
in one diftrifl, and fulphur is colledted by the paftoral
Arabs on the fouth and weft.
The principal towns in Darfoor, are Cobbe, the chief
refidence of the merchants, fituated in N. Lat. 14. 11.
Long. E. G. 28. 8. It is above two miles in length, but
extremely narrow, containing numerous trees and vacant
fpaces within its boundaries. Swreini, which commands
the northern road to Darfoor, is fituated above two jour¬
neys to the north of Cobbe. Kourma, a fmall town, lies
12 or 13 miles to the fouth weft of Cobbe, and Cubcubia,
two and a half journeys to the weft. Cubcubia commands
the weftern roads, and has a market twice in the week.
Cours lies 14 or 15 miles to the north-weft of Cobbe ;
Ril, about 60 miles to the fouth eaft of Cobbe, is fitu¬
ated in a fertile plain, commands the fouthern and
eaftern roads, and was formerly the refidence of the
kings of Darfoor. Gidid, Gelle, and Shoba, are the only
other remarkable towns. The villages are numerous, but
their population feldom exceeds a few hundred inhabi¬
tants. The population of Darfoor is eftimated by
Browne at 200,000 perfons. It confifts of the native
tribes of Fur, of a deep black complexion, crifped
woolly hair, and features different from thofe of the
negroes j Arabs of the tribes of Mahmid, Mahrea,
Beni Fefara, Beni Gerar, &c. fome of whom had fet-
* ' - tied
D A R
Darfoor.
_ country, while others wander on the fron¬
tiers, and are very numerous ; and a number of emi¬
grants, from the neighbouring ftates, particularly Don-
gola, Mahas, Senaar, and Cordofan. Befides thefe,
Darfoor comprehends the inhabitants of various fubor-
dinate diftrufts, that are fometimes dependant on Dar¬
foor, and fometimes on the furrounding nations: as
Bar Rugda, which is generally fubjeft to Bergoo;
Dar Berti, Bego, or Dageou, between Darfoor and
Bergoo, the power of which formerly predominated
over the Furian tribes ; and Zeghawa, formerly an in¬
dependent kingdom, that was accuftomed to raife a
thoufand cavalry in war, the inhabitants of which are
different in their features from the IM'egroes*
The dialeft of Arabic which is vernacular in Dar¬
foor, differs eflentially from that fpoken in Egypt.
The native Furians are more cheerful in their difpofi-
tions than the Egyptians ; but referable the Moorifh
tribes m the violence of their paffions, their difregard
to truth, their inattention to cleanlinefs, and their in¬
accurate ideas of property. As the praftice of poly¬
gamy is eflablifhed, their intercourfe with the other fex
is xegulated by no attention to delicacy or decency •
and the precepts of Mamifm are often infringed, by
the relations of brother and lifter being exchanged for
a clofer connexion. The fex are, however, fubje&ed
to iefs reftraint than in many Mahometan countries.
, Fhe women appear in public unveiled, make bargains
m the markets, and converfe with the other fex, with¬
out offending their hufbands or relations. The mcft
levere labours of the field, and the meaneft domeftic
offices, are performed by the women, who are often
leen walking after their hulbands, under the preffure
of a heaven burden, while thefe ride before them on
their affes, without incumbrance and without concern.
* hflr houfes are built of clay, commonly by the hands
of their women, and are covered with a flattifh roof of
thin boards, coated with clay. Salt is the geperal
medium of exchange in Darfoor, but, in fome places,
imall tin rings of arbitrary value, are employed. A
caravan paffes from Darfoor to Egypt, to traffic in
llaves, ivory, gum, camels, &c. j but this commercial
TruerC£Urfe J?ot reSulai\and is frequently interrupted.
IheDongoiefe and Nubian fettlers in Darfoor, who
lad been accuftomed to the Egyptian trade, originally
opened the route j but merchants are frequently inter-
rupted by the Cubba-befh and Bedeiat Arabs ; the laft
of whom are not fuppofed to be of Arabic origin.
JL he king, or, or as he is denominated, the fultan of
artoor, reigns with abfolute authority, and confers
the lame arbitrary power on his delegates in the pro-
VaCerh Th?Ugh,the PrecePts of the Koran are the
oftenfibJe rules of decifion, in litigation, yet the ver-
ift depends on the will of the judge ; and, as none but
ecclefiafhcs dare exprefs their fentiments of his con-
U. ’ t"f‘rr°PI"I0n 18 the only check upon his ca¬
price. I hefe judges, however, difplay confiderable in¬
genuity m developing the moft intricate cafes that oc-
cur in a nation verfed in the arts of deceit.
I he fultan’s revenues confift in the taxes upon
merchandife exported and imported ; the annual tri-
oute of live flock from the Arabs, and of corn from
the towns and villages, with the amount of fines, for¬
feitures, and prefents. The armies of Darfoor are not
numerous, as 4000 troops are reckoned a formidable
[ 87 ]
DAR
Darien,
number ; neither are thefe troops remarkable for {kill, Darfobr
courage, or perfeverance, though they endure hunger,
third, and fatigue, with great refolution, and ufe no
other camp equipage, but a light mat adapted to the
fize of the body. The troops of Darfoor, not atfually
engaged in war, are reviewed at an annual military
reftival, termed, Tie leathering of the kettledrum, when
preients are offered to the fovereign by all the prin¬
cipal people of the country, and various fuperftitious
ceremonies are performed, among which are the facri-
fice of a young boy and a girl.
Various fuperftitious opinions are blended with the
Mahometan,fm of the Furian tribes. The mountaineers
iacnfice to the deity of the mountains in order to procure
rain. Mahometanifm began to prevail in Darfoor, in the
reign of Solyman, of the Dageou race, who is fuppofed
by Browne to have lived at fome period between 130 and
150 years ago. The Dageou race are reported to havfe
been originally expelled from the vicinity of Tunis,
and to have refigned the fceptre to the race of Fur,
after being exhaufted by inteftine diffenfions. At the
inauguration of every king, they are faid to have
kindled a fire, which was preferved burning till his
death. At the acceflion of a fultan, the prefent Fu-
rians fpread before him various carpets, on which their
deceafed monarchs ufed to fit, .and from that which
obtains the preference, deduce an omen of his future
charafter, which they fuppofe will referable its former
pofleffor.
DARIC, in antiquity, a famous piece of gold, firft
coined by Darius the Mode about 538 years before
Uinft, probably during his flay at Babylon, out of
the vaft quantity of gold which had been accumulated
in the treafury. From thence it was difperfed over the
eaft, and alfo into Greece j fo that the Perfian daric
which was alfo called fater, was the gold coin beft
known m Athens in ancient times. According to Dr
Bernard, it weighed two grains more than one of our
guineas j but as it was very fine, and contained little
alloy, it may be reckoned worth about 259. of our
money. Plutarch informs us, that the darics were
Itamped on one fide with an archer clothed in a long-
robe, and crowned with a fpiked crown, holding a
bow in his left hand and an arrow in his right : and
on the other fide with the effigies of Darius. Ail the
other pieces of gold of the lame weight and value that
were coined of the fucceeding kings, both of the Per¬
fian and Macedonian race, were called darics, from Da¬
rius in whofe reign this coin commenced. Qf thefe
there were whoie darics and half darics ; and they are
called in thofe parts of Scripture written after the Ba-
bylomlh captivity adarhonitn; and by the Talmudifts
darkonoth. Greaves fays that the daric is ftill found
m Perfia ; but it is certainly very fcarce, and perhaps
or doubtful antiquity. •
. DARIEN, or the Ifthmus of Panama, is a pro¬
vince between South and North America, being a nar¬
row ifthmus or neck of land, which joins them to-
gether. It is bounded on the north by the North fea
on the fouth by the South fea, on the eaft by the
gulf or river of Darien, and on the weft by another
part of the South fea and the province of Veragua. It
lies in the form of a bow, or crefcent, about the great
bay of Panama in the South fea; and is 300 miles
in engt , and 60 in breadth. I his province is not
1 the
D A R [ 83
Darien, the rlcheft, but is of the greateft importance to Spain,
and has been the fcene of more aftions than any other
in America. The wealth of Peru is brought hither,
and from hence exported to Europe. This has indu¬
ced many enterprifing people to make attempts on Pa¬
nama, Porto-Bello, and other towns of this province,
in hopes of obtaining a rich booty. _ ^
The Scotch got poffeffion of part of this province in
1600, and attempted to form an eftablilhment, which
would have proved one of the mod ufeful and import¬
ant that ever was projefted. Of the rife, progrefs, and
cataftrophe, of this well-imagined, but ill-fated, under¬
taking, Sir John Dalrymple, in the 2d volume ol his
Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland, has given a
very interefting account, authenticated in every parti¬
cular by unqueftionable documents. The projedtor
and leader of the Darien expedition was a clergyman
of the name of Pater/on; who having a violent pro-
penfity to fee foreign countries, he made his proreilion
the inftrument of indulging it, by going to the new
weltern world, under pretence of converting the In¬
dians to the religion of the old. In his courfes there,
he became acquainted with Captain Dampier and Mr
Wafer, who afterwards publidred, the one his V oyages,
and the other his Travels, in the region where the le-
paration is narrowed between the Atlantic and the
South feas-, and both of whom, particularly the firft,
appear by their books to have been men ot con ider-
able obfervatioil. But he got much more knowledge
from men who could neither write nor read, by culti¬
vating the acquaintance of fome of the old bucamers,
who, after furviving their glories, and their crimes
Bill, in the extremity of age and misfortune, recounted
with tranfport the eafe with which they had paffed and
repaffed from the one fea to the other, fometimes m
hundreds together, and driving Brings of mules before
them loaded with the plunder of friends and of foes.
Paterfon having examined the places, latisfied himielf,
that on the ifthmus of Darien there was a trad ot
country running acrofs from the Atlantic to the South
fea, which the Spaniards had never poffeffed, and in¬
habited by a people continually at war with them ;
that along the coaB, on the Atlantic fide there lay a
Bring of iflands called the Snmbaloes, uninhabited, and
full of natural flrength and forefts, from which lafl
circumflance one of them was called the ifland of the^
Pines; that the feas there were filled with turtk and
the manatee or fea-cow •, that mid-way between Porto-
Bello and Carthagena, but near 5oleagues diitant from
either, at a place called ABa, in the mouth of the
Darien, there was a natural harbour, capable of recei¬
ving the greatefi fleets, and defended from Borms by
other iflands which covered the mouth of and b'01!1
enemies by a promontory which commanded the pai-
fage, and by bidden rocks in the paffage itlelt; that
on the other fide of the iflhmus, and in the fame traft
of country, there were natural harbours, equally capa¬
cious and well defended *, that the two feas were con-
nefted by a ridge of hills, which, by their heigh
created a temperate climate m the midfl of the meB
fultry latitudes, and were ftieltered by forefts, yet not
rendered damp by them, becaufe the trees grew at a
diftance from each other, having very little under¬
wood j that, contrary to the barren nature of hi y
countries, the foil was of a black mould two or three
1
] D A R
feet deep, and producing fpontaneoufly the fine tropi-
cal fruits and plants, and roots and herbs *, that roads
could be made with eafe along the ridge, by which
mules, and even carriages, might pafs from the one
fea to the other in the fpace of a day ; and conlequent-
ly this paffage feetned to be pointed out by the finger
of nature, as a common centre, to connect together the
trade and intercourfe of the univerfe. n • c
Paterfon knew that (hips which ftretch in a Braight
line from one point to another, and with one wind,
run lefs rilks, and require fewer hands, than (hips
which pafs through many latitudes, turn with many
coafts, and require many winds •, in evidence of which,
veffels of feven or eight hundred tons burden are often
to be found in the South feas, navigated by no more
than eight or ten hands, becaufe thefe hands have little
elfe to do than fet their fails when they begin their
voyage, and to take them in when they end it; that
as foon as fhips from Britain got fo far fouth as to
reach the trade-wind, which leldom varies, that wind
would carry them to Darien, and the fame wind
would carrv {hips from the bay of Panama., on the op-
pofite fide of the ifthmus, to the Eaft Indies ; that as
foon as (hips coming from the Eaft Indies to the^bay
of Panama got fo far north as the latitude ot 40 , to
reach the wefterly winds, which, about that latitude,
blow almoft as regularly from the weft as the trade
winds do from the eaft, thefe winds would carry them,
in the track of the Spanifti Acapulco ftnps, t0
coaft of Mexico *, from whence the land-wind, which
blows for ever from the north to the fouth, would car¬
ry them along the coaft of Mexico into the bay of Pa¬
nama. So that in going from Britain, (hips would
encounter no uncertain winds, except during their pai-
fage fouth into the latitude of the trade wind ; in co¬
ming from India to the bay of Panama, no uncertain
winds, except in their paffage north to the latitude ot
the wefterly winds ; and in going from the other fide
of the ifthmus to the eaft, no uncertain wind whatioever.
 Gold vras feen by Paterfon in fome places ot the
ifthmus •, and hence an ifland on the Atlantic fide was
called the Gold ifland, and a river on the fide to the
South fea was called the Golden river ; but thefe were
objects which he regarded not at that time, becaule fiir
greater were in his eye ; the removing of diftances, the
drawing nations nearer to each other, the prefervation
of the valuable lives of fearoen, and the faving. in
freight, fo important to merchants, and in time (o im¬
portant to them, and to an animal whofe life is of fo
ftrort duration as that of man.
By this obfeure Scotfman, a projeft was formed to
fettle, on this neglefted fpot, a great and powerful co¬
lony •, not as other colonies have for the molt part
been fettled, by chance, and unprotefted by the coun¬
try from whence they went *, but by fyftem, upon ore-
fight, and to receive the ample proteamn of thole go¬
vernments to whom he was to ofter his projea. And
certainly no greater idea has been formed fince the time
of Columbus. _ , . •
Paterfon’s original intention w'»s to offer his project
to England, as the country which had moft intereftm
it not only from the benefit common to all nations,
of ftrortening the length of voyages to the
but by the effea which it would have hao to conn t
the interefts of her European, Weft Indian, American,
Darifti.
nen.
D A R
African, and Eaft Indian trade, raterldn having
iew acquaintance, and no proteflion in London, thought
of drawing the public eye upon him, and ingratiating
m eJ with monied men, and with great men, by
f. 1 bng the.m to a projeft, which was at that
time m embryo, for erefting the Bank of England.
ut that happened to him which has happened to
many m his fituation : the perfons to whom he applied
made ufe of his ideas, took the honour of them to
themfelves, were civil to him for a while, and neglea.
ed him afterwards. He therefore communicated his
perrons in Londo"’
TT^l nexu made ^ of his Proiea t0 the Dutch, the
Hamburghers, and the eledor of Brandenburgh ; be-
cau e, by means of the palTage of the Rhine and Elbe
.•’rough their ftates, he thought, that the great addi-
^ona quantities of Eaft Indian and American goods
xvhich his colony would bring into Europe, woidd be
iftnbuted through Germany. The Dutch and Ham-
i gh merchants, who had moft intereft in the fubjeft
ef his vifit, heard him with indifference : The eleflor
who had very little intereft in it, received him with
honour and kindnefs. But court arts and falfe reports
loft him even that prince’s favour. P
_ Paterfon, on his return to London, formed a friend
ftup with Mr Fletcher of Salton, whofe mind was'
inflamed with the love of public good, and all of
£hofe ideas to procure it had a fublimity in them
letcher brought Paterfon down to Scotland7with him
Senior siotl^d^6 TT" °f TweedaIe- then mi!
liter tor Scotland ; and then, with that power which
perftiaded^the15111' ov^ * diffident one,
and ill 1 marquis, by arguments of public good
ft ati n to "ad1 7 if W°^d red°Und t0 his admiiffi
Tohnfton ^ T ;h£ P,'“jea* L0rd Stam and Mr
johnfton, the two fecretanes of ftate, patronifed thole
’nd ri,e"ioPrf'eifn"'h'ChJhey polreired in themfclves :
;’d 'b ord advocate, Sir James Stuart the fame
man who had adjuRed the prince of OranEe’s d J\Z
u°eceofi „ed se,V?IUt!0n’ '''hofe fonwas >0 »
nexions °TW “^Zs Tf* ''M hh
ftatute from ParliamentLndbftenvards^a'chaiterTrom
the cr„„n terms of it, for creating a trading compa
colonies and build Z'Zhclftm oTrte
tan«, places not poffefled by other European na-'
and^Wh!.’ gr°Und firm under him,
talenr fhn-WaS fuPP0rted by almoft all the power and
taientsof h,s country, the character of Fletcher and
the fanaion of an aft of parliament and royal charter
threw h.s projea boldly upon the public, a'nd opened
a fubfcnption for a company. The frenzv nfihp^ »
exceeded flT a'nd coTenlm, „t°el
“ be DaZP y ""'1 they ran dbferibe
to the Darien company. The nobility, the gentry
the merchants, the nennlp the. i i gentry,
command of money for the fame purpofe Almcrth,
fe b:irk'„rn z;"ribed
Vox. VII. Part x. ' was not at t*‘at tlme above
„ C 89 ] D A R
But Pate, fon having Soo oool of call, in the kingdom. The famous Mr Darien.
Daw, then a youth, afterwards confeffed, that the fa-' V 
cihty with which he faw the paffion of fpeculation com-
mumcate itfelf from all to all, fatisfied him of the pof-
fibihty of producing the fame effeft from the fame caufe
but upon a larger fcale, when the duke of Orleans in
to r„r w th,e eneascd hi” ^ Ms will
1 h- v. u J L bank Into a bubble. Paterftm’s proitdl
which had been received by ftrangers with fcJs when
opened to them in private, filled them with hopes when
Cniamei V U?0n the winS8 of PubIJc Pame : For
dane of n ^ Cardr°fs- and Mr Hal-
dane ot Gleneagles, the one a generous brand, of a
generous ftem, and the other a country gentleman of
ortune and character, having been deputed to receive
fubfcriptions m EngJand and on'the continent, the
TT 8 ’ 1 {Ubfcnbed 300,0001. and the Dutch and
Hamburghers 200,000k more. v
auth’ort' "l™!1 re 'h'jc^Ioufy of trade (continues our
uthor) which has done more mifehief to the trade of
mg and than all other caufes put together, created an
n onT wifh? t ’ ""d -he h°ufeS °f Iords aild com-
i nh of Dec KPreVi°US inqU,ry °r refleaion, on the
3 . December 1695, concurred in a joint addrefs to
king, agamft the ellablifliment of the Darien com¬
pany as detrimental to the intereft of the Eaft India
ompany. Soon after, the commons impeached feme
ela-ZtlT C°Untrymen f°r bei"S inftrumental
andirSe^n^lH0011^11^^505 the eftabb'^nieut;
benefit 0hf ;rn 0UM ,tUP°n InqUlry’ he that the
benefit of it fliould be communicated, by a narticinn
tion of rights, to both nations. The king7 anfwer was'
oat he had been ill advifed in Scotland ” Fc
d”" to his f"S'd h,'S lrC°tti<h ,nin!i,"s' »'’J
rh to ,he f , ' a' Hrbur«h ,0 a memo-
\ ° tbe|eijate, in which he difowned the company
an v\arne them againft all connexions with it Tlie
fenate fent the memorial to the affembly of merchant^
who r d u with the f0]l0W]. fpirite^anfweF*
We look upon it as a very ftrange thing, that the
king of Britain ftiould offer to hinder us, who are a free
Pe°pIe’.t0. trfdc ,wlth "hom we pleafe j but are amaz
ed to think that he would hinder u* from joining with
hisownfubjeas.n Scotland, to whom he had lately
parhament ”t^'Vlle?e*’ fo an atf of
♦ rr ' a,Ut merckants, though mightily rrone
to paffion are eafily intimidated : The Dutch,' Ham
ftUr[®Lrd LOnd°n ",erCl,a"'S -‘Wrew their fX'
o be envy of the Englin,/a„d of their confcioufeefs
from ,heZonTa¥LWhiCh " '0 fl°W Sco,Ii"l<1
fix Ihins in H,,iu ,1 ! company proceeded to build
eaved X r ’ fu0m 36 t0 60 K"™’ ^ >l>ey eni
gaged 1200 men for the colony • amnno- ^
younger fons of many of the noble an/moR 'ancient
banded a°t .rCOt and’ and 60 “Seers who had been Jif.
banded at the peace, who cartied with them fuch of
M their
D A R [go
Darien, tlieir private men, generally raifed on their own, or the
■—v eftates of their relations, as they knew to be faith.ul
and brave ; and moft of thofe were Highlanders. The
Scots parliament, on the 5th Auguft 1698, unani-
moufly addreffed the king to fupport the company.
The lord prefident Sir Hugh Dalrymple, brother to
Lord Stair, and head of the bench, and the lord ad¬
vocate Sir James Stuart, head of the bar, jointly drew
memorials to the king, able in point of argument, in¬
formation, and arrangement •, in which they defended
the rights of the company upon the principles of con-
ftitutional and of public law. _ And neighbouring na¬
tions, with a mixture of furprife and refpe6f, faw the
pooreft kingdom of Europe fending forth the moft
gallant and the moft numerous colony that had ever
gone from the old to the new world.
On the 26th day of July of the year 1698, the whole
city of Edinburgh poured down upon Leitn, to fee the
colony depart, amidft the tears and prayers and prai-
fes of relations and friends, and of their countrymen.
Many feamen and foldiets, wdiofe fervices had been re-
fufed, becaufe more had offered themfelves than were
needed, were found hid in the (hips, and, when order¬
ed afhore, clung to the ropes and timbers, imploring
to go without reward with their companions. Twelve
hundred men failed in five ftout fhips, and arrived at
Darien in two months, with the Jofs of only 15 of
their people. At that time it was in their power, moft
of whom were well born, and all of them hardily bred
and inured to the fatigues and dangers of the late war,
to have gone from the northmoft part of Mexico to the
fouthmoft of Chili, and to have overturned the whole
empire of Spain in the South feas : But modeft, re-
fpe&ing their own and their country’s charafter, and
afraid of being accufed that they had plunder, and not
a fettlement in view, they began with purchafing lands
from the natives, and fending meffages of amity to
the Spanifh governors within their reach : and then
fixed their flatten at Afta, caUing it New St Andrew
from the name of the tutelar laint of Scotland, and the
country itfelf New Caledonia. One of the fides of the
harbour being formed by a long narrow neck of land
which ran into the fea, they cut it acrofs fo as to join
the ocean and the harbour. Within this defence they
ere&ed their fort, planting upon it 50 pieces of cannon.
On the other fide of the harbour there was a mountain
a mile high, on which they placed a_ watch-houfe,
which, in the rarefied air within the tropics, fo favour¬
able for vifion, gave them an immenfe range of pro-
fpesft to prevent all furprife. To this place, it was
obferved that the Highlanders often repaired to en¬
joy a cool air, and to talk of their friends they had left
behind in their hills; friends whofe minds were as high
as their mountains. The firft public 3a of the colony
was to publilh a declaration of freedom of trade and
D A R
Darien.
religion to all nations. This luminous idea originated
with Paterfon. .
But the Dutch Eaft India Company haying prefied
the king, in concurrence with his Englifh fubjedfs,
to prevent the fettlement at Darien, orders had been
fent from England to the governors of the Welt In¬
dian and American colonies, to iffue proclamations
againft giving affifiance, or even to hold correfpondence
with the colony •, and thefe were more or lefs harfhly
espreffed, according to. the tempers of the different
governors. The Scots trufting to far different treat-
ment, and to the fupplies which they expefted from
thofe colonies, had not brought provifions enough
with them j they fell into difeafes from bad food and
from want of food. But the more generous lavages,
by hunting and fifiiing for them, gave them that relief
which fellow Britons refufed. They lingered eight
months, awaiting, but in vain, for afliftance from Scot¬
land ; and almoft all of them either died out or quitted
the fettlement. Paterfon who had been the firft that
entered the fliip at Leith, was the laft who went on
board at Darien. , A ....
During the fpace of two years, while the ettablith-
ment of his colony had been in agitation, Spain had
made no complaint to England or Scotland againft it.
The Darien council even averred in their papers (which
are in the advocates library), that the right of the
company was debated before the king, in prefence ot
the Spanilh ambaffador, before the colony left Scot¬
land. But now, on the 3d of May 1698, the Spa-
nifh ambaffador at London prefented a memorial to the
king, which complained of the fettlement at Darien,
as an encroachment on the rights of his mafter. .
The Scots, ignorant of the misfortunes of their co¬
lony, but provoked at this memorial, fent out another
colony foon after of 1300 men, to fupport an eftablifh-
ment which was now no more. But this laft expedi¬
tion having been more haftily prepared than the hrit,
was unlucky in its paffage. One of the ftups was loft
at fea, many men died on finp-board, and the reft ar¬
rived at different times, broken in their health and
difpirited, when they heard the fate of thofe who had
gone before them—Added to the misfortunes of the
firft colony, the fecond had a misfortune peculiar to
itfelf: The general affembly of the church ot Scot¬
land fent out four minifters, with orders “ to take
charge of the fouls of the colony, and to eredl a pret-
bvtery, with a moderator, clerk, and record ot pro¬
ceedings *, to appoint ruling elders, dea<L°ns, overfeers
of the manners of the people, and affiftants m the
exercife of church difeipline and government, and ta
hold regular kirk-feffions.” When they arrived, the
officers and gentlemen were occupied m building houfes
for themfelves with their own hands, becauie there
was no help to be got from others *, yet the four mini¬
fters complained grievoufiy that the council did not or¬
der houfes to be immediately built for their accommo¬
dation. They had not had the precaution to bring
with them letters of recommendation from the direc¬
tors at home to the council abroad. On the.e accoiants’
not meeting with all the attention they expend from
the higher, they paid court to the “Tenor ranks of
the colonifts, and by that means threw divifions into-
the colony. They exhaufted the fpmts of the peep e,
by requiring their attendance at fermon four or five
hours at a ftretch, relieving each other by preaching
alternately, but allowing no relief
The employment of one of the days fet afide for e-
ligious exercife, which was a Wednefday, they divided
into three parts, thankfgiving, humiliation, a"d ^P"
plication, in which three numfters followed each other.
And as the fervice of the church of Scotland confifts
of a lecffure with a comment, a fermon two prayers,
three pfalms, and a bleflmg, the work of that d y,
upon L average of the length of the fervice of that
Darien,
D A R [9
, c011^ not: take up lefs than twelve hours : during
which fpace of time the colony was colle&ed, and kept
clofe together in the guard-room, which was ufed as
a church, in a tropical climate, and in a fickly feafon.
ey prefented a paper to the council, and made it
public, requiring them to fet afide a day for a folemn
tatting and humiliation, and containing their reafons
tor their requifition ; in w'hich, under pretence of enu¬
merating the fins of the people, they poured abufe on
their rulers. They damped the courage of the people
by continually prefenting hell to them as the terminal
tion of life to moft men, becaufe molt men are finners
Carrying the prelhyterian doftrine of predeftination
to extremes, they flopped all exertions, by fliowing that
the confequence of them depended not on thofe by
whom they were made. They converted the number-
lefs accidents to which foldiers and feamen are expofed
into immediate judgments of God againft their fins.
And having refolved to quit the fettlement, they, in
cxcufe for their doing fo, wrote bitter letters to the
general attembly againft the chara&ers of the colonifts,
and the advantages of the colony itfelf.
thuvT in a k.jnd of hiftory the colony
nch he publifhed, with a favage triumph exulted
-Ver toe misfortunes of his countrymen in the follow¬
ing wor s ,__They were fuch a rude company, that
I believe Sodom never declared fuch impudence in fin¬
ning as they. An obfervant eye might fee, that they
were running the way they went j hell and judgment
time Tb -een UP°n t"1’ and in them’ beforge the
tune . Their cup was full : it could hold no more ■
ihey were npe; they muft be cut down with the
fickle of the wrath of God.”
. The ^ft party that joined the fecond colony at Da-
rien, after it had been three months* fettled, was Cap
tam Campbell of Finab, with a company of the people of
h,s own eftate, whom he had commanded in Flanders
and whom he carried to Darien in his own fliip. 0n
their arnval at New ^Andrew, they found intelligence
men^ that 3 Sp3nilh force of ^600
South q1CH beCn brought from the coaft of the
them ^ 3t Tubucantee, waiting
there till a Spanilh fquadron of eleven flfips which
was expefted fliould arrive, when they were jointly to
to Camlin c" , ^he.miIitary ^mmand was offLd
Captain Campbell, in complement to his reputation
and to his birth, who was defeended from the families
of Breada bane and Athole. In order to prevent a
joint attack, he refolved to attack firft ; and^herefore
200 menTT^ after ^ he marched with
200 men to Tubucantee, before his arrival was known
to the enemy, ftormed the camp in the night tiZ
difTipated the Spanilh force with mucl. flaughte/ “ d
returned to the fort the fifth day • But he a u
thh,a'boJ- "00 r-i hd:
and almoft all hope of help or provifion cut off; yet he
flood a fiege near fix weeks, till almofl all the officers
were dead, the enemy by their approaches had cut off
obliged t* balls Were fo far expended, that he was
b!dls dIfheS °f the S^rifon into
net only theSrrnfC,n ^ CaPltuIated» ^ obtained
y the common honours of war and fecuritv
or e property of the company, but, as if they I
been conquerors, exafted hoftages for performance of
> conditions. Captain Campbell alone defired to be
had
of
1 1 CAR
excepted from the capitulation, faying he was fare
the Spaniards could not forgive him the mifehief which1
he fo lately had done them. The brave, by their cou¬
rage, often efcape that death which they feem to pro-
VOa : ^aP.ta‘n Campbell made his efcape in his veffel
and flopping nowhere, arrived fafely at New York
and from thence to Scotland, where the company pre-
lented him with a gold medal, in which his virtue was
commemorated, to inflame his family with the love of
hero.c aaions. And the Lord Lyon King at Arms
t^hofe office it is in Scotland (and fuch offices fliould
be everywhere) to confer badges of diftinflion accord¬
ing to the rules of heraldry upon houourable aaions,
gave him a Highlander and an Indian for fupporters
to h:s coat of arms.
A harder fate attended thofe whom Captain Camp¬
bell left at Darien. They were fo weak in their health
as not to be able to weigh up the anchors ofthe Rifino-
bun, one of their fhips, which carried 60 guns: But
he generous Spaniards affifted them. In going out of
he harbour (he ran aground : The prey was tempting,
and to obtain it, the Spaniards had only to ftand by
InViTr °n L-but fhowe,d that mercT to the Scots
gc d!ftrrfS’ ^ °ne °f the ^untrymen of thofe
bcots, General Elliot, returned to the pofterity of the
Spamards at the end^ of the late conflagration at the
lege o Gibraltar. The Darien (hips being leaky and
weakly manned, were obliged in their voyage to take
fheltenn different ports belonging to Spain'and Eng!
land. I he Spaniards in the new world ffiowed them
kmdnefs j the Engliffi governments fhowed them none •
and in one place one of their fliips was feized and de-
tmned. Of thefe only Captain Campbell’s ffiip and
another fmall one were faved : The Royal Sun was loft
on the bar of Charleftown 5 and of the colony, not
more than 30, faved from war, fhipwreck, or difeafe
ever faw their country again. ’
Patnr^"’ ha.d ft°od the blow, could not fland
the reflexion of misfortune. He was feized with a
lunacy in his paflage home after the ruin of the firft
coiony ; But he recovered in his own country, where
his fpint, ftill ardent and unbroken, prefented a new
plan to the company, founded on the idea of King
s-j' r to
doms, he claimed reparation of his Ioffes from the equi-
valent-money given by England to the Darien Com-
Pany but got nothing : becaufe a grant to him from
% ““'a poniticaTjthaVe bCe" °nly 33 °f h^a'’i-
more often to be found in the records of hiftory. ^Fhe
application of the Dutch to King William againft the
Dauen Company, affords the fureft of all proofs, that
it was the mtereft of the Britifli iflands Jfupport it
England, by the imprudence of ruining that fettle-
ment loft the opportunity of gaining and continuing
blvhrv^ tbe§reateftcoramer^^ empire that proba?
bly ever will be upon earth. Had ftie treated with
Scotland, in the hour of the diftrefs of the company
for a joint poffeffion of the fettlement, or adopted the
union of the kingdoms, which the fovereign of both
Darieh.
Mz
propofed
D A R
[ 92 1
D A R
Darien, propofed to them, that poffeffion could certainly have
 ^ been obtained. Had (he treated with Spain to relm-
quifh an imaginary right, or at lead to give a paflage
acrofs the idhmus, upon receiving duties fo high as to
overbalance all the chance of lofs by a contraband trade,
fhe had probably obtained either the one or the other.
Had (lie broke with Spain for the fake of gaining by-
force one of thofe favours, die would have lod far lefs
than die afterwards did by carrying a war into that
country for many years, to force a king upon the Spa¬
niards againd their will. Even a rupture with Spam
for Darien, if it had proved fuccefsful, would have
knit the two nations together by the mod fohd of ties,
their mutual intered : for the Englilh mud then have
depended upon Spain for the fafety of their caravans
by land, and the Spaniards upon England for the hiety
of their deets by fea. Spain and England would have
been bound together as Portugal and England have
long been--, and the Spanifli treafures have failed, un¬
derlie wings of Englidi navies, from the Spamdi mam
to Cadiz, in the fame manner as the treafures oil or-
tugal have failed under the fame proteftion, facred and
untouched, from the Brazils to Lilbon.
It has been made a quedion, whether King U u-
liam behaved with his ordinary dncenty and deadineis,
in the affurances of favour which he gave more than
once to the company during their didreffes. 1 he hal¬
lowing anecdote makes it probable, that there was a
druggie in his bread between the part winch he wnas
obliged to aft to pleafe his Englidi and Dutch at the
expence of his Scots fubjeds and his own feelings.
A providon (hip of the fird colony, in which were 30
gentlemen paffengers, and fome of them of noble birth,
having been diipwrecked at Carthagena, the Spaniards,
Believing or pretending to believe that they were
fmugglers, cad them into a dungeon, and threatened
them with death. The company deputed Lord Bad!
Hamilton from Scotland to implore King illiams
protection for the prifoners. The king at fird refu e
to fee him, becaufe he had not appeared at court when
he was lad in London. But when th.s difficulty was
removed by explanation, an expreffion fell from the
king, which ffiowed his fenfe of the generous conduct
of another, although influenced by the Enghffi and
Dutch Ead India Companies, he could not refolve to
imitate it in his own. For Lord BafiPs audience ha
ving been put off from time to time, but at lad fixed
to be in the council chamber after a council was over
the king, who had forgotten the appointment, was pal¬
ling into another room, when Lord Bafil p.aced h m-
felfin the paffage, and faid, “ That he came commif-
fioned by a great body of his majedy s fubjeas to lay
their misfortunes-at his feet; that he had a right to
b. heard, and would be heard The king returned,
lidened with patience, gave indant orders to apply to
Spain for redrefs and then turning to thofe near him,
faid “ This young man is too bold, if any man can
be too bold in his ^country’s caufed’ I had this anec¬
dote from the prefent earl of Selkirk, giandfon to
L°Kin^aWilliam,s defertion of a company erefted
upon the faith of his own charter and the Enghffi
oppreffions of it,, were the reafons why fo many of the
Scots during four fucceffiye reigns, dlAfll^ed
^ the Revolution and of the Union. And that difl.ke,
ioined to Engliffi difcontents, brought upon botn coun¬
tries two rebellions, the expenditure of many millions
of money, and (which is a far greater lofs) the down¬
fall of many of their nobled and mod ancient fami¬
lies. Sir John Dalrymple's Memoirs of Great Britain
and Ireland, vol. ii. r r n -r f
DARII, in Logic, one of the modes of fyllogiim ot
the firit figure, wherein the major propofition is an u-
niverfal affirmative, and the minor and conclufion par¬
ticular affirmatives : thus,
.Darii
I!
Darknefs.
Da- Every thing that is moved, is moved by
another ;
ri- Some body is moved ;
1, Therefore, fome body js moved by ano¬
ther.
DARIORIGUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of
the Veneti in Gallia Celtica 5 called in the Notitia Lug-
dunends, Civitas Venetum, after the manner of the lower
age. Now Vannes, or Venues, in Brittany. W. Long.
2. 37. Lat. 47. 40. r n r c
DARIUS, the name of feveral kings of erfia. bee
(Hidorx of) Perfia. . „ , ,
DARK1NG, a market-town of Surrey in England,
fituated ten miles ead of Guilford. The market is no¬
ted for corn and provifions, more efpecially for fowls.
W. Long. S. 20. N. Lat. 51. 18. _ _
DARKNESS, the abfence, privation, or want ot
natural light. “ Darknefs was upon the face ot the
deep.” (Gen. 1. 2.) 1 that is to fay, the chaos was plun¬
ged in thick darknefs, becaufe hitherto the light was
not created. One of the mod terrible forts ot dark¬
nefs was that which Mofes brought upon Egypt as
a plague to the inhabitants of it. The Septuagmt,
our tranflation of the Bible, and indeed mod others,
in explaining Mofes’s account of this darknefs render
it “ a darknefs which may be felt and the \ ulgate
has it “ palpable darknefs j” that is, a darknefs
confiding of black vapours and exhalations, fo con-
denfed that they might be perceived by the organs of
feeling or feeing : but fome commentators think that
this is carrying the fenfe too far, fince in fuch a me¬
dium as this mankind could not live an hour, much lefs
for the fpace of three days, as the Egyptiansaix fa.d
to have done, during the time this dar^nej lj!fted7
therefore they imagine, that indead of a darknefs that
may be felt, the Hebrew phrafe may figmfy a darknefs
wherein men went groping and feeling about for every
thing they wanted. Le Clerc is of this opinion, and
thinks that Philo, in his life of Mofes underdood the
paffage in its right fenfe. “ For in this darknefs (fays
bej whoever were in bed, durd not get up ; and fuch
as their natural occafions compelled to get up, went
feeline about by the walls, or any thing they could lay
hold on, as if they had been blind ” What it was
that occafioned this darknefs, whether « was m the
air or in the eyes ; whether it was a fufpendon of light
from the fun in that country, or a black thick vapour
which totally intercepted it, there is reafon to think
That the defection which the author of the book of
Wifdom (xvi. I, 2, 3, &c.) gives us of the,r_ inward
terrors and confternation, is not altogether coujeaural,
viz. that they were not only prifoners of darknefs, and
fettered with the bonds of a long night, but were hor¬
ribly adonidied likewife, and troubled with ^ange ap-
Barknefs
II
Dartos.
D A R [ 93 ]
paritions; for while over them was fpread an heavy form the fcrotum.
night, they were to themfelyes more grievous than dark-
nefs.
During the laft three hours that our Saviour hanged
upon the crofs, a darknefs covered the face of the earth,
to the great terror and amazement of the people pre-
fent at his execution. This extraordinary alteration in
the face of nature (fays Dr Macknight, in his Harmony
cf the Gofpels'), was peculiarly proper, whilft the Sun
oi righteoufnefs was withdrawing his beams from the
land of Ifrael and from the world ; not only becaufe
it was a miraculous teftimony borne by God himfelf
to his innocence : but alfo becaufe it was a fit emblem
of its departure and its eflfefts, at lead; till his light
fhone out anew with additional fplendor in the miniflry
oi his apoftles. The darknefs which now covered Ju¬
dea and the neighbouring countries, beginning about
noon, and continuing till Jefus expired, was not the
effedt of an ordinary eclipfe of the fun : for that can
never happen but at the new moon ; whereas now it
was full moon ; not to mention, that the total dark¬
nefs occafioned by eclipfes of the fun never continues
above twelve or fifteen minutes ; wherefore it muft
have been produced by the divine power, in a manner
We ..a.re no'' t° explain. Accordingly, Luke
(xxiii. 44, 45.), after relating that there was darknefs
over all the earth, adds, “ and the fun was darkened
which perhaps may imply, that the darknefs of the
fun did not occafion, but proceeded from, the dark¬
nefs that was over all the land. Farther, the Chriftian
writers, in their moft ancient apologies to the Hea¬
thens, affirm, that as it was full moon at the paffover
when Chriit was crucified, no fuch eclipfe could hap¬
pen by the courfe of nature. They obferve alfo, that
it was taken notice of as a prodigy by the Heathens
themfelves.
DARLINGTON, a town of the county of Dur-
ham, fituated on a flat on the river Skerne, which falls
into the Tees. It is a pretty large place, has feveral
Ilreets, and a fpacious market-place. It gives title of
earl to the Vane family. W. Long. 1. 15. N. Lat.
54- 3°-
DARMSTADT, a town of Germany, in the circle
of the Upper Rhine, and capital of the landgraviate
hleffie Darmfladt, with a handfome caflle, where
its own prince generally refides. It is feated on a ri¬
ver of the fame name, in E. Long. 8. 40. N. Lat. 40.
5°.
DARNEL. See Lolium, Botany Index.
DARNLEY, Lord. See {Hi/lory of) Scot¬
land. 4
DARTFORD, a town of the county of Kent in
England, feated on the river Darent, not far from its-
influx into the Thames. E. Long. o. 16. N. Lat. ci.
25.
DARTMOUIH, a fea-port town in Devonffiire,
feated on the river Dart, near its fall into the fea. It
is a well frequented and populous place, having a com¬
modious harbour, and a confiderable trade by fea.
The town is large and well builtbut the ftreets are
narrow and bad, though all paved. It has the title of
an earldom, and fends two members to parliament.
W. Long. 4. o. N. Lat. 50. 25.
DARIOS, in Anatomy^ one of the coats which
D A R
It is called the dartos mnfcle ; but Darwirf.
Dr Hunter fays, that no fuch mufcle can be found,'
and Albinus takes no notice of it in his tallies.
_ DARWIN, Erasmus, a phyfician, a poet, and me¬
dical writer, was born at Elflon, near Newark, in
Nottinghamfhire, on the 12th December 1731. He
was the fourth fon of Robert Darwin Efq. He received
the early part of his education at Cheflerfield fchool,
under the reverend Mr Burrows, of whom he always
fpoke with great refpedl. He was entered, with two
of his elder brothers, at St John’s college, Cambridge ;
and, being intended for the pra6!ice of medicine, took
the degree of M. B. in 1755, defending in his thejis
an opinion, that the motion of the heart and arteries is
produced by the immediate ftimulus of the blood.
During his refidence in Cambridge, IMr Darwun W’as
eleaed to one of Lord Exeter’s fcholarfhips, worth
about 161. per annum, which, from the meagrenefs of
his father’s income at that time, was efieemed a de-
fii-able acquifition. After having prepared himfelf for
his future profeffion, by an attendance on the ledures
oi Dr Hunter, in London, and by a fevere courfe of
ftudy at Edinburgh, lie contemplated the metropolis
as the proper theatre for his exertions. Deterred, how¬
ever, by the W'ant of an immediate introduftion, and
the improbability of obtaining immediate patronage,
Dr Darwin thought it altogether more advifeable to’
fettle in the country : the firil place to which he went,
in the capacity of a phyfician, w-as Nottingham, where
he was entirely difappointed in his hopes of pra&ice •
he removed, therefore, to Litchfield, with letters of in-
trodu&ion to Lady Grefley and the reverend Mr Se¬
ward. Here his great capacity and various acquire¬
ments were moft juftly appreciated : he refided at
Litchfield during a great number of years, in the en¬
joyment of a very extenfive reputation, and a very pro¬
fitable pra&ice, the foundation of which is fuppoled to
have been laid by his fuccefs in reftoring to health a
gentleman of fortune in the neighbourhood, whofe re¬
covery w'as defpaired of by a numerous circle of friends
and acquaintances.
In the year 1757 Dr Darwin married Mifs Mary-
Howard, daughter of Charles Howard, Efqj by his
wife, Elizabeth Foley: Ibe died in 1770. By this
jady he had five children, two of whom died in their
infancy : the eldeft fon, Charles, he educated to his
own profeffion, but he died in the 20th year of his age,
very foon after he had finifiied his courfe of ftudies at
Edinburgh, where he gained confiderable reputation,
by endeavouring to furniffi a criterion for diftinguifliin^
pus from mucus. &
Soon after the deceafe of his wife, Dr Darwin com¬
menced his laborious work, the Zoonomia, which, howr-
ever, he did not think proper to publiffi till about eight',
years fince. 6
In 1778 he obtained a leafe of a piclurefque fpot of
ground, about a mile from Litchfield, where a cold
bath vyas creeled by Sir John Flayer, an eminent phy¬
fician in the beginning of the laft century: there is a
grotto, furrotmded by proje&ing rocks, from the edges-
of which trickles a perpetual fhow’er of water. This
place became his favourite retreat and amufement::
here he formed a botanic garden, and began his poem
on the “ Loves of the Plants,” the feenery of which,
“ aa>
D A R [94
Darwin. “ as adapted to love-fcenes, and being thence a proper
v"-—; rcfidence for the modern goddefs of Botany,” is taken
from thefe fequeftered fhades :—
And if with thee fome haplefs maid fhould ftray,
Difaftrous Love companion of her way,
Oh lead her timid fteps to yonder glade,
Whofe arching cliffs depending alders {hade ;
There as meek Evening wakes her temperate breeze,
And moonbeams glimmer through the trembling
trees.
The rills, that guggle round, {hall foothe her ear.
The weeping rocks {hall number tear for tear, See. &c.
Canto i, line 25.
In 1780, Dr Darwin was called to attend Colonel
Sacheverel Pole, of Radbourne-hall, four miles from
Derby ", and a few months after the deceafe of the co¬
lonel, he married his reli£t, Mrs Pole, with a jointure
of 600k per annum. The marriage of Dr Darwin oc-
cafioned his immediate removal from Litchfield to Rad-
bourne, where he refided two years, till he got accom¬
modated with a houfe in Derby. In this lall lituation
he remained till about two months before his death,
when he removed to Breadwall Priory, about three
miles from Derby, which was a commodious and peace¬
ful retirement for his old age.
During the laft few years, Dr Darwin wras much
fubjeft to inflammation in his breaft and lungs; and
had a very ferious attack of this difeafe in the courfe
of the fpring of 1801, from which, after repeated
bleedings, he with difficulty recovered. On the 10th
of April 1802, he was attacked with a fevere {hivering
fit, followed by a correfpondent hot one, and accom¬
panied with fymptoms of inflammation in his lungs :
his furgeon, Mr Hadley, took from him, in the courfe
of the day, 25 ounces of blood. The fever was re¬
moved, and in two or three days he became, to all
appearance, quite well. On the 17th as he was walk¬
ing in his garden with Mrs Darwin, and a lady of a-
bout his own age, the latter remarked, that he would
have fufficient employment for ten years in bringing
all his plans about the place to perfeftion. “ You ma¬
dam (he replied) have as good a profpeft as any body
I know, of your age, of living ten years 5 I have not.”
Mts Darwin remarked his good looks, fpirits, and
ftrength. He faid, “ I always appear particularly well
immediately before I become ill.” He fat with his fa¬
mily in the evening, converfing with his ufual cheer-
fulnefs; went to bed, and rofe at fix on the following
morning \ wrote fome letters till after feven, when he
was feized with a chilly fit, which increafed, and was
attended with thirft. He then fat down by the kitchen-
fire and drank a confiderable quantity of butter-milk j
but feeling himfelf much indifpofed, he lay down on a
fofa, when becoming more cold and torpid, he was
raifed up, and placed in an arm-chair, where, without
pain or any emotion, he expired a little before nine, in
the 71ft year of his age.
Dr Darwin left a widow and fix children, three boys
and three girls, by his laft marriage. 1 here was
alfo another child, who died an infant. Befide thefe,
he left two natural daughters whom he had eftablifti-
ed in a fchool at Afhbourne, and for whofe inftrutlion
] D A R
and affiftance lie compofed and publiffied his “ Treatife Darwin,
on Female Education.” 1——-y—.
During the whole of his life, Dr Darwin was re¬
markable for great benevolence of difpofition, and it
was particularly confpicuous in the care he took even
of the loweft animals. The keennefs of his feelings on
this fubjeft has been attributed to the ftrong impreffion
made upon his mind by a reprefentation of the tortures
of the inquifition, which was ffiown to him at an early
age. He had frequently exprefled a ftrong defire, that
the termination of his exiftence might be without pain,
having always looked upon death as the lefs evil of the
two. He was of a middle ftature, in perfon grofs and
corpulent; his features were coarfe, and his counte¬
nance heavy j if not wholly void of animation, it cer¬
tainly was by no means expreffive. In his gait and
drefs he was rather clumfy and flovenly, and frequent¬
ly walked with his tongue hanging out of his mouth.
His converfation abounded with very unequal failles
of wit: when he found himfelf engaged with a power¬
ful antagonift in argument, he had fometimes recourfe
to ridicule, a weapon which he did riot always handle
W’ith dexterity, for he was affefted with an impediment
in his fpeech which rendered his enunciation fcarcely
intelligible.
About the age of twenty-one, Dr Darwin was fei¬
zed with a fit of the gout j in confequence of which he
totally abftained from all fermented liquors, not even
tailing fmall beer, or a drop of any kind of wine ; but
he ate plentifully of flelh-meat, and all kinds of vege¬
tables and fruit, ufing for his drink, at meals, chiefly
water alone, or cream and water, with tea and coffee
between them, as ufual. By this abftinence from fer¬
mented liquors, he kept quite free from gout for 15
years, and from fome other complaints to which he had
been fubjedf. He then indulged himfelf occafionally
with a little wine and water ; cyder and water, &.c.
but was fpeedily admonifhed into his former temper¬
ance, by a paroxyfm of the gout. He was in the ha¬
bit of eating a large quantity of food, and his ftomach
poffeffed a ftrong power of digeftion. His advice fre¬
quently was “ Eat, or be eaten ;” but he took every
opportunity to imprefs a dread of all fermented liquors
on the minds of his patients, whofe difeafes he was too
ready to reprefent as originating in the frequent ufe of
them. In the “ Botanic Garden,” he has alfo taken
an opportunity to exprefs his ftrong antipathy againft
fermented and fpirituous liquors, by comparing their
effedls to that of the Promethean fire : “ The ancient
ftory of Prometheus, who concealed in his bofom the
fire he had ftolen, and afterward had a vulture perpe¬
tually gnawing his liver, affords fo apt an allegory for
the effefts of drinking fpirituous liquors, that one ftrould
be induced to think the art of diftillation, as well as
fome other chemical proceffes (fuch as calcining gold)
had been known in times of great antiquity, and loft
again. The fwallowing drams cannot be better repre-
fented in hieroglyphic language, than by taking fire
into one’s bolom ; and certain it is, that the general
effe£l of drinking fermented or {pirituous liquors is an
inflamed, fchirrous, or paralytic liver, with its vari¬
ous critical or confequential difeafes, as leprous erup¬
tions on the face, gout, dropfy, epilepfy, and infa-
nity.” _
^ The
1
D A R r 95
Barwin. The various produflions of Dr Darwin’s fanciful and
philofophical pen, have long fince been expofed to pub¬
lic criticifin, and received an ample fhare, as well of
obloquy as applaufe. Still, however, he has claims
to celebrity from the literary luftre which adorns his
charadler, as a medical philofopher, a philofophical a-
gricultor, and a poet.
The pretenfions of Dr Darwin to high rank as a me¬
dical philofopher will, of courfe, fubftantiate them-
felves in the merits, numerous and folid as they are, of
the “ Zoonomia.” In whichever point of view this
work (hall be confidered, whether as a mere repofitory
of curious natural and medical faffs, or as a fcheme
and fyftem of pathological and phyfiological difquifi-
tion, is probably matter of trifling import, fo far as the
reputation of its author is concerned. By either mode
of appreciation it is, unqueftionably, a noble effort of
human labour or of human wit ; and though its illu-
ftrious author may have fometimes erred from excels of
ingenuity, and been occafionally blinded by too great
a love of fyftem, the Zoonomia will ever be confidered
as a produftion of tranfcendent merit.
As a philofophical agricultor Dr Darwin muft ever
be entitled to the higheft confideration. In order to
profit by the multitudinous experiments of Hales,
Grew, Malpighi, Bonnet, Du Hamel, Buffon, Spal¬
lanzani, Prieftley, &c. collefted in the “ Phytologia,”
it is not neceffary to take poffeflion of the air-built the¬
ory of vegetation which is there conftrufted, and fe-
curely inhabit it as an edifice whofe folidity is equal to
its elegance. Whether the analogy is in fafl fo clofe
between the parts and funffions of animal and vegeta¬
ble beings •,—whether the anatomy of the one fo ftrift-
ly correfponds with that of the other, as to induce a-
belief that the latter are in reality an inferior order of
the former, pofleffed of a brain, uterus, mufcles, and
complete nervous fyftem, is an inquiry, which, how¬
ever curious, muft furely be fubordinate in comparifon
with thofe grand and indifputable difcoveries which the
application of chemiftry to agriculture has brought to
light. A fmall portion only of the Phytologia is de¬
voted to this fanciful fyftem of vegetable phyfiology :
the fecond part, divided into three fedftions, treats on
the economy of vegetation ; and the third, on agricul¬
ture and horticulture, is divided into fix fe&ions.
Dr Darwin, in his charafter as a poet, does not
(land very high in the eftiraation of fome. The ear is
fafcinated and feduced by the mellifluence of his num¬
bers, but there is a harlotry in his embellifliments
which is unchafte. His cadences are not fufficiently
varied for a poem of fuch length as the “ Botanic
Garden indeed there is an evident mechanifm in the
conftrudtion of his lines which it is by no means plea-
fant to dete<3:. But an imagination of unrivalled rich-
nefs ; a felicity of allufion to whatever can throw luftre
on his fubjeift, to ancient mythology and modern dif¬
coveries, to the works of nature and of art ; if thefe
are fome of the effentials of poetry, Dr Darwin may
certainly claim them as his own. No man, perhaps,
was ever happier in the fele£Hon and compofition of
his epithets, had a more imperial command of words,
or could elucidate with fuch accuracy and elegance the
moft complex and intricate machinery. Who but Dr
Darwin would have thought of defcribing a porcelain
1 D A R
manufaftory in verfe j the powers and conftruftion of Bar
a fleam engine ; the mechanifm of a watch j and the
complexity of a cotton-mill ? Thefe, and many fimilar
defcriptions, to be found in the Botanic Garden, are
inimitable in their way. In fome of his minor effufions
he is particularly happy : the beautiful little fong “ to
May,” is exquifitely finiftied ; and it would be difficult
to find thirty lines in the Botanic Garden to rival in
dignity and pathos the “ Addrefs to Swilcar’s Oak,”
introduced in the Phytologia.
As a profe writer, Dr Darwin was incorre£t *, his
grammatical errors are numerous, and he was even de¬
ficient in orthography. In the year 1758, he publifh-
ed in the Philofophical Tranfa&ions, “ An attempt to
confute the opinion of Henry Earl, concerning the af-
cent of vapour and “ An account of the cure of a
periodical haemoptoe, by keeping the patient awake”
This was followed by “ Experiments‘On animal fluids
in the exhaufted receiver.” He inferred in the Derby
Mercury, an elegy written at Matlock, and addreffed
to Mrs Darwin ; another piece occafioned by the ap¬
pearance of a moft fatal diftemper among horned cat¬
tle, at Calke, near Derby ; and a third article on oc-
cafion of the earthquake, which feveral years ago was
felt at Derby, and in the furrounding country. In
1782, the Botanical Society of Litchfield publiftled a*
tranflation of Linnaeus’s Sy//ema Vegetabilium, the exe¬
cution of which was principally confided to Dr Dar¬
win. His other works have already been mentioned
in the courfe of this biographical (ketch. He left a-
poem entitled “ The Temple of Nature,” which was
publifhed after his death.
Next to medicine, mechanics, and almoft every
branch of natural hiftory, engaged his attention. He
not only purfued thefe ftudies with great ardour and
diligence himfelf, but alfo embraced every opportunity
of cultivating and encouraging them among his nume¬
rous connexions and acquaintance. Very foon after he
fettled in Derby, he i.iftituted and eftablifhed a philo¬
fophical fociety and library, both of which rvere in a
flourifhing (late at the time of his deceafe. He alfo
took pleafure in encouraging works in natural hi¬
ftory.
But though the learning, tafte, and genius of Dr
Darwin, were eminently difplayed in thefe purfuits,
yet there was one great end, to the attainment of
which all his talents and views w’ere directed. He did
not hefitate openly and repeatedly to declare, that the
acquifition of wealth was the leading obje6t of all his
literary undertakings.
However, he was by no means infenfible to the va¬
lue of reputation. During the laft years of his life,
the love of fame was a paflion which had great pow’er
over his mind ; and the incenfe of praife was fo plea-
fant to him, that flattery was found to be the moft fuc-
cefsful means of gaining his notice and favour.
There are reafons for fufpe&ing that Dr Darwin was
not a believer in Divine Revelation. A few days be¬
fore his death, a gentleman endeavoured to diicover
whether he entertained a belief and expeftation of n
future ftate of exiftence : the do£!or was obferved to
fpeak with a confiderable degree of fedatenefs on the
fubjeft, and remarked, that it w^as natural to extend
our wifties and views beyond the prefent fcene, and
that
DAT
[ 96 1
D A U
Date.
Bafypus it was right to purfue fucli meafures as are likely
to fecure our happinefs in another world ; “ but/’ he
added, “ let us not hear any thing about hell.”
DASYPUS, the Armadillo or Tatou, a genus of
quadrupeds belonging to the order of Bruta. See
Mammalia Index.
DA'I'A, among mathematicians, a term for fuch
things or quantities as are given or known, in order to
find other things thereby that are unknown. The data
of Euclid is the nrft in order of the books that have
been written by the ancient geometricians, to facili¬
tate and promote the method of refolution or analyfis.
In general, a thing is faid to be given which is either
adlually exhibited, or can be found out, that is, which
is either known by hypothefis, or that can be demon-
ftrated to be known : and the propofitions in the book
of Euclid’s data (hew what things can be found out or
known, from thofe that by hypothefis are already
known : fo that in the analyfis or inveftigation of a
problem, from the things that are laid down as given
or known, by the help of thefe propofitions, it is de-
monftrated that other things are given, and from thefe
lad that others again are given, and fo on, till it is de-
monftrated that that which was propofed to be found
out in the problem is given ; and when this is done, the
problem is folved, and its compofition is made and de¬
rived from the compofitions of the data which were em¬
ployed in the analyfis. And thus the data of Euclid
are of the mod general and neceffary ufe in the folution
of problems of every kind.
Marinus, at the end of his preface to the data, is
midaken in averting that Euclid has not ufed the fyn-
thetical, but the analytical method in delivering them :
for though in the analyfis of a theorem, the thing to
be demondrated is affumed in the analyfis j yet in the
demondrations of the data, the thing to be demondra¬
ted, which is, that fomething is given, is never once
affumed in the demondration 5 from which it is mani-
fed, that every one of them is demondrated fyntheti-
cally : though indeed if a propofition of the data be
tjirned into a problem, the demondration of the pro¬
pofition becomes the analyfis of the problem. Simpfori's
Preface to his edition of the Data.
From the primary ufe of the word data in mathe¬
matics, it has been tranfplanted into other arts ; as
philofophy, medicine, &cc. where it expreffes any quan¬
tity, which, for the fake of a prefent calculation, is
taken for granted to be fuch, without requiring an
immediate proof for its certainty ; called alfo the given
quantity, number, or power. And hence alfo fuch
things as are known, from whence, either in natural
philofophy, the animal mechanifm, or the operation
of medicines, we come to the knowledge of others un¬
known, are nowr frequently in phyfical writers called
data.
DATE, an addition or appendage in writings, aids,
indruments, letters, &c. exprefiing the day and month
of the year when the a<d or letter was paffed or figned j
together wdth the place where the fame was done. The
word is formed from the Latin datum, “ given,” the
participle of do, “ I give.”
Our ancient deeds had no dates, but only the month
and year, to fignify that they were not made in hade,
or in the fpace of a day, but upon longer and more
ruature deliberation. The king’s grants began with
•' 1 2
thefe words, Prafentibus et futuris, &c. but the grants Date
of private perfons with Omnibus,prafentes hteras mfpec- ^ ^ ^
turis, &c. ^
A deed is good, though it mentions no date or hath
a falfe date ; or even if it hath an impodible date, as
the 30th of February *, provided the real day of its be¬
ing dated or given, that is, delivered, can be proved.
Blach/f. Com. vol. ii. p. 304.
Date, the fruit of the great palm-tree. See Phoe¬
nix, Botany Index.
DATI, Carlo, profeffor of polite learning at Flo¬
rence. His native country became very famous, as
w7ell on account of his works, as of the eulogies w’hich
have been bedowred on him by learned men. The chief
work to w’hich Dati applied himfelf, was Della Pittu-
ra Antica, on which he publiflied an effay in the year
1667. He died in 1675, much lamented, as w’ell for
his humanity and amiable manners as for his parts and
learning.
DATISCA, a genus of plants belonging to the di-
oecia clafs ; and in the natural method ranking under
the 54th order, Mifcellaneez.
DATISI, in Logic, a mode of fyllogifms in the
third figure, wherein the major is an univerfal affirma¬
tive, and the minor and conclufion particular affirma¬
tive propofitions. For example,
Da- All who ferve God are kings;
ti- Some who ferve God are poor 5
si. Therefore fome who are poor are kings.
DATIVE, in Grammar, the third cafe in the de-
clenfion of nouns : expreffing the ftate or relation of
a thing to whofe profit or lofs fome other thing is re¬
ferred. See Grammar.
It is called dative, becaufe ufually governed by a
verb, implying fomething to be given to fome perfon.
As, commodare Socrati, “ to lend to Socrates }” utilis
reipublica, “ ufeful to the commonwealth j” perniciofus
ccclefce, “ pernicious to the church.”
In Engliffi, where we have properly no cafes, this
relation is expreffed by the fign to ox for.
DATUM, or Datus, in Ancient Geography, a town
of Thtace, fituated btween Neapolis and the river Nef-
tus: A colony of Thracians, according to Euftathius $
who places it on the fea-coaff, near the Strymon, in a
rich and fruitful foil, famous for (hip-building and
mines of gold ; hence the proverb A«th? Ay«0ev, de¬
noting profperity and plenty (Strabo.) Apian c e-
fcribes it as feated on a deep eminence, the whole of
which it covered. It was taken by Philip of Macedon,
who changed its name to Philippi, being originally
called Crenides on account of its fprings. It was af¬
terwards famous for the defeat of Brutus and Caffius,
by Augufius and Antony.
DATURA, the thorn-apple : A genus of plants
belonging to the pentandria clafs ", and in the natural
method ranking under the 28th order, Lundce. See
Botany Index.
DAUBENTON, Louis Jean Marie, a diftm-
guiffied naturalill, was born at Montbar, in the depart¬
ment of the C6te d’Or, in France, on the 29th of May
1716. His father, Jean Daubenton, was a notary m
that place, and his mother’s name w?as Marie Piche-
not. In his youth he diftinguifhed himielf by the
fvveetnefs of his temper, and by his diligent applica¬
tion
D A U
Banbenton. tion to his ftudies. The Jefuits of Dijon, under whofe
tuition he was firft placed, noticed him in a peculiar
manner. Having gone through a courfe of what was
called philofophy, under the Dominicans of Dijon, his
father, who deltined him for the church, and who had
made him aflume the ecclefiallical drefs at the age of
twelve, fent him to Paris to ftudy theology. But
his predileftion for natural hiftory induced him pri¬
vately to ftudy medicine. Accordingly he attended
the leftures of Baron, Martinenq, and Col de Villars,
and likewdfe thofe of Window, Hunault, and An¬
toine de Juflieu in the botanic garden. The death
of his father in 1736 enabled him to follow his in¬
clination without conftraint. Accordingly he took a
degree at Rheims in 1741, and returned to his own
country with the intention of following the praHice of
medicine. But fortune deftined him for a more brilli¬
ant career.
Montbar had given birth, about the fame time, to
another man of a very different character, who, though
poffeffed of an independent fortune, a robuft confti-
tution, and actuated by a violent paflion for plea-
fure, had determined notwithftanding to devote him-
felf to the cultivation of the fciences. "Phis man was
Buffon. Hefitating for fome time what branch of
phyfics he thould make his peculiar ftudy, he tried
by turns geometry, mechanical philofophy, and agri¬
culture. At laft his friend Dufay, who during his fliort
juperintendance had reduced the botanic garden from
that ftate of negleft in which former naturalifts had
left it, and who had procured for Buffon the reverfion
of his office, dying, and leaving him his place, Buffon’s
choice was ffixed on natural hiftory, and he faw before
him that wide field which he afterwards traverfed with
fo much reputation.
Natural hiftory was at that time little elfe than a
dry catalogue of names, deftitute of that methodical
arrangement, of that precifion, of thofe interefting
details which have fince diftinguifhed it. It occupied
a very low ftation among the fciences, and inftead of
being a fafhionable ftudy, was degraded into the drudge
of medicine^ and furgery. Buffon formed the bold
plan of giving life to this dry and apparently fteril
mafs, of painting nature, as (he is, always young,
always aiftive •, of pointing out the harmony of all
her parts, and the laws by which they are combined
into one fyftem, and of giving his pitfure all the glow,
all the freffinefs, all the charms of nature berfelft
But to fecure fuccefs it was neceffary to make truth
^e bafts of his fyftem. Every thing muft be colledled,
reyifed, and examined. The forms and dimenfions of
animals muft be compared, and their internal ftru&ure
aicertained. The ardent and impatient fpirit of Buf¬
fon could ill brook a talk fo tedious and painful, and
the .imperfection of bis fight rendered him unqualified
for it. He looked about, therefore, for a man poffef¬
fed of fufficient judgment, patience, and neatnefs of
hand for his purpofe, and at the fame time modeft
enough to fubmit willingly to aft a fecondary part. He
found fuch a man in Daubenton, the companion of his
infancy.
The character of thefe two philofophers was almoft
oppofite in every refpeCt. Buffon was violent, impa¬
tient, 1 alh ; Daubenton was all gentlenefs, patience
and caution : Buffon wiftied to divine the truth rather
Vol. VII. Part I.
[97 1
D A U
than to difeover it ; Daubenton believed nothing which Dauhenton.
he had not himfelf feen and afeertained. Buffon luf- —v—-^
fered his imagination to lead him from nature ; Dau¬
benton, on the contrary, difearded' from his waitings
every expreffion which was calculated to miflead. They
were thus happily fitted to correH each other’s faults.
Accordingly the hiftory of quadrupeds, which appeared
while they laboured together, is the moft exempt from
error of any of the divifions which conftirute Buflon’s
natural hiftory.
Bufton drew Daubenton to Paris about 1742: pro¬
em ed for him the place of demonftrator of the cabinet
of natural hiftory, at firft with a falary of only cco
francs, but which was gradually increafed to 2000.
He furnifhed him likewife with a lodging, and ne¬
glected nothing to fecure his comfort and convenience.
Daubenton on his fide devoted himfelf to fecond the
views of his benefaCtor. The cabinet of natural hifto-
which was arranged, and in a great meafure col-
ry
ta j u u- b . «‘ccu- mcu
leered by his means, was of immenfe fervice. In the
hiftory of quadrupeds, he gave the defeription and dif-
lection of 182 fpecies of quadrupeds, Thefe details
contained a vaft number of new faHs, and arranged
in Inch a manner that the moft curious refults are often
obtained merely by comparing them together. This
work procured for Daubenton a very high reputation
and drew upon him the envy of Reaumur, who at that
time confider.ed himfelf at the head of natural hiftory.
But the credit and reputation of Buffon was fufficient
to prevent his friend from falling a viClim to the attack
of this formidable antagonift
In the fubfequent parts of his natural hiftory Buffon
was perfuaded to feparate himfelf from Daubenton.
I ms injured the precifion and value of thele parts ex-
ceffively ; while it deprived Daubenton of 12,000
francs a year. Afterwards the intimacy between them
revived and continued till the death of Buffon.
I he number of differtations on natural hiftory which
Daubenton publiffied in the Memoirs of the'French
Academy, is fo great, that even a lift of them would
be too long for. this place. Defcriptions of different
animals, diffeCHons, comparifons between the forms of
different animals, anatomical examinations of foffil
bones, to determine the animals to which they had
belonged, the phyfiology of vegetables, and different
parts of.mineralogy, fucceffively occupied him; not
to mention his experiments on agriculture and rural
economy, which, however, were of more fervice to
him afterwards than all the reft of his labours, on ac¬
count of the reputation among the populace which they
had procured him. ^
In the year I794,w-hen the dregs of the people were
maifers of France, Daubenton was under the necef-
fity of applying, to the feSion of Sans-culottes for a
certificate of civifm, to enable him to retain his place
in the garden of plants, which he had filled with ho¬
nour for 52 years.. A profeffor and academician would
icarcely have obtained it; but it was readily granted
to Shepherd Daubenton, under which title it had been
fortunately, prefented. The following is a tranflation
of this certificate :
SECTION OF THE SANS-CULOTTES.
Copy of the extraB of the deliberations of the General
AJembly of the fitting of the fjth of the frf decade
N of
D A U
[ 98 1
D A U
Daubenton
II
Davenant.
of the month of the id year of the Trench Republic
one and indiviftble.
It appears, that after the report made to the frater¬
nal lociety of the fe&ion of the fans-culottes concern-
the good civifm and afts of humanity which the
Shepherd Daubenton has always teftified, the General
Affembly unanimoufly decree to give him a certificate
of civifm, and the prefident followed by feveral mem¬
bers of the laid affembly give him the fraternal hug,
with all the acclamations due to a true model ot
humanity, which has been teftified by feveral renew¬
als of the hug. ^s;gned) R< q Dardel, Prefident.
Befides his publications, Daubenton was of great fer-
vice to fcience as a lefturer. Prom i775 §ave leTc-
tures on natural hiftory in the college of medicine. In
*78 j he leaured on rural economy. He was appoint-
i a _ f, m 1    U.,-, cx
ed profeffor of mineralogy by the convention at the
garden of plants, and he gave leases during the
ephemeral exiftence of the Normal fchool. He was
likewife one of the editors of the Journal des Savans,
and contributed to both the Encyclopedias As a
leaurer he was extremely popular, and what is un¬
common, he retained his popularity to the laft. _
Notwithftanding the feeblenefs of his conftitution, he
arrived at a very advanced age without much difeafe
or lofs of his faculties. This may be, m fome meafure,
aferibed to the gentlenefs of his temper, and his re-
markaWle refig-nation. He was temperate and mo¬
derate even in his ftudies. _ Part of his time was fpent
m reading romances with his wife.
In tlie vear , 799 he was appointed one of the mem¬
bers of the cotifervative fenate, and he refolved to
attend the meeting of it. This obliged him ,0 a ut
revimen. The feafon was fevere. At the hrit
meeting that he attended he fell from his feat in an
Zpleaic fit. The mod fpeedy all,dance was pro-
cured and by its means he was redored to his lenfes.
with*the utmod calmnefs ^pointed out w.^ his n-
medies being prohibited, he contrived to fet up an o- Davenant
peia, to be performed by declamations and mufic. This
Italian opera began in Rutland-home in Charter-
houfe-yard, 1656 j but was afterwards removed to the
Cock-pit in Drury-Lane, and was much frequented
for many years. In 1648, his Madagafcar, with other
poems, were printed. He died in 1668.
Davenant, Dr Charles, an eminent civilian and
writer, eldeft fon of the preceding, and educated
at Cambridge : he wrote feveral political tracts, and
likewife plays. He was (1685) empowered with
the mailer of the revels, to infpetl the plays defigned
for the ftage, that I10 immoralities might be pre.ented.
His Effays on Trade are in high efteem, and were re¬
printed in 5 vols 8vo, in 1771. Dr Davenant was
infpeftor-general of exports and imports ; and died in
1 ^DAVENTRY, or Daintry, a handfome town of
Northamptonfhire in England, fituated on the flde
a hill on the great road to Chefter and Carhlle. W.
Long. I. 15- kat’ 52* I2' . , , o v
DAUGHTER, {JMa), a female child. See the
article Children. -
Daughters, among the ancients, were more fre¬
quently expofed than fons, as requiring greater charge
to educate and fettle them in the world. _ See hxpo-
tlNa of Children. Thofe who had no legitimate Ions
were obliged, by the Athenian laws, to leave their
eftates to their daughters, who were confined to marry
their neareft relations, otherwife to forfeit their inheri¬
tance ; as we find to have been praftifed like wife among
the Jews, many of whofe laws feem to have been tran-
feribed by Solon. . , , f .
If an heirefs happened to be married before hei
father’s death, this did not hinder the neareft relation
to claim the inheritance, and even to take the.woman
from her hufhand j which is faid to have been a com-
n cafe
m°DAviD, king of Ifrael, and Hebrew poet, was
born at Bethlehem 1085, and died 1014 years B. C.
- _ . . • 1 1   — J/-.h tt l-ip iQrrpn xvil-
" ^ in .he facea ..1-
hiTbody, and died on the firft of January 1800 with- tings. . -r.—1   f
OUtDAUCUS, the Carrot, a genus of plants belo£g-
ing to the pentandria clafs •, and in the natural method
ranking under the 45th order, Umbel lata. See Bo¬
tany and Agriculture Index. . -
DAVENANT, StR William, *n eminent poet of
the 17th century, was born at Oxford in 1606. A
fome flay at the univerfity, he entered into the fervice of
Trances firft duchefs of Richmond, and afterwards of
Mke GrU Lord Brook-, who ^ving an e.ceHeu
tafte for poetry, was much charmed w, h him. rte
cyot greatPefteem by writing poems and plays j and up¬
on the death of Ben Johnfon was created poet-laureat.
He wrote his poem Gondibert at Paris. He formed
adefign for carrying over a confiderable number of
artificers, efpecially weavers, to Virginia, by the en¬
couragement of Henrietta Maria, the queen-mother of
England, who obtained leave for him of the king of
Trance. But he and his company were feized by fo™e
parliament (hips, and he carried pnfoner firft to the 1 e
of Wight, and then to the tower of London ; but by
the mediation of Milton and others, he go n.s liberty
Is a prifoner at large. At this time traged.es and co-
St David’s, an epifcopal toivn of Pembrokefiiire,
in S. Wales : but has neither market nor fair. It is
feated in a barren foil on the river lien, not a mile-
from the fea-ftiore. It was once a confiderable place,
and had walls, which are now demohfticd •, but 11 ^
fmall at ptefent, and thinly inhabited ; however, the
ca.hedr/is a pretty good ftruaure. From the cape,
near this place, there is a piofpea mto Ireland. W.
Long. 20. N. Lat. 52. o. . ,
St David’s, a town and fort of Afia, in the pen,n-
fula on this fide the Ganges, and on the coaft of Coro¬
mandel, 80 miles fouth of For. S. George L. Long
r_ r at llt q0. On the taking ot Madras by
/he’ French in 1746, the prefidency of all the
fettlements on the Coromandel coaft was removed to
Fort St David, and continued there till about the year
°\2 when it was removed back to Madras. In
Tune’1758, the fort was taken and demohthed by the
French, and has never been rebuilt fince.
DAVIDISTS, Davidici, or David-Georgianb,
a feft of heretics, the adherents ot David George, a
f violft- -ivlin in i?2C, began to preach a new
native cf Debt, who, in 15^, fo Mpftiah •
doarine j publithing himfelt to be the true Meth^
lisvila.
DAY
and that he was fent thither to fill heaven, which was
quite empty for want of people to deferve it. He is
likewife faid to have denied the exiltence of angels,
good and evil, of heaven and hell, and to have rejected
the doftrine of a future judgment. He reje&ed mar-
riage, with the Adamites; held, with Manes, that the
foul was not defiled by fin ; and laughed at the felf-
denial fo much recommended by [efus Chrift. Such
were his principal errors. He made his efcape from
Delft, and retired firft to Friefland, and then to Ba-
fil, where he changed his name, affuming that of John
Bruck, and died in 1556.
He left feme difciples behind him, to whom he pro-
ntifed, that he would rife again at the end of three
years. Nor was he altogether a falfe prophet herein •
for the magiftrates of that city, being informed, at the
three years end, of w7hat he had taught, ordered him
to be dug up and burnt, together with his writiners, by
the common hangman. & J
, 1 here ?re Adi fome remains of this ridiculous fe&
m Holftein, Friefiand, and other countries, vvhofe
temper and conduft feem to diferedit the exag¬
gerated accounts which fome writers have given of
their founder. He was probably a deluded fanatic
and myftic.
. DAVILA, Heury Catharine, a celebrated hifto*
nan, was the youngeft fon of Antonio Davila, grand
conflable of Cyprus, who on the taking of that illand
by the Turks in 1570, had been obliged to retire in¬
to Spain, whence this family fuppofed they had deri¬
ved their name and origin. From Spain Antonio re¬
paired to the court of France, and fettled his fon Louis
*"*1™ ^aughters under the patronage of Catharine
or iviedicis ^ whole name he alterwards gave to the
young hiltorian, born 1576, at an ancient caille in the
territories of Padua, though generally called a native
ot Cyprus. The little Davila was brought early into
t ranee ; .and at the age of 18 he fignalized himfelf
in the military feenes of that country. His laft ex
ploit there was at the fiege of Amiens, where he
fought under Henry IV. and received a wound in the
knee, as he relates himfelf in his hiftory. After peace
was eltablifned in France, he withdrew into Italy, and
entered into the fervice of the Venetians. Davila
while he was at Venice, wrote his admirable hiftory of
tHe civil wars in France, which contains every thing
worth notice that palled from the death of Henry II.
m 'SSO* the peace of Vervins in 1598. He conti¬
nued to ferve the republic of Venice with great repu-
tation, till a moft unfortunate adventure put an end to
his life in 1631. Faffing through Verona with his wife
and family, on his way to Crema, which he was ap¬
pointed to defend, and demanding, according to the
ulual cuftom of perfons in his ftation, a fupply of
,, ej anicarnages for his retinue, a brutal Veronefe,
called // Turco, entered the room where he and his fa
mily were at flipper, and being mildly reprimanded for
bis mtrufion by Davila, difeharged a piftol at the hi-
itonan, and ffiot him dead on the inftant. His accom¬
plices alfo. killed the chaplain of Davila, and wmunded
moft o, his attendants. But his eldeft fon Antonio,
a youth of 18, revenged the death of his father, by
killing the murderer on the fpot. All the confede¬
rates were fecured next morning, and publicly execu¬
ted at Verona. It is very remarkable, that Davila
[ 99 1
D A V
paffed no cenfure on the maflacre of St Bartholomew.
His character ot the queen-mother has that partiality,
which it was natural for him to Ihow to the patronefs
of his family 5 but his general veracity is confirmed by
tne great authority of the firft duke of Epernon, who
(to ule the words of Lord Bolingbroke) “ had been an
aclor, and a principal aflor too, in many of the feenes
that Davila recites.” Girard, fecretary to the duke,
and no contemptible biographer, relates, that this hif-
toiy came down to the place where the old man re-
fided m Gafcony, a little before his death $ that he
read it to him j that the duke confirmed the truth
ot the narration of it ; and feemed only furprifed bv
what means the author could be fo well informed
r» a nj°^' ^ecret councils and meafures of thofe timest-
A\ IS, Sir Johm, an eminent lawyer and poet,
born about the year 1570. He firft diftinguithed him-
lell by his poem No/ce Teipfum, on the Immortality of
the Soul. He became attorney-general, and fpeaker
ot the houfe of commons in Ireland 5 and afterwards
was appointed lord chief juftice of the court of King’s
Bench in England, but died before his inftallation,
in 1626. He publiftied many law trasfts $ but was
etteemed more as a fcholar and a wit than as a lawyer
Davis, John, a famous navigator in the 16th
century,. was born at Sandridge, near Dartmouth in
Devonthire j and diftinguiflied himfelf by making three
voyages to the moft northern parts of America, in or¬
der to difeover a north-weft patlage to the Eaft Indies :
in which he difeovered the ftraits which bear his name.
He afterwards performed five voyages to the Eaft:
Indies j in the laft of which he was ftain in a defpe-
rate fight with fome Japanefe, near the coaft of Malac¬
ca, on the 27th of December 1605. He wrote an
account of his fecond voyage for the difeovery of the
north-weft paffage ; a voyage to the Eaft Indies ; and
other tradls.
Djins s Straits* See New Britain.
DAVI I, in a fhip, a long beam of timber, repre-
fented by «, Plate CLX1X. and ufed as a crane
vvhereby to hoift the flukes of the anchor to the top
ot the bow, without injuring the fides of the ffiip as
it alcends ; an operation which, by mariners, is called
JiJhmg the anchor. The anchors being fituated on
both the bows, the davit mav be occafionally ffiifted
lo as to project over either fide of the ftfip, according
to the pofition of that anchor on which it is empl@yed.
1 he inner end of the davit is fecured by being thruft:
into a fquare ring of iron b, which is bolted to the
deck, and forelocked under the beams. This rinw,
which is called ihefpan jhackle, exhibited at Jarge by
fig. 9. is fixed exaftly in the middle of the deck, and
clole behind the foremaft. Upon the outer end of the
davit is hung a large block c, through which a ftrontr
rope traverles,. called the JiJh-pendant, d; to wholl
01 enroll end is fitted a large iron hook ^ and to its
atter-end a tackle or complication of pulleys, the
former of which is called ihe j/h-hook, and the latter
the ji/h-tackle.
The davit, therefore, according to the fea phrafe, is
employed tojijh the anchor ; which being previoully
catted, the fiftr-hook is faftened upon its flukes : and
the efforts of the tackle being tranfmitted to the hook,
by means of the fiffi-pendant, draws up that part of
the anchor fufficiently high upon the bow to faften it,
N 4 which
£>avls(
Davit.
114 u
!«- itsr £ •.ss-.m.s-—•
Frfm his time his fucceffors, holding the feme petty
canton of Auvergne, ftyled themlelves da,,fbws ofAu-
verene, and bore a dolphin for their arms.
Dauphins, or De/phint, in literary hiftory, a name
given to the commentators on the ancient L
authors who were employed by Louis X .
France’for the benefit of the prince, under the care
and direflion of M. de Montaufier hn governor and
Boffuet and Huet his preceptors. 1 hey t\ere 39 m
^ DAUPHINY, a late province of France, bounded
on the weft by the Rhone, on the north by the Rhone
and Savoy, on the fouth by Provence, and on the eaft
by the Alps, and now forming the departments of
Dauphin, which is done by the Jhanh■painter. 7 , n
' —.There is alfo a davit of a fmaller kind occafionally
fixed in the long-boat, and employed to weigh the a -
chDAUPHIN, is a title which was given to the eld-
eft fon of the royal family of France and prefumptive
heir of the crown *, on account of the province of
Dauphine, which in 1343 ™ g^en PhJP ^
lois, on this condition, by Humbert dauphin of the
Viennois. The dauphin, in his letters patent, ftylec
himfelf, By the grace of God, eldejl fon of France, an
^^rincicnfly the title or eppeilation of
the prince of Viennois in France. . . r .p-
Moft authors who have fought the origin of he
name Dauphin and Daupkine, feem to have given o
much looie to conjeaure. Du Chefne 15 of “P1"1011
th it it was the grandfon of Guy the Fat who firft bore
tnar it wcj s that William,
file name of dauphin. Chorier obferves, that \V uham,-
canon of Notre Dame at Grenoble, who has written
the life of Margaret, daughter of Stephen eaU of Bur-
trundy, married with Guy, fon of Guy the 1 at, calls
the latter Amply Guy the Old, and the former always
Count Dauphin i and adds, that no record nor monu¬
ment ever attributes the title of dauphin to Guy the
Fat or any of his predecelors : fo that ft muft necef-
far iy have taken its rife in his fon, all whofe fucceffors
fo conftantly affumed it, that it became the proper
name of the'family. He died in . .42, m the flower
of his youth i fo that it muft be about the year , 120
that the title commenced ; and without doubt, adds
he pn fome llluftrious occafron. He obferves farther,
St this prince was of a military difpofit.on, and de¬
lighted in nothing but war t and again, that it was the
cuftom of the cavaliers to deck their cafques, coats o
a-ms and the houfing of their horfes, with Tome figure
arms, uhu mv, & tfipv were
rdevice peculHr to^tbemfelves, wbereby they were
diftinguiftied from all others engaged in the fame com¬
bat or tournament. From all thele circumftances he
conieftures, that this Guy chofe the dolpbm for his
fie nature ; that this was the creft of his helmet , and
[hat he bore it on his coat in fome notable tournament
or battle, wherein be diftinguiftied himfelf. And ,
Chorier makes no doubt, is the real origin of the ap¬
pellation. Nothing was more common m thofe times
than to make proper names become the names of fa¬
milies or dignities. Witnefs the Ademars, Artbands,
Ayuards, Atlemans, Berengers, ““X 0,h'r ’
wbn aft owe their names to fome one ot their anceltors,
from whom it has been tranfmit.ed throughout the
faTh=' feioneurs or lords of Auvergne have likewife
borne the appellation oSimpUn ; but the dauphins of
Auvergne had it not till a good while after thofe of
the Viennois, and even received it from them. T
manner wa! this: Guy VIII. dauphm ofV.enno.s, had
by his wife Margaret, daughter of Ste.;1,K'n
|i ,.tundy, a fon and two daughters. The fon was
Guy IX. his fucceffor. Beatrix, one of the daughters,
was^married ,0 the conn, d’Auvergne,
to Blondel, was William V. or rather, as Ch oner and
others hold, Robert VI. father of William \ . I bis
nrinee loft the gveateft part of the county Auvergne
£h was take! f.om him by hi, uncle Wtlham, af-
Drome, iferei and Upper Alps. In fome places it is
very fertile •, and produces corn wine, olives woad
copperas, filk, cryftal, iron, and copper But
greateft part of the prov.nce is barren, and the inha
bitants are obliged to go into other countries or iub-
fiftence. The mountains abound «n game of aj or s j
and here are fir-trees proper for mails. I he principal
rivers are the Rhone, the Durance, the Here, and the
Drome. ’There is a great number of mineral fpnngs ;
and Grenoble is the capital town.
DAURAT, John, an eminent French poet, born
in 1 C07. In the reign of Henry IT be was preceptor
to he kino’s pages, and Charles IX. who took great
delight in8 hb converfation, honoured him with t.ie
title8of his poet ; but his generofity and want ot ma¬
nagement placed him in that clafs of learned men who
have been very near ftarving. Conformable to the ta ,e
of the age he had fo much fkill m making anagrams,
that feveral illuftrious perfons gave him their names .0
anagrammatize : he alfo undertook to explain the Cen-
[uis of Nollradamus.- Making verfes was a difeafe
“ him- for no book was printed, nor did any perfon
of confequence die, but Daurat made feme verfes on
the occafion ; as if he had been poet ordinary, or his
I^f had he n a hired ~
life in6 endeavouring1 to^find* all the bihle in Home,
H DAY “’aVm ding to the moft natural and obvious
r r nf the word fignifies that fpace of time during
wiikh i, [onrues’t[gbe light; in contradifth,aicn to
night which is that portion of time wherein it IS dark ,
l ot the fpace of time in which it is light, being fome-
what vague and indeterminate^ jke t'me ^
the'day11;^ and fhe Vfrne which1 lapfes f/om its fetting
t0 ?hf^8rd ^’is'tto "aken in a large fenfe, fo as
,0 include the night alio ; or «> ;
whole apparent revo u 10 a natural day, and
■n which fenfe it is callea oy ^ confurion> •„
by others an artificial one . the ^
day and night.. The
D A Y [ ,o
The nychthemeron is divided into twenty-four parts,
called hours ; which are of two forts, equal, and unequal
or temporary. See the article Hour.
Different nations begin their day at a different hour.
Thus the Egyptians begin their day at midnight 5 from
whom Hippocrates introduced that way of reckoning
into aftronomy, and Copernicus and others have fol¬
lowed him : But the greatefl part of aftronomers rec¬
kon the day to begin at noon, and fo count twenty-
four hours, till the noon of the next day j and not
twice twelve, according to the vulgar computa¬
tion. The method of beginning the day at midnight
prevails in Britain, France, Spain, and moft parts of
Europe.
The Babylonians began their day at funrifing :
reckoning the hour immediately before its rifing again,
the twenty-fourth hour of the day 5 from whence the
hours reckoned in this way are called the Babylonia. In
feveral parts of Germany, they begin their day at fun-
fetting, and reckon on till it fets next day, calling that
the twenty fourth hour : thefe are generally termed Ita¬
lian hours. The Jews alfo began their nychthemeron
at funfetting : but then they divided it into twice
twelve hours as we do ; reckoning twelve for the day,
be it long or fhort, and twelve for the night •, fo that
their hours continually varying with the day and night,
the hours of the day were longer than thofe of the
night for one half year, and the contrary the other ;
from whence their hours are called temporary : thofe
at the time of the equinoxes became equal, becaufe then
thofe of the day and night are fo. The Romans alfo
reckoned their hours after this manner, as do the
Turks at this day.
I his kind of hours is called planetary, becaufe the
feven planets were anciently looked upon as prefiding
over the affairs of the world, and to take it by turns
each of thele hours, according to the following order:
Saturn firlf, then Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, Mer-
cury, and laft of all the M!oon : hence they denomina¬
ted each day of the week from that planet whofe turn
it was to prefide the firft hour of the nychthemeron.
d hus, afligning the firfl hour of Saturday to Saturn,
the fecond will fall to Jupiter, the third to Mars, and
fo the twenty fecond of the fame nychthemeron will
fall to Saturn again, and therefore the twenty-third to
Jupiter, and the laft to Mars : fo that on the firft hour
of the next day, it will fall to the Sun to prefide 5 and
by the like manner of reckoning, the firft hour of the
next will fall to the Moon ; of the next to Mars ; of
the next to Mercury ; of the next to Jupiter ; and of
the next to Venus : hence the days of the week came
to be diftinguiihed by the Latin names of Dies Saturni,
Solis, Luna, Martis, Mercurii, Jovis, and Veneris;
and among us, by the names of Saturday, Sunday,
Monday, &c.
Day-Cou/, in Natural Hi/lory, a name given by the
miners of England, and the common people who live
in coal countries, to that feam or ftratum of the coal
which lies uppermoft in the earth. The fame vein or
ftratum of coal ufually runs a great rvay through the
country, and dips and rifes in the earth at different
places ^ fo that this upper ftratum, or day-coal, is in
tne various parts of the fame ftratum, fometimes near
the furface, and fometimes many fathoms deep. The
fuQterranean fires found in fome of our coal-countries
I ] D E A
feed principally on this coal j and are nearer to or far¬
ther from the furface as it rifes or finks,
DAY-F/y. See Ephemeris, Entomology Index.
DAY-iVe/, among fowlers. See Net.
Days of Grace, are thofe granted by the court at the
prayer of the defendant 01 plaintiff, in whofe delay it is.
Days of Grace, in Commerce, are a cuftomary num¬
ber of days allowed for the payment of a bill of ex¬
change, &c. after the fame becomes due.
I hree days of grace are allowed in Britain ; ten in
France and Danuic ; eight at Naples j fix at Venice,
Amfterdam, Rotterdam, and Antwerp •, four at Franc-
fort ; five at Leipfic 3 twelve at Hamburgh 3 fix in Por¬
tugal ; 14 in Spain ; 30 in Genoa, &c.
In Britain the days of grace are given and taken as
a matter of courfe, the bill being only paid on the laft:
day ; but in other countries, where the time is much
longer, it rvould be reckoned diftronourable for a mer¬
chant to take advantage of it 3 bills are therefore paid
on the very day they fall due.
Day’s-in the north of Englaud, an arbitrator
or perfon chofen to determine an affair in difpute.
Intercalary Days. See Intercalary Days.
Days Work, among feamen, the reckoning or ac¬
count of the (hip’s courfe during 24 hours, or between
noon and noon, according to the rules of trigonome¬
try. See D'ZhXi-Reckoning..
DAZE, in Natural Hijlory, a name given by our
miners to a glittering fort of (tone, which often occurs
in their works 3 and, as it is an unprofitable fubftance, is
one of thofe things they call weeds.. The word da%e
takes in, with them, every (lone that is hard and glit¬
tering : and therefore it comprehends the whole genus
of the telangia or ftony nodules, which have the
flakes of talc in their fubftance : thefe according to the
colour of the ftony matter they are bedded in, and their
own colour, give the names of black daze, white, red,
and yellow daze, to thefe ftones.
DEACON, (Diaconus), a perfon in the lorveft de¬
gree of holy orders, whofe bufinefs is to baptife, read in
the church, and aflift at the celebration of the eucharift.
The wTord is formed from the Latin Diaconus, of the
Greek minifter, fervant. Deacons were in-
ftituted (even in number, by the apoftles, Acls chap. vi.
which number was retained a long time in feveral
churches. Their office was to ferve in the Agapte,
and to diftribute the bread and wine to the communi¬
cants. Another part of the office of deacons was to
be a forj: of monitors and direftors to the people in the
exercife of their public devotions in the church 3 for
which purpofe they made ufe of certain known forms of
w’ords, to give notice when each part of the fervice be¬
gan. Whence they are fometimes called cirokerukes,
“ the holy cryers of the church.”
Deacons had, by licenfe and authority from the bi~
(hop, a power to preach, to reconcile penitents and
grant them abfolution, and to reprefent their biftrops
in general councils. Their office out of the church was
to take care of the neceffitous, fuch as orphans, wi¬
dows, prifoners, and all the poor and fick who had any
title to be maintained out of the revenues of the church 5 ..
to inquire into the morals and converfation of the peo¬
ple, and to make their report thereof to the bifhop.
Whence, on account of the variety of bufinefs, it W’as
ufual to have feveral deacons in the fame church.
Lay
II
Deacon.
In-
Deaconefs.
* mill ■-<iy ’■"l 11 ^
D E A [ 102
In the Romilh church, it is the deacon’s office to in-
cenfe the officiating prieft or prelate j to lay the cor¬
poral on the altar ; to receive the patten or^ cup from
the fubdeacon, and prefent them to the perlon officia¬
ting ; to incenfe the choir ; to receive the pix from the
officiating prelate, and carry it to the lubdeacon j and
at the pontifical mafs, when the bifhop gives the blef-
ling, to put the mitre on his head, and to take oil the
aichbiffiop’s pall and lay it on the altar. In hbig-
land, the form of ordaining deacons, declares that it is
their office to affift the prieft in the diftribution of the
holy communion : in which, agreeably to the practice
of the ancient church, they are confined to the admi-
niftering the wine to the communicants.^ A deacon in
England is not capable of any ccclefiaftical promotion;
yet he may be a chaplain to a family, curate to a be-
neficed clergyman, or lecturer to a parifh-church. He
may be ordained at 23 years of age, anno currente;
but it is exprefsly provided, that the bifhop ftiall not
ordain the fame perfon a prieft and deacon in the fame
day. Deacons, according to St Paul, fhould be chafte,
fincere, and blamelefs ; neither great drinkers, nor gi¬
ven to filthy lucre : they fhould hold the myftery of
the faith in a pure confcience ; and fhould be well ap¬
proved before they are admitted to the mimftry. In
the church of Scotland, the deacon’s office is only to
take care of the poor.
DEACONESS, a female deacon ; an order ot wo¬
men who had their diitinft offices and fervices in the
primitive church. This office appears as ancient as the
apoftolical age: for St Paul calls Phebe a fervant
of the church of Cenchrea. The original word is
anfwerable to the Latin word mm fra. ler-
tullian calls them vidua, “ widows,” becaufe they were
commonly chofen out of the widows of the church ;
and, for the fame reafon, Epiphanius, and the coun¬
cil of Laodicea, calls them elderly women,
becaufe none but fuch were ordinarily taken into this
office. For, indeed, by fome ancient laws, thele tour
qualifications are required in everyone that was to
be admitted into this order. 1. That fire fhould be a
widow. 2. That fire fhould be a widow that had born
children. 3. A widow that was but once married.
4 One of a confiderable age, 40, 50, or 60 years old.
Though all thefe rules admitted of exceptions. Con¬
cerning their ordination, whether it was always per¬
formed by impofition of hands, the learned are much
divided in their fentiments. Baromus and Valefius
think they were not, and make no other account of
them than as mere lay-perfons. But the author of the
conftitutions, fpeaking of their ordination requires
the biftrop to ufe impofition of hands, with the form ot
prayer which is there recited. We are not, however,
to imagine, that this ordination gave thern any power
to execute any part of the facerdotal office. [hey
were only to perform fome inferior fervices of the church,
and thofe chiefly relating to the women for whole fakes
they were ordained. One part of their office was to
affift the minifter at the baptifing of women, to undrefs
them for immerfion, and to drefs them again, that the
whole ceremony might be performed witn all the de-
] D E A
in diftrefs ; to minifter to martyrs and confefiors in Deaconry
prifon ; to attend the women’s gate in the church : and
laftly, to affign all women their places in the church ; , ~l ^
regulate their behaviour, and prefide over the reft of
the widows; whence in fome canons they are ftyled
v£OKxlds(*imt, “ governeffes.” This order, which fince
the 1 oth or 12th century has been wholly laid afide,
was not abolifhed everywhere at once, but conti-
cency becoming fo facred an a&ion.. Another part of
their office was to be private catechifts to the women-
catechumens who were preparing for baptifm. They
were likewife to attend the women that were fick and
I
nued in the Greek church longer than in the Latin,
and in fome of the Latin churches longer than in
others. . .
DEACONRY, Diaconate, the order or mimftry
of a deacon or deaconefs. See Deacon and Dea¬
coness.
Deaconry, (Dlaconic,) is alfo a name ftill referved
to the chapels and oratories in Rome, under the di-
reftion of the feveral deacons, in their refpe&ive re¬
gions or quarters.
To the deaconries were annexed a fort of hofpitals
or boards for the diftribution of alms, governed by the
regionary deacons, called cardinal deacons, oi whom
there were feven, an five ring to the feven regions, their
chief being called the archdeacon.
The hofpital adjoining to the church of the dea¬
conry had an adminiftrator for the temporal concerns,
called the father of the deaconry, who was fometimes a
prieft and fometimes a layman.
At prefent there are fourteen of thefe deaconries
or hofpitals at Rome, which are reserved to the car¬
dinals. Du Cange gives us their names : as, the dea¬
conry of St Maria in the Broad-way, the deaconry of
St Euftachio near the Pantheon, &c.
DEAD languages. See Philology, chap. in.
Prefcrvation o/Dead Bodies. See Embalming.
Teajl of the Dead. See Feast of the Deed.
HD'E.KD-L.ights, certain wooden ports which are made
to fatten into the cabin-windows, to prevent the waves
from guffiing into the ttiip in a high fea. As they
are made exa£lly to fit the windows, and are ftrong
enough to refill the waves, they are always fixed m
on the approach of a ftorm, and the glals lights taken
out, which mutt: otherwife be (battered to pieces by
the furges, and fuffer great quantities of water to enter
the veffel. c
T)F.kT>-Mens-Eyes, in the fea language, a kind ot
blocks, with many holes in them, but no (heevers,
vrhereby the ftirowds are fattened to the chains : the
crow-feet reeve alfo through thefe holes *, and, in fome
(hips, the main-days are fet tight in them ; but then
they have only one hole, through which the lanyards
are patted feveral times. See Plate CljXIX.
Dead’s Part. See Law Index.
Dead Reckoning, in Navigation, the judgment or
eftimation which is made of the place wffiere a ttnp is
fituated ; without any obfeivation of the heavenly bo¬
dies. It is difeovered by keeping an account of the di-
ftance (lie has run by the log, and of her courfe fleered
by the compafs; and by rectifying thefe data by the
ufual allowance for drift, lee-way, &.c. according to
the (hip’s known trim. This reckoning, however, is
always to be correfted, as often as any good observa¬
tion of the fun can be obtained. .
Dead-SVa, in Geography, a lake of Judea, into which
the river Jordan difeharges itfelf; being about 70
miles long and 20 broad. See Asphaltites.
° DE AD- i OpS,
Dead
I!
Deatnefs.
D E A [
DEAD-Tops, a difeafe incident to young trees, ana
cured by cutting off the dead parts clofe to the next
good twig or flioot, and claying them over as in
grafting.
pEAD-Water, at fea, the eddy-water juft aftern of
7 — , -wv. jum. cmcrn or
a imp ; lo called becaufe it does not pafs away fo fwift
as the water running by her fides does. They fay that
. a fo’P makes much dead-water when fhe has a great
eddy following her ftern.
DEADLY-carrot. See Thapsia.
. DKADLY-Feud, in Englilh law-books, a profeftion of
irreconcileable enmity, till a perfon is revenged by the
death of his enemy. The word feud is derived 'from
the German Fehd; which, as Hottoman obferves, fig-
* See Ftudt. mfies modo helium, modo capitales inimicitias *. Such
enimity and revenge were allowed by law in the time
of the Saxons, viz. If any man was killed, and a
pecuniary fatisfa&ion was not made to the kindred
it was lawful for them to take up arms and revenge
themfeIves on the murderer : which was called dead¬
ly feud. And this probably was the original of an
Appeal.
r ?E^FNESS, t^le ^ate a perfon who wants the
lenfe ot hearing j or the difeafe of the ear, which pre¬
vents its due reception of founds. See Medicine
Index.
Deafnefs generally arifes either from an obftruaion
or a compreflion of the auditory nerve 5 or from fome
collection of matter in the cavities of the inner ear: or
from the auditory paffage being flopped up by fome
hardened excrement; or, laftly, from fome excrefcence,
a fwelhng of the glands, or fome foreign body intro¬
duced within it.
Thofe born deaf are alfo dumb, as not being able
to learn any language, at leaft in the common way.
However, as the eyes in fome meafure ferve them for
cars they may underftand what is faid by the motion
°f the bps tongue, &?. of the fpeaker; and even
accuftom themfelves to move their own, as they fee
other people do, and by this means learn to fpeak 
1 hus it was that Dr Wallis taught two young gentle¬
men born deai to know what was faid to them, and to
return pertinent anfwers. Digby gives us another in-
Itance of the fame within his own knowledge ; and
there was a Swifs phyfician lately living in Amfterdam
one John Conrad Amman, who effefted the fame in
ieveral children born deaf with furprifing fuccefs He
has reduced the thing to a fixed art or method, which
he has pubhftied m his Surdus Loquens, Amftelod. 1602
and de Loqire/a, ibid. 1700. ^ 1
rrar“‘ N<> 312- vve have an account by
Mr Waller, R. S. Seer, of a man and his After, each
50 oId’.born Jn the fame town with Mr
Waller, who had neither of them the leaft fenfe of
earing; yet both of them knew, by the motion of the
lips only, whatever was faid to them, and would an-
wer pertinently to the queftion propofed. It feems
hey could both hear and fpeak when children, but
th!; feir Whencc they retained
their ipeech, which, though uncouth, was yet intelli-
Such another inftance is that of Mr Goddy’s daugh¬
ter, mimfter of St Gervais in Geneva, related by Bi-
hadPloftUr\ tW° yeafS °ld tbey Perceived (he
-ad loft her hearing; and ever fince, though (he hears
I03 ] D E A
and great noifes, yet hears nothing of what is faid to her.
But by obferving the motions of the mouth and lips of
others, fhe acquired lo many words, that out of thele
fhe has formed a fort of jargon, in which fhe can hold
converfation whole days with thofe that can fneak her
1 d in rrn orro Q It ^ 1   ^ 1 • .1 • r- • , _
Deaf,
Dean.
language. She knows nothing that is faid to her, un,
lefs fhe fee the motion of their mouths that fpeak to
her, io that in the night they are obliged to light
candles to fpeak to her. One thing will appear The
ftrangeft part of the whole narration : fire has a filler
with whom flie has praftiled her language more than
with any body elfe ; and in the night, by laying her
and on her filter’s mouth, fhe can perceive by that
what Are fays, and fo can difeourfe with her in the
dark.” Burn. Let. IV. ?. 24% f
!t isobfervable, that deaf perfons, and feveral others the?the^r.
tmek ot hearing, hear better and more eafily if a loud tide
noife be raifed at the time when you fpeak to them • ^
which is owing, no doubt, to the greater tenfion of the
ear-drum on that occafion. Dr Wallis mentions a deaf
woman, who if a drum were beat in the room could
hear any thing very clearly; fo that her hufband hired
a drummer for a fervant, that by this means he might
hold converfation with his wife. The fame author
mentions another, who, living near a fteeple, could
always hear very well if there was a ringing of three -
or four bells, but never elfe. ^
DEAL, a thin kind of fir-planks, of great ufe in
carpentry. They are formed by fawing the trunk of
a tree into a great many longitudinal divifions, of more
or lefs thicknefs according to the purpofes they are in¬
tended to ferve.
A very good method of feafoning planks of deal
and fir is to throw them into fait water as foon as they
are fawed, and keep them there three or four davs fre¬
quently turning them; in this cafe they will be’ren¬
dered much harder, by drying afterwards in the air
and fun ; but neither this, nor any other method yet
known, will prevent them from fhrinkincr.
. Rod.Sa of def1 exPand gradually, or crofs the grain,
in moi L weather, and contradt again in dry • and
thence have been found to make an ufeful hygrometer "
n™1" At0Win ofuKentJn EnSland, lying between
Dover and Sandwich, in E. Long. 1. 20 N Lat ri
16. is fuppofed to be the Dola of Nennius and is fi’
tuatedon a flat and level coart. This town, according
. Pr CamPbell juftifies an obfervation he had made
!nf vm fitUa;ionS °f this kind’ viz- they are
eis liable than others to be injured by the fea. Th«
town of Deal, as far as we are able to fudge excent
it may be the fea’s finking a little from it, is in much
the fame condit.on in which it ever was, even from the
earl,eft accounts The learned Dr Halley has proved,.
f -A aT* CuAn0/a’vo} in- P- 426. that Julius Caefar
landed here, Auguft 26th, the year before the coming
of Thrift 55—The .great conveniency of landing has
been of infinite fervree to the place : fo that it is large
and populous, divided into the upper and lower towns
adorned with many fair buildings, and is in effeft the
principal place in the Dowms
DEAN, an ecclefiaftical dignitary in cathedral and
collegiate churches, and head of the chapter.
Fural Deah, called alfo Arch-prejbytcr, originally
exercifed junfdiaion over ten churches in the country^
and afterwards became only the bifhop’s fubftitute, to
grant
D E A [ 1
„rMt Utters of adminiftrafion, probate of wills, &c.;
coovoca.e the clergy ; and to fig,., y to them fome-
tiraes by letter the bilhop’s will, and to give indu -
ST,o the archdeacon. Their office is not loft m
that of the archdeacons and chancellors.
DrA>: of a Monqfl ry, was a fupenor eftablilhed un¬
der the abbot, to cafe him in taking care of ten monks,
whence hs was called decanus. , , .n
' Diax and Chapter, are the council of tbe bilhop, to
him with their advice in affa.pf rehgion and
alio in the temporal concerns of his fee. When the relt
of the clergy were fettled in the ievetal panthes of
each diocefefthefe were referved for the celebration of
divine fervice in the bilhop’s own cathedral j and the
chief of them who prefided over the reft, obtained the
name of decanus or dean, being probably at firft appoint¬
ed to fuperintend ten canons or prebendanes.
All ancient deans are ekM by the chapter by
contre de lire from the king, and letters mitTiye of -
commendation, in the fame Hem^VIII out
thofe chapters that were founded by Henry VI11. out
of the fpoils of the diffolved monaftenes, the deaneiy
is donative, and the inftallation merely by the king
The chapter, confift.ng of canons o
prebendaries, are fometimes “PP0’"''.'*!’/, ‘ Qed
fometimes by the bifltop, and fomet.mes eletted by
mS They had aifo a check on the b.ffiop at com-
lefs confirmed by the dean and chapter.
(,f Guild. See Law Index. .
DEANERY, the office of a dea»—Deanenes and
pretends may become void like a bifhopr.c, bytoth,
bi(htri\fa0dea0Cpy,rb“nftmroJ offi« fpiri.ual per^
feCDEATH is generally confidered as the reparation
ofS bom the body- in which fenfe ft Bands op-
^Sy'fic!™; SyCOdefinI 'deaih b^tomi ftippage
of Ac dtculaiion of the blood, and a ceffatron of the
animal and vital funftions confequent thereon ; as re-
lpirna’nimala w'y,^ the aflions infepatable from
becomfrYlm its'mlnuTe veSgrow into folid fibres
taecome g » . , fluids; its greater vefiels
no longer pervious to tb d ’ . § con-
grow bard and narrow; and every tning u
fra died clofed, and bound up j whence the <hy»e‘s>
See5 ^“ds^ts me thi fubtileft fluids
in the body intercepted and lo11' C°",C0 *°ncoarUr
J"'ce’s c^nue'to'™rflow'yVethrot.gh the greater vef-
04 1 D Id. A
fels \o the prefervation of life, after the animal func-
tic ’s are deftroyed. At length, in the procefs of thefe ”v~
changes, death itfelf becomes inevitable, as the necef-
fary confequence of life. But it is rare that life is thus
Iona protrafted, or that death fucceeds merely from
the decays and impairment of o d age Difeafes, a
long and horrid train, cut the work ftiort.
The figns of death are in many cafes very uncertain.
If we confult what Window or Bruchier have faid on
this fubieft, we fhall be convinced, that between life
and death the (hade is fo very undiftmguiftiable, that
even all the powers of art can fcarcely determine wheie
the one ends and the other begins. The colour of the
vifage, the warmth of the body, and hipplenefs of tl e
ioints are but uncertain figns of life ttiU {ubhftmg ,
while on the contrary, the palenefs of the complexion,
the coldnefs of the body, the ftiffneis of the extremi¬
ties, the ceffation of all motion, and the total lofenfi-
bility of the parts, are but uncertain marks of death
begun. In the fame manner alio, with regard to the
pulfe and breathing-, thefe motions are fo often kept
under, that it is impoflible to perceive them. y
bringing a looking-glais near to the mouth of the p
fon luppofed to be dead, people often expeft to hnd
whether he breathes or not. But this is a very uncer¬
tain experiment j the glafs is frequently fulhed by the
vapour Pof the dead man’s body 5 and otten the perion
is ftill alive, though the glafs is no way tarniftied. In
the fame manner, neither burning nor fcanfymg, ne ¬
ther noifes in the ears nor pungent fpmts applied to
the noftrils, give certain figns of the difcontinuance
o life and There are many inftances of perfons who
have endured them all, and afterwards recovered
wdthout any external afliftance, to the aftomftiment
of the fpeftators. This ought to be a caution againft
hafty burials, efpecially in cafes of iudden death,
^ZZ’ In law, there is a natural death
nrHer bv its conftitutions made in l62°> v
France The order riai^probably fuppreffed by Pope
Mc/us MJ.CUS Of the firft
There are two krnds o death-waKhes^ ^ Mr
we have a good ««> 6ths 0f an inch long,
ff a'datk brown «iour, fpottek having pellucid wings
Death
watch
D E A [i
Under the vagina, a large cap or helmet on the head,
_ and two antennae proceeding from beneath the eyes,
and doing the office of probofcides. The part it beats
withal, he obferved, was the extreme edge of the face,
which he choofes to call the upper-lip, the mouth be¬
ing protradled by this bony part, and lying underneath
out of view.
This account is confirmed by Dr Derham ; with
this difference, that inlfead of ticking with the upper
lip, he obferved the infeft to draw back its mouth, and
beat with its forehead. That author had two death-
watches, a male and a female, which he kept alive in
a box feveral months; and could bring one of them
to beat whenever he pleafed, by imitating its beating.
By this ticking noife he could frequently invite the
male to get up upon the other in the way of coition.
When the male found he got up in vain, he would get
off again, beat very eagerly, and then up again :
Whence the ingenious author concludes thofe pul-
fations to be the way whereby thefe infedfs w^oo one
another, and find out and invite each other to copu¬
lation.
The fecond kind of death-watch is an infedl in ap¬
pearance quite different from the firlf. The former
only beats feven or eight ftrokes at a time, and
quicker 5 the latter will beat lome hours together with¬
out intermiffion j and his ftrokes are more leifurely,
and like the beat of a watch. This latter is a fmall
grayiffi infedt, much like a loufe when viewed with the
naked eye.
It is very common in all parts of the houfe in the
fummer-months : it is very nimble in running to {bel¬
ter, and fhy of beating when difturbed j but will beat
very freely before you, and alfo anfwer the beating, if
you can view it without giving it difturbance, or {ba¬
king the place where it lies, &c. The author cannot
fay w’hether they beat in any other thing, but he never
heard their noife except in or near paper. As to their
noife, the fame perfon is in doubt whether it be made
by their heads, or rather fnouts, againft the paper; or
whether it be not made after fome fuch manner as
gralhoppers and crickets make their noife. He in¬
dices to the former opinion. The reafon of his doubt
is, that he obferved the animal’s body to {hake and
give a jerk at every beat, but could fcarce perceive any
part of its body to touch the paper. But its body is
fo fmall and near the paper, and its motion in tick-
ing fo quick, that he thinks it might be, yet he not
perceive it. The ticking, as in the other, he judges
to be a wooing aa j as having obferved another, after
much beating, come and make offers to the beating
lifted!, who, after feme offers, left off beating, and
got upon the back of the other. When they were
joined, he left off again ; and they continued fome
hours joined tail to tail, like dog and bitch in coition.
Whether this infedl changes its ftiape, and becomes
another animal or not, he cannot fay ; though he has
fome caufe to ftifpedt that it becomes a fort of fly. It
W at firft a minute white egg, much fmaller than the
nits of lice • though the infed! is near as big as a loufe.
In March it is hatched, and creeps about wTith its fhell
on. When it firft leaves its fhell, it is even fmaller
than its egg j though that be fcarce difcernible with¬
out a microfcope. In this ftate it is perfedtly like the
mites ^'rom th® mite-ftate they grow gra-
’ Debruized.
05 ] DEB
dually to their mature perfedt ftate. When they be- Debenture
come like the old ones, they are at firft very fmall,
but run about much more fwiftly than before.
DEBENTURE, a term of trade ufed at the cu-
ftomhoufe for a kind of certificate figned by the officers
of the cuftoms, which entitles a merchant exporting
goods to the receipt of a bounty or draw-back. All
merchandiles that are defigned to be taken on board
for that voyage being entered and {hipped, and the {hip
being regularly cleared out, and failed out of port on
her intended voyage, debentures may be made out
from the exporter’s entries, in order to obtain the
draw-backs, allowances, bounties, or premiums •, which
debentures for foreign goods are to be paid within one
month after demand. And in making out thefe de¬
bentures, it muft be obferved, that every piece of vel¬
lum, parchment, or paper, containing any debenture
tor drawing back cuftoms or duties, muft, before writ¬
ing,^ be damped, and pay a duty of 8d.
The forms of debentures vary according to the mer-
chandife exported. In the execution of debentures
for tobacco, it muft be particularly obferved, 1. That
debentures for the fame quantity may be made on one
or more parchments. 2. 1 hat the exporter’s oath muft
be printed, fpecifying whether be ads for himfelf oron
commiflion. 3. If exported to any other foreign ports
than Ireland, the word /reW muft be added to the
oath after Great Britain. 4. That as no tobacco may¬
be confumed on board of {hips of war in Europe but
what has paid full duties, and been manufactured in
Great Britain, no drawback is to be allowed for to¬
bacco exported in any man of war. 5. That the eight
pounds per hogftiead of 350 pounds, or more, allowed
tor draught at importation, muft not be deduaed on
exportation. 6. That debentures for tobacco exported
to Ireland muft not be paid till a certificate be pro¬
duced, teftifymg the landing thereof. 7. That no
perfons may fwear to the exportation but fuch as are
permitted to fwear to debentures for other goods. In
debentures for all other foreign goods, no perfon may
be admitted to fwear to the exportation but the true
exporter, either as a proprietor, or who, being em¬
ployed by commiflion, is concerned in the direaion of
the voyage. All kinds of debentures, before delivered
or paid to the exporters, are entered into a feparate
book kept for that purpofe by the colledtor and comp¬
troller of the cuftoms. 1
UEBITA fundi. See Law Index.
Debit a Fruauum. See Law Index.
DEBIL^Y, among phyficians, a relaxation of
the lolids, otcafiomng oftentimes weakneffes and faint-
mgs.
DEBIR, in Ancient Geography, a facerdotal city of
I aleftine near Hebron ; but neither diftance, nor
point oi the compafs on which it lies, can be determi¬
ned It was anciently called Kariath-fepher or Kirjath-
fepher, and Kirjath-fanna (Joftiua).—Another Debit
in the tribe of Gad, beyond Jordan.
DEBRECHEN, a town of Upper Hungary, about
77 miles eaft of Buda. E. Long. 21. 10. N. Lat,
v DiEnBIlUIZi??’ In HeraMry, a term peculiar to the
Englilh, by which is intimated the grievous reftraint of
any ammal, debarred of its natural freedom, by any
or the ordinaries being laid over it,
0 DEBT,
I
DEC [ 106
Debt DEBT, in Lcnv, any thing due to another, whether
I! it be money, goods, or fervices ; or the aftion brought
Dec anus. £or recovering the fame.
   National Debt. See Funds and National Debt.
DEBTOR, a perfon who owes any thing to ano¬
ther •, in contradiftinttion to creditor, which is he to
whom the debt is owing.
Debtor, in merchants accounts. See Book-keep¬
ing.
Decem-
DECADE, a word ufed by fome old writers for
the number ten, and decades for an enumeration by
tens The word is formed from the Latin decas, which
is derived from a Greek word of the fame import.
The word has been more peculiarly appropriated to the
number of books, q. d. decades, into which the Roman
Hiilory of Titus Livius is divided. Hence alfo came
decadal arithmetic, the Decameron of Boccacio, &c.
DECAGON, in Geometry, a plain figure with ten
fides and ten angles.
DECAGYNIA (from ${*<*, and yu*v, a wo¬
man), the name of an order, or fecondary divifion, in
the clafs decandria, of the fexual method, confiding
of plants whofe flowers are furniflied w ith ten ftamma
and the fame number of ftyles 5 which laft are confi-
dered by Linnaeus and the fexuabfts as the female^ or¬
gans of generation in plants. Neurada and American
niahtfliade fumifti examples.
DECALOGUE, the ten precepts or command¬
ments delivered by God to Moles, after engraving
them on two tables of ftone.
The Jews, by way of excellence, call thefe com¬
mandments the ten words, from whence they had af¬
terwards the name of decalogue : but it is to be obfer-
ved that they joined the firft and fecond »Tlt0 on®> and
divided the lift into t.vo They underlW that a-
“ToVptopeny^ Lbidden in ,h=S laft conttnand-
^The emperor Julian objefted to the decalogue, that
the ecepl it "contained (thofe only excepted which
concern the worfliip of falfe gods, and the observation
of he fabbath) were already fo familiar to all nations,
Id fo univerfilly received, that they were unworthy,
for that very reafon, to be delivered, by fo great a le-
emator, to fo peculiar a people. The church of Rome
has ft ruck the fecond commandment quite out of t he
decalogue •, and to make their number complete, hath
fplit the tenth into two : the reafon of which may be
• D^EUANVe^*kingdom of Afla, in the peninfula on
this fide the’ Ganges, bounded on the fouth by the
kingdom of Bifnagar, on the weft by the ocean, on the
north by Moguliftan, and on the eaft by the mountains
which feparate it from Golconda. 1 n -r •
DECANDRIA (&**, ten, and a hujhand), Lin-
nteus’s tenth clafs, comprehending thofe hermaphro¬
dite plants which bear flowers with ten ftamma. bee
Recantation, among^ chemifts, &c. the
gently pouring off a liquor from its faeces, by inclining
the lip or canthus of the velfel *, whence the name.
DECANUS, in Roman antiquity, an officer who
nrefided over the other ten officers, and was heau of
The cor.tubcnimm, or ferjeant of a file of foldiers.
1 DEC
DECAPOLIS, in Ancient Geography, a di ft rift Decapolis
beyond Jordan, almoft all of it belonging to the half
tribe of Manaffehj before the captivity, called Betb-
fan ; but after occupied by the heathen, who could not
be driven out. It comprifed, as the name denotes, ten
principal cities on the other fide the Jordan, if we ex<,
cept Scythopolis, which flood on this fide, but its ter¬
ritory on the other. . . .
DECAPROTI, deCemprimi, in Roman antiqui¬
ty, officers for gathering the tributes and taAes.
The decaproti were alfo obliged to pay for the dead,
or to anfwer to the emperor for the qwota parts of fuch
as died out of their own eftates.
DECASPERMUM, a genus of plants belonging
to the icofandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DECASTYLE, in the ancient arehitefture, a build¬
ing w'ith an ordnance of ten columns in front, as the
temple of Jupiter Olympius w'as.
DECEIT, in Zaw, a fubtile trick or device, to
which may be added all manner of craft and collufion,
or underhand praftice, ufed to defraud another, by
any means whatever. , .
DECEMBER, the laft month of the year, wherein
the fun enters the tropic of Capricorn, and makes the
winter folftice. ,
In Romulus’s year, December was the 10th month,
whence the name, viz. from decern, “ ten for the
Romans began their year in March.
The month of December was under the protection
of Vefta. Romulus affigned it 30 days, Numa redu¬
ced it to 29, which Julius Ctefar increafed to 31.
Under the reign of Commodus, this month w/as
called, by way of flattery, Ama%onius, in honour of a
courtefan whom that prince paflionately loved, and
had got painted like an Amazon : but it only kept the
name during that emperor’s life. . , , .
At the latter end of this month they had the^w-
niles ludii and the country people kept the ieaft of
the goddefs Vacuna in the fields, having then gather¬
ed in their fruits and fown their corn ; whence feems
to be derived our popular feftival called harvejl-home.
DECEMPAGI, in Ancient Geography, * town ot
Belgica : Now Dieufe, in Lorrain, on the rivulet Seille
or Selna, near the lake Lindre, about feven German
miles to the north-eaft of Nancy.
DECEMPEDA, ten-feet rod, an mltru-
ment ufed by the ancients in meafuring.
The decempeda was a rule or rod divided into ten
feef, whence its name, from decern “ ten, and pes
■bedis “ foot.” The foot was fubdivided into twelve
inches, and each inch into ten digits. The decempe¬
da was ufed both in meafuring of land, like the chain
among us •, and by architefts to give the proper dimen-
fions and proportions to the parts of their buildings,
which ufe it ftili retains. Horace, lib. 11. od. 15. bla¬
ming the magnificence and delicacy of the buildings of
his time, obferves that it was otherwife m the times ot
Romulus and Cato; that in the houfes of private per-
fons there were not then known any porticoes meafured
out with the decempeda, nor turned to the north to
1 'decemviri, ten magiftrates of abfolute autho¬
rity among the Romans. The privileges of the patri¬
cians raifed diffatisfaftion among the^plebeiansi who,
though freed from the power of the larqums, ftdl law
. DE C [ 107 ] DEC
adminiftration of juftice depended upon the people. For during the celebration of this feall, that Dechales
Pecenna'ia W1U anQ caPrice or tneir lupenors, without any writ-
»■ ten ftatute to direft them, and convince them that
they were governed with equity and impartiality. The
tribunes complained to the fenate, and demanded that
a code of laws might be framed for the ufe and bene¬
fit of the Roman people. This petition was complied
with ; and three ambaffadors were fent to Athens and
all the other Grecian ftates, to colleifi; the laws of So¬
lon and of all the other celebrated legillators of Greece.
Upon the return of the commiffioners it was univer-
fally agreed, that ten new magiftrates called Decemviri
fliould be ele&ed from the fenate to put the project
into execution. Their power was abfolute, all other
offices ceafed after their ele&ion, and they prefided
over the city with regal authority. They were invert¬
ed with the badges of the conful, in the enjoyment of
which they fucceeded by turns, and only one was
preceded by the fafees, and had the power of aflem-
bling the fenate and confirming decrees. The firrt de¬
cemvirs were Appius Claudius, T. Genutius, P. Sex¬
tus, Sp. Veturius, C. Julius, A. Manlius, Ser. Sulpi-
tius, Pluriatius, 7 . Romulus, Sp. Pofthumius, in the
year of Rome 302. Under them the laws, which had
been expofed to public view, that every citizen might
fpeak his fentiments, were publicly approved of as con-
ftitutional, and ratified by the priefts and augurs in the
moft folemn and religious manner. They were ten in
number, and were engraved on tables of brafs; two w»ere
afterwards added, and they were called the laws of the
twelve tables, leges duodecitn tabularum, and leges de-
cemvirales. The decemviral power, which was beheld
by all ranks of people with the greateft fatisfaclion,
was continued j but in the third year after their crea¬
tion the decemvirs became odious on account of their
tyranny, and the attempt of Ap. Claudius to ravilh
Virginia totally abolirtied that office. The people were
■° exafperated againft them, that they demanded them
.rom the fenate to burn them alive. Confuls were
again appointed, and tranquillity re-cftablifhed in the
rtate. There were other officers in Rome called de¬
cemvirs, who were originally appointed in the abfence
of the praetor to adminifter juftice. Their appointment
became afterwards neceflary, and they generally affift-
ed at fales, called fubhajlationes^ becaufe a fpear, ha/la,
was fixed at the door of the place where the goods
were expoled to fale. They were called decemviri li-
tihns judicandis. The officers whom Tarquin appoint¬
ed to guard the Sibylline books were alfo called decem¬
viri. They were originally two in number, called
duumviri, m the year of Rome 388, when their num¬
ber was increafed to ten, five of which were chofen
from the plebeians and five from the patricians. Sylla
Jncreafed their number to fifteen, called quindecem-
Virs.
DECEIS/NALIA, ancient Roman feftivals, cele¬
brated by the emperors every tenth year of their reign,
with facrifices, games, and largeffes for the people.
. le emperor Auguftus firft inrtituted thefe folemnities,
m which he was imitated by his fucceffors. At the
lame time the people offered up vows for the emperor,
and for the perpetuity of the empire ; which were there¬
fore called vota decennalia. Auguftus’s view in erta-
bhflung the decennalia was to preferve the empire and
.he fovereign power without offence or rertraint to the
prince ufed to furrender up all his authority into the il
hands of the people ; who filled with joy, and charm- Dec;‘n:i:S-j>
ed with the goodijefs of Anguflus, immediately deli¬
vered it him back again.
DECHALES, Claudius Francis Milliet, an ex¬
cellent mathematician, mechanic, and aftronomer, de-
feended from a noble family, and born at Chamberry
in 16x1. His principal performances are an edition of
Euclid’s elements of geometry, in which the unfervice-
able propofitions are reje&ed, and the ufes of thofe re¬
tained annexed ; a difeourfe on fortification ; and ano¬
ther on navigation. Thefe with others have been col¬
lected firft in 3 vols folio, and afterwards in 4, under
the title of Mundus Mathematicus ; being indeed a com¬
plete courfe of mathematics. He died in 1678, pro-
feffor of mathematics in the univerfity of T urin.
DECIATES, or Deciatii, in Ancient Geography, a
people of Gallia Narbonenfis, next the borders of Ita-
ly, on the Mediterranean. Now the diocefe of Grace
and Antibes. Deciatum oppidum, was a town fituated
between Antibes and Nice.
DECIDUOUS, an appellation chiefly ufed in re-
fpe£t of plants 1 thus, the calyx or cup of a flower is
faid to be deciduous, wffien it falls along with the flower-
petals and, on the contrary, it is called permanent,
when it remains after they are fallen. Again, decidu¬
ous leaves are thofe which fall in autumn j in contra-
diftinftion to thofe of the evergreens, which remain all
the winter. See Defoliation.
DECIL, in AJlronomy, an afpedf or pofition of tw o
planets, when they are diftant from each other a tenth
part of the zodiac.
DECIMAL arithmetic, the art of computing by
decimal fradlions. See Arithmetic.
Circulating DECIMALS, called alfo recurring
or repeating decimals, are thofe in which a figure or fe-
veral figures are continually repeated. They are di-
ftinguiflied into Jingle and multiple, and thefe again into
pure and mixed.
A pure Jingle circulate is that in which one figure
only is repeated j as *222, &c. and is marked thus *2
A pure multiple circulate is that in which feveral fi¬
gures are continually repeated j as *232323, &c. mark¬
ed *23 ; and *524524, &c. marked .524.
A mixedfing/e circulate is that which confifts of a
terminate j.art, and a Angle repeating figure j as 4*222,
&c. or 4*2. And
A mixed multiple circulate is that which contains a
terminate part with feveral repeating figures ; as
45*5 2 4*
That part of the circulate which repeats is called
the repetend; and the whole repetend, fuppofed infi¬
nitely continued, is equal to a vulgar fraftion, whofe
numerator is the repeating number or figures, and its
denominator the fame numbef* of nines : fo *2 is —j
and .23 is rr ; and *524 is = £|4.
Dr Wallis, it appears, was the firft who diftinclly
confidered or treated of infinite circulating decimals,
as he himfelf informs us in his Treatife of Infinites.
Since his time many other authors have treated on this
part of arithmetic j the principal of thefe, how*ever, to
whom the art is moftly indebted, are Meffrs Browm,
O 2 Cunn,
D E -C
Becimation Cunn, Martin, Emerfon, Malcolm, Donn, and Henry
!l PI-ji-Itp • in whofe. writings the nature and practice o
[ io3 1
Deck.
i Uunn, martin, r.merion, iviau.unii,       ^
Clarke ; in whofe writings the nature and practice o
this art may be fully feen, efpecially in the lalt-men-
tioned ingenious author. Hutton's Math. Diet.
DECIMATION, a punifhment infkaed by the
Romans, on fuch foldiers as quitted their polls, or be¬
haved themfelves cowardly in the field. The names ol
the guilty were put into an urn or helmet, and as ma¬
ny were drawn out as made the tenth part of the whole
number, and thofe were put to the fword, and the
others faved. This was called deemare; a word ol
the ancient Roman militia, who, to pumlh whole le¬
gions when they had failed in their duty made every
tenth foldier draw lots, and put him to death lor an
example to the others. . . i j ir
As the Romans had their decimatio, they had alio
the vicejimatio, and even cerlteftmatio, when only t e
20th or loodth man fuffered by lot. , ,
DECIPHERING, the art of finding the alphabet
of a cipher. For the art both of Ciphering and Deci¬
phering, fee the article Cipher. r . ,
DECIUS Mus, a celebrated Roman fmnful, who,
after many glorious exploits, devoted himfelf to the
gods manes for the fafety of his country m a battle
again!! the Latins, about 340 years before the Augul-
tan age. His fon Decius imitated his example and
devoted himfelf in like manner in his fourth confulfinp,
when fighting again!! the Gauls and Sammtes. His
grandfon alfo did the fame in the war again!! Pyrrl™
and the Tarentines. This aftion of devot,"f ?ne s felf
was of infinite fervice to the ftate The fold.ers were
animated by the example, and induced to follow with
intrepidity a commander who, arrayed in an unufual
dre!sP and addrefiing himfelf to the gods with folemn
invocation, ruftied into the thickeft part of the enemy
to meet his fate. . . c
Decius, Cn. Mctius, Trajanus, a native of
Pannonia, fent by the emperor Philip to appeafe a !e-
dition in Moefia. Inliead of obeying his mafter s com¬
mand, he affumed the imperial purple and foon after
marched again!! him, and at his death became the on y
emperor. He fignalized himfelf again!! the Perfia”s >
and when he marched again!! the Goths, he pu!hed
his horfe into a deep mar!h, from which ^ could not
extricate himfelf, and he penftied with all his army by
the darts of the barbarians, A. D. 251, after a reign
°f DECK of a Ship (from dechen, Dan. to cover) ♦,
the planked floors of a !hip, which connea the fides
together, and ferve as different platforms to fuPPor^
the artillery and lodge the men, as alfo to Feferve the
cargo from the fea in merchant veffels. As all hips
arebbroader on the lower deck than on the next abov e
it, and as the cannon thereof are always heavieft,
neceffary that the frame of it ftiould be much ftronger
than thJt of the others *, and for the fame realon the
fecond or middle deck ought to be ilronger than the
^Shiptof «he"iecond rates are f^d wM.
three whole decks, reaching from the ftem to the ftern,
befides a forecaftle and a quarter-deck, which ex¬
tends from the ftern to the mamma!! *, between which
and the forecaftle a vacancy is left in the middle, open¬
ing to the upper deck, and forming what is called the
DEC
iuai/1. There is yet another deck above the hinder   
or aftmoft part of the quarter-deck, called the
which alfo ferves as a roof for the captain s cabin or
The inferior fliips of the line of battle are equipped
with two decks and a half •, and frigates, fl00Ps» fc*
with one gun-deck and a half, with a fpar-deck below
to lodge the crew.
The decks are formed and fuftamed by the beams,
the clamps, the water-ways, the carlmgs, the le ges,
the knees, and two rows of fmall pillars calledyfofl-
chions. See. See thofe articles.
That the figure of the deck, together with its corre-
fponding parts, may be more clearly underftood, we
have exhibited a plan of the lower-deck of a 74
ihip in Plate CLXIX. And as both fides of the deck
are exaftly fimilar, the pieces by which it is fupported
appear on one fide, and on the other fide the planks of
the floor of which it is compofed, as laid upon thofe
upper pieces. . ,
A, the principal or mam haten-way.
B, the ftern-poft.
C, the ftern. . ,.
D, the beams, compofed of three pieces, as exhi¬
bited by D, in one of which the dotted lines Aow the
arrangement of one of the beams under the other fide
of the deck. . ,
E, part of the vertical or hanging knees.
F, the horizontal or lodging knees, which fatten the
bC cT, the carlings, ranging fore and aft, from one beam
to another.
T th^pump-daks, being large wooden tubes, which
return the water from the pumps into the lea. .
K the fpurs of the beams, being curved P16**8 of
timber ferving as half-beams to lupport the decks,
where a whole beam cannot be placed on account o
"e”ngWon>, which is bolted by the middle
the ftern-poit, tmd whofe ends reft upon the faftnon-
PieM'’ the bulk-head or partition, which i"cl°r«
manger, and prevents the water whtch enters at
hawfe-holes from running aft between decks.
NN, the fore hatchway.
OO, the after hatchway.
P the drum-head of the great capftern.
pV the drum-head of the main capftern.
O the wing-tranfom knee.
R one of the breaft-hooks under the gun-deck.
S* the breaft-hook of the gun-deck.
TT, the ftation of the chain-pumps.
V the breadth and thicknefs of the timbers at th
nilctritdtg .0 the gunner's ftore-rootn,
and the bread-room.
W, the ftation of the fore-mait.
X 5 the ftation of the main-maft.
I ^boltVof tdecTsf-ufed to retain the
“r,’ Thh^ring-bolts'of the fides whereon the tackle,
are hooked that fecure the cannon at lea. ^
DEC [ 109 ] DEC
Deck,
Declama.
tion-
caa d. The water-ways, through which the leupper
holes are pierced, to carry the water off from the deck
t into the fea.
bb, Plan of the foremoft and aftmoft cable bits, with
their crofs pieces gg, and their flandards e e.
Thus we have reprefented on one fide all the pieces
which fuftain the deck with its cannon ; and on the
other fide the deck itfelf, with a tier of 32 pounders
planted in battery thereon. In order alfo to fhow the
ufe of the breeching and train-tackle, one of the guns
is drawn in as ready for charging.
The number of beams by which the decks of fhips
are fupported, is often very different, according to the
pra£tice of different countries •, the ftrength of the tim¬
ber of which the beams are framed $ and the fervices
for which the fbip is calculated.
As the deck which contains the train of a fire-fhip
is furnifhed with an equipage peculiar to itfelf, the
whole apparatus is particularly defcribed in the article
Fire-^//).
FluJh-DECK, implies a continued floor laid from
ftem to flern, upon one line, without any flops or in¬
tervals.
Half-DECK, a fpace under the quarter-deck of a
Ihip of war, contained between the foremoft bulk-head
of the fteerage and the fore-part of the quarter-deck.
In the colliers of Northumberland the fteerage itfelf is
called the half-deck, and is ufually the habitation of the
crew.
DECLAMATION, a fpeech made in public, in
the tone and manner of an oration, uniting the expref-
fion of a&ion to the propriety of pronunciation, in or¬
der to give the fentiment its full impreflion upon the
mind. According to the manners and cuftoms of the
prefent age, public harangues are made only, 1. In
the pulpit. 2. In the fenate, in council, or other
public affembly. 3. By public profeffors. 4. On the
theatre.
_ L.With regard to the declamation of the pulpit, the
dignity and fandtity of the place, and the importance
of the fubjedl, require the preacher to exert the utmoft
powers of his voice to produce a pronunciation that is
perfeffly diftindl and harmonious, and that he obferve
a deportment and adlion which is expreflive and grace¬
ful. No man, therefore, uEo is deftitute of a voice,
ftiould afcend the pulpit, and there adl the part of a
pantomime before his audience. The preacher ftrould
not, however, roar like a common crier, and rend the
ear with a voice of thunder ; for fuch kind of decla¬
mation is not only without meaning and without per-
fualron, but highly incongruous with the meek and
gentle exjrreflions of the gofpel. He fliould likewife
take particular care to avoid a monotony; his voice
fhould rife from the beginning, as it were by degrees,
and its greateft ftrength ftrould be exerted in the applil
cation. Each inflexion of the voice fhould be adapted
to the phrafe, and to the meaning of the words ; and
each remarkable expreflion fhould have its peculiar in¬
flexion. The dogmatic requires a plain, uniform tone
of voice only; and the menaces of the gofpel demand a
greater force than do its promifes and rewards ; but the
latter ftiould not be pronounced in the foft tone of a
flute, nor the former with the loud found of a trum¬
pet. The voice ihould ftill retain its natural tone in all
its various inflexions. Happy is that preacher, to whom
nature has given a voice that is at once ftrong, flexible,
and harmonious.
An air of complacency and benevolence, as tvell as
devotion, ftiould be conftantly vifible in the counte¬
nance of the preacher. But every appearance of affec¬
tation muft be carefully avoided : for nothing is fo dif-
guftful to an audience as even the femblance of dif-
fimulation. Eyes conftantly rolling, turned towards
.heaven, and ftreaming with tears, rather denote a hy¬
pocrite, than a man poffeffed of the real fpirit of reli¬
gion, and that feels the true import of what he preaches.
An air of affefled devotion infallibly deftroys the effi¬
cacy of all that the preacher can fay, however juft and
important it may be. On the other hand, he muff
avoid every appearance of mirth or raillery, or of that
cold unfeeling manner which is fo apt to freeze the
hearts of his hearers.
The body fhould be in general erefl, and in a natu¬
ral and eafy attitude. The perpetual movement, or
contortion of the body, has a ridiculous effeft in the
pulpit, and makes the figure of a preacher and a har¬
lequin much too fimilar. But, on the other hand, he
ought not to remain conftantly upright and motionlefs
like a fpeaking ftatue.
The motions of the hands give a ftrong expreffion to
a difcourfe; but they ftiould be conltantly decent,
grave, noble, and expreffive. The preacher, who is
inceffantly in action, who is perpetually clafping his
hands, or who menaces with a clenched fift, or counts
his arguments on his fingers, will only excite mirth
among his auditory. In a word, declamation is an art
that the facred orator ffiould ftudy with the utmoft af-
fiduity. The defign of a fermon is to convince, to af-
fedf, and to perfuade. The voice, the countenance,
and the a&ion, which are to produce this triple effedf,
are therefore the obje&s to which the preacher ftiould
particularly apply himfelf.
II. The declamation of a minifter or ftatefman in
the fenate, in council, or other public affembly, is of
a more unconfined nature. To perfuade, to move the
pafiions, and gain an afcendency in a public affembly,
the orator ffiould himfelf feel the force of what he fays,
and the declamation ffiould only exprefs that internal
fenfation. But nothing ffiould be carried to excefs. A
fuavity in the tone of voice, a dignity of deportment,
a graceful aftion, and a certain tranquillity of counte¬
nance, ffiould conftantly accompany the ftatefman when
he fpeaks in public, even wffien he is moft earneftly en¬
gaged in debate, or when he is addreffing his fovereign
in perfon. A pleafing tone of voice and a diftindl
pronunciation, prejudice the hearers greatly in the
fpeaker’s favour. A young man may improve thefe
to a furprifing degree. _ Demofthenes, who had a na¬
tural impediment in his fpeech, wras accuftomed to go
to the lea-ffiore, and partly filling his mouth wdth peb¬
bles, he declaimed with a loud voice. The ftones by
degrees gave a volubility to his tongue, and the roar¬
ing of the weaves, reconciled him infenfiblv to the noife
of the multitude.
. The principal objeft of a public profeffor is the
inftrucdon of the ftudious youth ; for which purpofe
he is to convince and perfuade. Every tone of voice,
every expreflion of the countenance, or aftion of the*
body, which can produce this effeft by enforcing the
words, ffiould therefore be employed by thofe who are
\ to
Declama-
tion.
v—-y—
DEC [ii
Declama- to teach the fcience. There is, moreover, one very
* ' 1 every profeuor ought to
tion
Dc Mu-
fuat lib. i.
effential reflection which r-  o
make, and which is, that the chair from which he ha
rangues is furrounded by young Undents, naturally
poffeffed with vivacity, not unfrequently ludicrous •, and
for the molt part previously initruaed m the ptepara-
tory fciences. They are therefore conftantly inclined
to criticife, to jell, and to ridicule ; for which reafon,
the profeflor Should endeavour to infpire them with re-,
foe a and attention, by a grave, commanding, and ve¬
nerable countenance, and carefully avoid all appearance
of grimace in his aaion, and every kind of afFeaation
in his difcourfe, that he may not afford the leaft oppor¬
tunity of pleafantry. . . . . rp, •
IV. We are now come to theatric declamation. I. I ms
was very different among the ancients from what it is,
and ought to be, with us, from the nature of the thing
itfelf, and from the difference of circumftances. _ IN urn-
berkfs paffages in Quintilian, and other ancient hi¬
storians, critics, grammarians, and commentators, evi¬
dently prove, that the ancient dramatic declamat o
was fubfervient to the rules of the nmfical rhyth-
mus 5 and by this, according to Anftides their ac-
' tion, as well as recital, was regulated. But to ex-
plain this feeming paradox, it will be neceffary to make
here fome preliminary remarks. The ancients gave a
much more extenfive Signification than we do to the
word mafic {tnufica), which they derived from the
mufes, or at leaft from fome of them.. It is for t
reafon that the fame AriSlides and Quintilian define it
Jo be “ An art that teaches all that relates to the ufe
of the voice, and the manner of performing all the mo¬
tions of the body with grace Jrs Scorns in vocibus
el motibus. Therefore poetry, declamation, dancing,
pantomimes, and many other geftures and exercifes,
were fubfervient to this art. . , , , ,
2 That part of general mufic which taught the art
of declamation and gefture according to the rules of
an eftabliShed method (and which we Perf°r™
ftinft, or at moft by the aid of common fenfe) v as
distinguished by the name hypocnttc mufic : and tl(*is
mufical art was called by the Greeks orchefis ; and by
the Romans faltatio. It was, however, lo r0^
being an advantage to the ancients to have had this art
which we have not, that it was, on the contrary a ma
of great imperfeaion. For, in the firft place, it was an
instance of high abfurdity to reprefent a Jragedy’ or
comedy before an audience of twenty thoufand people,
the fa/greateft part of whom could ^ither hear nor
fee what paffed to any good purpofe, ^n1^ they were
poffeffed of organs which we have not. 1 he the
of London and Paris may conveniently contain abou
a thoufand perfons *, and that is found fulhcient in the
moft populous cities, where there are feveral places of
entertainment on the fame day, and where the people
" Zable enough to fucceed each other in their
diverfionr. As the feature of the ^ J “
diftinguiflted at fo great a dlfta,nCe’,yd ^e
alteration of countenance in or^r to reprelent the
different natrions, they were obliged to hfre recourle
to mafis ; a wretched childilh invention, that deftroy-
ed ^tl the ftrength and variety of eyreff.on^Wejr
fobfenrvientTo£ a'SguTaf mlchanifn,; which prevented
Suhe refinement, aSnd all the pleafure of forptfe, m
o 1 D E Gi’
the performance } and mult have had an effeft horribly E«laat=.
difagreeable to thofe who were placed near the Stage.  
2. The egregious imperfe6tion of their language
like wife, which confifted of fyllables long and Short,
whole duration was determined by a fet meafure ot
time, and their manner of tuning thefe fyllables, after
the method of the orchefis of the Greeks, was another
disadvantage. For by this means they determined by
notes or charafters placed after the long and Short Syl¬
lables, not only the nature, but the duration, of each
aaion. Now, nothing could be more atleaed, more
constrained and difgultful, than fuch a method of de¬
claiming. How far fupenor m this refpea are the
moderns, who confult nature alone m their theatric de¬
clamation ; who can make the audience hear each Sigh $
who can accompany it with a proper attitude J who
can inceffantly vary their aaion •, who can Seize the
lucky moment, and make the countenance fully ex-
prefs the fenfations of the mind ! Nature does all here *
and art, infinitely inferior to nature, did all among the
ancients. Modern declamation cannot be fubfervient
to a mufical rhythmus, feeing we fpeak rapidly, and
without affeaation. Our aaors learn their art without
art, from nature itfelf, affifted by reflection *, and they
arrive at a degree of excellence infinitely greater than
that of the ancients, by a method far more Simple, anu
by efforts incomparably more eafy. . .
a We do not, moreover, precifely know what the
theatric declamation of the ancients was j n°r
were the mufical instruments which accompanied that
declamation. The title to the Eunuch of Terence
fays, for example, “ that Flaccus, the freedman o
cfaudius, made the mufic of that P^e m which
employed the two flutes, the right and the left. Fhefe
flutes, it is likely, gave the tone to the aftor, winch
mult have had a very odd effea on th^audie"C.e:v^
of the ancient pieces have fimilar titles. T y
would be particularly informed of the art of dc^la11"-
ing among the Greeks and Romans, may read to ad¬
vantage the Critical Refleftions on Poetry and Paint-
W by the Abbe du Bos. The third part of. that
work confifts entirely of learned rcfearches and inge¬
nious reflections on this filly praftice of tbe ancients.
But as this art has happily no place in modern decla¬
mation, and can at beft ferve only to make a parad
of erudition, we Shall fay no more of it, but pais to
"'^We^hink there is good reafon to believe, more¬
over, that the molt poliShed nations of modern Lmope
do not accompany their difeouries in general vith fo
many gesticulations, as did the Greeks, the Romans,
andmher inhabitants of warm climates. They ap¬
pear to have found the method of animating * ddcourfej
Td giving it an exprefiion, by the fimple infleaions of
T voice and by the features of the countenance;
which is far more decent, more juft and rational^ an
all thofe contortions which perpetually derange
tural attitude of the body and its members, and give
the fpeaker the air of a harlequin. effence
6 Exoreffton, therefore, forms at once the eiience
and'the end of declamation ; and the means of produ-
cing it ctfnSBs, in a pronunciation that is fonorou . -
ftinft, and pleafing fuppor.cd ^ a“at
SKfST.’ya." -vi. »
DEC [ !
Declama- Ills writings produce their proper effeft, the aftor has
, tl°n- like wife need of $ good poet to enable him to pleafe
ancl affeft by the a£Hon j for it is to little purpofe
that he endeavours to charm his auditory by uniting,
with nature, all the powers of art, if the poet has not
furniflied him with fentiments that are rational and af-
feaing. *
7. The a&or, in ftudying his part before a large
mirror, where he can fee his whole figure, in order to
determine the mod proper expreflions for every thought,
fhould confult nature, and endeavour to imitate her.
But, in this imitation, he fliould take care not to make
too fervile a copy. He has this to obferve, in common
with his colleagues, the mailers in all the polite arts j
The theatre is intended to exhibit an imitation of na*
ture, and not nature itfelf. Tragedy and comedy form
piflures of human life; but thefe pi£tures are alfo
pieces of perfpe&ive, which require flrokes fomewhat
ilronger than nature, that they may be difcerned at a
diilance. The a&or is elevated to a confiderable
height from the ground ; he is furrounded by fcenery,
he is feparate from the audience by the orchellra, and
he fpeaks in verfe ; all this is not natural; but the
fpedlator is to accede to this neceflary illufion, in order
to promote his own pleafure, which would not be fo
great as it is were all thefe matters otherwife difpofed.
Declamation, therefore, ihould fomewhat exceed, but
never lofe fight of, nature.
8. The tone of the aftor’s voice Ihould be natural
but regulated by the extent of the theatre j diffidently
loud to be heard by all the audience, but not fo vio¬
lent as to rend their ears. A pure and graceful pro¬
nunciation, without any provincial accent, is likewife
a great merit in an ador j and he Ihould alfo habituate
himfelf to fpeak in a manner perfe&ly diftind. It is
a capital point in the pronouncing of verfe, not to fe¬
parate the two hemiltichs, by refting too long on the
ccefurU'm the middle, or dwelling on the end of each
hemiftich : for, by fo doing, the a£tor falls into a mo¬
notony, an infufferable uniformity of cadence, in a
piece that confifts of fome thoufand verfes. The gra¬
dations of the voice demand alfo a very judicious ob-
iervance.. The fpeaker, who begins in a high tone,
will find it very difficult to fuftain it through the whole
piece; and he, who clamours incelfantly, will find his
lungs fail him in thofe parts where the vehemence of
paffion requires the ftrongeft efforts. If we may be
allowed the expreffion, the ftrongeft touches, the bold-
eft figures, will not there ftand out from the pi&ure in
a linking manner.
9. The deportment of an ador ffiould be conftantly
graceful, decent, and proper to the charader he repre-
lents. An old man has a different pofition of body
from a young petit-maitre; an aged queen from a
young pnneefs; a noble gallant from a valet de chambre.
A rational obfervance of nature, and an imitation of
the beft adors, are here the fureft guides. The fame
may be faid of the adion of the hands, the theatric
itep, &c. An manimated figure, a body in the pofi¬
tion of a ftatue, and hands immoveable, are as dif-
pleafing m the feene, as a player whofe inceffant gefti-
culation refembles the adion of a puppet.
10. Every ador who afpires to make his art fome-
thmg more than merely mechanical, will begin by
enabling himfelf readily to repeat his part, that the
] DEC
defed of his memory may not embarrafs his adion. Declara-
When he is fo far a mailer of it, he will make it thetory ailion
fubjed of ferious refledion in his clofet; endeavour to ^ L
feize the true fenfe of the author j and to find out that DeCOdll°n'
expreftion of each fentiment and paffion, which is the
moft natural, the moft linking, and beft adapted to the
ftage ; and which he will cultivate by repeated effays
till he is able to render it in its full force.
DECLARATORY action. See Law Index.
DECLENSION, in Grammar, an infledion of
nouns according to their divers cafes ; as nominative
genitive, dative, &c. See Grammar.
DECL1NAI ION, in ^djlronomy, the diftance of
any celeftial objed from the equinodial, either north¬
ward or fouthward. It is either true or apparent, ac-
cording as the real or apparent place of the obied is
confidered. See Astronomy Index.
. DeeuNATioN of the Sea Cotnpafs or Needle, is its va¬
riation from the true meridian of any place.
Declination of a Plane or Wall, in Dialing, is the
horizontal arch contained between the plane and the
prime vertical circle, if you reckon from eaft to weft ;
or between the meridian and the plane, reckoning
from north to fouth. Many ways are ufed for finding
this declination : but the moft eafy and pradicable is
by a deolinator. See Declinator.
Declinatory, an inftrument
chiefly ufed in pradical dialing, for taking the de¬
clinations, inclinations, or reclinations of the planes
on which the dials are to be delineated. See Dial¬
ing, N° 24, 25.
URE of Judges. See Law Index.
DECLIVIIY denotes the reverfe of Acclivi¬
ty.
f ufually fignifies either the adion
of boiling a fubftance in water, or the water itfelf in
which the fubftance has been boiled. It is only appli¬
cable to matters containing fome principles foluble in
water: fuch particularly are animal and vegetable
matters. Decodion ought not to be ufed with fuch
ubltances as contain any volatile principles, as they
would be diffipated in the air during the procefs. But
it may be fafely ufed, nay even becomes neceffary, when
the matters to be treated are folid, and of a clofe and
compad texture ; becaufe then the water could not
extrad its principles without a boiling heat. Moft foft
animal matters, as fleffy, fkin, tendons, may be conve¬
niently boiled in water j becaufe they contain no prin¬
ciple volatile with a boiling heat. Water extrads from
them nothing but a gelatinous fubftance, and fome
oily parts which float on the furface of the water. All
vegetable matters which are inodorous, and particular¬
ly thofe which are hard, as roots, barks, &c. are ge¬
nerally boiled, when an extradion of their principles
by water is required.—To this rule, however, there
are lome exceptions. Peruvian bark, for inftance, gives
its itrength to cold water better than to fuch as is boil¬
ing hot. Many other vegetables alfo have the fame
property of yielding lefs to boiling than to cold water.
And therefore a general rule may be eftabliffied, that
decodion ought not to be employed but when abfo-
lutely neceffary; that is, when the fame principles, or
the fame quantities of thofe principles, cannot be ob¬
tained by an infufion, and that without heat, if it can
be lo done, confidering that the proximate principles
of
Decolla¬
tion
II
Decoy.
DEG t 11
of vegetables are generally fo delicate, and fo
tible of change and decompofition, that frequent y e
moft gentle heat changes much their nature and pro-
' Decollation, beheading, a term feidom
ufed but in the phrafe decollation of St John BaPu »
'which denotes a painting, wherein is reprefented the
Baptift’s head ftruck off from his trunk 5 or the feait
held in honour of that martyr.
DECOMPOSITION, in Chetriiflry, ufually figm-
fies the difunion or feparation of the conftituent parts
of bodies.—-It differs from mere mechanical divifion ,
for when a body is chemically decompofed, the parts
into which it is refolved are effentially different from
the body itfelf: and though a mechanical force be ap¬
plied to'it ever fo long, or with ever fo much violence,
the minuteft particles into which the body “ay r *
duced (fill retain their original nature —Thus, tor ex^
ample though we fuppofe nitre, or any other fait,
be reduced t§o ever fo fine powder, each particle retains
the nature of nitre, as much as the argeft unpounded
mafs i but if fulphuric acid be applied, a decompofi
takes place, and one of the component parts of the
nitre, namely the nitric acid, nfes in the form
fumes, which never could have been fufpeaed to
hid in the mild neutral fait. ,
DECORATION, in ArchittBure, any thing tha
adorns and enriches a building, church, triumphal arch,
or the like, either without fide or within.
The orders of architedure contribute greatly
decoration *, but then the feveral parts of thofe orders
muff have their juft proportions, charaders, and orn -
ments • otherwife the" fineft order will bring confufion
rather than richnefs. See Architecture.
Decorations in churches are pa.nt.ng , vafo fch
toons, &c. occafionally applied to the »“‘ls i and
fo much condua and difcretion, as not to take off a y
thingffona the form of the architeaure. as .s much
praaifed in Italy at the folemn feafts.
P Decoration is mote part.cnla.ly applied to
^'liT operaT'and other theatrical performances, the
decorations tkuft be frequently changed comforma y
“ The^amderits had two kinds of decorations for their
theatres the firft, called verfiAU,, having three fldes,
o tee ' which were turned fucceff.vely to the fpefia-
Ztl. the other called JaBi/'t, Ihowmg a new deco-
inSDPF.CORUM -m ArchiuBure, is the fuitablenefs of
a bS aUnd ihe feveral parts and ornaments there-
0ftKOu" Hettt the fame as uncoupled,
at a diftance from one another, oei g p
“dECOY in naval affairs, a ftratagem employed by
a«pEof Jar tobetrayaveffel of inferior force tnto
Decoy.
2 1 DEC
an uncautious purfuit, till (be has drawn witbin the
range of her cannon, or what is called w . ^
It if ufually performed by painting the ftern and fides
in fucb a manner as to difguife the ftup, and .
her either much fmaller and of inferior force, or as a
'I11' t\tb\SVtt1;mtettdDaarnts of
thJnation^owhich the ftranger ^Dfary^rchfrfn
When Ihe has thus provoked the adverf y ,
hopes of acquiring a prize, {he centim es decoy,
by fpreading a great fail, as endeavouring t0 ^aPe
at the fame time”that her courfe is
ed by an artful alteration of her trim till the enemy
approached Decoying is alfo performed to e ude h
chafe of a {hip of a fupenor force in a dark ^ght’
chaie 01 a p ^ ^ .nto the fea^ which
throwing out a lighted cam p the
will burn for a confiderable time and milguide the
enemy. Immediately after the calk is_ thrown out, the
(hip changes her courfe, and may eaf.ly efcape, .f
any tolerable diffance from the toe.
Decot among fowlers, a place made tor catching
wild-fowl.’ A decoy is generally made “
a large pond furrounded with wood, and beyond t
a maflhy and uncultivated country : if the P.ece of wa.
«ris not thus furrounded, it will be attended with the
nolle and other accidents wh.ch may be
frighten the wild-fowl from a quiet haul. , 7
met to fleep, during the day-time in feeunty lf
thefe noifes or difturbahees are wilful, it hath dc
held that an aton will lie rit (tTht;
foon as the evening fets m, the d y A , . r
ZZ t') and the wild fowl feed during the night. _ If
term it), and t of thcir wingS, during
the evening i ftllV the ” dlftance> and is a
their flight is heard at a ve y g rifimy
nleafimTthough rather melancholy found. This rifing
S the decoy in the evening, is in Somerfetlhire called
thrIwentCery;ttSreens it fm'at qu^Wes’ to bring
fl0Thereare feveral <..>«, as they are called, which,
lealun a" arrow ditch that doles atlaft with a funnel-
,ne;,d UP0,:r thefe pipes (which g'™ mirrower^from
their firft entrance) is a cont,,™‘ h.|Ve a ipe „r
Skewed "the'decoy man always keeps on the lee-
VkA’eTf the ducks, to prevent his effluvia reaching
It “gaefous noMs.’ All along each pipe, dcellain
fntfr tedaiethat Ch Jimp,'offibaee.he wild-’fowl ftmuld
trdl^Jan, before they have pa« on rowar^
the end of the ?'?'• go up one of
The inducement to e w ducks trained to
thefe pipes is, becaufe ^ d^ ^^ whiftle 0f
this lead the hs hempfeed ; the lat-
StKundLtter wliilff the wild-fowl fly o^
“"'it8 oftet Wpens, Ctver that the wild-fowl are
in fuch a (late of fleepinefs and ^".g that «J
not follow the decoy-ducks. Ule is then g ^
dec
[
Decreet-
Arbitral.
DeCOy ,ma<k ot a who is taught his leflon : he palTes
backwards and forwards between the reed fkreens (in
wh,ch are little holes, both for the decoy-man to fee,
v and the little dog to pal's through) ; this attra&s the
eye ot the wild-fowl, who, not choofing to be inter¬
rupted, advance towards the fmali and contemptible
animal, that they may drive him away. The dog all the
time, by the dire&ion of the decoy-man, plays among
the fkreens of reeds, nearer and nearer the purfe-net j
till at lad, perhaps, the decoy-man appears behind a
ikieen, and the wild fowl not daring to pafs by him
m return, nor being able to efcape upwards on account
ot the net-covering, rufh on into the purfe-net. Some¬
times the dog will not attraft their attention, if a red
handkerchief, or fomething very fingular, is not put
about him. r
1 he general feafon for catching fowls in decoys, is
from the latter end of Oaober till February: the ta¬
king of them earlier is prohibited by an aft loGeo. II.
c. 32. which forbids it from June id to Oftober id*
under the penalty of five (hillings for each bird de-
itroyed within that fpace.
. ^le L'ncolndnre decoys are commonly fet at a cer¬
tain annualrent, from 5 to 20 pounds a-year : and
there is one in Somerfetfhire that pays 30I. The for¬
mer contribute principally to fupply the markets in
, London. Amazing numbers of ducks, widgeons, and
Pennants teal are taken : by an account fent us* of the number
ifTof ,CaUg.ht a feW wu?ters Paft> in feafon, and in only
5 ten deJc°ys» In ^e neighbourhood of Waindeet, it ap¬
peared to amount to 3I,2oo, in which are included fe-
vera! other fpecies of ducks: it is alfo to be obferved,
that, m the above particular, widgeon and teal are rec-
koned but as one, and confequently fell but at half price
of the ducks. This quantity makes them fo cheap on
tie pot, that we have been affured, feveral decoy-men
would be content to contraft for years to deliver their
ducks at Bodon, for lod. per couple. The account of
the numbers here mentioned, relates only to thofe that
were fent to the capital.
It was cuftomary formerly to have in the fens an
annUal driving of the young ducks before they took
wing. Numbers of people affembled, who beat a vaft
tiatt, and forced the birds into a net placed at the
pot where the fport was to terminate. A hundred and
fifty dozens have beeh taken at once : but this practice
being fuppofed to be detrimental, has been abolifhed
oy act of parliament.
DECREE, an order made by a fuperior power for
the regulation of an inferior.
Decree, in the civil law, is a determination which
the emperor pronounces upon hearing a particular caufe
between the plaintiff and defendant.
Decrees of Councils, are the laws made by them
to regulate the do&rine and policy of the church.
Decrees vi Chancery, are the determination of the
caufe nCe l0r’ UP°n 3 ful1 hearing the merits of a
DECREET, in the Law of Scotland, a final decreet
or judgment of the lords of feffion, from which an ap¬
pear only lies to parliament. ^
. PECREE^rbHral, in Scots Law, the fentence or
ju gment of ope to whom parties voluntarily fubmit
Law/S™lnatl°n °f 307 queftion betwixt them. See
Vol. VII. Part I.
13 ] DEC
DECREMENT, in Heraldry, fignifiesthe wane ofDecremerit
the moon from the full to the new. The moon in this I! .
date is called moon decrefcent, or in decours ; and when Dcain°' ,
borne in coat, armour, faces to the left fide of the
efcutcheon, as fhe does to the right fide when in the in¬
crement.
DECREPITATION, in Chemiflry, fignifies the
quick feparation of the parts of a body, occafioned by
a lirong heat, and accompanied with a crackline noife.
ns eftect is moft frequently produced by water con¬
tained betwixt the parts of the decrepitating body,
when thefe parts have a certain degree of adhefion
together. This water being quickly reduced into va-
pour by the heat fuddenly applied to it, rarefies and
burlts with noife the parts which comprefs it. The bo-
. dies moft fubjedt to decrepitation are certain falts, fuch
as common fait, fulphate of potafh, nitrate of lead, &c
the decrepitation of all which proceeds from the wa-
ter of their cryftallization. Clays which are not per-
C TX^sVand d,nts’ 3re a^'° fubjedl to decrepitation.
DECREPITUDE, in Medicine, the confequence
of the infirmities of old age j which by degrees leads
to death. See Death.
DECRETAL, in the canon law, a letter of a pope
determining fome point or queftion in the ecclefiafti-
c.a iaw* i 1 lle decretals compofe the fecond part of
the canon law. The firft genuine one, acknowledged
by all the learned as fuch, is a letter of Pope Siricms
written in the year 385, to Himerus bifhop of Tarra¬
gona, m Spain, concerning fome diforders which had
orept into the churches of Spain. Gratian publifhed
a colledt.on of decretals, containing all the ordinances
made by the popes till the year 1150. Gregory IX.
in 1227, following the example of Theodofius and Tuf-
tmian formed a conftkution of his own, colledfing'into
one 0 y a the decifions and all the caufes which
lerved to advance the papal power ; which colkaion
o _ c ecretals was called the pentateuch, becaufe it con- 1
tains five books.
tk UMi^RIA^ 3 genUS of PIants belonging to
the dodecandria clafs, and in the natural method rank-
ing under thofe of which the order is doubtful.
MATES agri, tithed fields, or granted on
a tithe, as appears from Tacitus, to that rabble of
Gauls who fucceeded the Marcomanni, that had till
then proved a check to the Roman conquefts up the
Khine j and hence probably their name, people living-
on the marches or limits of the empire. In Cicero we
have Ager Decuman*, which is of the fame import
with the Ager Decumas of Tacitus. P
DFCHR m 'Tu?10"’ tHat of t€n t0 one*
DECURIO, a lubaltern officer in the Roman ar¬
mies. Fie commanded a decuria, which confifted of
en men, and was the third part of a turma, or the
30th part of a leg,o of horfe, which was compofed of
5 o men. There were certain magiftrates in the pro¬
vinces called decunones municipales, who formed a body
o reprefent the Roman fenate in free and corporate ♦
OW", They conCfted often, whence the name- and
eir duty extended to watch over the interefts of their
el ow Citizens, and to increafe the revenues of the com¬
monwealth 1 heir court was called curia decurionum
and minor fenatus ; and their decrees, called decreta de¬
curionum, were marked with two D. D. at the top.
They generally ftyled themfelves civitatumpatres curia-
P hsx
BED [ n
Dtcumrt les, and homrali mtmwifiorum fenatonm. They were
Leaf ele&ed with the fame ceremonies as the Roman lena-
.11 . tors; they were to be at leaft 25 years of age, and to
Dedication. ^ poffeffe(1 Qf a certain fum of money. I he election
V happened in the kalends of March.
DECURRENT leaf. See Botany Index.
DECURY, ten perfons ranged under one chief or
leader, called the decurio. ,
The Roman cavalry was divided into decuries,
which were fubdivifions of a century, each century
containing ten decuries. . ,
DECUSSATION, a term in geometij, optics, and
anatomy, fignifying the eroding 6f two lines, rays or
nerves, when they meet m a point, and then go on le-
parately from one anothet. . . v• c
DECUSSORIUM, a furgeon’s mftrument, which,
by prefling gently on the dura matter, caufes an evacua¬
tion of the pus colleCted between the cranium and the
before mentioned membrane, through the perforation
m DEDHAMr^town of Effex in England, confid¬
ing of about 400 lofty houfes. The ftreets are not
paved, but very clean, occafioned by their lying pretty
high. It has one large old church, remarkable for a
fine Gothic fteeple, with a great.deal of carved work
about it, but much injured by time. U- Long. .
N DEDICATION, the aa of confccrating a tem¬
ple, altar, ftatue, palace, &c. to the honour of fome
^ The ufe of dedications is very ancient both among
the worftiippers of the true God and among the ea-
thens ; the Hebrews call it ronn hhanuchah im ta-
tion which the Greek tranflators render and
^r^pturete m’eet with dedications of the ta¬
bernacle, of altars, of the firft and fecond temple and
even of the houfes of private perfons |here.aJe ail°
dedications of veffels, and garments of the pnefts and
Levites, and even of the men themfelves.
The heathens had alfo dedications of temples, altars,
and images of their gods, &c. Nebuchadnezzar held a
folemn dedication of his ftatue, Dan. in. • pi j
dedicated gilt bucklers at Jerufalem to Tiberius,?^
de levat. Petronius would have dedicated a IHtue to
the emperor in the fame city, ibid. p. 79^* Taclt^’
Hijl. lib. iv. c. 53- mentions the dedication of the ca-
pitol, upon rebuilding it by Vefpafian, &c.
P The Tews celebrated the anmyerfary of the dediea
tion of their temple every year for eight days. Th s
was firft enjoined by Judas Maccabeus and the whok
r vear of the Syro-Macedoman era 14b,
M heathens had the
like anniverfaries, as that of the dedication of the tem-
of Parthenope, mentioned by Lycophron. Under
Chriftianity dedication is only applied to a church :
and L properly the eonfecration thereof, performed by
a bifhop, with a number of ceremonies prefenbed >y
‘^Ch^Uns finding thentfelves at liberty under
„ • Up,, of their ruinous churches, built
Conftanttne, d de(lic!,ted them tvith
new ones m dedication was ufually per-
niuch folemn y. affembled a number of
SZns « ;St,he fe^e.y W. have the defenp-
, 1 DEE
tion of thofe of the churches at Jerufalem and Tyre inDe&atte.
Eufebius, and many others in later writers.  , »
Dedication, in literature, is an addrefs prefixed to
a book, foliciting patronage, or teftifying refpeft tor
the perfon to whom it is made. The dedication of the
fourth part of Mr Edwards’s H.ftory of Birds is cu¬
rious • To God ! the one eternal! the incomprehenjible,
the omniprefent, omnifeient and almighty Creator of
things that exijl ! from orbs immeafurably great to the mt-
nutefpoints of matter! -this Atom is dedicated and devoted,
with all poffble gratitude, humiliation, and worfhip, and
the highejl adoration both of body and muid, by bis mojt
refaned, low, and humble creature, G. R.
DEE John, a famous mathematician and aftr°-
loger, was born (July 1527) in London, where his fa¬
ther was a wealthy vintner. In 1542, he was fent to
St John’s college, Cambridge After five years clofe
application to mathematical ftudies, particularly aftro-
nomy, be went to Holland, in order to vifit feveral e-
minent mathematicians on the continent. Having con¬
tinued abroad near a year, he returned to Cambridge
and was there elected one of the fellows of Tm^
college, then firft erefted by King Henry VIII. In
I C48, he took the degree of matter of arts j and, in
the fame year, left England a fecond time; hisftay at
home being rendered uneafy to him, by the fufpicions
that were entertained of his being a conjuror ; arifing
partly from bis application to aftronomy but efpec.ally
on account of a piece of machinery in the of A-
riftophanes, which he exhibited to the umverfity, and
in which he reprefented the Scarabeus flying up to
Jupiter, with a man and a bafket of viftuals on its
hack Thefe fufpicions he could never after ftiake off.
"" did Ms fubfequent coud»a, as we (hall fee, teud to
clear him of the imputation j for if he was not aaually
a conjuror, it was not for want of endeavours.
Upon leaving England, he went to the umverfity of
Louvain ; where he was much efteemed, and vifited by
fcv“ral perfons of high rank. Here he refided about
two vears, and then let out for France •, where, m the
college of Rheims, he read leaures of Euclid s elements
with vaft applaufe. In I55U he retu_rae.^ to
and was introduced by the fecretary Cecil to King Ed“
ward who afligned him a penfion of 100 crowns, which
he afterwards relinquifhed for the reanry of Upton
uLn Severn: but foon after the acceftion of Queen
Marv having fome correfpondence with the lady Eli¬
zabeth’s fervants, he was accufed of praftifing again
the queen’s life by enchantment. On this acc°u"t he
fuffered a tedious confinement, and was feveral tim
examined-, till, in the year 1555. ^ obtained his li-
K^rtv bv order of council*
\\Vn Queen Elizabeth afeended the throne, our
aftrologicalDee was confulted by Lord Dudley, con¬
cern^ a propitious day forhermajefty’s coronation
He was on this occafion introduced to the queen, who
nv'de him great promifes, which were never performed,
though lhegcondefcended to receive his inftruaions re-
Jative to the myftical interpretation of fome of his un¬
intelligible writings, which he pubhfhed about this time.
In i<64 he made another voyage to the continent,
L orte'to prefent a book which he had dedteated o
the emperor Maximilian. He .EnTg‘™ ;
the fame year : but in i57L we find himr m L Zn
where, being dangeroufly ill, the queen &n« over wo
DEE [ I
i‘ pliyficians to his relief. Having once more returned
to his native country, he fettled at Mortlake in Surrey,
where he continued his ftudies with unremitting ardour,
and colle&ed a confiderable library of curious books
and manufcriptS) with a Variety of inflruments ; moll:
of which were afterwards deftroyed by the mob, as
belonging to one who dealt wuth the devil. In 1578,
the queen being much indifpofed, Mr Dee was fent a-
broad to confult wdth German phyficians and philofo-
phers (aftrologers no doubt) on the occafion. We
now’ behold him again in England, where he was foon
after employed in a more rational fervice. Her ma*
jelly, defirous to be informed concerning her title to
thofe countries which had been difcovered by her fub-
jefts, commanded Mr Dee to confult the ancient re¬
cords, and furnilh her with proper geographical de-
fcriptions. Accordingly, in a Ihort time he prefented
to the queen, in the gardens at Richmond, two large
rolls, in which the difcovered countries were geogra¬
phically defcribed and hillorically illuftrated. Thefe
rolls are preferved in the Cotton library, AuguQus I.
His next employment was the reformation of the ka-
lendar, on w’hich fubjedf he wrote a rational and learn¬
ed treatife, preferved in the Alhmolean library at Ox¬
ford.
Hitherto the extravagancies of our eccentrical phi-
lofopher feem to have been counterpoifed by a tolerable
proportion of reafon and fcience 5 but henceforward we
confider him as a mere necromancer and credulous al-
chymift. In the year 1581, he became acquainted
with one Edward Kelly, by whofe affiftance he per¬
formed diverfe incantations, and maintained a frequent
imaginary intercourfe with fpirits. He was particu¬
larly intimate, it feems' with the angels Raphael and
Gabriel. One of them made him a prefent of a black
fpeculum, in which his angels and demons appeared
as often as he had occafion for them $ they anfwered
ms queflions, and Kelly’s bufinefs was to record their
dxaates :
Kelly did all his feats upon
The devil’s looking-glafs, a done.
Hudib. Part II. Canto iii. 631.
In 1583, they were both introduced to a certain Po-
lilh nobleman, then in England, named Albert Lafci
palatine of Siradia, a perfon equally addi&ed to the*
lame ridiculous purfuits. He was fo charmed with
Dee and his companion, that he perfuaded them to ac¬
company him to his native country. They embarked
■°r. Holland m Sept. 1583 5 and travelling overland,
arrived at the town of Lafki in February following!
i heir patron, however, finding himfelf abufed by their
rule pretenfions, perluaded them to pay a vifit to Ro-
dolph king of Bohemia ; who, though a credulous man
wf?s loon difgufted with their nonfenfe. They were
afterwards introduced to the king of Poland, but with
no better fuccefs. Soon after this., they were invited
oy a rich Bohemian nobleman to his caftle of Trebona
where they continued for fome time in great affluence:
owing, as they afferted, to their art of tranftnutation
Kelly63"5 °f 3 Certa!n p0wder in the P°Mon cf
Dee, now quarrelling with his comnanion in iniqui¬
ty, quitted Bohemia, and returned to England, where
hc was once more gracioully received by the queen j
15 ] DEE
who, in 1595, made him warden of Mancheder col-
lege, in which town he refided feveral years. In 1604,
he returned to his houfe at Mortlake, where he died
in the year 1608, aged 81 j leaving a large family,
and many works behind him.—The black Hone into
which Dee ufed to call his fpirits, was in the col-
leftion of the earls of Peterborough, whence it came to
Lady Elizabeth Germaine. It was next the property
of the late duke of Argyle, and is now Mr Walpole’s.
It appears upon examination to be nothing but a po-
hffled piece of cannel coal.-—That Dee was a man of
confiderable acquirements, is beyond a doubt ; his
mathematical knowledge is generally allowed : but,
unlels we fuppofe him a wicked impoftor, which is by
no means improbable, w’e muft tranfmit him to pof-
terity as one of the molt foolilh, fuperftitious necro-
manceis of his time. Neverthelefs, the celebrated Dr
Hook, many years after Dee’s death, took it into his
head to prove that his journal, publiffled by Cafaubon,
was entirely cryptographical, concealing his political
tranfaclions, and that hc was employed by Queen Eli¬
zabeth as a fpy.
Dee, the name of feveral rivers in Scotland and
England j as thofe whereon the cities of Chefter in
England, and New Aberdeen in Scotland, are fitua-
ted. The river Dee in Aberdeenfhire abounds with
falmon, fo as to form one of the greateft falmon-fiffl.
mgs in Scotland. Over this river there is a bridge of
feven arches, built by a bifiiop of Aberdeen, who left
for its fupport a revenue, which is now fo large, that
m order to exhauft the fund, a perfon has a falary to
fweep the bridge once a day.
DEED, an inftrument written on paper or parch¬
ment, comprehending fome contrail, bargain, or agree¬
ment between the parties thereto, in relation to the
matter therein contained.
DEEMSTERS, or Demsters (from the Saxon
(iema, judge or umpire.) All controverfies in the Ifle
of Man are decided without procefs, writings, or any
charges, by certain judges, chofen yearly from among
themfelves, called deemjlers ; there being two of them
for each divifion of the ifiand : they fit judges in all
courts, either for life or property ; and with the advice
of 24 keys, declare what is law in uncommon emer¬
gencies.
DEEPING, a town of Lincolnfhire in England
feated on the river Weland, in a fenny ground/’ w!
Long. o. 20. N. Lat. 52. 35.
DEER, m Zoology. See Cervus.—The method
o hunting deer in the ifiand of Ceylon is very parti¬
cular. The huntfmen go out in the night, and only
two ufually go together ; the one of thefe carries upo'n
his head an earthen vefiel, in which there is fome fire
burning and flaming ; the ingredients are generally
imall flicks cut into pieces, and common rofin. Of
this the other man carries a fupply about him to re¬
plenish the pot when it grows low. The perfon who
has the fire upon his head, carries in one hand a flaff
on which there are fixed eight bells ; and the larger
thefe are, the better. This man goes firfl into The
woods, and the other follows clofe behind with a fpear
m his hand. As- foon as the deer hears the noife o£
the bells, he turns towards the place whence the found
comes ; and feeing the fire, he eagerly runs up to it
and ftands gazing at a fmali diftance ; the fecond man
P 2 has
De fa&o
II ,
Defend.
D E F t >>
has then nothing to do but to kill him with the Ipear ;
for he fees neither of them. Not only deer, but even
, elks and hares are thus taken ; for they « the
fire, and never fee the men. I he profits of this fort
of hunting are very large, and the danger nothing ;
for though there are numbers of tygers, elephants, and
wild boars, in thefe woods, the huntfmen are m no
danger from them while the fire burns, for they all run
awTav from it. . . _ • n* _.
DE facto, fomething aftually in faft, or exifting ,
in contradifiinfticm to de jure, where a thing is only fo
in iuftice, but not in fad : as a king de fado, is a per-
fon who is aftually in poffeffion of a crown, but has
no legal right to the fame 5 and a king dejure, is the
perfon who has a juft right to the crown, though he
is out of poffeflion thereof.
DEFAMATION, the fpeakmg ftanderous words
of another j for which the flanderer is pumftiable, ac¬
cording to the nature of his offence, either by aftmn
upon the cafe at common law, or by ftatute m the ec-
CleQFFAULT, in law, is generally taken for non-
appearance in court, at a day aftigned ; but imports
any omiftion of that which vm ought to do, lor which
judgment may be given againft the defaulte .
J DEFEASANCE, or Deteiiance, m Law, a con
dition relating to fome certain deed, which being per¬
formed the deed is defeated and rendered void, as if
it had never been made. The difference between a
common condition and a defeafance , tba^the cond,
feuded and agreed
on between the parties, and having relation to
th r>EFECATE,#i Cbemiflry, a term applied to a
body freed and purged from f®"5 a"d u,,.
•^rECIIr?,Nm terfft a X h^d "been enga-
ged inf The word is formed of the Latin J'fivo, to
^DEFECTIVE, in general, an appellation given to
tilings which want fome of the properties thatnatu-
ra^^fT^r aI-;> are fuch
as want either a whole number, a part.cular cale, or
‘^rSm “li ioeeapNpiieTto a verb that has
’’0DEFENCOE,SaindF‘rtP««wf all forts of works
tint cover and’ defend the oppofite pofts, as flanks,
caLents, parapets, and fauifebrays. bee Foar.r.-
CA2r;/DEFPHCE, a fuppofed line drawn from the
ancle of4= curtain, or from any other part in the cur-
angle o. i f ^ oppofite baftion.
'“"defend! in general, hgnifiesfLch the fame with
prS - keeping off iniuries offered to any per¬
fon either by enemtes^ot a[ld ftatuteSi fignifies
,0 prohibit’or forbid: vVfrario, defendit W-e ^
f° UfM Whetreecan11y”unffy’iDny manner age,
» That ever God defended marriage.
6 1 D E F
In 7 Edw. 1. there is a fta.ute entitled, “ *““•“<"** “'Y”*
defenfione portandi arma," &c. And “it is defended Drf[nL,^
by law to diftrain on the highways Coke on Littl.      
i0lDEFEND ANT, in Law, the perfon fued in an ac¬
tion perfonal; as tenant is he who is fued in an aftion
real. See Action. - a
DEFENDER of /Ae Faith (Fidei Defenfor), a pe¬
culiar title belonging to the king of England *, as C^-
tholicus to the king of Spain, and ChrifiamJfimusX* the
king of France, &c. Thefe titles were given by the
popes of Rome. That of Fidei Defenfor firft con¬
ferred by Leo X. on King Henry \ III. for writing
againft Martin Luther ; and the bull for it u,ears date
quinto idus OElob. 1521. It was afterwards confirmed
by Clement VII. But the pope, on Henry s fupprei-
fing the houfes of religion at the time of the Refor¬
mation, not only deprived him of his.title, but depo-
fed him from his crown alfo : though in the 35th year
of his feign, his title, &c. was confirmed by parl.a-
ment ; and hath continued to be ufed by ah fucceed-
ing kings to this day. Chamberlayne fays, the title
belonged to the kings of England before that time 5
and for proof hereof appeals to feveral charteis gran -
ed to the univerfity of Oxford. So that pope Leo s
bull was only a renovation of an ancient right. .
DEFENDERS, were anciently notable dignita¬
ries both in church and ftate, whofe bufmefs was to
look to the preiervation of the public weal, to pro-
teft the poor and helplefs, and to maintain the inte-
refts and caufes of churches and religious houfes. See
Protector. The council of Chalcedon can. 2. calls
the defender of a church E*W Codin, * ojje.i
aulce ConJ}. makes mention of defenders of the palace.
There were alfo a defender of the kingdom, defenfor
revni; defenders of cities, defences crvitatu ; defen¬
ders of the people, defenfores plebts ; of the poor, E-
therlefs, widows, &c. , , . 1 u ^
About the year 420, each patriarchal church began
to have its defender j which cuftom was afterwards in¬
troduced into other churches, and continued to later
days under other names 5 as thofe of Advocate and
^iTthe year 407, we find the council of Carthage
Hiked .heLmptoi, for defenders, of ^ "0^ 0
Scboltfici, i. e. advocates who were m office, ^ ‘
it might be allowed them to enter and fearch the cab
nets and papers of the judges and other civil magif-
trates, whenever it Ihould be found neceffary for the
‘"deferens, or Defehekt, in the ancient aflro-
nomy an imaginary circle, which, as it were, Carnes
about the body of a planet, and ts the lame with he
eccentric ; being invented to account for the
city perigee, and apogee of the planets.
DEFILE, in Fortification, aftraight narrow paffage,
through which a company of horfe or foot can pafs
only in file, by making a fmall front.
DEFINITE, in Grammar, is applied to an article
that has a precife determinate fignification ; fuch as the
article/Ae Fn Englifh, le and la in French, &c. which
fix and afcertainUie noun they belong.to to fome par-
• 1 • oc thr kinv le roy: whereas, m the quality oj
A ";f .he i’rtidcsV and ife mark nothing Pre-
cife, and are therefore indefinite. -rvr-FmmON*
D E F [ i
Definition DEFINITION, in general, a fhort defcrijstion
Defloration.0^ .a thin^ by its ProPert‘es; or, in logic, the expli-
 i cation of the effence of a thing by its kind and dif¬
ference.
DEiTNITIVE, a term applied to whatever termi¬
nates a procefs, queftion,, &.c. in oppofition to provi¬
sional and interlocutory.
DEFLAGRATION, in Chemiflry, the kindling
or fetting fire to a fait or mineral, &c. either alone
or mixed for that purpofe with a fulphureous one, in
order to purify it.
This fhort procefs has been often recommended to
the world as of great ufe in trying the ftrength of
brandies and other vinous Spirits, and has been greatly
improved in this refpeft by Mr Geoffroy.
The common way of trying Spirits by deflagration,
is to meafure out any quantity of it, then to heat it,
and fet it on fire. If, after it will no longer burn, the
remainder is half as much as the quantity meafured out
for the trial was, then the Spirit tried is found to con-
fift of half water, and half totally inflammable fpirit;
that is, it is Somewhat below what we underftand by
the term perfeEi proof.—This method is much more
certain than that by the crown of bubbles which arifes
upon Shaking the fpirit in a phial. Monf. Geoffrey’s
method is this: Take a cylindric veffel two inches
high, and as much in diameter, confifting of thin plate
Silver, that metal being much lefs liable to ruff than
copper $ this veflel muff be fitted with a little reftan-
gular gage exaaiy graduated into lines, half lines, &c.
then the veflel being fet level upon a copper cafe made
to contain it, a parcel of the brandy to be examined is
poured in, to the height of 16 lines. This height is to
be exaftly hit by pouring in more than enough at firft,
and then fucking out the overplus wilh a very Small
tube. Then the veffel being heated a little, fo as juft
to make the liquor fume, it is to be fet on fire and
left to go out of itfelf; at the inftant when the flame
expires, the gage is plunged perpendicularly into the
veffel, and the lines and quarters exaaiy noted which
the liquor wants of its former height : this difference
gives the precife quantity of alcohol or pure fpirit
contained in the liquor. I hus, if eight lines of phlegm
are found remaining, this being the half of the 16
lines of the original filling, it is plain, that the li¬
quor contained one half fpirit, or was fomething below
proof. If only four lines remained, it was nearly
double proof, or of a middle nature betwixt alcohol
and common proof-fpirit.
DEhLECT ION, the turning any thing afide from
its former courfe by Some adventitious or external caufe.
The word is often applied to the tendency of a fhip
from her true courfe by realon of currents, &c. which
turn her out of her right way. It is likewife applied
by aftronoraers to the tendency of the planets from the
line or their projeftion, or the tangent of their orbit.
Deflection of the Rays of Light, a property
which Dr Hook obferved in 1675, and read an ac¬
count of before the Royal Society, March 18th the
fame year. He fays he found it different both from
reflexion and refraftion, and that it was made to¬
wards the. furface of the opaque body, perpendicu¬
larly. This is the fame property which Sir Ifaac New¬
ton calls inflexion.
DEFLORATION, or Deflowering, the a£t of
17 ] - D E F
violating or taking away a woman’s virginity. See Deflaxiop,
Virginity.-—Death or marriage are decreed by the , t
civil law in cafe of defloration. ,r
The ancients had fo much refpeft for virgins, that
they would not put them to death till they had firft
procured them to be deflowered. It is laid, the na¬
tives of the coaft of Malabar pay ftrangers to come and
deflower their brides.
In Scotland, and the northern parts of England, it
was a privilege of the lords of the manor, granted them
by King Ewen, that they Ihould have the firft night’s
lodging with their tenants wives. King Malcom III.
allowed the tenants to redeem this fervice at a certain
rate, called marcheta, confifting of a certain number of
cows: Buchanan fays it was redeemed with half a
mark of lilver. The fame cuftom had place in Wales,
Flanders, Friefland, and fome parts of Germany.
DEFLUXION, in Medicine, the falling the
humours from a fuperior to an inferior part of the
body.
DEFOE, Daniel, a writer famous for politics
and poetry, was bred a holier j which profeftion how¬
ever be foon forfook, and became one of the moft enter-
priling authors that any age produced. When difeon-
tents ran high at the Revolution, and King William
was obliged to difmifs his Dutch guards, .Defoe, who
had true notions of civil liberty, ridiculed the enemies
of government in his well-known poem, called the
True-born Englifhman, which had a prodigious fale.
The next fatire he wrote was entitled Reformation of
Manners; aimed at fome perfons of high rank, who
rendered themfelves a difgrace to their country. When
the ecclefiaftics in power breathed too much of a fpirit,
of perfecution, Defoe wrote a traft called the Short-
eft Way with the Diffenters: for which he was called
to account, and explained himfelf with great fiimnefs.
He was afterwards fentenced to the pillory for attack¬
ing fome public meafures j which fo little intimidated
him, that, in defiance of their ufage, he wrote a Hymn
to the Pillory. It would be endlefs to enumerate all
his publications ; but the following are the principal:
the Hiftory of the Plague in 1665 •, a novel entitled
the Hiftory of Colonel Jack; a new Voyage round the
World by a Company of Merchants, printed for Bet-
tefworth, 1725; the Hiftory of Roxana; Memoirs of
a Cavalier; the Hiftory of Moll Flanders; a book en¬
titled Religious Courtlhip, which has undergone up¬
wards of 20 editions; and the Life and Adventures of-
Robinfon Cmfoe, an admirable performance, of which
there have been editions without number, but concern¬
ing which there is an anecdote that does the author of
it no credit as to the better part of a writer’s charac¬
ter, honefty. When Captain Woods Rogers touched
at the illand of Juan Fernandez, in the South fea, he
brought away Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch failor, who
had been left aftiore there, and had lived on that defo—
late place above four years. When Selkirk came back
to England, he wrote a narrative of his adventures,
and put the papers into the hands of Defoe, to
digeft for publication; who ungeneroufly converted
the materials into the Hiftory of Robinfon Crufoe,
and returned Selkirk his papers again ! A fraud for
which, in a humane view, the diftinguifhed merit of7
that romance can never atone. Daniel Defoe died at
Iflington, in 1731. All his produ&ions of the ro¬
mantic
D E F [ 118
Defoliation, mantle fpecles, but efpecially the two laft; mentioned,
v"*”—' are much in vogue among country readers ; and, on
account of their moral and religious tendency, may
very probably in fome meafure counteract the perni¬
cious effe&s produced by the too general circulation
of modern novels, thofe occafional vehicles of impiety
and infidelity.
DEFOLIATION, (from de, znA folium “a leaf”);
are
] D E F
, of themfelves, fufficient for effefting the purpofesDefoliatiec.
of vegetation. It is for this reafon, that, unlels in ex-k—“v*—*'
ceffive hot weather, gardeners are feldom wont to wa¬
ter fat fucculent plants, as the aloes, which rot when
they are moiftened, if the fun does not quickly dry
them up.
The leaves of all the evergreen flirubs and trees
have a thin compaa fkin or cover over their furface ;
the fall of the leaves. A term oppofed to fronde- as is eafily difeovered by macerating them in water, m
feentia, the annual renovation of the leaves, produced
by the unfolding of the buds in fpring. See Fronde-
scentia.
Molt plants in cold and temperate climates Ihed their
leaves every year : this happens in autumn, and is ge¬
nerally announced by the flowering of the common
meadow faffron. The term is only applied to trees
and Ihrubs •, for herbs perilh down to the root every
year, lofing Item, leaves, and all.
All plants do not drop their leaves at the fame time.
Among large trees, the alh and walnut, although latefl:
in unfolding, are fooneft divefted of them : the latter
feldom carries its leaves above five months. .
On the oak and hornbeam, the leaves die and wi¬
ther as foon as the colds commence j but remain at¬
tached to the branches till they are pulhed off by the
new ones, which unfold themfelves the following
fpring. Thefe trees are doubtlefs a kind of ever¬
greens : the leaves are probably deftroyed only by
cold *, and perhaps would continue longer on the
plant, but for the force of the fpring-fap, joined to
the moifture. „
In mild and dry feafons, the lilach, privet, yellow jej-
famine of the woods, and maple of Crete, preferve their
leaves green until fpting, and do not drop them till the
new leaves are beginning to appear. I he fig-tree, and
many other trees that grow between the tropics, are
of this particular clafs of evergreens. The trees in
Egypt, fays Doaor Haffelquift, caft their leaves in the
latter end of December and beginning of January,
having voung leaves ready before all the old ones are
fallen off*, and, to forward this operation of nature,
few of the trees have buds: the fycamore and willow,
indeed, have fome, but with few and quite XovfeJHpuice
or feales. Nature did not imagine buds fo rieceflary
’r* the fouthern as in the northern countries . this
order to feparate the parenchyma, or pulp, from the
veffels of the leaves •, which cannot be effe&ed in any
of thefe evergreens till a thin parchment-like cover is
taken off. Thefe trees and fhrubs are found by ex¬
periment to perfpire but little, when compared with
others which fhed their leaves } and it is, perhaps,
principally owing to this clofe covering, as alfo to
the fmall proportion of moifture contained in their
veffels, that they retain their verdure, and continue
through the winter on the trees. Ihe nutritive juices
of thefe plants always abound, more or lefs, with an
oily quality, which fecures them from being injured
by fevere frofts j fo that many of thefe evergreen trees
are adapted to grow in the coldeft parts of the habi¬
table world. _ -
With refpeft to deciduous trees, the falling ott of
the leaves feems principally to depend on the tempera¬
ture of the atmofphere, which likewufe ferves to haften
or retard the appearance in queftion. An ardent fun
contributes to haften the dropping of the leaves.
Hence in hot and dry fummers, the leaves of the lime-
tree and horfe-chefnut turn yellow about the firft of
September-, whilft in other years, the yellownefs does
not appear till the beginning of Oftober. Nothing,
however, contributes more to haften the fall of the
leaves, than immoderate cold or moift weather in au¬
tumn j moderate droughts, on the other hand, ferve to
retard it. As a proof of this pofition, Mr Adanfon
relates, that in the year 1759, the leaves of the elm-
tree, w-hich generally fall off about the 25th of No¬
vember, continued in verdure and vigour at Pansj
where the autumn was remarkably dry, till the 10th
of the following month.
The following table, refpe&ing the mean times in
which different trees (hed their leaves, is founded up¬
on obfervation.
occafions a great difference betw-een them.
Laftly, fome trees and ftirubs preferve their leaves
conftantly through the whole year j and are not in the
leaft influenced by the clemency or inclemency of lea-
ions. Such are the firs, juniper, yew-, cedar, cyprefs,
and many other trees, hence denominated evergreens.
Thefe preferve their old leaves a long time after the
formation of the new, and do not drop them at
any determinate time. In general, the leaves of
evergreens are harder, and lefs fucculent, than thofe
which are renewed annually. The trees are gene¬
rally natives of warm climates \ as the alaternufes of
France and Italy, the evergreen oak of Portugal and
Some herbaceous perennials, as the houfe-leeks and
navel-worts, enjoy the fame privilege with the ever¬
green trees, and refill the feverities of winter : fome
even can difpenfe with the earth for fome time ; being
Goofeberry-tree and blad- J
der-fena,
Walnut and afti,
Almond-tree, horfe-chefnut,
and lime-tree,
Maple, hazel-nut, black pop-
plar, and afpen tree.
Birch, plane-tree, mountain-
ofier, falfe acacia, peat,
and apple-tree,
-"Vine, mulberry, fig, fumach,
and angelica-tree,
Elm-tree and willow,
Apricot and elder trees,
O&ober 1 ft.
—— -15th.
3
cr
o
-20th.
-25th.
November ill.
-10th.
-15th.
-20 th.
It deferves to be remarked, that an evergreen tree
grafted upon a deciduous, determines the latter to re¬
even can empeme wun tuc ca.iu ° . • , Thjs 0bfervation is confirmed by re-
replete with juices, which the leaves imbibe from the .’ narticulailv by grafting the laurel,
humidity of the atmofphere, and whichj in fuck plants, pcated expenmenu, part,cutely by gmt g ^
D E F [ ,
Deforce- or cherry-bny, an evergreen, on the common cherry j
ment, and the ilex, or evergreen oak, on the oak.
. " I. DEFORCEMENT, m Law, the cafting any one
out of his land, or withholding of lands and tenements
by force from the right owner.
Deforcement, in Scots Law, the oppofing or refill¬
ing of the officers of the law in the execution of their
office. See Law Index.
DEFORMITY, the want of that uniformity ne-
ceffary to conftitute the beauty of an objeft. See
Beauty.
Deformity is either natural or moral. Thefe are
both referred by Mr Hutchefon to an internal fenfc •
and our perceptions of them, as he fuppofes, arifes from
an original arbitrary ftruflure of our own minds, by
which certain objefts, when obferved, are rendered the
occafions of certain fenfations and affeftions.
That many obje&s give no pleafure to*our fenfe is
obvious. Many are certainly void of beauty; but then
lays this author, there is no form which feems necef-
farily difagreeable of itfelf, when we dread no other
evil from it, and compare it with nothing better of the
kind. Many objefts are naturally difpleafing and dif-
tafteful to our external fenfes, as well as others pleafing
and agreeable \ as fmells, taftes, and fome feparate
founds ; but with regard to our fenfe of beauty, no
compofition of objects which give not unpleafant fim-
ple ideas, feems pofitively unpleafant or painful of
itfelf, had we never obferved any thing better of the
fame kind.
Had there been a fpecies of the form which we now
denominate ugly or deformed, and had we never feen or
expefted greater beauty, we fliould have received no
difguft from it; though the pleafure would not have
been fo great in this form as in thofe we new admire.
Our fenfe of beauty feems defigned to give us pofitive
pleafure j but not pofitive pain or difgufl, any farther
than wffiat arifes from difappointment.
There are indeed many faces which at firft view
are apt to raife dillike. But this is generally not from
any pofitive deformity ; but either from want of ex-
peded beauty, or from the carrying fome natural in¬
dications of morally bad difpofitions, which we all ac¬
quire a faculty of difeerning in countenances, airs, and
geftures. That this is not occafioned by any form po-
litively difgufting, appears hence, that’ if, upon long
acquaintance, we are fure of finding fweetnefs of tem¬
per, humanity, and cheerfulnefs, though the bodily
form continues, it {hall give us no difgurt. There are
horrors raifed by fome objefts, which are only the ef-
feft of fear for ourfelves, or compaffion towards others,
when either reafon, or fome foolifh affbeiation of ideas,
makes us apprehend danger; and not the effeft of any
thing in the form itfelf. For we find, that moft of
thole obje&s which excite horror at firft, when ex¬
perience or reafon has removed the fear, may become
the occafion of pleafure.
The cafual conjunflion of ideas gives us difguft,
when there is nothing difagreeable in the form itfelf]
. -Amd this, in effeft, is the caufe of moft of our fantaf-
tic averfions to the figures of divers animals, &c.
i bus ferpents of all kinds, and many infers, really
beautiful enough, are beheld with averfion by many
haVe S0t f°me accidental ideas of mif-
chief allociated to them. A fimilar reafoning is ap-
19 ] D E F
plied to our perception of moral beauty and deformity. Deformity.
Inquiry into the Original of our Ideas of Beauty nad' —
Virtue, pa (Tim.
But it is more juft to diftinguilh between the fenti-
ments of delight or difguft, excited in us by beautiful
or deformed objefts, which are effetfs of fome caufes
and the natural and real qualities of the perceived oh-
jefts by which they are produced. There are objefts,
lays an excellent writer, which have a natural aptitude
to pleafe or offend, or between which and the contem¬
plating mind there is a neceffary congruity or incon-
gruity ; and though the aftual perception of the un-
derftanding, and confequent feeling of the heart in
contemplatingthe actions and affedtions of moral agents,
may exift in very different degrees, on account of the
incidental obfirudHons arifing from bodily indifpofition
mental prejudices and biaffes, and the affociation of
ideas ; yet, to every rational mind properly difpofed.
morally good adhons muft for ever be acceptable,
and can never of themfelves offend ; and morally evil
adhons muft for ever be difagreeable, and can never of
themlelves-pleafe. What is right in adlions and cha¬
racters is beautiful and amiable, and gives pleafure :
what is wrong is deformed and odious, and excites dif¬
guft : right and pleafure, wrong and pain, are as diftindl
as caufe and effedt. It is no lefs abfurd to maintain,
that the perception of virtue is nothing diftindt from the
reception of the pleafure refulting from it, than to infer
with fome metaphyficians, that folidity, extenfion, and
figure, are only particular modes of fenfation, becaufe
attended whenever they are perceived, with fome fen-
lations of fight or touch. Thus does the author (how
that moral beauty and deformity are real qualities of
certain adhons; m which confifts their aptitude to pleafe
or difguft. With refpedl to natural beauty, he ob-
ierves, that uniformity amidft variety pleafes, becaufe
ol the natures of variety and uniformity, which are
luch, that whenever united, they are adapted to pleafe
every free unbiaffed mind that difeerns them. He ac
counts for the pleafure they afford, without referring
them to an arbitrary internal fenfe, by the following
circumftances that attend them. They are more eafily
comprehended by the mind : order and fymmetry give
things their liability and ftrength, and fubferviency to
any valuable purpofe j regularity and order evidence
art and defign. Diforder and confufion, whence de¬
formity anfes, denote only the negation of regularity
and order; or any arrangement and difpofition of
things, which are not according to a law, rule, or
plan and prove not defign. Thefe are not pofitively
dilpleafing; except where we previoully expefted or¬
der, or where impotence or want of {kill appear, and
the contriver has either failed of his defign or executed
In a work entitled Fugitive Pieces, is preferved
an eflay on Bodily Deformity by William Hay
Efqj who was himfelf what he deferibes, and who
m [aUleS hlS T" figUre with great Pleafantry*
difeuffes the general fubjeft in a manner equally in-
ftrudlive and agreeable. He confiders, 1. The natural
confequences of bodily deformity j 2. How it affe&s
the outward circumftances; and, 3. What turn it gives
to the mind. °
1 ^ ^certain, that the human frame, being warp.
ed and difproportioned,
is leffened in ftrength and ac-
tivity,
D E F [ 120
Deformity, tivity, and rendered lefs fit for its fa^^ns. Scar-
I v—J ron bad invented an engine to take oft bis hat, and
I ivifh (fays our author) I could invent one to buckle
my fhoe, or to take up a thing from the ground, which
I can fcarce do without kneeling, for I can bend my
body no farther than it is bent by nature, lor this
reafon, when ladies drop a fan or glove, I am not the
firft to take it up *, and often reftrain my inclination to
perform thofe little fervices, rather than expole my
fpiderlike fhape. And I hope it will not be conftrued
as pride, if I do not always rife from my feat when 1
ought: for if it is low, I find fome trouble in it;
and my centre of gravity is lo ill placed, that I am
often like to fall back. Things hanging within the
reach of others are out of mine ; and what they can
execute with eafe, I want llrength to perform. I
am in danger of being trampled upon or ftifled m a
crowd, where my back is a convenient lodgment lor
the elbow of any tall perfon that is near. I can lee
nothing, and rtiy whole employment is to guard my
perfon. I have forborne to attend his majelly in tne
houfe of peers fincc I was like to be fqueezed to death
there againft the wall. I would willingly come thither
when his maiefty commands, but he is too gracious to
expeft impoftibilities. Befides, when I got in, I can
never have the pleafure of feeing on the throne one of
the bell princes who ever fat on it. _ Thefe, and many
others are the inconveniences continually attending a
figure’like mine. They may appear grievous to per-
fons not ufed to them, but they grow eafier by habit;
and though they may a little difturb, they are not u -
ficient to deftroy the happmefs of life ; of which, at
an average, I have enjoyed as great a fliare as moft
men. And perhaps one proof of it may be my writing
this efiay : not intended as a complaint agnnll Provi¬
dence for my lot, but as an innocent amufement to
myfelf and others. ,
As to what effea deformity may have on the health,
it appears natural to imagine, that as the mward parts
of the body muft in fome meafure comply with the
outward mould, fo the form of the latter being irregu¬
lar, the firft cannot be fo well placed and difpofed to
perform their funftions •, and that generally deformed
perfons would not be healthy or long-lived. _ But this
is a queftion beft determined by fafts ; and in this cafe
the infiances are too few or unobferved, to draw a ge¬
neral conclufion from them : and health is more than
is commonly thought in a man's own power and the
reward of temperance more than the effea of conftitu-
tion ; which makes it ftill more difficult to pafs a judg¬
ment. TEfop could not be young when he died ; and
might have lived longer if he had not been murdered
at Delphi. The prince of Orange fcarce paffed the
meridian of life, and the duke of Luxemburg died
the age of 67. The lord treafurer Burleigh
lived to 78*, but his fon. the earl of Saliffiury, vvho
died about 15 years after him, could not reach near that
te. It is faid that Mr Pope’s father was deformed,
and he lived to 75 •, whereas the fon died m middle
age if he may be faid to die whofe works are immortal.
«. My father (adds our author) was not deformed, but
aaive and my mother a celebrated beauty, and I, that
am fo unlike them, have lived to a greater age, and
daily fee my acquaintance of a {Longer frame quitting
the ftage before me.”
] D E F
But whether deformity, abftraftedly confidered, bepefomuty^
really prejudicial to health, in its confequences it ap-^ *
pears to be moft commonly an advantage. Deformed
perfons have a lefs ffiare of {Length than others, and
therefore ffiould naturally be more careful to preferve
it ; and as temperance is the great prefervative oi
health, it may incline them to be more temperate.
Another great prefervative of health is moderdte ex-
ercife, which few deformed perfons can want (Length
to perform. As a deformed perfon is not formed for
violent exercife, he is lefs liable to fuch diforders as
are the natural confequence ot it. He will alfo elcape
many accidents, to which men of athletic make, and
who glory in their {Length, are always expofing them-
felves to make trial and proof of it. If he cannot carry
an ox, like Milo, he will not like Milo be band-
cuffed in the oak by attempting to rend it. He will
not be the man that ffiall ride from London to York
in a day, or to Windfor in an hour, for a wager ; or
that ffiall be perpetually performing furpnfing long
journeys in a furprifing Ihort time, for no earthly bu-
finefs but the pleafure of relating them. Confcious oi
his own weaknefs, he will be cautious of running into
places or occafions of danger. Nature, too, warns de¬
formed perfons to be careful not to offer fuch affronts
as may call them forth into the field of falfe honour,^
where they cannot acquit themfelves well for want of
{Length and agility *, and they are fecurer from fuch
affronts themfelves, fince others will confider the little
credit they will gain by compelling them to appear on
that feene. On the whole, therefore, it may be con¬
cluded, that deformity is a proteftion to a man s health
and perfon ; which ((Lange as it may appear) are bet¬
ter defended by feeblenefs than {Length. ^
2. The influence of bodily deformity on a man s
fortune may next be confidered. Among the lower
clafs, he is cut off from many profeffions and employ¬
ments. He cannot be a foldier, he is under ftandard j
he cannot be a failor, he wants aftivity to climb the
rigging ; he cannot be a chairman or porter, he wants
{Length to bear the burden. In higher life, he is ill
qualified for a lawyer, he can fcarce be ken over the
bar ; for a divine, he may drop from his haffock out
of fight in his pulpit. The improvement of his mind
is his proper province, and his bufinefs only fuch as
depends on ingenuity. If he cannot be a dancing-
mafter to adjuft the heels, he may be a fchoolmafter to
inftrua the head : he cannot be a graceful after on
the ftage ; but he may produce a good play : he would
appear ill as a herald in a proceffion ; but may pais as
a merchant on the change: he cannot undergo the
fatigue of the campaign j but he may auvife the ope¬
rations of it : he is defigned by nature rather to fieep
on Parnaffus, than to defeend on the plains of Eohs :
he cannot Be crowned at the Olympic games •, but may
be the Pindar to celebrate them : he can acquire no
glory by the fword *, but he may by the pen, and may
grow famous by only relating thofe exploits which are
beyond his power to imitate.
Lord Bacon (that extenfive and penetrating genius
who pointed out every part of nature for examination),
in his Effay on Deformity, fays, “ that in their fupe-
riors it quencheth jealoufy towards them, as perions
that they think they may at pleafure defpiie *, and it
layeth their competitors and emulators afleep, as never
2
D E F [ 12
Deformity.believing, they fhould be in a pqffibility of advancement
tdl they fee them in poffeflion.” But it is much to
be doubted whether this is not more than counterba¬
lanced by the contempt of the world, which it requires
no mean parts to conquer j for if (as has been faid) a
good perfon is a letter of recommendation, deformity
mull be an obftru6!ion in the way to favour. In this
refpeft, therefore, deformed perfons fet out in the
world to a difadvantage ; and they muft firlt furmount
the prejudices of mankind before they can be upon a par
with others, and muft obtain by a courfe of behavi¬
our that regard which is paid to beauty at firft fight.
W hen this point is once gained, the tables are turned
and then the game goes in their favour: for others’
ienfible of their injuftice to them, no fooner find them
better than they expefted, than they believe them
better than they are ; whereas in the beautiful perfon
they iometimes find themfelves impofed upon, jand are
angry that they have worftiipped only a painted idol,
bor (again take Lord Bacon’s words) “ neither is it
aim oft feen, that very beautiful perfons are otherwife
of great, virtue : they prove accomplifhed, but not of
Sreat ^Plnt i and ftudy rather behaviour than virtue
Vv hereas deformed perfons, if they be of fpirit, will
free themfelves from fcorn, which muft be either by
virtue or malice ; and therefore let it not be marvelled
it they iometimes prove excellent perfons, as was Age-
lilaus, Zanger the fon of Solomon, JEtop, Gafca pre-
fident of Peru ; and Socrates may likewife go amongfl:
them, with others.” Nay, he fays “ in a great wit
deformity is an advantage to rifing.” And in another
part of his works, “ that they who by accident have
fome inevitable and indelible mark on their perfons or
fortunes, as deformed people, baftards, &c. if they
want not virtue, generally prove fortunate.”
Qfborn, in his Hiftorical Memoirs of Queen Eliza
beth informs us that “ ihe chofe the gbbdlieft per-
ons for her houfehold fervants : but in her counfel-
lors d.d not put bv fufficiency, though accompanied
with a crooked perfon ; as it chanced in a father and
a !on of the Cecils both incomparable for prudence.”
VSiWeL\ken°Wn, the queen would make father
( Burleigh) fit m her prefence ; telling him that fhe did
not ufe him for his legs but his head. But the fon
(afterwards lord treafurer and earl of Salifhury) was
not fo civilly treated by the populace; and is an in-
f ance not. only that envy purfues a great man, but
t iat the higheft poft cannot redeem a deformed one
from contempt : it attends him like his fhadow, and
like that too is ever reminding him of his ill fiemre
which is often objeGed for want of real crimes. For’
the lame writer fays of the fame great man, “ that the
misfortunes accompanying him from his birth, did not
a, ,“le/,ddrt?.thatJ.cloud <>f detraction that fell upon
all that he faid or did; amuld in nature, like an optic
ipeaacle,. multiplying much in the fight of the people
tne apparitions of ill.” Nor was this contempt buried
with him : ,t trampled on his allies, and infulted his
grave ; as appears by an epitaph, which Ofborn cites,
Vol. V II. Part I. ’
i ] D E F
a ..void, of ilk as'i't U full of icuirility ; i„ one line ofDcfonmf,-.
which there is an epithet, not fo elegant as deferip- v—”"v~“—‘
tive of his perfon, viz>. “ Little Boflive Robin that
was lo great.”
c oucn contempt in general, joined with the ridicule
o. the vulgar, is another certain confequence of bodily
deformity ; for men naturally defpife what appears Ids
beautiful or ufeful, and their pride is gratified when
t icy fee fuch foils to their ow-n perfons. It is this
fenle of fupenonty which is teftified by laughter in the
lower fort ; while their betters, who know how little
any man whatever hath to boaft of, are reftrained by
good, fenfe and good breeding from fucb an infult
But it is not eafy.to fay why one fpecies of deformity
ihould be more ridiculous than another, or why the
mob ftiould be more merry with a crooked man, than .
with one. that is deaf, lame, fquinting, or purblind. It
isa back m a to relievo that bears allthe ridicule; though
one would think a prominent belly a more reafonable
object of it, fince the laft is generally the eft eft of in¬
temperance, and of a man’s own creation. Socrates
was ugly, but not contemned ; and Philopcemen (a) of
very mean appearance, and though contemned on that
account not ridiculed : for Montaigne fays “ Hi fea
tures are but a fuperficial uglinefs, and of little cer"
tainty.m the opinion of men; but a deformity of
limbs is more fubftantial, and ftrikes deeper in ” As
U is more uncommon, it is more remarkable ; and that
perhaps is the true reafon why it is more ridiculed by
the vulgar. ■'
5. Lhekift confideration on this fubjeft relates to
thole paftions and afteaions which moft naturally re-
fu!t from deformity. Lord Bacon obferyes, that “ de-
foimed perfons are commonly even with nature • for
as nature hath done ill by them, fo do they by nature
being for the moft part (as the feripture faith) void If
find m B-Ut /lays Mr Hay) “ 1 can neither
find out this paflage m feripture, nor the reafon of it •
nor can I g1Ve my affent or negative to a propofition;
till I am well acquainted with the terms of it' If by
natural affeaion is here meant univerfal benevolence
and deformity neceffanly implies a want of it, a del
ormed perfon muft then be a complete monfter. But
however common the cale may be, my own fenfations
inform me that ,t is not univerfally true. If bv natu
ral affeftion is meant, a partial regard for individuals I
eheve the remark is judicious, and founded in hu¬
man nature. Deformed perfons are defpifed, ridiculed
and ill-treated by others ; are feldom favourites and
conimonly neglefled by parent,, guardian, and
Klatmn,; and.hereWa, they are not indebted for
mu.c h fondnefs, it is no wonder if they repay but little
t is the command of feripture, AV tofit our ofeaion)
on things below; and it is the voice of reafon not to
overvalue what we muft foon part with ; therefore to
be fo fond of others as not to be able to bear their ab-
ence, or to furvive them, is neither a religious nor mo.
ra duty, but a childifh and womanifh weaknefs ; and
I muft congratulate deformed perfons, who, by ex-
ample,
plain perfon of very mean’afpea? ordered Idm'to affiir n" att'l’dan!!’ t,le of the houfe feeing a
““ fiDdi,,g hm r° "W ^ ^ was att'"d-
D E F [12
Bcfotmity. ample, are early taught another leffon. 1 wl11
'now lay open my own heart to the reader, that he may
iudge if Lord Bacon’s pofition is verified m me.
“ I hope it proceeds not from a malignity or heart }
but I never am much affeaed with the common ac¬
cidents of life, whether they befal myfelf or others.
I am little moved when I hear of death, lots, or mil-
fortune ; I think the cafe is common.
Trituf. et e medio fortunes dudus acervo ;
Juv. Sat. xui.
And as it is always likely to happen, I am not fur-
nrifed when it does. If I fee a perion cry or beat his
breaft on any fuch occafion, I cannot bear him com¬
pany ; but am not a Democritus to laugh at his tolly.
I read of battles and fields covered with flam ; of cities
deftroyed by fword, famine, peftilence, and earthquake ;
I do not thed a tear : I fuppofe it is becaufe they are
the ufual ftorms, to which the human fpecies are ex-
pofed, proceeding from the juft judgments of God, or
the miftaken and falfe principles of rulers. I read ot
perfecutions, tortures, murders, maffacres *, my com¬
panion for the fufferers is great, but my tears are
flopped by refentment and indignation agamft the con¬
trivers and perpetrators of fuch horrid aaions. But
there are many things that bring tears into my eyes
whether I will or no j and when I refleft, I am often
at a lofs in fearching out the fecret fource from whence
they flow. What makes me weep (for weep 1 do)
when I read of virtue or innocence in diftrefs ; ot a
good man helplefs and forfaken, unmoved by the great-
eft infults and cruelties, or courageoufly fupporting
himfelf againft oppreflion in the article of death
fuppofe it is to fee vice triumphant and virtue fo ill
rewarded in this life. May I judge by tnyfelf I
fliould imagine that few fincere Chrifttans could read
the fufferings of their Saviour, or Lnglifhmen thole ot a
Cranmer, Ridley, or Latimer, without tears ; the fir ft
dying to eftablilh his religion, the laft to refciie it from
corruption. When I read of Regulus returning to tor-
ment and Tohn of France to imprifonment, againft the
perfuafion of friends, to keep faith with their enemies
I weep to think there is fcarce another inftance of fuch
exalted virtue. Thofe who often hear me read, know
that my voice changes, and my eyes are full, when I
meet with a generous and heroic faying, aaion, or cha-
xa&er, efpecially of perfons whofe example or command
may influence mankind. I weep when I hear a Titus
fay, that he had loft the day m which he did no good
when Adrian tells his enemy, that he had efcaped y
his being emperor ; or Louis XII. that he is not to
revenge^the affront of the duke of Orleans. Thefe are
the fir ft inftances that happen to occur to me .1 might
lecolleft many, too many to infert in this eflay , ye
all are but few, compared to inftances of cruelty and
revenge: perhaps I am concerned that they are fo
rare ; perhaps too I inwardly grieve that I am not in
a fituation to do the like. 1 am entertained, but not
moved when I read Voltaire’s Hiftory of Charles XII.
but I melt into tears on reading Hanway’s chaiaaer
of his antagonift Peter the Great. T he firft is a ftory
/ of a madman ; the other of a father, frienc, and bene-
fadtor of his people ; whofe character (as the author
obferves in the^onclufion of it) will command the ad¬
miration of all fucceeding generations j and I fuppofe
2 1 D E F
I lament, that God is pleafed to advance to royalty foDe&nn^
few fuch inflruments of good to mankind.
Again: “ I am uneafy when I fee a dog, a hoife,
or any other animal, ill-treated : for I confider them
as endued with quick fenfe, and no contemptible (hare
of realon ; and that God gave man dominion over
them, not to play the tyrant, but to be a good prince,
and promote the happinefs of his lubjefts. But l am
much more uneafy at any cruelty to my own fpecies J
and heartily wifh Procruftes diiciplined m his own
bed, and Phalaris in his bull. A man bruifed all
over in a boxing match, or cut to pieces in figging a
prize, is a fhocking fpeaacle *, and I think I could
with lefs horror fee a thoufand fall m battle, than hu¬
man nature thus depreciated and di%raced. Violence,
when exerted in wantonnefs or paffion, is brutality ,
and can be termed bravery only when it is fanaioned
by iuftice and neceflity.
“ I have been in a fituation to fee not a litt e of the
pomp and vanity, as well as of the neceffity and milery
of mankind : but the laft only afka me j and if, as a
magiftrate, I am ever guilty of partiality, it is in a-
vour of the poor. When I am at church among my
poor but honeft neighbours in the country, and lee
them ferious in performing the ceremonies prefcribed,
tears fometimes fteal down my cheek on refleamg,
that they are doing and hearing many things they do
not underftand, while thofe who underftand them
better negleft them *, that they, who labour and live
hard, are more thankful to heaven than thofe who fare
luxurioufly on the fruits of their labour and are keep¬
ing and repeating the fourth commandment at tne very
inftant the others are breaking it. , . , T
“ Thefe are feme of the fenfations I feel *, which I
have freely and fairly difclofed, that the reader may
judge how far I am an inftance of a deformed perfon
wanting natural affeaion. And I am a good fubjeft of
{’peculation ; becaufe all in me is nature : f- to own
the truth, I have taken but little pains (though I
ought to have taken a great deal) to correft my natu-
ral»^LcmI Bacon’s next pofition is, ‘ That deformed
perfons are extremely bold : firft in their own defence
as being expofed to fcorn ; but m procefs of time by a
generafhabit.’ This probably is fo among the infe¬
rior fort, who are in the way of continual infults , iox
a return of abufe is a natural weapon of felf-defence,
and in feme meafure juftified by the law of retaliation :
To upbraid a man with a perlonal defea, which he
cannot help, is alfo an immoral aft j and he who does
it has reafon to expeft no better quarter than to hear
of faults, which it was in his own power not to com¬
mie. But I find this obfervation far from being veri¬
fied in myfelf: an unbecoming bafhfulnefs has been the
ccnfequence of my ill figure,,and of.the worfe manage¬
ment of me in my childhood. I am always uneafy
when any one looks ftedfaftly on fo bad a pi^ure ;
and cannot look with a proper confidence m the face
of another. I have ever reproached tnyielf with tms
"ft. but no, able to cortea And „ may
be a difadvantage'to a man m the opinion of thole he
converfes with •, for though true medefty is amiable,
the falfe is liable to mifconftruaion : and when a man
is out of countenance for no realon, it may be’ma^'
ned that he has fome bad reafen for being - • .
t> E F [ j
deformity, point of affurance, I am indeed a perfect riddle to my-
' " v_" > f°r who feel a reluctance in crofling a draw¬
ing-room, or in opening my mouth in private compa¬
ny before perfons with whom I am not well acquaint¬
ed, find little in delivering my fentiments in publicj
and expofing my difcourfe, often as trifling as my per-
fon, to the ears of a thoufand. From what caufe this
proceeds, I know not; it may be partly from hopes
of wiping off any ill impreflion from my perfon by my
dilcourie, partly from a fenfe of doing my duty, and
partly from a fecurity in public affemblies from any
grofs perfonal reflection.
“ Lord Bacon compares the cafe of deformed per¬
fons to that of eunuchs $ ‘ in whom kings were wont
to put great truft as good fpies and whifperers ; for
they that are envious towards all, are more obfequious
and officious towards one.’ But, with fubmiffion to
io good a judge of human nature, I own I can difcover
no uncommon qualification in them for fpies ) and ve¬
ry few motives to envy peculiar to themfelves. Spies
iubmit to that bafe and ungenerous office, either for
the fake of intereft or power; if for intereft, it is to
gratify their covetoufnefs ; if for power, their ambi¬
tion or revenge 5 which paffions are not confined to
the eunuch or deformed, but indifcriminately feize all
claffes of men. Envy too may prompt a man to mean
actions, in order to bring down the perfon envied to
his own level j but if it is on account of fuperiority of
fortune it will operate alike on men of all fliapes.
Eunuchs have but one peculiar motive to envy : but
that (as Lord Bacon expreffes it) makes them envious
towards all j becaufe it is for a pleafure wffiich all but
themfelves may enjoy. Deformed perfons are de-
pnved only of beauty and ftrength, and therefore
thofe alone are to be deemed the extraordinary mo¬
tives to their envy ^ for they can no more be beautiful
or ftrong than eunuchs be fuccefsful lovers. As to
myfelf, whatever fparks of envy might be in my con-
ititution, they are now entirely extinguiffied ; for, by
frequent and ferious refle&ions, I have long been con¬
vinced of the fmall value of mofl things which men va¬
lue the moft.
1 here another paffion to which deformed per-
ions feem to be more expofed than to envy} which is
]ealoufy ; for being confcious that they are lefs amia¬
ble than others, they may naturally fufpeCl: that they
are lefs beloved. I have the happinefs to fpeak this
from conjeaure, and not from experience ; for it Was
my lot, many years ago, to marry a young lady, very
piouflv educated, and of a very difiinguiihed family,
and whofe virtues are an honour to her family and her
lex : fo that I had never any trial of my temper, and
can only guefs at it by emotions I have felt in my
younger days ; when ladies have been more liberal of
23 ] D E F
their fmiles to thofe whom I thought, in every refpe&ftefofmJty,
but perfon, my inferiors.” -v—w
The mofl; ufeful inference from all this to a deform¬
ed perfon is, to be upon his guard againft thofe frail¬
ties to which he is more particularly expofed $ and to
be careful, that the outward frame do not ditfort the
foul. Orandum ejl (fays Juvenal), utfit mens fann in
corporefano, “ Let us pray for a found mind in a
healthy body and every deformed perfon Ihould add
this petition, ut [it mens reEia in corpore eurvo, for “ an
upright mind in a crooked one.” And let him fre¬
quently apply to himfelf this article of felf-examina-
tion, Lenior et melior fs, accedente fen e El a ? *• As age
approaches, do your temper and morals improve ?” It
is a duty peculiarly incumbent 5 for if beauty adds
grace to viitue itlelf, vice muft be doubly hideous in
deformity.
Ridicule and contempt are a certain confequence of
deformity j and therefore what a perfon cannot avoid,
he fhould learn not to regard. He Ihould bear it like
a man ; iorgive it as a Chriftian ; and confider it as a
philofopher. And his triumph will be complete, if he
can exceed others in pleafantry on himfelf. Wit will
give over when it fees itfelf outdone $ and fo will ma¬
lice, when it finds it has no effeft : and if a man’s be¬
haviour afford no caufe of contempt, it will fall upon
thofe who condemn him without caufe,
Inftead of repining, therefore, a deformed perfon
ought to be thankful to Providence for giving him
foch a guard to his virtue and repofe. Thoufands are
daily ruined by a handfome perfon $ for beauty is a
flower that every one wants to gather in its bloom',
and fpares no pains or ftratagem to reach it. All the
poetical ftories concerning it have their moral. A
Helen occafions war and confufion j the Hyacinths
and Ganymedes are feized on for catamites; the En-
dymions and Adonifes for gallants ; Narciffus can ad¬
mire nobody but himfelf, and growls old before he is
cured of that paffion. Who is a flranger to the ftory
of Lucretia killing herfelf for her violated challity ?
or of Virginia killed by her father to preferve it > In
thofe circumftances, fays Juvenal, ffie might wiffi to
change perfons with Rutila, the only lady we know
among the ancients celebrated for a hump-back. The
handfomeft men are chofen for eunuchs and gallants •
and when they are catched in exercifing the laft func!
tion, both (b) Horace and Juvenal inform you of the
penalties and indignities they undergo. Silius (c)
was converted by the irtfatiable Meffalina into a •mf-
band } and Sporus, by the monfter Nero, into a wife.
I he lau mentioned poet (hows that praying for beau¬
ty is. praying for a curfe ; and (d) Perfius refufes to
join in fuch a prayer:, and has not the deformed per-
ion reafon to thank his flars, which have placed him
Q^2 more
f b) Hie fe pnecipitem tefto dedit: ills flagellis
Ad mortem cicfus : fugiens hie decidit acrem
Prsedonum in turbarti: dedit hie pro corpore nummos:
Han.c permmxerunt calones : quin etiam illud
Accidit, ut cuidam teftes caudamque falacem
Demeteret ferrum Hor. Sat. ii. lib. i.
“Qiioldam moechos et mugilis intrat. Juv. ib.
(c^ y Optimus hie fet formofiffimus idem
G( ntis I atriciae rapitur mifer extinguendus
Meffalinae oculis.- Juv. Sat.’ x.
(D) Hunc optent generum Rex et Regina : puellfu
Hunc rapian.t : quicquid calcaVerit hie, rofa fiat :
Aft ego nutrici non mando vota ; negato
Jupiter hiec illi-" . Perf. Sat. ii.
D £ F
r 124. l ^ E G
., , fL t \nd there is no' deformed perfon, who does not mfh DeMon
Deformity, more out of danger than even virtue could > for that ^nd ' e , ^ hi,b;t,tion . which is feme- _ » ,
  v 1 could not guard a Jofeph, an (e) Hippolytus a Bel- <h« h'sJou d , acc0[di„g ,0 its quality. Lord
lerophon, and others, againlt the revenge of flighted, times not long „ * m.-.-ain, ,w
Degrada¬
tion.
love.
Another great advantage of deformity is, that it
tends to the improvement of the mind. A man that
cannot fhine in his perfon, will have recourfe to h.s un-
derftanding-, and attempt to adorn that part of tnm,
which alone is capable of ornament. When his am¬
bition prompts him to begin, with Cowley, to all. him-
felf this queftion, .
What (hall I do to be for ever known,
And make the age to come my own ?
On looking about him, he will find many avenues to
the temple of fame barred agamft him 1 but fome are
flill open through that of virtue ; and tho.e, it he has
a right ambition, he will moft probably attempt to
mfs^ The more a man is inaftive in his perfon, the
more his mind will be at work ; and the time which
others (pend in »aion, he will pafs in ftudy and con¬
templation : by thefe he may acquire wlfdom , amt by
wifdom, fame" The name of Socrates is as much
founded as thofe of Alexander and Cmfar , and
corded in much fairer charaaers. He gamed renown
bv wifdom and goodnefs •, they by tyranny and op-
pfeffion ; he by inftruaing, they by deftroying, man¬
kind : and happy it is, that their evil deeds w-ere con-
to thi^dayT' A'defomld perfon'wdl5naturally con-
lining of the head. He will (ay to himfelf, lam
w-ai? ;n perfon ; unable to (erve my country in the
fieUr I can acquire no military glory ; but I may,
like 'Socrates, ncquire r.pu.,tion by wifdom^ud pro-
Tvbv • let me therefore be wife and honed. My tigure
IfuCy td ; cud Uhould oppeor hut .11 « - --
pafsemv"t!me m my ftudv, either in reading what may
? y vfpif ;n y/rking what may entertain or
billaof ^ugeas^ butni mav eleanfe my own heart from
a'd If I am fo, ^^'‘"^rfllHt’a'eflTJpf 0“
my conduTl’eft my coudua make me more deform-
^ perfooshave a -"fli!
CUreudl fays^of Sir Charlls Cavendim (brother .0
the marquis of Newcaftle), that he was a man of the
nobleft and largeft mind, though of the leaft and molt
inconvenient body that lived. And every body knows,
that the late prince of Orange had many amiable qua¬
lities Therefore, in juftice to fuch perfons, we mull
fuppofe that tW dide^^o^-^rXd
let'every' deformed perfon comfort himfelf with re-
fleaing, that though his foul hath not the mold conve-
nient and beautiful apartment, yet that it is habitao e ,
that the accommodation will ierve as an inn upon the
road that he is but tenant for life, or (more properly)
■tH ■ and that while he remains in it, he is m a
Sr^tTerS by the deuf, the dumb, the lame,
“"DETOSfflibN (fle/#»), the punithment of bury¬
ing alive infliaed among the Romans on veflal vir-
eifts guiity of incontinency. It is a to a cuftom among
Se Hungarians to inflift this pun.fltment on women
conviaed of adultery. Heretics were alio punllhed m
‘'’dEOENERATION? o/dTokserit.iio, in ge¬
neral, denotes the growing worfe, or lofing iome valu¬
able qualities whereof a thing was f°™“' J
Some naturalifts have been of optnlOTic that^hmgs are
capable of degenerating into quite a didtnct ipecies ,
but this is a mere chimera. All that happens m the
degeneration of a plant, for inftance, is the lofing
ufual beauty, colour, fmell, &c. a crcumftance entire¬
ly owing to its being planted in an improper foil, c i-
“ DEGLUTITION, the aftion of fwallowing. See
ADEGRADATION, in our law-books called
^ and ^i^e^
notw, ^nd' taking away the title, badge, and privilege,
‘'Tw de8r^Xer0f&cPea're performed”wmhdWers
That which anciently obtained in degra-
Fangel, who had “ cafion,
'"^"Utva'liers wUho^ bfomifl, or reproach, were
affembkd; before’whom the gentleman was acceded
of “eafon and breach of faith by a k.ng at arms. Twm
foaffoh's were ereaed ; the one for the judges, he¬
ralds, and purfuivant,-, and the other or ^ 8 J
T^tTon" bXe”him 'r^fod Xh the point
placed on a Itake o „ , - ft jn furphees,
upwards. On one fide affifted ^ P^e clofe of .each
who fung the vigils of the dead,
Cdrew petfons have a itoufo eirtitely *0 ‘heir mind J ’ p°a„ie, during which the office,, of
or the apartments m it aupu.cu j
, >.   Quid profuit olim , .
(E)H~7ly,0 gravepropofitum ? Quid Bellerophont.
Erubuit ucmpe hmc, feu faftid.a repulfa :
Nec Sthenobcea minus quam Creffa excanduit, et fe
Concuflere ambte.- J*V- Sm- x'
EEC [ 125 ] D E
Degrada- arms ftrlpped the condemned of fome piece of his ar-
t'°n. mour, beginning with the helmet, and proceeding
v '"l1 thus till he wras quite difarmed j which done, they
broke his fhield in three pieces with a hammer. Then
the king at arms emptied a bafon of hot water on the
criminal’s head ; and the judges, putting on mourning
habits, went to the church. This done, the degraded
was drawm from off the fcaffold with a rope tied under
his arm-pits, laid on a bier, and covered wuth mortu¬
ary clothes ; the prieft finging fome of the prayers for
the dead ; and then he was delivered to the civil
judge and the executioner of juffice.
For a more domeftic inffance : Sir Andrew' Harcla,
earl of Carlille, being attainted and convi&ed of trea-
fon, 18 Edw. II. coram rege: after judgment was pro¬
nounced on him, his fword was broken over his head,
and his fpurs hewn off his heels ; Sir Anthony Lucy
the judge faying to him, “ Andrew, now thou art no
knight, but a knave.” By flat. 13 Car. ll. William
Lord Monfon, Sir H'enry Mildmay, and others, wmre
degraded from all titles of honour, dignities, and pre¬
eminences, and prohibited to bear or ufe the title of
lord, knight, efquire, or gentleman, or any coat of
arms, for ever afterwards. It has been maintained
that the king may degrade a peer ; but it appears from
late authorities, that he cannot be degraded but by
afl of parliament.
As to eccleliaffics, we have an inffance of degrada¬
tion before condemnation to death, in the eighth cen¬
tury, at Conftanfinople. It is in the perfon of the
patriarch Conftantine, whom Conffantine Copronymus
. caufed to be executed. He was made to afcend the
ambo 5 and the patriarch Nicetas fent fome of his bi-
fhops to ffrip him of the pallium, and anathematized
him : then they made him go out of the church back¬
wards.
But we have a much later inftance in our own hi-
ftory ; When Cranmer, archbiihop of Canterbury, was
degraded by order of Queen Mary, they dreffed him
- *n epifcopal robes, made only of canvas, put the mitre
on his head, and the paftoral ffaff in his hand ; and in
this attire (bowed him to the people. Which done
they ft ripped him again piece by piece. At prefent
they do not (land fo much on the ceremony of degra¬
dation in order to the putting a prieft to death ; by
reafon of the delays and difficulties that it wmuld oc-
cafion. Pope Boniface pronounced that fix bi!hops
were required^to degrade a prieft j but the difficulty
of affembling fo many bifhops rendered the puniftiment
frequently impracticable. In England, a prieft, after
having been delivered to his ordinary, if he cannot
purge himfelf of the crime laid at his door, his gown
and other robes are dripped over his ears by the com¬
mon hangman ; by which he is declared diveited of his
orders.
It is decided, however, that degradation does not
efface the prieftly charafter. Degradation only feems
to differ from depofition in a few ignominious ceremo¬
nies which cuftom has added thereto. Accordingly,
in the. bufinefs of Arnoul archbiihop of Rheims, fen-
tenced in the council of Orleans in 991, it was* deli¬
berated what form they fhould follow in the depofition;
whether that of the canons, that is, Ample depofition ;
or that of cuftom, viz. degradation. And it was decla¬
red, that he (hould furrender the ring, paftoral ftaff,
and pallium, but that his robes (hould not be torn off. Begrada-
In effeCl, the canons prefcribe no more than a mere ticm
reading of the Jentence. It is the reft, therefore, ad- D( , ^
ded thereto by cuftom, viz. the (tripping off the orna-
ments, and the tearing the pontifical veftments, that
properly conftitute degradation.
Degradation, in Painting, expreffes the leffening
the appearance of diftant objeCts in a landfcape, in the
fame manner as they would appear to an eye placed
at that diftance from them.
DEGREE, in Geometry, a divifion of a circle, in¬
cluding a three hundred and fixtieth part of its circum¬
ference.
Degree of Latitude. See Latitude.
Degree of Longitude. See Longitude.
A degree of the meridian on the furface of the globe
is varioufly determined by various obfervers. Mr Pi-
cart meafured a degree in the latitude of 490 21', and
found it equal to 57,060 French toifes. But the French
mathematicians, who have lately examined Mr Picart’s
operations, affure us, that the degree in that latitude
is 57,183 toifes. Our countryman, Mr Norwood, mea¬
fured the diftance between London and York, and found
it 905.751 Englilh leet; and finding the difference of
latitudes 2° 28', determined the quantity of one de¬
gree to be 367,196 Englilh feet, or 69 Englilh miles
and 288 yards. Mr Maupertuis meafured a degree in
Lapland, in the latitude of 66° 20', and found it
57,438 toifes. A degree was likewife meafured at the
equator by other French mathematicians, and found
to contain 56,767.8 toifes. Whence it appears, that
the earth is not a fphere, but an oblate fpheroid.
. Degree, in the civil and canon law, denotes an
interval in kinlhip, by which proximity and remotenefs
of blood are computed. See Consanguinity and
Descent.
^ Degrees, in Mufc, are the little intervals whereof
the concords or harmonical intervals are compofed.
Degree, in univerfities, denotes a quality conferred
on the ftudents or members thereof, as a teftimony of
their proficiency in the arts or fciences, and entitling
them to certain privileges. 6
DEJANIRA, in fabulous hiftory, daughter of
Oeneus king of /Etolia, and wife to Hercules. The
centaur Neffus endeavouring to raviftr her, was (lain by
Hercules with a poifoned arrow. Neffus, when dy-
ing, gave his bloody (Ivirt to Dejanira ; affuring her,
that it was a fovereign remedy to cure her hu(hand if
ever he proved unfaithful. Some time after, Dejanira
thinking (lie had reafon to fufpeft his fidelity, fent him
the ftiirt : which he had no (boner put on, than he
was leized with the moft excruciating torments. Be¬
ing unable to iupport his pains, he retired to Mount
Oeta, and eretfing a pile of wood fet fire to it and
threw hunfelf into Ike flames; upon which Dej’anica ’
killed herielt in defpair.
DEJEC 1 ION, in Medicine, the aft of voiding the
exciements by the anus. See Anatomy, N° 93.
Dejection, in Afrohgy, is applied to the planets
when in their detriment, as attrologers fpeak i e
when they have loft their force or influence, as is pre¬
tended, by reafon of their being in oppofition to fome
otners which check and counteraft them. Or it is
uled when a planet is in a fign oppofite to that in which
it has its greateft effebt or influence, which is called
its ;
DEI
Deification Us exalumn. Thus, the fign Arles being the esnltn-
II tion of the fun, the oppofite fign Libra is its dejeaion.
Deifm. DEIFICATION, in antiquity. See Apotheosis.
DEIPHON, in fabulous hiftory, a brother of Trip-
tolemus, fon of Celeus and Metamra. When Ceres
travelled over the world, Ihe flopped at his father s
court, and undertook to nurfe him and bring him up.
To reward the hofpitality of Celeus, the goddefs be-
gan to make his fon immortal, and every evening Ihe
placed him on burning coals to purify him from what¬
ever mortal particles he dill polled. The uncommon
growth of Deiphon aftonifhed Metamra, who wifhed
to fee what Ceres did to make him fo vigorous. She
was frightened to fee her fon on burning coals; and
the fhrieks that (he uttered difturbed the myftenous
operations of the goddefs, and Deiphon penfhed in the
Fiscal, in the ancient Britifh cuftoms, the
name of a ceremony originally dfed in the druidica
worfhip, and retained in many places down to a very
late period, as a civil ceremony towards perfons of pa -
ticular diftinaion. The temples of the ancient B
tons were all circular •, and the druids, iti performing
the public offices of their religion, never neglefted to
m?kp three turns round the altar, accompanied iy ^
the worffiippers. This praftice was fo habitual to the
ancient Britons, that it continued income places many
ages after the druids and their religion were both de-
ftroyed. In the Scottiffi ides, the vulgar never come
to the ancient facrificing and fire-hallowing cairns
but they walk three times round them, fro™
weft according to the courfe of the fun. 1 ms iantti
fied tour, or round by the fouth, is called from
deas or deft, “ the right hand,” and foil or>4 t
fun -” the right hand bein? ever next the heap or
lairm In thf fame iftes it is the cuftom and faffimn
of the people to teftify their refpea for their chiet
tains the proprietors of their feveral ifies, and other
perfons of diftinaion, by performing the deifcal round
tfiem in the fame manner. A gentleman giving an
recount of his reception in one of the W^ern iflands,
126 ] ^ ^ ^ r • J
himfelf by the mere force of natural rea.on, indepen*
dent of all revelation, and exclufive of it j and tins re¬
ligion Dr Tindal and others pretend is lo perfea, as
to be incapable of receiving any addition or improve-
ment even from divine revelation.
DEISTS, a clafs of people known alfo under the
denomination of Free-thinkers, whofe mft.nguiffiing
charaaer it is/not to protefs any particular toim or
fyftem of religion ; but only to acknowledge the ex-
iftence of a god, and to follow the light and law of
nature, rejeaing revelation, and 0PP°r'nbr Chr^ianity*
This name feems to have been firft affumed as the
denomination of a party about the middle of the
l6ch century, by fome gentlemen in France and l a y,
who were defirous of thus dliguifing their oppoiition
to Chriftianity by a more honourable appellation than
that of atheifts. Virot, an eminent reformer, men¬
tions certain perfons, in his epiftle dedicatory prefixed
to the fecond tome of his InflruBion Chretienne, publiffi-
ed in iq6S, who called themfelves by a new name,
that of Deijl*' Thefe, he tells us, P^fe^d Jo ^beve
in God, but (bowed no regard to Jefus Chnft, and
confidered the doftrine of the apoftles and evangehfts
as fables and dreams. He adds, that they laughed *
all religion, though they outwardly conformed to the
religion of thofe with whom they lived, or whom they
wiffied to pleafe, or feared to offend. So^’ H "
ferves, profeffed to believe the immortality of the foul ,
others denied both this doanne and that of provi¬
dence. Many of them were confidered as perfons of
acute and fubtile genius, and took pains in drffemina-
ting their notions. 4
The deifts hold, that, confidenng the multiplicity
of religions, the numerous pretences to revelation,
and the precarious arguments generally advanced m
proof thereof, the bed and fureft way is to return to
die fimplicity of nature and the belief of one God ,
which is the only truth agreed lo by all nations. 1 y
complain, that the freedom of thinking and reafom g
is oppreffed under the yoke of religion ; and that the
minds of men are ridden and tyrnnmzed by ,he W-
Dcifts,
eception in one of the Weftern iflands, of Wiping inconceivable nty-
:ff ^tifc'alT r ^-' On'I of*/nS ft/ries ; and contend that nothing Ihtntid be^te^ted
tl' S e^ his high efleetn for my perion
bv making a turn round about me fun-nays and at
rile fame rime bleffing me, and wiDung me all happt-
n fs But I bid him let alone that p.ece of homage
telling him I nas fenfible of his good meaning tomarcs
me But this poor man was very much dlfappmnted,
” w.ere alfo h^neighbours , for they ^uMed no, b
this ancient ceremony would have been very acceptable
■™ one of them told me that thts was a htng
due to my chataaer from them, as to ,tie,r chief and
patron j a^d that they could not, and would not,
t0 DeIsm/rile doftrine or belief of,be deifts De-
•r r r\ Cnd itiav properly be ufed to denote
»»’comptebending tbore ttuths which
have a real foundation m reafon and nature , ana
this fenfe it is lo far from bemg oppoftte to C
*y, -h«;t Vs 0ne:tgieThus fome of the deftical wri-
riataffea/d Bu, deifm mote precifely
fignifies that fyftem o<' religion, relating ' t0 "
trfne and pradice, which every man is to d.fcovet fo
end that notmng mourn ut
to be affented to or believed but what their reafon
Cl The dffiinguiffiing charafter of modern deifts is that
they reiea all revealed religiony, and difeard all pre-
tences Jo it as the effefts of impofture or enthu^fm.
They profefs a regard for natural religion, though they
are far from being agreed in their notions concerning
•t They are claffed by fome of their own writers in¬
to mortal and immortal deifts : the latter^acknowledg¬
ing a future (late ; and the former denying it, or re-
prefenting it as very uncertain.
Dr Clarke diftinguiihes four forts of deift.. •
who pretend to believe the exiftence of an eternal in¬
finite, independent, intelligent Being, who made the
world, without concerning himfelf in the ,
7 it 2. Thofe who believe the being and natural
providence of God, but deny the
as morally good or evil, refolvmg it into the aroitr y
"onftitutio/of human laws-, and therefo^ they ^
nofe that God takes no notice of them. With _
rboth there claffes, he obferves that them opm on
can confiftently terminate in nothing but
DEL
Delfts atheifm. 3. Thofe who have right
concerning the nature, attributes, and all-governing
Delaware.
» “ ^ ‘ ‘ - providence or God, feem alfo to have fome notion of
his moral perfections j though they confider them as
tranfeendent, and fuch in nature and degree, that we
can form no true judgment, nor argue with any cer¬
tainty concerning them : but they deny the immorta¬
lity of human fouls 5 alleging that men perilh at
death, and that the prefent life is the whole of human
exiltence. 4. Thofe who believe the exiftence, perfec¬
tions, and providence of God, the obligations of na¬
tural religion, and a ftate of future retribution, on
the evidence of the light of nature, without a divine
revelation ; fuch as thefe, he fays, are the only true
deifts; but their principles, he apprehends, Ihould lead
them to embrace Chriftianity ; and therefore he con¬
cludes that there is now no confident fcheme of deifm
in the world.
The firft deiftical writer of any note that appeared
in this country was Herbert baron of Cherbury. He
lived and wrote in the 17th century. His book. Z)e Vc-
ritate was firft publifhed at Paris in 1624. This, to¬
gether with his book De Caujis Errorum, and his trea-
tife De Religione Laid, were afterwards publilhed in
London. His celebrated work De Religione Gentilium
was publiftred at Amfterdam in 1663 in 410, and in
1700 in 8vo, and an Englifh tranflation of it rvas pub-
lilhed at London in 1705. As he was one of the firft
that formed deifm into a fyftem, and aflerted the fuf-
ficiency, univerfality, and abfolute perfection of na¬
tural religion, with a view to difeard all extraordinary
revelation as ufelefs and needlefs, we (hall fubjoin the
five fundamental articles of this univerfal religion 
They are thefe: 1. That there is one fupreme God.
2. 1 hat he is chiefly to be worfhipped. 3. That piety
and virtue are the principal part of his worlhip. 4.
That we muft repent of our fins ; and if we do fo,
God will pardon them. 5. That there are rewards for
good men and punifhments for bad men, both here
and hereafter. Our own age has produced a number
of advocates in the fame caufe 5 and however they
may have differed among themfelves, they have been
agreed in their attempts of invalidating the evidence
and authority of divine revelation. We might men¬
tion Hobbes, Blount, Toland, Collins, Woollafton,
Tindal, Morgan, Chubb, Lord Bolingbroke, Hume,’
&c. Some have alfo added Lord Shaftefbury to the
number.
But the friends of Chriftianity have no reafon to re¬
gret the free and unreferved difeuflion which their re¬
ligion has undergone. Objedions have been ftated
and urged in their full force, and as fully anfwered ;
argument and raillery have been repelled ; and the
controverfy ' between Chriftians and deifts has called
lorth a great number of excellent writers, who have
illuftrated both the doftrines and evidence of Chriftia¬
nity in a manner that will ever refleft honour on their
names, and be of lading fervice to the c'aufe of genu¬
ine religion and the beft interefts of mankind.
DEI FY, Godhead; a common appellation given to
J?nd the Poets to the heathen gods and
goddeffes.
DELAWARE, a province of North America, fi-
tuated on a river of the fame name.
The Dutch, under the pretended purchafe made by
[ 127 ] DEL
apprehenfions Henry Hudion, took poflefiion of the lands on both Delaw
fides the river Delaware } and as early as the year
1623 built a fort at the place, which has fince been
called Gloucefter. In 1627, by the influence of William
Ufeling, a refpe&able merchant in Sweden, a colony
of Swedes and Finns came over, furnilhed with all the
neceflaries for beginning a new fettlement, and landed
at Cape Henlopen ; at which time the Dutch had
wholly quitted the country. The Dutch, however,
returned in 1630, and built a fort at Lewiftown, by
them named Hoarkill. The following year the Swedes
built a fort near Wilmington, which they called Chrif-
tein or Chrifiiana. Here alfo they laid out a fmall
town, which was afterwards demolilhed by the Dutch.
The fame year they erefted a fort higher up the ri¬
ver, upon Tenecum ifland, which they called New
Gottenhurgh : they alfo about the fame time built forts
at Chefter, Elfinburgh, and other places. John Prinz
then governed the Swedes, who, in "i 634, deputed
bis fon-in-law, John Papgoia, and returned to Sweden.
Papgoia foon followed his father-in-law to his native
country, and John Ryfing lucceeded to the govern¬
ment. In 1653, tbe Dutch, under the command of
Peter Stuyvelant, arrived in Delaware river, from
New Amfterdam (New York), in feven veffels, with 6
or 700 men. They difpoffeffed the Swedes of their
forts on the river, and carried the officers and princi¬
pal inhabitants prifoners to New Amfterdam, and from
thence to Holland. 7 he common people lubmitted
to the conquerors, and remained in the country. On.
the firft of Oflober 1664, Robert Carr obtained
the fubmifhon of the Swedes on Delaware river. Four
years after, Col. Nicolls, governor of New York, with
his council, on the 21ft of April, appointed a fcout
and five other perfons to affift Capt. Carr in the go¬
vernment of the country. In 1672, the town of New-
caftie was incorporated by the government of New
York, to be governed by a bailiff and fix affiftants;
after the firft year, the four oldeft were to leave their
office, and four others to be cbofen. The bailiff was-
prefident, with a double vote; the conftable was cho-
fen by the bench. They had power to try caufes not
exceeding 10I. without appeal. The office of fcout
was converted into that of fheriff, who had jurifdic-
tion in the corporation and along the river, and was
annually chofen. They were to have a free trade,
without being obliged to make entry at New York’
as had formerly been the praSice. Wampum was at
this time the principal currency of the country. Go¬
vernor Lovelace of New York, by proclamation, or¬
dered that four white grains and three black ones
ftiould pafs for the value of a ftiver or penny. This
proclamation was publilhed at Albany, Efopus, De¬
laware, Long-ifland, and the parts adjacent. In 1674
Charles II. by a fecond patent, dated June 29th, grant¬
ed to his brother duke of York all that country called
by the Dutch New Netherlands, of which the three
counties of Newcaftle, Kent, and Suffex, were a part.
In 1683, the duke of York, by deed dated Aug. 24th,*
fold to William Penn the town of Newcaftle, with the
diltriS of 12 miles round the fame 5 and by another
deed of the fame date, granted to him the remainder
of the territory, which till the revolution was called
the Three Lower Counties. Thefe three counties were
confidered as a part of Pennfylvania in matters of go¬
vernment.
DEL
[ 12B ]
DEL
<t>6laware. vefnment. The fame governor prefided over both: but
v- —V—'the affembly ami courts of judicature were different*,
different as to their conflituent members, but in form
nearly the fame. At the late revolution they became
a diftin£l territory, called
The Delaware State. This Hate is bounded on
the noith by the territorial line which divides it from
Penniylvania, on the eafi, by Delaware river and bay 5
on the fouth, by a due eaft and weft line, liom Cape
Henlopen, in lat. 38. 30. to the middle of the penin-
fula 5 and on the welt by Maryland. The climate is in
many parts unhealthy. I he land is generally low and
flat, which occafions the waters to flagnate, and the
confequence is, the inhabitants are fubjedl to intermit-
tents.
The Delaware ftate is divided into three counties,
viz. Newcaftle, Kent, Suffex: the chief towns of
which are, Wilmington and Nevicaftle, Dover, Mil¬
ford, and Lewiftown. ^ .
Three rivers, the Choptank, Nanticok, and Poco-
moke, have their fources in this ftate, and are navi¬
gable for vcffels of 50 or 60 tons, 20 or 30 miles into
the country. They all run a wefkrly courfe into
Chefapeak bay. The fourth part of the ftate is a low
flat country, and a confiderable portion of it lies m to-
reft. What is under cultivation is chiefly barren, ex¬
cept in Indian corn, of which it produces fine crops.
In fome places rye and flax may be raifed, but wheat
is a.foreigner in thefe parts. Where nature is deficient
in one refource, fhe is generally bountiful m another
rrM • •  f-all tViirk fnrefts of nines whicl
This is verified in the tall thick forefts of pines which
are manufadured into boards, and exported in large
quantities into every lea-port in the three adjoining
ftates. As you proceed north, the foil is moie fertile,
and produces wheat in large quantities, which is the
flaple commodity of the ftate. They raiie all the
other kinds of grain common to Pennsylvania. 1 he
ftate has no mountain in it, except 1 hunder Hill, m
the weftern part of Newcaftle county, and is. general¬
ly level except fome fmall parts, which are ftony and
.uneven. The trade of this ftate, which is inconsider¬
able, is carried on principally with Philadelphia, in
boats and fhallops. The articles exported are princi¬
pally wheat, corn, lumber, and hay.
There are in this ftate, 21 Prefbyterian congrega¬
tions, belonging to the fynod of Philadelphia : feven
Epifcopal churches *, fix congregations of Baptifts,
containing about 218 fouls j four congregations of the
people called Quakers; befides a Swedifh church at
Wilmington, which is one of the
the United States, and a number of Methodifts. All
thefe denominations have free toleration by the con-
ftitution, and live together in harmony. <
In the convention held at Philadelphia, in the fum-
mer of 1787, the inhabitants of Delaware were rec-
honed at 37,000, which is about 26 for every fquare
mile. There is no obvious charaaeriftical difference
between the inhabitants of this ftate and the Pennlyl-
vanians. See Pennsylvania. . . . .n
Under the prefent conftitution, the legiflature is
divided into two diftina branches, which together are
ftvled 7he Genera/ JJfe?nbly of Delaware One branch,
called the Uoufe 0/confifts of feven reprefen-
tatives from each of the three counties, chofen annu¬
ally by the freeholders. The other branch, called the
Council, confifts of nine members, three for a county, Dekw
who muft be more than 25 years of age, chofen like- ‘ V
wife by the freeholders. A rotation of members is
eftabliftied by difplacing one member for a county at
the end of every year. All money bills muft origi¬
nate in the boufe of affembly, but they may be alter¬
ed, amended, or rejefted by the legiflative council. A
prefident or chief magiftrate is cholen by the joint bal¬
lot of both houfes, and continues in office three years *,
at the expiration of which period, he is ineligible the
three fucceeding years. If this office becomes vacant
during the recefs of the legiflature, or he is unable to
attend to bufinefs, the fpeaker of the legiilative coun¬
cil is vice-prefident for the time *, and in bis absence
the powers of the prefident devolve upon the Ipeaker
of the affen»bly. A privy council, confifting of four
members, two from each boufe, cbofen by ballot, is
conftituted to affift the chief magiftrate in the admi-
piftration of the government. The three juftices ot
the fupreme court, a judge of admiralty, and lour
iuftices of the common pleas and orphans courts, are
appointed by the joint ballot of the prefident and ge¬
neral affembly, and commiffioned by the prefident to
hold their offices during good behaviour. I he preli-
dent and privy council appoint the fecretary, the at¬
torney-general, regifters for the produce of wills, regi-
fters in chancery, clerks of the common pleas, and or¬
phans courts, and the clerks of the peace, who boH
their offices during five years, unlefs fooner removed
for mal-condua. The houfe of affembly name 24 per-
fons in each county for juftices of peace, from which
number the prefident, with the advice of his council,
appoints and commiffions twelve, who ferve. for leyen
years, unlefs fooner difmiffed for mal-admmiftration.
The members of the legiflative and privy-councils are
iuftices of the peace for the whole ftate.—The courts
of common pleas and orphans courts have power to
bold chancery courts in certain cafes. 1 he clerk ot
the fupreme court is appointed by the chief juftice,
and the recorders of deeds by the juftices of the com¬
mon pleas, for five years, unlefs fooner difmifled. A
the military and marine officers are appointed by the
general affembly. The court of appeals confifts ot ie-
ven perfons: the prefident, who is a member, and pre-
fides by virtue of bis office, and fix others, three to
be chofen by the legiflative council, and three by
the houfe of affembly. To this court appeals lie
from the fupreme court, in all matters of law and
equity. The judges hold their dffice during good be-
The iuftices of the feveral courts, the members of
the privy council, fecretary, truftees of the loan of¬
fice, cleiks of the common pleas, and all perfons con¬
cerned in army or navy contrafts, are ineligible to ei¬
ther boufe of affembly. Every member, before taking
his feat, muft take the oath of allegiance, ^^ub-
feribe a religious teft, declaring bis belief in God the
Father, in Jefus Chrift, and the Holy Ghoft j and m
the infpiration of the Scriptures.
The houfe of affembly have the privilege of im¬
peaching delinquent officers of government *, and im¬
peachments are to be profecuted by the attorney-ge¬
neral, or other perfons appointed by the affembly, and
tried before the legiflative council. The puniftiment
may extend to temporary or perpetual Affability
del
Iiold offices under government, or to fuel] other penal
ties as the laws fhall direft. P
There is, in Delaware, no eftablifliment of one re¬
ligious fed in preference to another j nor can any
preacher or eiergyman, while in his paftoral employ¬
ment, hold any civil office in the date.
miffiOTerEGA rE> in 3 &eneral fenre> a deputy or com-
Delegates, commiffioners appointed by the king-
under the great feal, to hear and determine appeals
from the ecclefiaftical court.
Cwrt of Dezegates, the great court of appeal in
bv Z l l ^ THefe del^ates are aPPointed
b> the king s commiffion under his great feal, and if-
iumg out of chancery, to reprefent his royal perfon
and hear all appeals to him made by virtue of the da-
Him IT, dV-'-19- commiffion is ufunl-
ly filled with lords fpintual and temporal, judges of
t.ie courts at Wedminder, and doftors of the civil
thJV r£ealS *t0 R°me Were alwa7s looked upon by
the Engliffi nation, even in the times of Popery, with
as being contrary to the liberty of the ffib-
3nf th the, h.0110111; of the crown> and the independence
of he whole realm j and were fird introduced, in very
tt"' 'TV?, thre ,6th yearof K!nS St£Phe"
(A. D. i151) at the fame period (Sir Henry Spel-
man obferves) that the civil and canon laws were fird
imported into England. But in a few years after, to
at Clarend8 the COnftituti°ns made
r.ndon, 11 Hen. II. on account of the didurb-
the hor^ ^ ArCrh.bi{boP Becket a»d other zealots of
Ir J? a- Z eXpLrefsly declare’ that aPPeals in caufes
ecclefiadical ought to he from the archdeacon to the
diocefan ; from the diocefan to the archbiffiop of the
province ; and from the archbiffiop to the king : and
are not to proceed any farther without fpeciaUicenfe
from the crown. But the unhappy advantage that was
given |.n the reign of King John, and his fon Hen. Ill
to the encroaching power of the Pope, who was ever
■ gT!f-A-t0 lmpr°v.e a11 opportunities of extending his
junfdndion to Britain, at length rivetted the cfdom
c appealing to Rome in caufes ecclefiadical fo drong-
2y, that it never could be thoroughly broken off, till
the grand rupture happened in the reign of Hen. VIII
when all the jurifdiftion ufurped by the Pope in mat¬
ters ecclefiadical was redored to the crown/to which
ongmally belonged 5 fo that the datute 25 Hen VIII
«s but declaratory of the ancient law of Ae realm
But cafe th klng himfelf be party ^ a ^ m-
Cults the appeal does not then lie to him in chancery
which would be abfurd ; but, by the 24 Henry VI11’
upner h f 'f6 blfh°pS.of the realm» affembled in the
upper houfe of convocation.
DELEGATION, a commiffion extraordinary given
cautwlfh'0 t;ke £08™ranee of. «d determine ^fome
cau e which ordinarily does not come before him
DELEn" n’ ‘n v°t! La"’- See M'*-
PIRiC ar> eminent painter of ar
chiteflute and perfpeaive, whs born kt Heufden
but in what year is not known. He was a difciple of
wanes Hals, ,n whofe fchool lie praaifed to naint
that mPaft«Uf 1hllbjeas Wt‘iCh ",ere moa by
that mader, fuch as portraits and convention* •
by that means he acquired the (kill to defign figures
Vol. VIL Pan i,f fpirit and COrKa-’ei's X"™
[ 129 ]
del
ZtfrT !nfT:on ^"1 bin. to paint atchi. Delete
teaure and peafpeflive ; and thofe he fludied with fo II
much care, as to make his works admired and coveted De!ft‘v
through the Low Countries. His fubjeaS were the  ^
nfides of churches, filled with figures j grand temples •
magnificent faloons and galleries, with people affieml
at concerts of mufic, feadmg, or dancing. Thofe
nobf^ft16 blShly > his architeaure was in a
noble tade j and the figures were well defigned, as well
as grouped with a great deal of judgment. Several
uthors mention the performances of this mader with
large commendation, for the goodnefs of his invention
and neatnefs of his handling *
a d‘?dELTTERIOyS’ 3n appellation giv™ to things of
°r P01fonous nature. See Poison.
• , r ^ tOWn of the Tlnited Provinces and
capital of Delftland in Holland. It is a pretty’large
place, very clean and well built, with canals'in the
reels planted on each fide with trees. The pub-
hc bu, dmgs, efpecially the town-houfe, are very mag-
of the • f ^ tW° Churches 5 in ^ the tomb
^ pnnc,e off°Arange> who was affaflinatedj and in
iVf ^ Adumiral Tr0mp- 11 has a arfenal,
and ^ VS ab-°Ut tW° miles in circumference
or dikes H a?ainft i^ations b7 three dams
. Here is made a prodigious quantity of
fine earthen-ware called delft-ware; but the town
the meid"' ‘rade>: 11 " PlearM,1y fituated among
N L^t thC nVef Shie’ in E* L°r§- 4* I3*
Delft Wat e, a kind of pottery of baked earth, co¬
hered with an enamel or white glazing, which gives it
the appearance and neatnefs of porcelain. Some kinds
of this enamelled pottery differ much from others, ei-
IrTnTh hKr fudden heat withoilt breaking,
or m the beauty and regularity of their forms, of the!;
nam !’dandT°f ^ pa,ntlng with which they are or¬
namented. In general, the fine and beautiful enamel-
in externaT’ appr03ch the neareft to porcelain
V u 1 a appearance> are at tbe fame time thofe
ta^aS 3 bnlk Again’ th°fe which fuf-
pottery ’ ^ and refembIe comm™
The bafis of this pottery is clay, which is to be
mixed, when too fat, with fueh a quantity of fand that
the earth ffiall preferve enough of its duality to be
f^nefs^hSneafily 5 and yet tbat its
tatnels ffiall be fufficiently taken from it, that it mav
°r fiirink too much in drying or in bakin'/
effels formed °f this earth muft be dried very gently
to avoid cracking. They are then to be placed^" a
furnace to receive a flight baking, which /only meant
1 Slve them a certain confiflence or hardnefi/ And
arC tk bC C°!ered wkh an en3mel or glazing*
Ivl ich is done, by putting upon the veffels thus prep£
red the enamel, which has been ground very fine and
diluted with water. b 7 ’ and
As veffels on which the enamel is applied are hue
fl.ghUy baked they readily imbibe the water in which
the enamel is fufpended, and a layer of this enamel a I
Ws to .heir furfi.ee ; thefe velfels may then be paimetl
with colouvs compofed of metallic calces, mixed and
ground with a fufible glafs. When they are become
perleflly dry, they are to be placed in the furnace in¬
cluded ID cafes of baked earth called/e^ori, and ex.
R pofed
Delia
DEL
[ ,3° 1
del
Belft-ware. pofed to a heat capable oHofing uniformly the enamel
. v  which covers them. This heat given to fule the ena
met being much ftronger than that which was applied
at fi.lt to give feme confiftence to the ware, IS alfo the
heat neceffary to complete the baking of it. The fur-
nace and colours ufed for painting this ware, are Ac
fame as thofe employed for porcelain. 1 he glazing,
[lich is nothingPbut white enamel, ought to e o
onaoue as not to (how the ware under it. 1 here ar
nfany receipts for making thefe enamels •, but all of
diem are compofed of fand or flints, vitrifying falts
chem caix of lead, and calx of tin y and the fand muft be
D«3.‘ perfeftly vitrified, fo as to form a glafs c^“eraldy f -
fible. Somewhat lefs than an equal part of alkaline
ll or twice its weight of calx of lead, is reqmfite to
eM fuch vitrifications of fand. The calx of tin s
not intended to be vitrified, but to give a whiteopaque
ro our to the mafs ; and one part of it is to be added to
three or four parts of all the other ingredients taken
together. From thefe general principles various en¬
amel may be made to fuit the different kinds of
earths. To make the enamel, lead and tin are ca -
cined together with a ftrong fire ; and the and is alfo
Tbe made into a fri.t with the fait or aihes. The
that the fire ftiould be continued twice as long as 0e
“dEUA in antiquity, a feftival celebrated every
cr . „r • .1.. iilaud of Delos, in honour of Apollo.
I-[ wL firft inftituted by Thefeus, who at his return
from Crete placed a ftatue there, which he had recel
ved from Ariadne. At the celebration .AeJ <=rowned
the ftatue of the god ^ afterwards
the various windings of the J > Ariadne’s
which Thefeus had extricated h.mfelf by Ariadne s
affiftance There was another feftival of the la
name yearly celebrated by the Athenians in Delos.
It alfo^was inftituted by Thefeus, who, when he was
flfip the fame which carried 1 heleus, ana i
carefully preferved by the Athenians, was called Theo.
rL and Ua, When .the, (hip wa^ready^or^h.
II
Delibera¬
tive.
cined together with a itrong nre , auu — —“ r;fl and Delias. When the uup
to be made into a fritt with the fait or afhes. The the prieft of Apollo folemnly adorned the ftem
whole is then to be well mixed and gtound together. Mld an u„iv«fal luftration was made all
The matter is then to be placed under the furnac , S ci The Theori were crowned with lau
here it is melted and vitrified during the baking of J proceeded men armed with axes.
It is next to he gtound in a null, and ap- Tf^moration of^hefeus, fu^'-toun!
plied as above directed. . „• from Troezen to Athens, and denvei ,
P The oreparation of the white enamel is a very effen- y . . Ih.n arrived at Delos,
, ? vsnrr rl^yft-ware. and one in which ma
delft-ware, and one in which ma-
tial article m d,AntJc> in a memoir con-
to be° mixed with about a feventh part of that quantity
of calx of tin for common delft-ware, or a fourth part
of calx of tin for the fineft kind y a hundred, or a
Wired and ten, pounds of fine fand y and about twen-
tv o! thirty pounds of fea-falt. Concerning the earth
of which the ware is made, he obierves, that ay
to ^i-inens, ciuu
try'from robbers. When the (hip arrived at Delos,
they Offered folemn fscrifices to the god of the fland,
Omm aE«eh,ey ^carstfofMivity’preva iled at their
xtrateu tnem this feftival it was unlawful to
;n„tPt,o“eath‘any malelaor and on that account the
f Socrates was prolonged for 30 days.
Dema, a furname of Diana, becaufe Hie was born in
DeDELIAC, (Deliacus), among the ancients, deno-
V fold fowls, fatted ca-
bener.0 P^so^ware made of clay alone are found^o DaE^ultereV; who fold fowls, fatt^ca-
a«i?iAJ535iiS
occupation. ^ They alfo foid eggs, as ^P-ftomCl-
efcape without altering the form of the w'are in dry¬
ing ‘ ’it affords alfo a better ground for the enamel ,
1 L-* 1 or. more uloffV and white than when laid
which appears ‘"“re « J of clav which are chicfiy
CJvTa0gl«“r folfoCfomeUrredcl,°y is added ; which,
«Xt^yed Wee parts ^ the^mhly.Js
marleT fmm thT -"pfUve delibera-
tories, M. d’Antic thinks, that -tne be^t aem w««c
«r^ hh Academic Qmiftionf, lib. iv- PW, hb. x
cap. 30. and Columella, lib. vm. cap. 8. likctt.le men
ti0" lhi mfcAL Problem, a celebrated problem a-
mong thi'anefents, concerning the duplication of the
CUtnVr IftAMENTA, in antiquity, a libation to
the^W g^dEsNalw;ys offered by poutmg down-
wards. See See Law Index.
DELIBERATIVE, an appellation given to a kind
Delidl
II.
Belli
DEL [ ,
tive voices 5 thofe beneath them have only confulta-
tive voices.
DELICT, in Scots law, fignifies fuch fmall offences
or breaches of the peace as are puniihable only by fine
or Ihort imprifonment.
DELINQUENT, a guilty perfon, or one who has
committed fome fault or offence for which he is nu-
nimable. See Britain, N° 97.
DELIQUESCENCE, in Chemijiry, fignifies the
property which certain bodies have of attradling moi-
Imre from the air, and becoming liquid thereby This
property is never found but in faline fubftances, or
matters containing them. It is caufed by the great
afhmty which thefe fubftances have for water The
more fimple they are, according to Mr Macquer, the
more they incline to deliquefcence. Hence acids, and
ertain alkalies, which are the moft fimple, are alfo the
moft deliquescent falts. Mineral acids are fo deliquef-
cent, tnat they ftrongly imbibe moifture from the air
even though they are already mixed with a fufficient
quantity of water to be Huid. For this purpofe, it is
ufficient that they be concentrated only to a certain
thnf ^ h f131!7 fneUtral ralts are deliquefcent, chiefty
thofe whofe bafes are not faline fubftances. Salts
formed by the vitriolic acid, with fixed or volatile al¬
kalies, earths or moft metallic fubftances, are not de-
iquefcent j although this acid is the ftrongeft of all,
™V;o“;rged’attraas ^ of«he ^
Though the immediate caufe of deliquefcence is the
a traaion ot the moifture of the air, as we have already
• er^e ^et reraa>ns to be ftiown why fome falts
attract this moifture powerfully, and others, though
veaThl7 Ti- y/lm-Ple’ d° n0t ?‘ttraa k at all- The
get able alkali, for mftance, attrafts moifture power-
fimnl5 ' a ^ alkali’ th°U8'h to aPPearance equally
hvbf if'!?6' n0t attraft 3t aIL Thc add of Tartar
by itfelf does not attraft the moifture of the air • but
if mixed with borax, which has a little attraftion for
moifture, the mixture is exceedingly deliquefcent —
Some theories have been fug-p-efted in nrA ,
for the-fo onri r •> luo^elted’ln order to account
for thefe and other fimilar fads ; but we are as yet too
and theCqTnted.Wlth the natUre of the atmoiphere
terlftlTfi hftn ItS COnft’tuent Parts have to thofe of
terreftru! fubftances, to determine any thing with cer¬
tainty on this head. 5
f^1 mM' 7 DELI<y71UM (from ttelw.
rA ’ if /VVOon )>a Nooning or fainting away: call-
lipopfychia, af.
In ?fLI<^UIUM (fr°m deliquefco, “ to be diffolved”)
ChemiJIry, ls the diffolution or melting of a fait by
impending it in a moift cellar. ^ 7
Salt of tartar, or any fixed alkali, fet in a cellar nr
other cool moift place, and in an open veffel refolves
T "T Tr3 kind °f called by the older
°f tartar Per deliquium.
Wh^n die id™ ^7’ “ t0 raVC °r talk idly”).
to the exte wT u" the mind d° not correfpond
induced on thl J ’ 7 7* pr°duced ^ the chan^
DEIlT orYh0r Ch,ld’i“.”'t"- See Midwifery.
Mog„rs edpiee, i» s.a ^ nrs £ t
3i ] DEL
p.tals of the empire. The road between it and
"'.',T'r C.ap,traIf .‘S^a.' famous alley or "’alk
K Xr?f ^ r' lm Gh',,'’ fnd '5° 1 ea:;“« in length.
Each half league ts marked with a kind of turret l and
a'„every lla?e,t,lere are llttle fatays or caravanferas for
the benefit of travellers. The road, though pretty
good, has many inconveniences. It is not only fre-
quented by wild beafts, but by robbers. The latter
are fo dexterous at calling a noofe about a man’s neck,
that they never fail, if within reach, to feize and ftrangle
him They gam their point likewife by means of
hand fome women j who, feigning great diftrefs, and
* ak5n UP behind the unwary traveller, choak him
with the fame fnare.—The capital confifts of three ci-
ftrnUH • 77 °ni an0Vher* The nOW quite de-
die r fVS faldftoT.havenhad 52 gates: and to have been
the refidence of King Porus, conquered by Alexander
the Great The fecond, which is alfo in ruins, was
demoliflied by Shah Jehan, to build Jeban-abad with
he materia s. This makes the third^ city, and joins
the rums of the fecond. This city Hands in an ipen
plain country, on the river Jumna, which rifes in this
province. It is encompaffed with walls, except to¬
wards the river. Thefe are of brick, Hanked with
round towers j but without a ditch, and terraced be¬
hind, four or five feet thick. The circumference of
the walls may be about nine miles. The fortrefs, which
I*™)* and 3 kalP 111 cfrcmt, has good walls and
round towers, and ditches full of water, faced with
sth; M 1S ^rrOU1?ded wLth fine gardens, and in it
s the Moguls palace. See Indostan. E. Long-
79- 25* N. Lat. 2 8. 20. S
• J?EI;MEN/JORST» a ftrong town of Germany
in the circle of Weftphalia, and county of Oldenburgh’
thl°wrs t0 ?enTmark ’o feated on the river Delm near
E-.J0ng- 8- 37- N. Lat. 53. i0.
in a E. llland of.the Archipelago, very famous
m ancient hiftory. Originally it is faid to have been
? loat,ng •fland, but afterwards it became fixed and
immoveable. It was held facred on account of its be-
mg.the birth-place of Apollo and Diana.—Anciently
this illand was governed by its own kings. Virgil
mentions one Anius reigning here in the time of the
rojan war. He was, according to that poet, both
king and high-pneft of Apollo, and entertained Hineas
ith great kindnefs. The Perfians allowed the De-
bans to enjoy their ancient liberties, after they had re-
duced the reft of the Grecian ilknds. In after ages,
•, ^ m jde themfelves mafters of it; and held
it td! they were driven out by Mitbridates the Great
who plundered the rich temple of Apollo, and obliged
the Delians to fide with him. Mithridates was in his
urn driven out by the Romans, wlio granted the inha¬
lants many privileges, and exempted them from all
forts of taxes. At prefent it is quite abandoned ; thc
lands being covered with ruins and rubbifti in fuch a
manner as to be quite incapable of cultivation. The
crownf 1 ^ f MyCOne,_ hold k ^w, and pay but ten
s land tax to the Grand Signior for an illand
Wh!CpTrS °niCe °ne °f the richeft in the world Strabo
and Callimachus tell us that the ifland of Delos was
fbrin^ VhLnVelIn.PUS : but Pliny calls i,: only a
ipnng and adds, that its waters fwelled and abafed
at the lame time with thofe of the Nile. At prefent
there is no river in the ifland, but one of the nobleft
R ® fprings
DEL . 13
forinps in the world } bring twelve paces in diameter,
and inclofed partly by rocks, and partly by a vva .
Mount Cynthus, whence Apollo had the fur"am.^ °
Cynthius, is by Strabo placed near the city, and {aid to
be fo high, that the whole ifland was covered by its
ftiadow j but our ’modern travellers _ fpeak o. it as a
hill of a very moderate height. It is but one block
of granite of the ordinary fort, cut on that fide which
faced the city into regular fteps and inclofed on both
fides by a wall. On the top of the mountain are it.ll
to be feen the remains of a ftately building with a
mofaic pavement, many broken pillars, and other va¬
luable monuments of antiquity. From an inf,“rlPt^
difcovered there fome time ago and which mentl0"s
vow made to Serapis, Ifis, ^^Anubis, fome have con-
iecfured that on this hill (food a temple dedicated to
thefe Egyptian deities, though nowhere mentmned m
hitfory.—The city of Delos, as is mamfeft trom the
magnificent ruins dill extant, took up that fpacious
plain reaching from one coaft to the other U was
well peopled, and the richeft city m theArchipelago,
efpecfally after the deftruaion of Connth ; merchants
flocking thither from all parts, both in regard of the
immunity they enjoyed there, and of ^ conv-uent fi-
tuation of the place between Europe and Afla, btrado
calls it one of the moft frequented empones in the
world • and Pliny tells us, that all the commodities o
Europe and Afia were fold, purchafed, or exchanged,
there^ It contained many noble and ftately bullduig’
as the temples of Apollo, Diana, and Latona , the
porticoes of Philip of Macedon, and Durnyflus n y-
ches; a gymnafium ^ an oval bafon made at an irn
menfe ex^ence, for the reprefentation o fea-fights ,
and a moft magnificent theatre. The temple of Apo
was according5to Plutarch, begun by Eryfichton
fon’of CecropV, but aftervvafS,fn!frgfteates of Greece’
liftied at the common charge of all the flat G ^ *
Plutarch tells us, that it was one of the moft ftately
buildings in the univerfe •, and fpeaks of a .
t which, in his opinion, deferved a
wonders of the world. It was built with the horns 0
various animals, fo artificially adapted to one another
that they hanged together without any cement,
altar is faid ihave been a perfea cube ; md the dou¬
bling it was a famous mathematical Problemf 3 p0",^
ancients This went under the name of Proh/ema
Deliacum : and is faid to have been propofed by the
Sade fol «1- purpofe of ftedng the =
nlague. The diftemper was to ceafe when the pro
Vflpm was folved.—The trunk of the famous ftatue of
Apollo, mentioned by Strabo and Puny, is 1
left of great admiration to travellers. I * ,
] , r t rms or legs j but from the parts that are
“telain’in ^plainl? »PPe-s, that the -tents ,d
, t evaggerate when they commended it as a wonde
'? ,rt gIt was of gigantic fixe, though cut out of a
fingle* block of marble ; the fhooldets being
^Sce^^^eTs, -f « ionfnfed he^ps
inches broad, and two feet three inches thick . whic
-in thc
Delos,
Delphi.
2 1 DEL
life of Nicias, that he caufed to be fet up, near the
temple of Delos, an huge palm-tree of brafs, which he   
confecrated to Apollo ; and adds, that^a violent ft
of wind threw down this tree on a coloflal itatue railed
by the inhabitants of Naxos. Round the temple were
magnificent porticoes built at the charge of various
princes, as appears from infcnptions which are ftiU ve¬
ry plain. The names of Philip king of Macedon, Di-
onyfius Eutyches, Mithridates Euergetes, Mithridates
Eunator, kings of Pontus, and Nicomedes king of Bi-
thvnia, are found on feveral pedeftals —To ^is temp e
the inhabitants of the neighbouring 1 Hands_ fent yea /
a company of virgins to celebrate, with danc,"g’
feftival of Apollo and his fifter Diana, and to make
offerings in the name of their refpeftive clt,es‘
So very facred was the bland of Delos held by the
ancients that no hoftilities were praftifed here, even
b/Ac nations that were at war with one another
when they happened to meet m this place. Of this
Livy gives an inftance. He tells us, that fome Ro¬
man deputies being obliged toput m at Delos m their
voyage to Syria and Egypt, found the galleys of Per
feus king of Macedon, and thofe of Eumenes king
Pergamus, anchored in the fame harbour, though thefe
two princes were then making war upon one a"0tb^*
—Hence this ifland was a general afylum, and tbe P "
teftion extended to all kinds of living creatures 5 for
this reafon it abounded with hares, no be^g fuf;
fered to enter it. No dead body was Juffc,red ^
buried in it, nor was any woman fuffered to lieu
there; all dying perfons, and women ready to be de¬
livered, were carried over to the neighbouring ifland
°f DELPHI, in Jndent Geography, a tovm °J)Pho^’
fituated on the fouth-weft extremity of Mount Panvaffus
It was famous for a temple and oracle of that god m
which the following was faid to be the origin. A num-
ber of goatsthat were feeding on Mount Parnaffus, came
ne-r a place which had adeep and long perforation. The
fleam which iffued from the hole feemed to mfpire the
ooa^ and they played and Miked about in filch an
uncommon manned, that the goatherd was «en>P«ed to
“an on the hole, and fee what CofC“:
Mined He was immediately feized with a lit ot en
thufiafm his expreflions were wild and extravagant,
and oaffed for prophecies. This circumftance was foon
known about the country, and many experienced .he
fame enthufiaftic infpiration The place was revered
a temple was foon after erefted ,n honour of Apollo ,
and a city built, which became the chief and mod .1-
lellrious in Phccis. The influence of its god h.s con-
,rolled the councils of flates, direfted the oou'fe of ar
Lies and decided the fate of kingdoms. The ancient
hi ft cry of Greece is full of his energy, and an early
regifter of his authority. The circumjacent aues wer
was early provided with a better habitation An edi¬
fice of ftone was erefted by Trop onl“s aI^ burned
fles which fubfifted about 700 years, and was burned
in the year 636 after the taking ^ Ho
fore Chrift. It is mentioned m the bym
DEL [ ■
Delphi, afcribed to Homer. An opulent and Hluftrious fa-
v~ ' mily, called Alcmaonidte, which had fled from Athens
and the tyrant Hippias, contrafted with the deputies
for the building of a new temple, and exceeded their
agreement. The front was railed with Parian marble,
inllead of the done called Porus ; which refembled it
in whitenefs, but wTas not fo heavy. A Corinthian
was the architect. The pediments were adorned with
Diana, and Latona, and Apollo, and the Mufes ; the
fetting of Phoebus or the fun ; with Bacchus, and the
women called Thyadcs. The architraves were deco¬
rated with golden armour ; bucklers fufpended by the
Athenians after the battle of Marathon, and Ihields
taken from the Gauls under Brennus. In the portico
were infcribed the celebrated maxims of the feven fages
of Greece. There was an image of Homer, and in
the cell was an altar of Neptune, with ftatues of the
Fates, and of Jupiter and Apollo, who were furnamed
Leaders of the Fates. Near the hearth, before the al¬
tar at which Neoptolemus the fon of Achilles was
flain by a pried, dood the iron chair of Pindar. In
the fan&uary w'as an image of Apollo gilded. The
inclofure was of great extent, and filled wuth treafures,
in which many cities had confecrated tenths of fpoil
taken in war, and with the public4donations of renown¬
ed dates in various ages. It was the grand repofitory
of ancient Greece, in which the labours of the fculptor
and datuary, gods, heroes, and illudrious perfons, were
feen colledfed and arranged ; the inequalities of the
area of acclivity contributing to a full difplay of the
noble affemblage.
The oracles were delivered by a priedefs called Py-
thia, wTo received the prophetic influence in the fol¬
lowing manner. A lofty tripod, decked with laurel,
was placed over the aperture, whence the facred va¬
pour ilTued. The priedefs, after wafliing her body
and efpecially her hair, in the cold water of Cadalia,
mounted on it, to receive the divine effluvia. She
wore a crown of laurel, and fhook a facred tree, which
grew by. . Sometimes Are chewed the leaves ; and the
fienzy wfflich follow'ed may with probability be attri¬
buted to this ufage, and the gentler or more violent
f) mptoms to the quantity taken. In one indance the
paroxyfm was fo terrible, that the prieds and fup-
pliants ran awray, and left her alone to expire, it was
believed, of the god. Her part was unpleafant j but,
if Jlie declined aairrg, they dragged her by force to the
tripod. 1 he habit of her order w7as that of virgins.
The rules enjoined temperance and chadity, and pro¬
hibited luxury in apparel. The feafon of inquiry was
m the fpring, during the month called Bulfius ; after
which Apollo was fuppofed to vifit the altars of the
Hyperboreans.
The city of Delphi arofe in the form of a theatre,
upon the winding declivity of Parnaflus, wfflofe fanta-
dic tops overfhadow7ed it, like a canopy, on the north,
while two immenfe rocks rendered it inacceffible on the’
ead and wed, and the rugged and fliapelefs Mount
Cirphis defended it on the fouth. The foot of the
lad-named mountain w7as wafhed by the rapid Pliflus,
which difeharged itfelf into the fea at the didance of
only a few leagues from the facred city. This inaccef¬
fible and romantic fituation, from which the place
derived the name of Delphi (dignifying, as explained
in the gIoffanes,/ci//^ry, alone), was rendered dill more
33 1 del
driking, by the innumerable echoes which multiplied
every found, and increafed the ignorant veneration of
vifitants for the god of the oracle. The artful mini-
ders of Apollo gradually collefted fuch objefts in the
groves and temple as rvere fitted to adonifh the fenfes
of the admiring multitude. The fplendor of marble,
the magic of painting, the invaluable datues of gold
and filver, reprefented (to ufe the language of antiqui¬
ty) not the refemblance of an earthly habitation, but
rather exprefled the image of Olympus, adorned and
enlightened by the aftual prefence of the gods.
1 he protection and luperintendance of this precious
depofitory of riches and fuperdition belonged to the
Atnphi&yons, as already noticed. But the inhabi¬
tants of Delphi, who, if we may ufe the expreffion,
were the original proprietors of the oracles, always con¬
tinued to direCI the religious ceremonies, and to con-
duCl-the important bufinefs of prophecy. It was their
province alone to determine at w hat time, and on what
occafion, the Pythia fhould mount the facred tripod,
to receive the prophetic deams by which die commu¬
nicated with Apollo. When overflowing with the
heavenly infpiration, flie uttered the confufed words,
or rather frantic founds, irregularly fuggefled by the
impulfe of the god y the Delphians collected thefe
founds, reduced them into order, animated them W’ith
fenfe, and adorned them with harmony. The Pythia,
appointed and dilmified at pleafure, was a mere inflru-
ment in the hands of thofe artful miniders, whofe cha¬
racter became fo venerable and facred, that they were
finally regarded, not merely as attendants and wor-
fliippers, but as the peculiar family of the god. Their
number w as confiderable, and never exaCtly afeertain-
ed, fince all the principal inhabitants of Delphi,
claiming an immediate relation to Apollo, were enti¬
tled to officiate in the rites of his fan Cl u ary ; and even
the inferior ranks belonging to that facred city were
continually employed in dances, fedivals, prcceffions,
and in difplaying all the gay pageantry of an airy and
elegant fuperdition.
Delphi was conveniently fituated for the con¬
flux of votaries, lying in the centre of Greece, and,
as was then imagined, of the univerfe.- It was cu-
ftomary for thofe who confulted the oracle to make
rich prefents to the god: his fervants and prieds fead-
ed on the numerous viCfims which w'ere facrificed to
him ; and the rich magnificence of his temple had be¬
come proverbial even in the age of Homer. In after
times, Croefus, the wealthied of monarchs, was par¬
ticularly munificent in his donations. This facred
repofitory of opulence was therefore often the ob-
jedl; of plunder. Neoptelemus was flain, while facri-
ficing,. on fufpicion of a defign of that kind. Xer¬
xes divided his army at Panopeus, and proceeded
with the main body through Bceotia into Attica,
while a party keeping Parnaflus on the right, ad¬
vanced along Schide to Delphi; but was taken with
a panic when near Ilium, and fled. This monarch, it
is related, was as w'ell apprifed of the contents of the
temple, and the fumptuous offerings of Halyattes and
Croefus, as of the effedls which he" had left behind in
his own palace. The divine hoard was feized by the
Phocenfians under Philomelus, and diflipated in a long
w'ar w'ith the Amphidyons. The Gauls experien¬
ced a reception like that of the Perfians, and mani-
fefled
DEL (134
felled fimilar difmay and fuperftition. Sylia, wanting
money to pay his army, fenl to borrow from the holy
treafury, and when his meffenger would have fright¬
ened him, by reporting a prodigy,. that the found
of a harp had been heard from within the fancluary,
replied, it was a fign that the god was happy to oblige
The trade of Apollo, after it had flourifhed for a
long period, was affefted by the mal-praaices of fome
concerned in the partnerthip, who were convxaed ot
bribery and corruption, and ruined the charao;er of
their principal. The temple in the time of Strabo was
reduced to extreme poverty $ but the offerings which
remained were very numerous. Apollo, was filent,
except fome efforts at intervals to regain his loft credit.
Nero attempted to drive him, as it were by violence,
from the cavern •, killing men at the mouth, and pol¬
luting it with blood ; but he lingered on, and would
not entirely forfake it. Anfwers were reported as
given by him afterwards, but not without fufpicion ot
forgery. An oracle of Apollo at another place inform¬
ed the confultors, that he ftiould no more recover ut¬
terance at Delphi, but enjoined the continuance ot the
accuftomed offerings.
The city of Delphi was free under the Romans. In
the time of Paufanias, who has particularly defcnbed it,
there ftill remained an invaluable treafure ot the of¬
ferings within the court of the temple.. The number,
variety, and beauty ofthefe were prodigious. The itore
appeared inexhauftible ; and the robbery of Nero, who
removed five hundred brazen images, was. rather re¬
gretted than perceived. The holy treafunes, thoug
empty, ferved as memorials of the piety and g ory.o
the cities which ereded them. The Athenian portico
preferved the beaks of (hips and the brazen ftnelds j
trophies won in the Peloponnefian war. And a mul¬
titude of curiofities remained untouched.
Conftantine the Great, however, proved a more fatal
enemy to Apollo and Delphi than either Sylla or Ne¬
ro. He removed the facred tripods to adorn the hip¬
podrome of his new city; where thefe, with the A-
pollo, the ftatues of the Heliconian mufes, and the ce-
a genus of fiftiesDelphinus,
See CktologY Dtlphos.
polio, me udiuca /. f ,
lebrated Pan, dedicated by the Greek cities after the
war with the Medes, were extant when Sozomen
wrote his hiftory. Afterwards Julian fent Onbafius
to reftore the temple; but he was admomftted by an ora.
cle to reprefent to the emperor the deplorable condi¬
tion of the place. ‘ Tell him the well-built court is fal¬
len to the ground. Phoebus has not a cottage nor
the prophetic laurel, nor the fpeaking. fountain (Ud-
fotis) ; and even the beautiful water is extin^. bee
Delphos. , 1 • 1 ..n *
DELPHINIA, in Antiquity, feafts which the in¬
habitants of Egina celebrated in honour of Apollo,
furnamed Delphinim, fo called, as it is pretended be-
caufe he affumed the form of a dolphin to conduft Ca-
ftilius and his colony from the ifte of Crete to the
Sinus CriJJaus Delphinium, one of the courts of judica¬
ture of the Athenians; fo called from the prox.tmty
of the place, where they held their affemblies, to t
temple of Apollo Delphinius.
DELPHINIUM, dolphin-flower, or .Lark-
spur ; a genus of plants, belonging to the polyandr.a
clafs; and in the natural method ranking under the
26th order, Muhifiliquce, See Botany Index,
] DEL
DELPHINUS, or dolphin :
belonging to the order of Cete. . v 
£ticl
Delphinus, in AJlronomy, a conftellation of the
northern hemifphere; whofe ftarsin Ptolemy’s catalogue
are 10: in Tycho’s the fame number; m Hevelius s
14; and in Flamftead’s 18.
DELPHOS, a town, or rather village, ot I.ur-
key in Afia, in the province of Libadia ; occupying
part of the fite of the ancient Delphi. See Delphi.
A late traveller * informs us, that iome veftiges .ot * Clanditr's
temales are vifible ; and above them, in the mountain- rravels in
fide' are fepulchres, niches, and horizontal cavities.for Greese.
the body, fome covered with {labs., iarther .on is a
niche cut in the rock with a feat, intended, it. feems,
for the accommodation of travellers wearied with the
ragged track and the long afeent. The monaftery is
on the fite of the gymnafium. Strong tprrace walls
and other traces of a large edifice remain. The village
is at a diftance. Caftalia is on the right hand as you
afeend to it, the water coming from on high and crol-
fing the road; a fteep precipice, above which Lie
mountain ftill rifes immenfely, continuing on in that
direaion. The village confifts of a few poor cottages
of Albanians covering the fite of the temple and oracle.
Beneath it to the fouth is a church of St Ehas, with
areas, terrace walls, arches, and veftiges of.the build¬
ings once within the court. The concavity ot the
rock in this part gave to the fite the resemblance ot a
theatre. Turning to the left hand, as it were toward
the extremity of one of the wings, you come again to
fepulchres hewn in the rock, and to a femicircular re-
cefs or niche with a feat as on the other fide. Higher
up than the village is the hollow of the kadium, m
which were fome feats and fcattered fragments. .
Higher up, within the village, is a piece of ancient
wall, concealed from view by a fixed, which it fup-
Dorts. The ftone is brown, rough, and ordinary,
probably that of Parnaffus. On the fouth fide are
many inferiptions, with wide, gaps between the letters,
which are negligently and faintly cut; all nearly of tie
fame tenor, and very difficult to copy. They regifter
lame tenor9 ariLi vci j i j j i • r
the purchafe of Haves who had entrufted the price of
their freedom to the god ; containing the contraa be¬
tween Apollo and their owners, witneffed by his
priefts and by fome of the archons. This remnant
feems to be part of the wall before Caffotis , as abo e
it is ftill a fountain, which fupphes tbe.village with ex¬
cellent water, it is likely from the ancient louree.
The water of Caftalia in the neighbourhood from
which the Pythia, and the poets who verfined her an¬
fwers, were believed to derive a large fhare of their
inflation, defeends through a deft of Parnaffus the
rock on each fide high and fteep, ending in two fum-
mits ; of which one was called Hyampeia, and had be¬
neath it the facred portion of Autonous, a local hero
as diftinguiffied as Phylacus. From this precipwe he
Delohians threw down the tamous Affop. by the
fl'L, within the cleft, are feen fmall broken Itara
leading to a cavity in which U water, ami ^ Per¬
haps up to the top. Grooves have been cut, and the
maPrksPof tools are vilible on the rock; but the cur¬
rent inftead of Applying a tamtam, now palles over
its native bed, and haftens down a courfe deep worn
to join the Fliftus. Clofe by, at the foot of
DEL
Era of the
deluge.
Objections
to the fad.
precipice, is a bafon with fteps on the margin, once,
it is likely, the bath ufed by the Pythia. Above, in
the fide of the mountain, is a pretty church dedicated
to St John, within which are excavations refembling
niches, partly concealed from view by a tree.
DELTA, is a part of Lower Egypt, which takes
up a confiderable fpace of ground between the branches
of the Nile and the Mediterranean fea : the ancients
called it the ijle of Delta, becaufe it is in the fhape of
a triangle, like the Greek letter of that name. It is
about 130 miles along the coaft from Damietta to A-
lexandria, and 70 on the Tides from the place where
the Nile begins to divide itfelf. It is the moll plenti¬
ful country in all Egypt, and it rains more there than
in other parts, but the fertility is chiefly owing to the
inundation of the river Nile. The principal towns
on the coaft are Damietta, Rofetta, and Alexandria;
but, within land, Menoufia, and Maala or Elmala.
DELTOIDES, in y/tftf/o/Tzy. See Anatomy, Table
of the Mufcles.
DELUGE, an inundation or overflowing of the
earth, either wholly or in part, by water.
We have feveral deluges recorded in hiftory ; as that
of Ogyges, which overflowed almoft all Attica ; and
that of Deucalion, which drowned all Theffaly in
Greece : but the moft memorable was that called the
Univerfal Deluge, or Noah's Flood, which overflowed
and deftroyed the whole earth ; and from which only
Noah, and thofe with him in the ark, efcaped.
This flood makes one of the moft confiderable
epochas in chronology. Its hiftory is given by Mofes,
Gen. ch. vi. and vii. Its time is fixed, by the beft
chronologers, to the year from the creation 1656, an-
fwenng to the year before Chrift 2293. From this
flood, the ftate of the world is divided into diluvian
and antediluvian. See Antediluvians.
Among the many teftimonies of the truth of this
part of the Mofaic hiftory, we may account the ge¬
neral voice of mankind at all times, and in all parts of
the tvorld. The objeaions of the free-thinkers have
indeed principally turned upon three points, viz. i.The
want of any direft hiftory of that event bv the profane
writers of antiquity ; 2. The apparent impoflibility of
accounting for the quantity of water necefiary to over¬
flow the whole earth to fuch a depth as it is faid to
have been : and, 3. There appearing no neceffity for
an umverfal deluge, as the fame end might have been
accomplifhed by a partial one.
I. The former of thefe objeiftions has given rife to
feveral very elaborate treatifes, though all that has yet
been done m this way has fcarcely been able to filence
the objectors. Mr Bryant, in his fyftem of Mythology
has with great learning and confiderable fuccefs endea¬
voured to ftiow, that the deluge was one of the prin¬
cipal, if not the only foundation of the Gentile wcr-
ftip ; that the firft of their deities was Noah j that
all nations ot the world look up to him as their foun¬
der; and that he, his Tons, and the firft patriarchs
are alluded to in moft if not all of the religious ctrc-
monies, not only of the ancient but of the modern hea¬
thens. In Ihort, according, to this author, the de¬
luge lo far from being forgot, or obfcurely men¬
tioned by the heathen world, is in reality confpicuous
throughout every one of their ads of religious worftiip.
I he Egyptian Ofiris, according to him, was the fame
[ 13S 1
DEL
with Ham the ion of Noah, though the name was fome-
times beftowed on Noah himfelf. That this is the cafe,
Deluge.
. . #       10 LUG GUiCj
is evident, he thinks, from its being laid that he wasR., 3 ,
expofed in an ark, and afterwards reftored to day 5 accountW
that he planted the vine, taught mankind agriculture, the ancient
and inculcated upon them the maxims of religion and heroes,
juftice. Something of the fame kind is related of
Perfeus. He is reprefented by fome ancient hiftorians
as a great aftronomer, and well verfed in other fciences.
After being conceived in a fhower of gold, he was ex¬
pofed in an ark upon the waters, and is faid to have
had a renewal of life.— The hiftory of Myrina the A-
mazon affords a kind of abridgement and mixture of
the hiftories of Ofiris and Perfeus. Similar to thefe
is the hiftory of Hercules himfelf. But our author ob-
ierves, that under the titles of O/iris, Perfeus, Myrina,
&c. the ancients fpoke of the exploits of a whole na¬
tion, who were no other than the Cuthites or Cufli-
ites, the defcendants of Cufti the fon of Ham and
father of Nimrod. Thefe people fpread themfelves
into the moft remote corners of the globe ; and hence
the heroes whom they reprefented are always fet forth
as conquering the whole w’orld.—rAccording to Dio¬
dorus Siculus, the Egyptian Ofiris was the fame with
the Dionufus of the Greeks. He is faid to have been
twice born, and to have had two fathers and two mo¬
thers ; to have, been wonderfully preferved in an ark ;
to have travelled all over the earth; taught the ufe of
the vine, to build, plant, &.c. I he Indians claim
him as a native of their country, though forae allow
that he came from the weft. Of Cronus and Aftarte,-
faid that they went over the whole earth, dif-
it is
pofing of the countries as they pleafed, and doing good
wherever they came. The fame is related of’bura-
nus, Themis, Apollo, &c. though all their exploits
faid to have been the effe&s of conqueft, and
are
their benevolence enforced by the fword. In a fi-
milar manner he explains the hiftories of other heroes
of antiquity ; and having thus, in the charafters and
hiftory of the moft celebrated perfonages, found
traces of the hiftory of Noah and his family, our
authoi proceeds to inquire into the memorials of
the deluge itfelf, to be met with in the hiftory or
religious rites of the different nations of antiquity.
“ We may reafonably fuppofe (fays he), that the par-Teftimo-
ticulars of this extraordinary event W’ould be grate-nies of the*
fully commemorated by the patriarch himfelf, and^efe?eto
tranfmitted to every branch of his family ; that they^T1
were made the fubjedl of domeftic converfe, where
the hiftory was often renewed, and ever attended wdth author”
a reverential awe and horror, efpecially in thofe who
had been witneffes to the calamity, and had experien¬
ced the hand of Providence in their favour. In pro-
cefs of time, when there was a falling off from the
truth, we might farther expe£l, that a perfon of fo
high a charaaer as Noah, fo particularly diftinguifhed
by the Deity, could not fail of being reverenced by
his pofterity ; and wdien idolatry prevailed, that he
would be one of the firft among the Tons of men to
whom divine honours would be paid. Laftly, we
might conclude, that thefe memorials would be inter¬
woven in the mythology of the Gentile world; and that
there would be continual allufions to thefe ancient oc¬
currences in the rites and myfteries as they were prac-
tifed by the nations of the earth. In conformity to
t thefe
5
V arious
titles by
which
T) E L [ I36
thefe fuppofitions, I (hall endeavour to fliow that thefe
things did happen ; that the hiftory of the deluge was
•eligloufly preferved in the firft ages •, that every cir-
cunadance o'f it is to be met with among ^ ^an5
and mythologifts of different countries . and tiaces °
it are to be found particularly in the facred rites of E-
gypt and of "Greece.
1
del
tears. There is likevsife a proverbial evpref-
prk.te. thefe ruppofitions, I IhaU endeavoor to fionyabout Nannacus applied to people of great anu-
Stephanos gives great light to .hi, hiftory and fop-
plies manv deficiencies. ‘The tradition is (lays he), that
there was one formerly named Annaeus, the extent of
: to DC xounu paiv — - -vvhofe life was above 300 years.. The peop e w lowere
and of Greece. . n , :n the of his neighbourhood and acquaintance had inquired of
It will appear from many circumftances in the ot ^ 1q he was t0 live j and there was an
more ancient waiters, that the gte« Patriarch was ^f0”C '^rhT/tvhen Annaeus died, all mankind
„h,ch highly reverenced by his poften.y 1 hey lOTk'd ^ „ould L deftroyed. The Phrygians, npon this ac
Noah was fon h;„hly favoured by heaven ; and ho-
diltinguifli-^ , tiilrs each of which had a re-
xd. noured him with many titles, eacn or w
ference to fome particular part of his hift J. Y
ftyled him Prometheus, Deucalion, Allas Pbeuth ,
Xuthus, Inachus, Ofiris. When ^ere began to b a
tendency towards idolatry, and the adoration of t
fun was introduced by the poftenty of Ham, the t tie
of He/ius, among others, was conferred upon h.m.
They called him alfo M»v and M*v, which is the moon.
Whe^ colonies went abroad, many took to.themfelve
the title of Minyadx and Miny# Jtom him •, ]uft as
others were denominated Achamenuht, Auntie, Hehad*,
?^m the fun. People of the former n« to b
found in Arabia and in other parts of world- J
natives at Orchomenos were ftyled Miny*, as were
W of the inhabitants of Theffaly. Noah was the
original Zeus and Dios He was the V
vine and inventor of fermented liquors . whence lie
was denominated Zeuth, which figoifies ferment, ten-
dered Zeus by the Greeks. He was alfo called Dio-
interpreted by the Latins Baeehus but very tm-
p±rly Bacchus was Chus the grandfon of Noah ;
as Ammon may in general be efteemed Ham, fo much
IeV‘< Among^he'peo^e'oTihe eaft, the true name of
the patriarch was preferved •, they called him Noas,
VuJ and fon,e«imePs contr,aed Nous; and many pla-
and hothV
appellation, uu r r;rPek language. Eufebius
it had been a term or the oreeK laugung . ,
h,forms ul that the difciples of Anaxagoras fay, nhat
Nous is by interpretation, the del y t
md thei hkewife efteem Nous the fame as Prome-
i • r TAta<! the renewer of mankind, and
waTfauTo’1 hav! 'fa^iioned'^hem again,; after rhey
had been in a manner extinff. After this, however^
he gives a folution of the ftory, upon the
tW Hous is the fame with the Greek word the
mind • that ‘ the mind was Promelheia ; and Prome-
theus 'was faid to renew mankind, from new forming
Seh mi^, and leading them, by cultivation, from
^"‘Stida’s has preferved, from fome ancient author,
a culm memorial of this wonderful pe.fonage, whom
he affects to diftinguifh from Deucalion, an y
he anecis £ ^im this Nannacus was
Nannacus. According to him, r
s nerfon of great antiquity, and prior to tne time u
a perlon or g ^ been a king> wl10
Deucalion. He is laia » rnileAed every
forefeeing the approaching deluge, collettefl every
Znr, made grVariamJntationsrfrom whence arofe
the proverb r. f “"'^'tr “c^mtoces
Annaeus, made ufe ot tor people or ^
highly calamitous, ^hen the flood of DeuCal °
came7 all mankind were deftroyed, according as the
oracle had foretold. Afterwards, when the (urface oi
the earth began to be again dry, Zeus ordered I rome-
theus and Minerva to make imaP£S.“f “l”
of men -, and, when they were fintihed, he called tne
winds, and made them breathe into each, and tendc
th r'.om'thefe hiftories Mr Bryant concludes as fol¬
lows ” However the ftory may have been varied,
’the principal outlines plainly point out the perfon who
sXde7.o in thefe hiftories. It is, I think, man -
fell, that Annaeus, and Nannacn^ and »e» Inachn^^
bn’tlehiSs o'f Deucalion and Prometheus have^^.
like reference to the patriarch; in the 6ooth year,theuS( the
ak ? the Lcth of whofe life the waters pre-f„m,wi.b
anu TUn the eith He was the father of man-Noah.
tod Tut rented in him. Hence he is repre-
fented by another author,^under ^o-"an",ere
forTed aUo!et and^were inftruaed in all that was
g°‘‘dNoah was the o.iginal Cronus and Zeus; though
^dS.0 ’The tears ^ f reprefented^s^y
S NtbegaltrS and to flood the conn,.y._Th=
overfiowing^of that r'v££ ^d^pt it^steir
Pey0ePt i« was eve'r attded'wi.h myftical
chiet blefli 8 ’ ^ —h* particularly ob*
tears and lamentations. -1 deity was Ms.
ferved at Coptos, where he prmap^deit^
An ancient writer imagm ^t ^ inundation ;
tations ot the peop ^ fu Pfed to make the river
r 11 Butrall this was certainly faid and done in me-
Sl of a Wer flood, of which they made the over¬
flowing of the Nile a type. reprcfented as a
DEL
[
Deluge, ages, that there reigned in Egypt Telegonus a prince
of foreign extraction, who was the fon of Ones the
fhepherd, and the feventh in defcent from Inachus.
And in the fame author we read, that a colony went
forth from that country into Syria, where they found¬
ed the ancient city of Antioch $ and that they were
conduced by Cafus and Belus, who wTere Tons of Ina¬
chus. By Inachus is certainly meant Noah; and
the hiftory relates to fome of the more early defen¬
dants of the patriarch. His name has been rendered
very unlike itfelf, by having been lengthened with
terminations, and likewife falhioned according to the
idiom of different languages. But the circum(lances
of the hiftory are fo precife and particular, that we
cannot mifs of the truth.
“ He feems in the eaft to have been called iVoax,
Noqfis, Nufus, and iVax ; and by the Greeks his name
was compounded Dionufus, The Ammonians, wherever
they came, founded cities to his honour ; hence places
called Nufa, will often occur $ and indeed a great ma¬
ny of them are mentioned by ancient authors. Thefe
though widely diftant, being lituated in countries far
removed, yet retained the fame original hillories $ and
were generally famous for the plantation of the vine.
Mifled by this firailarity of traditions, people in after
times imagined that Dionulus muft neceffarily have
been where his hiftory occurred ; and as it was the
turn of the Greeks to place every thing to the account
of conqueft, they made him a great conqueror, who
went over the face, of tlife whole earth, and taught
mankind the plantati@n of the vine. We are informed
that Dionufus went with an army over the face of the*
whole earth, and taught mankind, as he paffed along,
the method of planting the vine, and how to prefs
out the juice, and receive it in proper veffels. Though
the patriarch is reprefented under various titles, and
even thefe not always uniformly appropriated 5 yet
there will continually occur fuch peculiar circumftances
of his hiftory as wall plainly point out the perfon re¬
ferred to. The perfon preferved is always mentioned
as piefeived in an ark. He is defcribed as being in a
itate of darknefs, which is reprefented allegorically as
a ftate of death. He then obtained a new life, which
is called a fecond birth $ and is faid to have his youth
renewed. He is, on this account, looked upon as the
firft-born of mankind-, and both his antediluvian
and poftdiluvian ftates are commemorated, and fome-
times the intermediate ftate is alfo fpoken of. Diodo¬
rus calls him Deucalion ; but defcribes the deluge as
m a manner univerfal. «In the deluge which hap¬
pened in the time of Deucalion, almoft all flefti died.’
Apollodorus having mentioned Deucalion »
<onJigned to the ark, takes notice upon his quitting
it, of his offering up an immediate facrifice to the
God who delivered him. As he was the father of all
mankind, the ancients have made him a perfon of
very extenfive rule ; and fuppofed him to have been a
Yng. Sometimes he is defcribed as a monarch of
the whole earth ; at other times he is reduced to a
petty, king of Theffaly. He is mentioned by Hella-
dtas m his latter capacity; who fpeaks of "the de-
Aige in this time,, and of his building altars to the gods.
Apollonius Rhodius fuppofes him to have been a na¬
tive o Greece, according to the common notions;
v"°! vii Part”? his rrej“diceSi ie Sivcs fo
37 1 DEL
cular.a character of him, that the true hiftory cannot Delhge,
be miftaken. He makes him indeed the Ion of Pro1 1 ’ v~1
metheus, the fon of Japetus; but in thefe ancient my¬
thological accounts all genealogy muft be entirely dif-
regarded. Though this charafter be not precifely
true, yet we may learn that the perfon reprefented was
the firft of men, through whom religious rites were
renewed, cities built, and civil polity eftabliftied in the
world ; none of which circumftances are applicable to
any king of Greece. We are affured by Philo, that
Deucalion was Noah; and the Chaldeans likewife
mentioned him by the name of Xifuthrus, as we are
informed by Cedrenus. ^
I hat Deucalion was unduly adjudged by the I^eucalioa
people of Th.effaly to their country folely, may beproV€dnot
proved from his name occurring in different parts of^g^^6*
the world, and always accompanied with fome hiftory Theflaiy.
of the deluge. The natives of Syria laid the fame
claim to him. He was fuppofed to have founded the
temple at Hierapolis, where was a chafm through
which the waters after the deluge were faid to have
retreated. He was likewife reported to have built
the temple of Jupiter at Athens; where there was a
cavity of the fame nature, and a like tradition, that the
waters of the flood paffed off through this aperture.
However groundlefs the notions may be of the waters
having retreated through thefe paffages, yet they ftiow-
what impreflions of this event were retained by the
Ammonians, who introduced fome hiftory of it where-
ever they came. As different nations fucceeded one
another, in thefe parts, and time produced a mixture of
generations, they varied the hiftory, and modelled it
according to their notions and traditions; yet the
ground-work was always true, and the event for a long
time univerfally commemorated. Jofephus, who feems
to have been a perfon of extenfive knowledge, and
verfed in the hiftories of nations, fays, that this great
occurrence was to be met with in the writings of all
perfons who treated of the firft ages. He mentions
Berofus of Chaldea, Hieronymus of Egypt, who wrote
concerning the antiquities.of Phoenicia ; alfo Alnafeas,
Aoydenus, Melon, and Nicolaus Damafcenus, as wri¬
ters, by whom it was recorded, and adds, that it was
taken notice of by many others.
Among tne eaftern nations, the traces of this Accounts of
event are more vivid and determinate than thofe of the flood
Greece, and more conformable to the accounts of Mo-amongthe
fes. Eufebius has preferved a moft valuable extraft to eaftern nft*
this purpofe from Abydenus; which was taken from110115'
the archives of the Medes and Babylonians. This
writer fpeaks of Noah, whom he names Seifithrus, as a
king; and fays, that the flood began upon the 1 ^th
day of the month Defius ; that during the prevalence
of the.waters, Seifithrus fent out birds, that he might
judge if the flood had remained ; but that the birds,
not finding any refling place, returned to him again!
I his was repeated three times; when the birds were
found to return with their feet ftained with foil ; by
which he knew the flood was abated. Upon this
he quitted the ark, and was never more feen of men
being taken away by the gods from the earth. Aby!
denus concludes with a particular, in which the eaftern
writers are unanimous; that the place of defcent from
the ark was in Armenia, and fpeaks of its remains be-
mg preferved for a long time. Plutarch mentions the
S Noachic
DEL [
Deluge. Noachic dove, and its being Tent out of the ark. But
the moft particular hiftory of the deluge, and the near-
eft of any to the account given by Mofes, is to e
found in Lucian. He was a native of Samo.lata, a
city of Comagene, upon the^ Euphrates, a part ot
the world where memorials ol the deluge were par¬
ticularly preferved, and where a reference to that
hiftory was continually kept up in the rites and Whip
of the country. His knowledge therefore was obtained
from the Afiatic nations among whom he was born,
and not from his kinfmen the Helladians, who were lar
inferior in the knowledge of ancient times. He de-
fcribes Noah under the name oi Deucalion; and lays,
‘ that the prefent race of mankind are difterent riom
thofe who firft exifted ; for thofe of the antediluvian
world were all deftroyed. The prefent world is peopled
from the fons of Deucalion j having increafed to io
great a number from one perfon.. In refped to t le
former brood, they were men of violence, and lawlels
in their dealings. They regarded not oaths, nor ob-
ferved the rights of hofpitality, nor fhowed mercy to
thofe who fued for it. On this account they were
doomed to deftruaion ; and for this purpcfe tnere was
a mighty eruption of waters from the earth, attended
with heavy (bowers from above j fo that the rivers
fwelled, and the fea overflowed, till the whole earth
was covered with a flood, and allflefli drowned. Deu¬
calion alone was preferved to repeople the world.
This mercy was (hown to him on account ot his pie y
and iuftice. His prefervaticn was effeded m this man¬
ner • He put all his family, both his ions and their
wives, into a vaft ark which he had provided, and he
went into it himfelf. At the fame time animals of
every fpecies, boars, horfes, lions, ferpents, whatever
lived upon the face of the earth followed him by pairs;
all which he received into the ark, and experienced
no evil from them; for there prevailed a wonderful
harmony throughout, by the immediate influence of
the Deity. Thus were they wafted with him as long
as the flood endured.” After this he proceeds to
mention, that upon the disappearing of t,ie waters
Deucalion went forth from the ark, and rafted an altar
to God ; but he tranfpofes the fcene to Hierapohs in
Syria, where the natives pretended, as has been a -
ready mentioned, to have very particular memorials ot
<•1 “ Moft of the authors who have tranfmitted to us
Skfaidthefe accounts, at the fame'time ^
to have been remains of the ark were to be (een m tneirdayson one
long vilible f t],c mountains of Armenia. Abydenus particular¬
ly fays, in confirmation of this opinion, that the people
of the country ufed to get fmall pieces of the wood
which they carried about by way ot amulet. And Lc-
rofus mentions, that they fcraped off the afphaltus with
which it was covered, and ufed it as a charm borne of
the fathers feem to infill on the certainty of the ark
being ftiH remaining in their time. 1 neophilus fays
exprefsly, that the remains were to be fjen upon the
mountains of Aram, or Armenia And Chryfoftom
sppeals to it as to a thing well known. Do not
(fays he) thofe mountains of Armenia bear witnefs to
the^truth ? thofe mountains where the ark firft relied .
And are mrtthe remains of it preferved there even un-
l° ‘‘ Thei^e was a cuftom among the priefts of Ammon,
Deluge.
3 ^ ^ k • r
of carrying a boat in proceffion at particular fealons,
in which was an oracular {brine held in great venera- ^
tion. They were faid to have been 80 in number, Boals or
and "to have carried the facred veffel about juft as they flnps car-
were direacd by the impulfe of the Deity. This cu- n.d in p.o-
flom was likewife in ufe among the Egyptians; and Bt-«e
(hop Pocock has preferved three fpecimens of anient mans and
fculpture, wherein this ceremony is dftplayed. 1 h^y Egyptians,
are of wonderful antiquity, and were found by him in
Upper Egypt.
“ Part of the ceremony in moft of the ancient my-
fteries confided in carrying about a (hip or boat ; which
cuftom, upon due examination, will be found to relate
to nothing elfe but Noah and the deluge. The (Lip ot
Ills is well known, and the feftivity among the Algyp-
tians whenever it was carried in public. The name ot
this, and of all the navicular (brines, was Baris; which
is remarkable, for it was the very name of ^ moun¬
tain, according to Nicolaus Damafcenus, on which the
ark of Noah reded, the fame as Ararat m Armenia.
He mentions, that there is a large mountain in Arme¬
nia which (lands above the country ot the Mmyse,
called Baris ; to this it was faid that many people be¬
took themfelves in the time of the deluge, and were
faved ; and there is a tradition of one perlon in parti¬
cular floating in an ark, and arriving at the fumnnt ot
the mountain. We may be affured then, that the
(hip of Ids was a facred emblem ; in honour ot which
there was among the Egyptians an annual feflival. It
was in after times admitted among the Romans and
fet down in their kalendar for the month o. Maich.
The former, in their defeription of the primary deities,
have continually fome reference to a (hip or float.
Hence we frequently read of ©*>< ((ailing
gods). They oftentimes, fays Porphyry, detenbe the
fun in the charafter of a man failing upon a float. And
Plutarch obferves to the fame purpofe, that they did
not reprefent the fun and the moon m chariots, ^
wafted about upon floating machines. In doing which
they did not refer to the luminaries, but to a perftm
reprefented under thofe titles. The fun, or Oius, is
likewife deferibed by Jamblichus as fitting upon the
lotus, and failing in a veffel. n . V r ,
“ It is faid of Sefoftris, that he conftruaed a (hipWonderful
which was 280 cubits in length. H was of cedar
plated without with gold, and inlaid with fllver , and
it was, when finilhed, dedicated to Guns at Thebes.
It is not credible that there (hould have been a (hip ot
this fize, efpecially in an inland diftna, the molt re¬
mote of any in Egypt. It was certainly a temple and
a (brine. ' The former was framed upon this large
fcale ; and it was the latter on which the gold and (li¬
ver were fo lavifhly expended. There is a remarkable
circumftance relating to the Argonautic expedition ,
that the dragon (lain by Jafon was ot the fize of a
trireme ; by which muft be meant, that it was ot the
drape of a (hip in general, for there were no triremes
at the time alluded to. And I have moreover (hown
that all thefe dragons, as they have been reprefented by
the poets, were in reality temples, Dracontia ; where,
among other rites, the worfldp of the ferpent was in-
ftitutecl. There is therefore reafon to think that this
temple, as well as that of Sefoftris, was faflnoned uv
refpe£l to its fuperficial contents, after the ino
a (hip; and as to the latter, it was probably intended.
Reftige.
12
Other em¬
blematical
representa¬
tions ex¬
plained.
DEL f i
in its outlines, to be the exa£t reprefentation of the
ark, in commemoration of which it was certainly built.
It was a temple facred to Onris at Theba : or, to fay
tne truth, it was itfelf called Tbeba; and both the
city, laid to be one of the mod: ancient in Egypt, as
well as the province, were undoubtedly denominated
from it. Now Theba was the name of the ark. It is
the very word made ufe of by the facred writer ; fo
that we may, I think, be affured of the prototype
after which this temple was fafhioned. It is faid in¬
deed to have been only 280 cubits in length ; whereas
the ark t)f Noah was 300. But this is a variation of
only one-fifteenth in the whole : and as the ancient
cubit was not in all countries the fame, we may iup-
pole that this diiparity arofe rather from the manner of
meafuring, than from any real difference in the extent
of the building. It was an idolatrous temple, faid to
have been built by Sefoftris in honour of Ofiris. I
have been repeatedly obliged to take notice of the ig¬
norance of the Greeks in refpeft to ancient titles,
and have drown their mifapplication of terms in many
innances ; efpecially in their luppofing temples to have
been erefted by perlons to whom they were in reality
facred. Sefodris was Ofiris; the fame as Dionufus,
.Alenes, and Noah. He is called Sei/ithrus by Abyde-
nus ; Xixoulbros by Berofus and Apollodorus ; and is
reprelented by them as a prince in whofe time the de¬
luge happened. He was called Zuth, Xuth, and Zeus ;
and had certainly divine honours paid to him.
“ Paufanias gives a remarkable account of a temple
0 Hercules at Eruthra in Ionia ; which he mentions
as of the highed antiquity, and very like thofe of
Egypt. The deity was reprefented upon a float, and
was fuppofed to have come thither in this manner from
Pnoerucia. Aridides mentions, that at Smyrna, upon
the fead called Diony/ta, a drip ufed to be carried in
proceflion. The fame cudom prevailed among the
Athenians at the Panathenma ; when what was termed
the facred flup was borne with great reverence through
the city to the temple of Dameter at Eleufis. At
Pnalerus, near Athens, there were honours paid to an
unknown hero, who was reprefented in the dern of a
flup. At Olympia, the mod facred place in Greece,
was a reprefentation of the like nature. It was a
budding hke the fore-part of a fliip, which dood fa¬
cing^ the end of the hippodromus; and towards the
middle of it w^as an altar, upon which, at the renewal
of each olympiad, certain rites w^ere performed.
I think it is pretty plain that all thefe emblemati¬
cal reprefentations, ot which I have given fo many in-
flances, related to the hidory of the deluge, and the
confervation of one family in the ark. This hidory
was pretty recent when thefe works were executed
m Egypt, and when the rites were firfl eflablifhed :
and there is reafon to think, that in early times mod
ihnnes of the Mizraim were formed under the refcm-
blance of a fliip, in memory of this great event. Nay,
aitner, both fliips and temples received their names
from thence, being dyled by the Greeks, who bor¬
rowed largely from Egypt, Nattij, and N<*uj, and ma¬
nners Kxvt'u, NauU, in reference to the patriarch,
who was vanoufly dyled Xoas, Nous, and Noah.
“ However the Greeks may in their myderies have
fometimes introduced a fliip as a fymbol, yet in their
references to the deluge itfelf, and to the perfons pre-
Deluge.
39 1 DEL
ferved, they always fpeak of an ark. And though
they were apt to mention the fame perfon under va¬
rious titles, and by thefe means different people feem
to be made principals in the fame hiftory ; yet they
were fo far uniform in their account of this particular
event, that they made each of them to be expofed in
an ark. T. hus it is faid of Deucalion, Perfeus, and
Dionufus, that they w^ere expofed upon the waters in
a machine of this fabric. Adonis was hid in an ark
by \ enus, and was fuppofed to have been in a ftate of
death for a year. Theocritus introduces a pafloral
perlonage named Cojnates, who was expoled in an ark
for the lame term, and wonderfully preferved. Of
Olins being expofed in an ark vve have a very remark¬
able account in Plutarch $ who mentions, that it was
on account of Typhon, and that it happened on the
17th of the month Athyr, when the fun was in Scor¬
pio. This, in my judgment, was the precife time
" hen Noah entered the ark, and when the flood came,
which, in the Egyptian mythology, was called Tv-
phon. J
lyphon is one of thofe whofe charadler has been^xplana-
greatly confounded. This has arifen from two differ-t on ofthe
ent perfonages being included under one name, whoT"^'
undoubtedly were diftinguiflied in the language of E- ^
gypt. Typhon was a compound of Tuph or Tupha-
On; and fignified a high altar of the Deity. There
were feveral fuch in Egypt, upon which they offered
human facnfices; and the cities which had thefe al¬
tars were ftyled Typhoman. But there was another
Eyphon, who was very different from the former, how¬
ever by miftake blended with that character. By this
was fignified a mighty whirlwind and inundation ; and
it oftentimes denoted the ocean ; and particularly the
ocean in a ferment. For, as Plutarch obferves, by
1 yphon was underftood any thing violent and unruly,
it was a derivative from Tuph, like the former name ;
which luph feems here to have been the fame as the
Suph of the Hebiews. By this they denoted a whirl¬
wind ; but among the Egyptians it was taken in a
greater latitude, and fignified any thing boifterous
particularly the fea. Plutarch fpeaks of it as denoting
the lea ; and fays likewife, that the fait of the fea
was called the foam of Typhon. It fignified alfiTa
whirlwind, as we learn from Euripides, who expreffes
it luphos j and the like is to be found in Hefychius,
who calls it a violent wind.
“ I he hiftory of Typhon was taken from hiero-
glyphical defcriptions. In thefe the dove, oinas, was
reprefented as hovering over the mundane egg, which
w'as expofed to the fury of Typhon : For" an egg
containing in it the elements of life, was thought no
improper emblem of the ark, in which were preferved
the rudiments of die future world. Hence, in the
Dionufiaca, and in other myfteries, one part of the
nocturnal ceremony confifled in the confecration of an
egg.^ By this, we are informed by Porphyry was
figmfied the world. rI'his world was Noah and his fa¬
mily ; even all mankind, inclofed and preferved in the
ark.
“ In refpea to Typhon, it muff be confeffed that
the hiftory given of him is attended with fome obfcu-
nty. d he Grecians have comprehended feveral cha-
raJ?erJs.rder.°ne term’ wllich the Egyptians undoubt¬
edly diftinguiflied. The term was ufed for a title as
DEL
[ >4° 1
del
Bel,,,., well M a name ; and feveral of tliofe feifonaKes which
liad a relation to the deluge, were ftyled lyphoman or
Diluvian. All thefe the Grecians have included un¬
der one and the fame name, Typhon. The real deity
by whom the deluge was brought upon the earth had
the appellation of Typhonian, by which was meant
DiluviiDeus (a). It is well known that the ark was
conftrudted by a divine commiflion : in which, when
it was completed, God inclofed the patriarch and his
family. Hence it is faid, that Typhon made an ark
of curious workmanfliip, that he might difpofe of the
body of Ofiris. Into this Ohris entered, and was Ihut
up by Typhon. All this relates to the Typhonian
deity who inclofed Noah, together with his family,
within the limits of an ark. The patriarch alfo, wl o
was thus interefted in the event, had the title o y-
phonian. I have Ihown that the ark by the mytho-
logifts was fpoken of as the mother of mankind. 1 he
flay in the ark was looked upon as a date of
and of regeneration. The paffage to life was through
the door of the ark, which was formed in its fide.
Through this the patriarch made his defcent; and a
this point was the commencement of time. I his hi-
ftory is obfcurely alluded to in the account of Typhon ;
of whom it is faid, that without any regard to time
or place, he forced a paffage and burft into light ob¬
liquely through the fide of his mother. This return
to light was defcribed as a revival from the grave; and
Plutarch accordingly mentions the return of Ofiris
from Hades, after he had been for a long feafon in¬
clofed in an ark and in a Hate of death. T111S re'
newal of life was by the Egyptians efteemed a fecond
ftate of childhood. They accordingly, m their hiero¬
glyphics, defcribed him as a boy, whom they placed
Spoil the lotus or water-lily, and called him Orus. He
was the fuppofed fon of Ifis ; but it been fiiown
thatlfis, Rhea, Atargatis, were a 11 embkms of the
ark, that receptacle which was ftyled the mother o
mankind. Orus is reprefented as undergoing fro
the Titans all that Ofiris fuffered from Typhon , and
the hiftory at bottom is the fame. Hence it is fai
of Ifis, that (he had the power of making people i -
mortal; and that when (lie found her fon Orus, in the
mid ft of the waters, dead through the malice ot the
Titans, {he not only gave him a renewal of hte, bi
alfo conferred upon him immortality. . „
In this manner does our author decipher almoft al
the ancient fables of which no fatisfaftory (elution was
ever riven before. He (hows that the primitive gods of
Egypt, who were in number eight, were no other than
the eight perfons faved in the ark ; that almoft all the
heathen deities had one way or other a reference o
Noah. He fhows that he was charaaenfed under the
titles of Janus, Nereus, Proteus, Cannes, ^a§on» ^c;
&c. and in ihort, that the deluge, fo far from being
unknown to the heathens, or forgot by them was in
a manner the bafis of the whole of their worihip. He
traces the hiftory of the raven and dove fent forth by
Noah in the cuftoms of various nations, not only in D ‘ t
the eaft but the weft alfo. Of the numberlefc tefti-
monies of the truth of this part of facred hiftory to
be met with among the weftern nations, however, we
ftiall feleft one more, which is an ancient coin ufually I4
known by the name of the Apamean medal. The Account of
learned Falconerius (fays Mr Bryant) has a curiousthe^
differtation upon a com of Philip the Elder, wduch^
was ftruck at Apamea (b), and contained on its re
verfe an epitome of this hiftory. The reverfe of moft
Afiatic coins relates to the religion and mythology ot
the places where they were ftruck. On the reverfe o
this coin is delineated a kind of fquare machine float¬
ing upon the water. Through an opening in it are
feen two perfons, a man and a woman, as low as the
breaft : and upon the head of the woman is a veil.
Over this ark is a triangular kind of pediment, on
which there fits a dove ; and below it another, which
feems to flutter its wings, and hold in its mouth a fina
branch of a tree. Before the machine is a man fol¬
lowing a woman, who by their attitude feem to have
iuft quitted it, and to have got upon dry land. Upon
‘the ark itfelf, underneath the perfons there inclofed,
is to be read in diftinft charafters, NflE. The learn¬
ed editor of this account fays, that, it had fallen to his
lot to meet with three of thefe coins They were of
brafs, and of the medallion fize. One of them he
mentions to have feen in the colleaion of the duke
of Tufcany ; the fecond in that of the cardinal O
boni ; and the third was the property of Auguftino
Chigi, nephew to Pope Alexander VII. r5
Not content with thefe teftimomes, however, 'vhmh Account^
are to be met with in the weftern regions, or at eafttobemet
in thofe not very far to the eaftward, our author fhows ith in
that “ the fame mythology (of the Egyptians;, and china and
the fame hieroglyphics, were carried as far as Chinajapan.
and Japan ; where they are to be found at this day.
The Indians have a perfon whom they call Buto or
Budo. This is the fame as Boutus of Egypt, Battus
of Gyrene, and Bceotus of Greece : the account gi¬
ven o}f him is fimilar to that of Typhon ; for it is faid
that he did not come to life in the ufual way, but
made himfelf a paffage through the fide ^ his mother i
which mother is reprefented as a virgin. Th.s hiftory,
though now current among the Indians, is of gre
antiquity, as we may learn from the accoun given of
this perfonage by Clemens Alexandrmus. There is
a call of Indians (fays he) who are difciples of Bou-
tas This perfon, on account of his extraordinary
fanftity, they look up to as a god.” The name of
Boutaf Battus, and Boeotus, though apparently con-
r j natriarchs vet originally related to the
ferred upon th'ra*n"'C rRTe(l. Of this feme
machine in which he was p
traces may be found among the Greeks. One of the
Ammonian names for the ark was Aren or Arene ;
and Boeotus is faid by Diodorus Siculus to have been
the fon of Neptune and Arne, which is a contraaion
oi arene the ark. The chief city, Boutus in Egypt,
Piptatch owns that the E^iatts in fotne — Tvphon to he no othet than Heiins the
Chi(1) oL; ^““le a^ent name of Apstnea was Cito.us, one of the names o
the ark.
DEL [141] DEL
, De^gg- where was the floating temple, figntfed properly the this world, Dagun will gather up the fragments, and
^ * " city of the float or ark. The Boeotians, who in the make a new one. I make no doubt but the true name
Dionufiaca fo particularly commemorated the ark, were of the temple was lacb-Iach, and dedicated to the
fuppofed to be defcended from an imaginary perfonage fame god as the Jachufi in Japan. Mr Wife takes no-
Boeotus ; and from him likewife their country was tice of the Grecian exclamation to Dionufus, when the
thought to have received its name. But Bceotas was terms lacche, 0 lacche, were repeated : and he fuppofes,
merely a Variation from Boutus, and Butus, the ark; with great probability, that the Peguan name had a*
which in ancient times was indifferently ftyled Theba, reference to the fame deity. It is°certain, that the
Argus, Aren, Butus, and Boeotus. T.he term Cibo- worlhip of Dionufus prevailed very early among the
tus is a compound of the fame purport, and fignifies nations in the ealt. The Indians ufed to maintain,
both the temple of the ark and alfo a place for fliip- that his rites firft began among them. Profeffor Bay-
P"1?* . er has Ihown, that traces of his worlhip are Hill to be
“ All the myfteries of the Gentile world feem to obferved among the Tamuli of Tranquebar. “ They
have been memorials of the deluge, and of the event have a tradition (fays he), that there was once a gigan-
which immediately fuCceeded. I hey confided for the tic perfon named Maidajhuren, who wTas born of Nifa-
moft part of a melancholy procefs ; and were celebra- dabura near the mountain Meru. He had the horns
ted by night in commemoration of the Hate of darknefs of a bull, and drank wine, and made war upon the gods,
m which the patriarch and his family had been invol- He was attended by eight Budam, who were gigantic
ved. The firft thing at thofe awful meetings was to and mifchievous daemons, of the family of thofe Indian
offer an oath of fecrecy to all who were to be initiated : Ihepherds called Kobaler” In this account we have
after which they proceeded to the ceremonies : thefe a manifeft reference to the hiftory of Dionufus, as
Explanation began with a defcription of chaos; by which was fig- w'ell as that of the Dionufians, by whom his rites w’ere
of the w ord nified fome memoiial of the deluge. Chaos was cer- introduced. And we may perceive that it bears
tainly the fame as the great abyfs. Who, fays a great refemblance to the accounts tranfmitted by the
Epiphanius, is fo ignorant as not to know, that Chaos Grecians. What are thefe Kobaler, who were de-
and Buthos, the abyfs, are of the fame purport ? fcended from the fhepherds, but the fame as the Coba-
Phe names of the deities in Japan and China, and li of Greece, the uniform attendants upon Dionufus ?
the form of them, as well as the mythology with which a fet of priefts whofe cruelty and chicanery rendered
they are attended, point out the country from whence them infamous. ‘ The Cobali (fays an ancient au-
they originally came. In China the deity upon the thor) were a fet of cruel daemons, who followed in
lotus m the midft of waters, has been long a favourite the retinue of Dionufus. It is a term made ufe of for
emblem, and was imported from the weft : the in- knaves and cheats.’
figne of the dragon was from the fame quarter. The “ As the deity, in the fecond temple of Syrian
Cuthites w’orlhipped Cham, the fun ; whofe name they to which ftrangers were not admitted, was not of a hu-
vanoufly compounded. In China moft things which man form, and was called Dagun, we may eafily con-
have any reference to fplendour and magnificence, feem ceive the hidden charafter under which he was defcri-
to be_ denominated from the fame objeft. Cham is bed. We may conclude, that it was no other than
laid, in the language of that country, to fignify any that mixed figure of a man and a fifli, under which he
thing fu/>r?me. Cum is a fine building or palace, fimi- was of old worlhipped both in Paleftine and Syria,
ar to Coma of the Ammonians. Cum is a lord or ma- He is exprefled under this fymbolical reprefentation in
fter ; Cham a fceptre. Laftly, by Cham is fignified a many parts of India; and by the Bramins is called
priett, analogous to_ the Chamanim and Chamenim of Hfynou or Vijhnou. Dagon and Vifhnou have a like
utha and Babylonia. The country itfelf is by the reference. They equally reprefent the man of the fea
I artars called Ham. The cities Cbam-ju, Campion, called by Berofus Oannes; whofe hiftory has been re-
Compition, Cumdan, Chamul, and many others of the verfed by the Indians. They fuppofe that he will re¬
fame form, are mamfeftly compounded of the facred ftore the world, when it ftrall be deftroyed by the chief
term Cham. Cambalu, the name of the ancient me- God. But by Dagon is fignified the very perfon
tropohs, is the city of Cham-bal ; and Milton ftyles it through whom the earth has been already reftored
Properly Cambalu, feat of Cathaian Chan. By when it w^as in a ftate of ruin, and by whom mankind
this is meant the chief city of the Cuthean monarch ; was renewed. Dagon and Noah, I have Ihown to be
or Chan is a derivative of Cahen, a prince. It feems the fame. Viftmou is reprefented, like Dagon, under
lometimes in China and Japan to have been exprefled the mixed figure of a man and a fifti, or rather of a
C^an and Quano. . TT . man, a princely figure, proceeding from a fifh. The
. 1 wo temples are taken notice of by Hamilton, near name of this diftritf, near which the temples above
Syrian in Pegu which he reprefents as fo like in ftruc- ftand, we find to be called Syrian ;■ juft as was named
ture, that they feemed to be built on the fame model. the region where flood the temples of Afargatis and
One of the.e was ca\\zd Kiahack, or the God of Gods Dagon, Syrus, Syria, and Syrian, are all of the fame
temple. The other is cafted the temple of Dagun ; and purport, and fignify Coeleftis and Solaris, from Sehor^
the door and windows of it are perpetually fhut, fo that the fun.”
none can enter but the priefts. They will not tell of Our author next proceeds to defcribe fome of the
what fhape the idol is, but only fay that it is not of Indian temples or pagodas; particularly thofe of Sal-
human form. The former deity, Kiakiack, is repre- fette, Elephanta, and another called Dior a, near Au-
tented as alleep of a human fhape, and 60 feet long ; runghabad in the province of Balagate, which was
and when he awakes, the world is to be deftroyed. As vifited by Thevenot. The traveller relates, that
toon as Kiakiack has diffolved the frame and being of “ upon making diligent inquiry among the natives
*' about
Delude,
DEL [ 142 ] D
about the origin of thefe wonderful buildings, the con- l< Tenfio the god of light.
flant tradition was, that all thefe pagodas, great and
fmall, with all their works and ornaments, were made
bv gianis •, but in what age they could not tell.”
“ Many of thefe ancient ftruflures (continues ]\lr
Bryapt) have been attributed to Ramfcandcr, or Alex¬
ander the Great; but there is nothing among thefe
{lately edifices that in the leaft favours of Grecian
workmanlhip ; nor had that monarch, nor any of the
princes after him, opportunity to perform works of
this nature. W e have not the leail reafon to tmnk
that they ever poflefled the country ; for they wrere
called off from their attention this way by feuds and
engagements nearer home. There is no tradition ^of
this country having been ever conquered except by tne
fabulous armies of Hercules and Dionufus. WThat has
led people to think that thefe works were the operation
of Alexander, is the fimilitude of the name Ramtxan-
der. To this perfon they have fometimes been attri¬
buted •, but Ramtxander wTas a deity, the fuppofed
fon of Bal; and he is introduced among the perfon-
ages who were concerned in the incarnations of Vilh-
nou. .
“ The temple of Elora, and all the pagodas ot
which I have made mention, muff be of great antiquity,
as the natives cannot reach their era. 1 hey were un¬
doubtedly the work of the Indo-Cuthites, who came
fo early into thefe parts. And that thefe ftruaures
were formed by them, will appear from many circum-
ftances j but efpecially from works of the fame magni¬
ficence which w7ere performed by them in other places.
For fcarce any people could have effe£led fuch great
works, but a branch of that family which erefted the
tower in Babylonia, the walls of Balbec, aud the pyra¬
mids of Egypt.” .
Having then defcribed a number ot Ealt Indian .
idols of furprifing magnitude, “ the Babylonians and
Egyptians (fays he), and all of the fame great family,
ufed to take a pleafure in forming gigantic figures, and
exhibiting other reprefentations equally ftupendous.
Such were the coloffal flatties at Thebes, and the
fphinx in the plains of Coume. The flatue creeled
by Nebuchadnezzar in the plains of Dura, was m
height threefcore Babylonifh cubits. It was proba¬
bly raifed in honour of Cham, the fun ; and perhaps it
was alfo dedicated to the head of the Chaldaic family >
who was deified, and reverenced under that title.
Marcellinus takes notice of a flatue of Apollo named
Comeus ; which, in the time of the emperor Verus, was
brought from Seleucia to Rome. This related to the
fame deity as the preceding. We may alfo infer, that
the temple at K-.mju was erefted to Cham the fun,
whom the people worfhipped under the name of Samo-
mfu” • n. j
It is remarkable, that in Japan the pnefls and no¬
bility have the title of Garni. The emperor Quebacon-
dono, in a letter to the Portuguefe viceroy, 1585 tells
him that Japan is the kingdom of Charms 5 whom,
fays he, we hold to be the fame as San, the origin of
all things. By Scin is probably meant San, the fun 5
who was the fame as Cham, rendered here Chamis.
The laws of the country are fpoken of as the laws of
Charais •, and we are told by Kmmpfer, that all the
gods were flyled either Sin or Cami. The founder of
the empire is faid to have been Tenjio Dai Sin, or
E L
Near his temple was a
cavern religioufly vifited, upon account of his having
been once hid when no fun nor liars appeared. He
was efteemed the fountain of day, and his temple was
called the temple of Naiku. Near this cavern was ano¬
ther temple, in which the canufi or priefts Ihovved an
image of the deity fitting upon a cow. It was called
Dam its No Ray, “ the great reprefentation of the fun.”
One of their principal gods is fahufi, fimilar to the
lacchus of the welt. Kaempfer fays, that he is the
Apollo of the Japanefe, and they deferibe him as the
Egyptians did Orus. Elis temple Hands in a town
called Minnohi: and Jakufi is here reprefented upon a
gilt tarate flower j which is faid to be the nymphaa pa-
lujlris maxima, or faba Fgyptiaca of Profper Alpinus.
One half of a large feallop ihell is like a canopy placed
over him ^ and his head is furrounded with a crown of
rays. They have alfo an idol named JVIenippe, much
reverenced in different parts. Both theie, continues
our author, relate to the fame perfon, viz. Noah.
Kcempfer, an author of great credit, faw the temple
of Dabys, which he truly renders Daibod, at Jedo in
Japan. By Daibod was meant the god Budha, whole
religion was llyled the Budfo, and which prevailed
greatly upon the Indus and Ganges. Kcempfer, from
whom Mr Bryant takes this account, fays, that the
people of Siam reprefent him under the form of a
Moor, in a fitting "poffure, and of a prodigious fize.
His fkin is black, and his hair curled (probably), and
the images about him are of the lame complexion.
“ This god was fuppofed (fays Mr Bryant) to have
neither father nor mother. By Budha we are certain¬
ly to underftand the idolatrous fymbol called by home
nations Buddo j the fame as Jrgus and Theba (names
for the ark). In the mythology concerning it we
, may fee a reference both to the machine itfelf and to
the perfon preferved in it. In confequence of which
we find his perfon alfo fly led Bod, Budha, and Bud¬
do; and in the Weft Butus, Battus, and Bieotus. He
was faid by the Indians not to have been born in tne
ordinary way, but to have come to light indiredly
through the fide of his mother. By Clemens of
Alexandria he is called Bouta : and in the hiftory ot
this perfon, however varied, we may Frc^ivi; f
lation to the arkite deity of the fea, called Pqftaon
or Neptune; alfo to Arculus and Dionufus, ftyled
Bmotus and 7hebanus. Kaempfer has a curious h.ftory
of a deity of this fort called Ahutto ,• whofe temple
flood in the province of Bungo, upon the fea ftioie,
near the village of Toma. About, a quarter ot a
German mile before you come to this village, ftands
a famous temple of the god Abutto ; which is faid to
be very eminent for miraculoufly curing many >IlVete-
rate diftempers, as alfo for procuring a wind and good
paffage. For this reafon, failors and paffengers al¬
ways tie fome farthings to a piece of wood, and throw
it into the fea, as an offering to this Abutto, to obtain
a favourable wind. The fame deity, but under a dif¬
ferent name, was woiflripped in China. 1 he Apis,
Mneuis, and Anubis of Egypt, have often been men¬
tioned and explained, as well as the Minotaur of Crete.
The fame hieroglyphics occur m Japan ; and we are
informed by Marco Polo, that the inhabitants worih.p
idols of different flrapes. Some have the head of an
fome of a fwine, and others the head of a dog.
I he
Deluge.
ox,
DEL [ i
Deluge. The moil common reprefentation in this country is
* ' that of Godfo Ten Go, or ‘ the ox-headed prince of
heaven.’
“ It has already been noticed, that the ark was
reprefented under the fymbol of an egg, called the
mundane egg; which wras expofed to the rage of Ty-
phon. It was alfo defcribed under the figure of a lu¬
nette, and called Selene, the moon. The perfon by
W'hom it was framed, and who through its means wTas
providentially preferved, occurs under the charaifer of
a fleer, and the machine itfelf under the femblance of
a cow or heifer. We have moreover been told that
it was called Cibotus, wdiich Clemens of Alexandria
calls Thebotba. Epiphanius mentions it by the name
Idaal Baoth; and fays that, according to an eaflern
tradition, a perfon named Nun wras preferved in it.
The horle of Neptune was another emblem, as wTas
alfo the hippopotamus or river-horfe. The people of
Elis made ufe of the tortoife for the fame purpofe,
and reprefented Venus as refling upon its back. Some
traces of thefe hieroglyphics are to be found in Japan,
which were certainly carried thither by the Indie E-
thiopians.
“ From an account of a temple of Daiboth (probably
the lame with Daibod) at Meaco in Japan, we may
perceive that the people there fpeak of the renewal
of the woild at the deluge as the real creation, which
I have fliown to be a common miflake in the hiftories
of this event. And though the ftory is told wnth fome
variation, yet in all the circumftances of confequence
it accords very happily with the mythology of Egypt,
Syria, and Greece. It matters not how the emblems
have by length of time been mifinterpreted. We have
the mundane egg upon the waters, and the concomi¬
tant fymbol of the moon ; and the egg at lafl opened
by the afliftance of the facred fleer, upon which the
world iffues forth to this day.” The author proceeds
afterwards to mention the great veneration paid in
thefe parts to the ox and cow $ and fays, that nobody
dares injure them. One deity of the Japanefe was
Canon,, the reputed lord of the ocean. He was repre¬
fented in an ere£l poflure, crowned with a flower, and
coming out of the mouth of a fifh. He is reprefented
in the fame manner by the natives of India, and named
Vijhnou and Macauter ; and he is to be found in other
parts of the call. Father Boufhet mentions a tradi¬
tion among the Indians concerning a flood in the davs
of Vifhnou which covered the whole earth. It is
moreover reported of him, that feeing the prevalence
of the waters, he.made a float ; and being turned into
a fifh, he fleered it with his tail. This perfon, in the
account of the Banians by Lord, is called Me novo;
which certainly fhould be exprefled Men-Now. It is
faid, that in the Shafler of this people, a like hiflory
is given of the earth being overwhelmed by a deluge,
in w'hich mankind perifhed ; but the world was after¬
wards renewed in two nerfons called Menou and Cete-
roupa. Vifhnou is defcribed under many characters,
which he is faid at times to have affumed. One of
ihele, according to the bramins of Tanjour, was that
ot Rama Sami. This undoubtedly is the fame as Sama
Rama of Babylonia, only reverfed : and it relates to
that great, phenomenon the Iris •, which was generally
accompanied with the dove, and held in veneration by
the Semarim. J
3 1 DEL
“ As the hiflory of China is fuppofed to extend up- Deluge.
wards to an amazing height, it may be worth while to —\r--=
confider the firfl eras in the Chinele annals, as they are
reprefented in the writings of Japan : for the Japanefe
have preferved hiflories of China; and by fuch a colla¬
tion, I believe no final! light may be obtained towards
the difeovery of fome important truths. Hitherto it
has not been obferved that fuch a collation could be
made.
“ the hiflories of this country, the firfl monarch Japanefe
of China is named Foki; the fame whom the Chinefe hHt.orycf
call Fohi, and place at the head of their lift. ThisChina’
prince had, according to fome, the body, according to
others the head, of a ferpent. If we may believe the
Japanefe hiftorians, he began his reign above 21,000
years before Chrill. I he fecond Chinefe emperor was
Sin-Noo, by the people of China called Sin-Num ; and
many begin the chronology of the country with him.
He is fuppofed to have lived about 3000 years before
Chrift 5 confequently there is an interval of near 18,000
years between the firft emperor and the fecond ; a cir-
cumftance not to be credited. The third, who imme¬
diately fucceeded Sin-Noo, u’as Hoam-Ti. In this
account we may, I think, perceive, that the Chinefe
have adled like the people of Greece and other re¬
gions. ri he hiflories which were imported they have
prefixed to the annals of their nation ; and adopted
the firft perfo.nages of antiquity, and made themmo-
narc.hs in their own country. Whom can we fuppofe
lohi, with the head of a ferpent, to have been, but
the great founder of all kingdoms, the father of man¬
kind ? I hey have placed him at an immenfe diftance,
not knowing his true era. And I think we mav be
allured, that under the charadler of Sin-Num and Sin-
Noo we have the hiftory of Noah ; and Haam-Ti was-
no other than Ham. According to Kaempfer, Sin-
Noo was exadlly the fame charader as Serapis of F*-
gypt. ‘ He was a hufbandman, and taught mankind
agriculture, and thofe arts which relate to the imme¬
diate fupport of life. He alfo difeovered the virtues
of many plants ; and he was reprefented with the head
of an ox, and fometimes only w ith two horns. His
pidure is held in high eftimation by the Chinefe.’ Well
indeed might Kaempfer think, that in Sin-Noo he faw
the charader of Serapis; for his perfonage was no
other than Sar-Apis, the great father of mankind, the
fame as Men-Neuas of Egypt, the fame alfo as Dionu-
fus and Ofiris. By Du Halde he is called Chin-Nang,
and made the next monarch after Fohi. The Chinefe
accounts afford the fame hiftory as has been given
above.. h
“ As ^e family of Noah confided of eight perfons
inclufive, there have been writers who have placed
fome of them in fucceftion, and fuppofed that there
w'ere three or four perfons who reigned between Sin-
Noo and Hoam. But Du Flalde fays, that in the
true hiftories of the country, the three firft monarchs
were Fohi, Chin-Nong, and Hoam, whom he ftyles
Hoang-TL. To thefe, he fays, the arts and fciences
owe their invention and progrefs. Thus we find, that
thofe who were heads of families have been railed to
be princes 5 and their names have been prefixed to the
lift of kings, and their hiftory fuperadded to the an¬
nals of the. country. It is further obfervable, in the-
accounts given of thofe fuppofed kings, that their term*
DEL
[ 144 1
DEL
Deluge
tS
Hiftory of
Japan.
of life, for the firft five or fix generations, correfponds
with that of the patriarchs after the flood, and decreaies
much in the fame proportion.
“ The hiftorv of Japan is divided into three eras;
which confift of gods, demigods, and mortals. The
perfon whom the natives look upon to be the real
founder of their monarchy is named Synmu ) in whole
reign the Sintoo religion, the moft ancient of the
country, was introduced. It was called Sin-sju and
Chami-tnitfa ; from Sin and Chami, the deities which
were the obje&s of worfhip. At this time it is laid
that 600 foreign idols were brought into Japan, lo
the Sintoo religion was afterwards added the Budlo,
together with the worfhip of Amida. This deity they
commonly reprefented with the head of a dog, and
efteemed him the guardian of mankind. This re-
.lirdon was more complicated than the former, an
abounded with hieroglyphical reprefentations and my-
fterious rites. It is the fame which I have termed
the Arkite Idolatry, wherein the facred fleer and cow
were venerated. The deity was reprefented upon
the lotus and upon a tortoife, and oftentimes as pro-
ceeding from a fifh. In this alfo, under the charafter
of Budha, we may trace innumerable memorials ot the
ark, and of the perfon preferved in it. The author
above, having mentioned the eleventh emperor inclu-
five from Syn-Mu, tells us, that in his time thefe rites
began. ‘ In his reign Budo, otherwife called Kobotus,
came over from the Indies to Japan ; and hroug it
with him, upon a wdiite horfe, his religion and doc¬
trines.’ We find here, that the objeft of worfhip is
made the perfon who introduced it (a miftake almoft
univerfally prevalent) •, otherwife in this fhort account,
what a curious hiftory is unfolded ’.
“ The only people to whom we can have recourle
for any written memorials concerning thefe things are
the inhabitants of India proper. They were, we
find, the perfons who introduced thefe hieroglyphics
both in China and Japan. It will therefore be worth
while to confider what they have tranfmitted concern¬
ing their religious opinions-, as we may from hence
obtain ftill greater light towards explaining this iym-
bolical worfhip. Every manifeftation of God s good-
nefs to the world was in the firft ages expreffed by an
hieroglyphic ; and the Deity was accordingly de-
fcribed under various forms, and in different atti¬
tudes. Thefe at length were miftaken for real trani-
figurations; and Vifhnou was fuppofed to have ap¬
peared in different fhapes, which were ftyled incarna¬
tions. In one of thefe he is reprefented under the_ fi¬
gure before mentioned, of a princely perfon coming
out of a fifh. In another he appears with the head
of a boar, treading upon an evil daemon, which feems
to be the fame as the Typhon of the Egyptians. _ On
his head he fupports a lunette, in which are feen cities,
towers, in fhort, all that the world contains. Jn
Baldaeus we have a delineation and hiftory of this in¬
carnation. Kircher varies a little in his reprefenta-
tion, yet gives him a fimilar figure of the Deity, and
ftyles him ri/hnou Barachater. By this I fhould think
was fignified Vifhnou, “ the offspring of the fifh.
The bramins fay, that there was a time when the ier-
pent with a thoufand heads wdthdrew itfelf, and would
not fupport the world, it was fo overburdened with
lift,
Upon this the earth funk m the great abyis ot
waters, and mankind and all that breathed perifhed. Deluge. ,
But Vifhnou took upon himfelf the form above de-
feribed, and diving to the bottom of the fea, lifted up
the earth out of the waters, and placed it, together
with the ferpent of a thoufand heads, upon the back ot
a “’ iT.'he third volume of M. Perron’s Zendavell.. Accoumof
there is an account given of the cofmogony of the^™-
Perfees ; alfo of the fubfequent great events that en-
fued. The fupreme Deity, called by him Ormifda, given by the
is faid to have accompliflted the creation at fix di - Per ees.
ferent intervals. He firft formed the heavens at the
fecond the waters ; at the third the earth. Next
in order were produced the trees and vegetables. in
the fifth place were formed birds and fifties, and the
wild inhabitants of the woods -, and in the fixth and
laft place, he created man. Ihe man thus produced
is faid to have been an ox-hhe perfon, and is defenbed
as confifting of a purely divine and a mortal part.
For fome time after his creation he lived in great hap-
pinefs; but at laft the world was corrupted by a dae¬
mon named Ahriman. This daemon had the boldnefs
to vifit heaven : whence he came down to the earth in
the form of a ferpent, and introduced a fet ot wicked
beings, called karfejlers. By him the firft ox-like per-
fonage, called Aboudad, was fo infeded that he died ;
after" which Kaiomorts, probably the divine part, of
which the ox was the reprefentative, died alfo. Out ot
the left arm of the deceafed proceeded a being called
Gofcboraun, who is faid to have raifed a cry louder
than the fttout of 1000 men. After fome converfation
between the fupreme Deity and Gofchoraun, it was
determined to put Ahriman to flight, and to deftroy
all thofe wicked perfons he had introduced ; for there
now feemed to be an univerfal oppofition to the iu-
preme Deity Ormifda. At this feafon a fecond ox¬
like perfonage, is introduced by the name of Tafchter,
He is fpoken of both as a ftar and a fun. At the
fame time he is mentioned as a perfon upon earth
under three forms. By Tafchter is certainly figmfied
De AO)ter ; the fame perfon whom the Greek and by-
rians reprefented as a female, and called 4/larte. She
was deferibed horned, and fometimes with the head of
a bull fuppofed to proceed from an egg } and they
efteemed her the fame as Juno and the_ moon.^ At
laft it was thought proper to bring an univerfal inun¬
dation over the face of the earth ; that all impurity
might be waftied away which being accomplifhed by
Tafchter, every living creature penlhed, and the earth
was for fome time entirely covered. At laft, the wa¬
ters retreating within their proper bounds, the m^n-
tain of Albordi in Ferakh-kand firft appeared ; which
the author compares to a tree, and luppoles t lat a
other mountains proceeded from it. After this there
was a renewal of the world $ and the earth was rei ored
to its priftine ftate. The particular place where Or¬
mifda planted the germina from a11 m§s
were to fpring, was Ferakh-kand, which feems to be
the land of Arach j the country upon the Araxes m
Armenia.” , j* u-
Thus we have given an ample fpecimen ot this very
ingenious author’s method of reafonmg, and difcover-
ing traces of the facrcd hiftory even m things which
have been thought leaft to relate to it. Ihat ^
Greeks and weftern nations had fome knowledge o.
DEL
^ Deluge, the flood, has never been denied ; and from what has
been already related, it appears that the fame has per¬
vaded the remoteft regions of the eaft. The know¬
ledge which thefe people have of the fall of man, and
the evil confequences which enfued, cannot, according
to our author, be the confequences of their intercourfe
with Chriftians ; for their traditions afford neither any
traces of Chrilfianity, nor its founder. Whatever truths
may be found in their writings, therefore, mult be de¬
rived from a more ancient fource. “ There are (fays
he) in every climate fome (hattered fragments of ori¬
ginal hiftory j fome traces of a primitive and univerfal
language : and thefe may be obferved in the names of
deities, terms of worfhip, and titles of honour, which
prevail among nations widely feparated, who for ages
had no connexion. The like may be found in the
names of pagodas and temples ; and of fundry other
objects which will prelent themfelves to the traveller.
Even America would contribute to this purpofe. The
more rude the monuments, the more ancient they may
poifibly prove, and afford a greater light upon in-
20 qmry”
American . ^,e accounts hitherto met with in this continent,
accounts of indeed, are far from being equally authentic and fatis-
tlie deluge, faftory with thofe hitherto treated of. In Acofla’s
hiftory of the Indies, however, w-e are informed, that
the Mexicans make particular mention of a deluge in
their country, by w7hich all men were drowned. Ac¬
cording to them, one Viracocka came out of the great
lake Titicaca in their country. This perfon flaid in
I iaguanaco, where at this day are to be feen the ruins
oi fome ancient and very ffrange buildings. From
thence he came to Cufco, where mankind began to
multiply. They {how alfo a fmall lake, where they
lay the fun hid himfelf: for which reafon they facri-
fice largely to him, both men and other animals 
Hennepin informs us, that fome of the favages are of
opinion, that a certain fpirit, called Othm by the Iro¬
quois, and sltahauta by thofe at the mouth of the ri¬
ver St Lawrence, is the creator of the wmrld 5 that
Mejou repaired it after the deluge. They fay, that
this Meffou or Otkon, being a-hunting one day, his
dogs loft themfelves in a great lake, which thereupon
overflowing, covered the whole earth in a Ihort time,
and /wallowed up the world. According to Herrera,
the people of Cuba knew that the heavens and the
earth had been created ; and faid they had much in¬
formation concerning the flood ; and that the world
had been deftroyed by water, by three perfons, who
came three feveral ways. Gabriel de Cabrera was
told by a man of more than 70 years of age, that an
old man, knowing the deluge was to come, built a
great ihip, and went into it with his family and abun¬
dance of animals j that he fent out a crow7, which
did not at firft return, flaying to feed on the carcafes
of dead animals, but afterwards came back with a
green branch. He is faid to have added other par¬
ticulars nearly confonant to the Mofaic account, as
far as Noah’s Tons covering him when drunk, and the
ot icr fcolfing at it. The Indians, he faid, defeended
rrom the. latter, and therefore had no clothes: but
the Spaniards defeending from the former, had both
clothes and horfes—The fame author likewife informs
us, that it was reported by the inhabitants of Caftilla
del Oru in Terra Firma, that when the univcrfal de-
Vol, VII. Part I.
[ ]
DEL
luge happened, one man with his wife and children efca- Deluge,
ped in a canoe, and that from them the world was peo- '—--v—
pled. The Peruvians, according to our author, like-
wflfe affirmed, that they had received by tradition from
their anceftors, that, many years before there were
any incas or kings, when the country was very po¬
pulous, there happened a great flood ; the fea break-
ing out beyond its bounds, fo that the land w7as co¬
vered with water, and all the people perifhed. I'o
this it is added by the Guancas, inhabiting the vale of
Xaufea, and the natives of Chiquito in the province ’
of Callao, that fome perfons remained in the hollow7*
and caves of the higheft mountains, who again peo¬
pled the land. Others affirm, that all periffied in a
deluge, only fix perfons being faved in a float, from
whom defeended all the inhabitants of that country.
In Nieuhoff’s voyages to Brazil, we are informed, that
the molt barbarous of the Brafilians, inhabiting the in¬
land countries, fcarce knew any thing of religion or
an Almighty Being : they have fome knowledge re- N
maining of a general deluge ; it being their opinion
that the whole race of mankind were extirpated by a
general deluge, except one man and his filler, who,
being with child before, they by degrees repeopled
the world. M. Thevet gives us the creed of the Bra-
filians in this matter more particularly. In the opinion
of thefe favages the deluge was univerfal. They fay,
tnat Sommay, a Caribbee of great dignity, had two chil¬
dren named Tamendonare and Ariconte. Being of con¬
trary dil'pofitions, one delighting in peace and the other
in w7ar and rapine, they mortally hated each other. One
day Ariconte, the warrior, brought an arm of an enemy
he had encountered to his brother, reproaching him
at the fame time with cowardice. T he other retorted
by telling, that if he had been poffeffed of the valour
he boafted, he would have brought his enemy entire.
Ariconte on this threw the arm again!! the door of
his brother’s houfe. At that inflant the whole village
w7as carried up into the Iky, and Tamendonare ftri-
king the ground with violence, a vaft ftream of water
iftued out from it, and continued to flow in fuch quan¬
tity, that in a Ihort time it feemed to rife above the
clouds, and the earth was entirely covered. The two
biothers, feeing this, afeended the higheft mountains
ol the country, and with their wives got upon the
trees that grew upon them. By this deluge all man¬
kind, as well as all other animals, were drowned, ex¬
cept the two biothers above-mentioned and their wflves
who having defeended when the flood abated, became’
heads of two different nations,” &c.
To thefe American tettimonies we may add anotherTeftimo
rT°.te a?d “ndviHzecl Mand of Gtaheite.nies from
l>r Watlon , in his difeourfe to the clergy, informs.^1*1*16*16
us, that one of the navigators to the fouthern hemi-ard theEal1
fphere having alked fome of the inhabitants of that* o'eS'
illand concerning their origin, was anfwered, thatWTWfr,
their lupreme God, a long time ago, being angry,p. 208.
dragged the earth through the fea, and their ifland
being broken off, was preferved. In the Fall Indies,
we are informed by Dr Watfon f, that Sir William t
Jones, by whom a fociety for the advancement of A-lJ
fiatic literature was inftituted at Calcutta, difeovered
m the oldeft mythological books of that country, fuch
an account of the deluge as correfponds fufficiently
With that of Mofes. 7
T II. The
Deluge.
Hypothefes
concerning
the means
by which
the deluge
took place.
23
Suppofed
creation
and annihi¬
lation of
water.
24
Theory of
Dr burnet.
& See A^y/s.
*5 „
Centre of
gravity of
the earth
fuppofed to
be Shifted*
DEL [1
II. The faft being thus eftablifhed by the univer-
fal confent of mankind, that there was a general de¬
luge which overflowed the whole world ) it remains
next to inquire, by what means it may reafonably be
fuppofed to have been accomplifhed. 1 he hypothefes on
this fubieft have been principally the following.
I. It has been alferted, that a quantity of water
was created on purpofe, and at a proper time armdn-
lated, by divine power. This, however, befides its
being abfolutely without evidence, is direftly contrary
to the words of the facred writer whom the alfertors
of this hypothefis mean to defend. He exprefsly de¬
rives the waters of the flood from two fources *, fmt,
the fountains of the great deep, which he tells us were
all broken up •, and fecondly, the windows of heaven,
which he fays were opened : and fpeakmg of the de-
creafe of the waters, he fays, the fountains ot the
deep and the windows of heaven were flopped, and the
waters returned continually from off the earth. Here
it is obvious, that Mofes was fo far from having any
difficulty about the quantity of water, that he thought
the fources from whence it came were not exhaufled j
frnce both of them required to be hopped by the ame
almighty hand who opened them, left the flood fliould
increafe more than it a£fually did. _
2 Dr Burnet, in his Yellur'is Theona Sacra, endea-
vours to fhow, that all the waters in the ocean were
not Efficient to cover the earth to the depth affigned
by Mofes. Suppofrng the fea drained quite dry, and
all the clouds of the atmofphere diffolved into rain,
we ffiould ftill, according to him, want much the
greateft part of the water of a deluge. To get clear
of this difficulty, Dr Burnet and others have adopted
Defcartes’s theory. That philofopher fuppofes the an¬
tediluvian world to have been perfetfly round and
equal, without mountains or valleys.. He accounts
for its formation on mechanical principles, *>7 Juppo-
fing it at fir ft in the condition of a thick turbid fluid
replete with divers heterogeneous matters; which,
fubfiding by flow degrees, formed themfelves into dif¬
ferent concentric ftrata, or beds, by the laws of gravi¬
ty. Dr Burnet improves on this theory, by luppohng
the primitive earth to have been no more than a {hell
or cruft inverting the furface of the water contained in
the ocean, and in the central abyfs which he and others
fuppofe to exift in the bowels of the earth*. At
the time of the flood, this outward cruft, according
to him, broke in a thoufand places ; and confequent-
Jy funk down among the water, which thus fpouted
up in vaft Calais, and overflowed the whole furface.
He fuppofes alfo, that before the flood there was a
perfea coincidence of the equator with the ecliptic,
and confequently that the antediluvian world enjoyed
a perpetual fpring ; but that the violence of the {hock
by which the outer cruft was broken, ftufted affo the
pofition of the earth, and produced the prefent obli¬
quity of the ecliptic. This theory, it will be obfer-
ved, is equally arbitrary with the former But it is,
befides, direftly contrary to the words of Mofes, who
affures us, that'all the high hills were covered; while
Dr Burnet affirms that there were then no hills m be¬
46 ] DEL
courfe to a fhifting of the earth’s centre of gravity, De!uge- .
which, drawing after it the water out of its channel,
overwhelmed the feveral parts of the earth fuccel-
fively#
4. The inquifitive Mr Whifton, in his New Theory Mr Whif-
of the Earth, {hows, from feveral. remarkable coinci-ton’s theo.
dences, that a comet defeending in the P^tie of the
ecliptic, towards its perihelion, parted juft before the
earth on the firft day of the deluge ; the conferences
whereof would be, firft, that this comet, when it came
below the moon, would raife a vaft and ftiong tide,
both in the fmall feas, which according to his hypo¬
thefis were in the antediluvian earth (for he allows no
great ocean there as in ours), and alfo in the abyts
which was under the upper cruft of the earth. And
this tide would rife and increafe all the time of the
approach of the comet towards the earth ; and would
be at its greateft height when the comet was at its
leaft diftance from it. By the force of which tide,
as alfo by the attraaion of the comet, he judges, that
the abyfs muft put on an elliptical figure, whole lur-
face being confiderably larger than the former fphen-
cal one, the outward cruft of the.earth, incumbent on
the abyfs, muft accommodate itfelf to that figure,
which it could not do while it held folid, and conjoined
together. He concludes, therefore, that it muft. of ne-
ccffity be extended, and at laft broken by the violence
of the faid tides and attraaion ; out of which the in¬
cluded water iffuing, was a great means of the deluge ;
this anfwering to what Mofes fpeaks of the foun¬
tains of the great deep being broke open. -“Again,
the fame comet, he {hows, in its defeent towards the
fun, parted fo clofe by the body of the earth, as to in¬
volve it in its atmofphere and tail for a confiderable
time ; and of confequence left a vaft quantity of its
vapours, both expanded and condenfed, on its furface ;
great part of which being rarefied by the folar
ing
2. Other authors, fuppofmg a fufficient fund of wa¬
ter in the abyfs or fea, are only concerned for an ex¬
pedient to bring it forth *. accordingly fome have re-
a great parr 01    j
heat, would be drawn up .nto the and
afterwards return in violent rams: and this he takes
to be what Mofes intimates by.‘‘ the windows of hea¬
ven being opened,” and particularly by the forty-
days rain.” For as to the following rain, which with
this made the whole time of raining 150 days, Mr
Whifton attributes it to the earth coming a lecond
time within the atmofphere of the comet, as the comet
ron i«s return from the fun Laftly, to remove
this vaft orb of waters again, he fuppofes a mighty
wind to have arifen, which dried up fome, and forced
the reft into the abyfs through the clefts by which
it came up : only a good quantity remained in the al¬
veus of the great ocean, now firft made, and in leffer
feas, lakes, &c. This theory was at firft only propoled
as an hypothefis; but, on further confideration, Mr
Whifton drought he could aftually prove that a come
did at that time pafs very near the earth, and that t
was the fame which afterwards appeared in 168b.
After this he looked upon his theory.no longer as an
hypothefis, but publiffied it m a particular traff en¬
titled The Caufe of the Deluge demonf rated. But the
uncertainty of the comet’s return in 1758, th'
abfolute failure of that which ought to have appeared
in 1788 or 1789, muft certainly render Mr Whifton s
calculations for fuch a length of time extremely du¬
bious * and the great fimilarity between the tails of co-
Brets*/and ftraaL of tuaric matter, renders h.s fcp-
r> e. l
Deluge, pofition of their being aqueous vapours exceedingly
improbable.
5. According to Mr de la Pryme, the antediluvian
world had an external fea as well as land, with
"V
Theory of
Mr de la
Pryme/
Deluge.
2S
Hutchinfo-
nian the«-
ry.
moun¬
tains, rivers, &c. and the deluge was effected by break¬
ing the fubterraneous caverns and pillars thereof, with
dreadful earthquakes, and caufing the fame to be for
the moft part, if not wholly, abforbed and fwallowed
up, and covered by the feas that we now have. Laft-
ly, this earth of ours arofe out of the bottom of the
antediluvian fea: and in its room, jufl as many iflands
are fwallowed down, and others thruil up in their ftead.
On this, as on all the other hypothefes, it mav be re¬
marked, that it is quite arbitrary, and without the leaft
foundation from the words of Mofes. The facred hi-
ftorian fpeaks not one word of earthquakes, nay, from
the nature of the thing, wre know it is impoflible that
the flood could have been occafioned by an earth¬
quake, and the ark preferved, without a miracle. It
is certain, that if a (hip finks at fea, the commotion
excited in the water by the defcent of fuch a large
body, will fwallow up a fmall boat that happens to
come too near. If the pillars of the earth itfelf then
were broken, what muft the commotion have been,
when the continents of Europe, Afia, and Africa, de¬
fended into the abyfs at once ; not to mention Ame¬
rica, which lying at fo great a diftance from Noah, he
might be fuppofed out of danger from that quarter.
By what miracle was the little ark preferved amidft
the tumult of thofe impetuous waves which muft have
ruflred in from all quarters ? Befides, as the ark was
built not at fea, but on dry ground, when the earth
on which it refted funk down, the ark muft have funk
along with it; and the waters falling in as it were over¬
head, muft have dallied in pieces the ftrongeft veflel
that can be imagined. Earthquakes, alfo, operate fud-
denly and violently; whereas, according to the Mofaic
account, the flood came on gradually, and did not ar¬
rive at its height till fix weeks, or perhaps five months,
after it began.
6. Mr Hutchinfon and his followers prefent us with
a theory of the deluge, which they pretend to derive
from the word of God itfelf. This theory hath been
particularly enlarged upon and illuftrated by Mr Cat-
cot, who in 1768 publifhed a volume on the fubje£t.
This gentleman afferts, that when the world was firft
created, at the time when it is faid to have been “with¬
out form and void,” the terreftrial matter was then
entirely diflblved in the aqueous ; fo that the whole
formed, as it were, a thick muddy water. The figure
of this mafs wras fpherical; and on the outfide of this
iphere lay the grofs dark air. Within the fphere of
earth and water was an immenfe cavity, called by
Mofes the deep; and this internal cavity was filled w ith
air of a kind fimilar to that on the outfide. On the
creation of light, the internal air received elafticity
fufficient to burft out through the external covering
of earth and water. Upon this the water defcended,
filled up the void, and left the earth in a form fimilar
to what it hath at prefent. Thus, according to him,
the antediluvian w'orld, as well as the prefent, con-
fifted of a vaft colledlion or nucleus of w>ater, called the
great deep, or the abyfs; and over this the (hell of
earth perforated in many places ; by which means the
waters of the ocean communicated with the abyfs.
147 1 DEE
1 he breaking up of thefe fountains was occafioned by
a miraculous preflure of the atmofphere, from the im-  v
mediate aftion of the Deity himfelf. So violent was
this preffure, that the air defcended to where it had
been originally; occupied the fpace of the abyfs; and
drove out the waters over the whole face of the dry
land. But this account, fo far from being infallibly
certain, feems inconfiftent with the moft common ob-
fcrvation. No preflure, however violent, will caufe
w'ater rife above its level, unlefs the preflure is unequal.
If, therefore, the atmofphere entered into the fuppofed
abyfs, by a Vehement prefl'ure on the furface of the
ocean, that preflure muft only have been on one place,
or on a few places; and even though we fuppofe the
atmofphere to have been the agent made ufe of, it is
impoflible that it could have remained for any time
in the abyfs without a continued miracle; as the pref¬
fure of the water would immediately have forced it up
again through thofe holes which had afforded it a paf-
fage downwards.
The explication given from Hutchinfon by Mr Cat-
cot, of the “ windows of heaven,” is fomew'hat ex¬
traordinary. According to him, thefe windows are
not in heaven, but in the bowels of the earth ; and
mean no more than the cracks and fifliues by which
the airs, as he calls them, found a paflage through
the Ihell or covering of earth, which they utterly dif-
folved and reduced to its original ftate of fluidity. It
is, however, difficult to conceive how the opening of
fuch windows as thefe, could caufe a violent rain for
40 days and nights.
It is not to be fuppofed, that we can pretend to af-
certain any thing on the fubjedt more than others have
done. The following conjedlures, however, may be
offered on the manner in which the deluge might have
happened, without any violence to the eftablilhed laws
of nature.
1. If we confider the quantity of water requifite for Another
the purpofe of the deluge, it will not appear fo very ex- theory,
traordinary as has been commonly reprefented. The
height of the higheft hills is thought not to be quite
four miles. It will therefore be deemed a fufficient
allowance, when we fuppofe the waters of the deluge
to have been four miles deep on the furface of the
ground. Now it is certain, that water, or any other
matter, when fpread out at large upon the ground,
feems to occupy an immenfe fpace in comparifon of
what it does when contained in a cubical veflel, or
when packed together in a cubical form. Suppofe
we wanted to overflow a room 16 feet every way, or
containing 256 fquare feet, with water, to the height
of one foot, it may be nearly done by a cubical veflel
of fix feet filled with water. A cube of eight feet will
cover it two feet deep, and a cube of ten feet will very
nearly cover it four feet deep. It makes not the leaft
difference whether we fuppofe feet or miles to be co¬
vered. A cube of ten miles of water would very near¬
ly overflow 256 fquare miles of plain ground to the
height of four miles. But if we take into our account
the vaft number of eminences with which the furface
of the earth abounds, the above-mentioned quantity of
water would do a great deal more. If, therefore, we
attempt to calculate the quantity of water fufficient to
deluge the earth, we muft make a very confiderable
allowance for the bulk of all the hills on its furface.
T 2 To
DEL
[ *48 1
DEL
Deluge. To confider tills matter, however, In its utmoft lati-
 v-—'tude: The furface of the earth is fuppofed, by the
latelt computations, to contain I99>512>595
miles. To overflow this furface to the height ot four
miles, is required a parallelepiped of water 16 rod68
deep, and containing 49,878,148 fquare miles ot lur-
face. Now, confidering the immenfe thickneis ot the
globe of the earth, it can by no means be improbable,
that this whole quantity of water may be contained in
its bowels, without the neceflity of any remarkable
abvfs or huge colleftion of water, fuch as moft of
our theoritls fuppofe to exift in the centre. It_ is cer¬
tain, that as far as the earth has been dug, it hath
been found not dry, but moift 5 nor have we the leaft
reafon to imagine, that it is not at lead equally morn,
all the way down to the centre. How moift it really
is cannot be known, nor the quantity of water requi¬
site to impart to it the degree of moifture it has j but
we are fure it muft be immenfe. _ The earth is com¬
puted to be near 8000 miles in diameter. I he ocean
is of an unfathomable depth*, but there is no reafon for
luppoling it more than a few’ miles. 1 o make ad rea-
fonable allowance, however, we {hall fuppole the
whole folid matter in the globe to be only equal to a
cube of 5000 miles *, and even on this fuppofition we
ihall find, that all the waters of tlm deluge would
not be half fufficient to moiften it. T he above-men¬
tioned parallelepiped of w’ater would indeed contain
798 oqo,^68 cubic miles of the fluid*, but the cube
of earth containing no lefs than an hundred and twenty-
five thoufand millions of cubic miles, it is evident that
the quantity afligned for the deluge wopld fcarce be
known to moiften it. It could have indeed n°™ore
effea this way, than a Angle pound of water could have
upon 150 times its bulk of dry earth. We are per-
fuaded therefore, that any perfon who will try by ex¬
periment how’ much water a given quantity ot earth
contains, and from that experiment will make calcula¬
tions with regard to the whole quantity of water contain¬
ed in the bowels of the earth, muft be abundantly iatii-
fied, that though all the water of the deluge had been
thence derived,the diminution of the general ftore would,
comparatively fpeaking, have been next to nothing.
2. It was not from the bow’els of the earth only
that"the waters were difeharged, but alfo from the air*,
for we are affured by Mofes, that it rained 40 days
•and 40 nights. This fource of the diluvian waters hath
been confidered as of fmall confequence by almoft every
one who hath treated on the fubjeft. The general opi¬
nion concerning this matter we (hall tranfenbe from the
Univerfal Hiftory, Vol. I. where it is very fully expreis-
ed “ According to the obfervations made ot the
quantity of water that falls in rain, the rains could not
afford one ocean, nor half an ocean, and would be a
very inconfiderable part of what was neceffary tor a
deluge. If it rained 40 days and 40 nights throughout
the whole earth at once, it might be fufficient to Uy
all the lower grounds under water, but it would figm-
fv very little as to the overflowing of the mountains *,
fo that it has been faid, that if the deluge had been
made by rains only, there would have needed not
40 days, but 40 years, to have brought it to pafs.
And if we fuppofe the whole atmofphere condenfed in¬
to water, it would not all have been fufficient for this
effeft 5 for it is certain that it could not have riiea
above 32 feet, the height to which water can be raifed Deluge,
by the preffure of the atmofphere : for the weight of
the whole air, when condenled into water, can be no
more than equal to its weight in its natural rtate, and
muft become no lefs than 800 times denfer ; fpr that
is the difference between the weight of the heavieft:
air and that of water.”
On this fubieft we muft obferve, that there is a very
general miftake with regard to the air, fimilar to the
above-mentioned one regarding the earth. Becaufe the
earth below our feet appears to our fenies firm and com-
paft, therefore the vaft quantity of water, contained
even in the moft folid parts of it, and which ^will rea¬
dily appear on proper experiment, is overlooxed, and
treated as a non-entity. In like manner, becaufe the
air does not always deluge with exceffive rains, it is
alfo imagined that it contains but very little water.
Becaufe the preffure of the air is able to raife only
32 feet of w’ater on the furface of the earth, it is
therefore fuppofed we may know to what depth the
atmofphere could deluge the earth if it was to let fall
the whole water contained in it. But daily obferva-
tion (hows, that the preffure of the atmoiphere hath
not the leaft connexion wdth the quantity of water it
contains. Nay, if there is any_ connexion, the air
feems to be lighteft when it contains moft water. In
the courfe ot a long fummer’s drought, for inftance,
the mercury in the barometer will ftand at 30 inches,
or little more. If it does fo at the beginning of the
drought, it ought to afeend continually during the time
the dry weather continues ; becaufe the air is all the
while ab(orbing water in great quantity from the furface
of the earth and fea. This, however, is known to be
contrary to fad. At fuch times the mercury does not
afeend, but remains ftationary ; and what is ftill more
extraordinary, when the drought is about to have an
end, the air, while it yet contains the whole quantity
of water it abforbed, and hath not difeharged one Angle
drop, becomes fuddenly lighter, and the mercury will
perhaps fink an inch before any rain falls. The moft
furprifing phenomenon, however, is yet to come. Af¬
ter the atmofphere has been difeharging for a number
of days fucceflively, a quantity of matter 800 times hea¬
vier than itfelf, inftead of being lightened by the dif-
charge, it becomes heavier, nay, fpecijically heavier,
than it was before. It is alfo certain, that very, dry
provided it is not at the fame time very hot, isal-
ways heavieft*, and the drieft air which we are acquaint¬
ed with, namely Dr Prieftley’s dephlogijlicated*\x (oxy.
gen gas), is confiderably heavier than the air we com¬
monly breathe. For thefe reafons, we think the quan-
tity of water contained in the whole atmofphere ought
to be confidered as indefinite, efpecially as we know that
by whatever agent it is fufpended, that agent muft coun-
teraft the force of gravity, otherwife the water would
immediately defeend ; and while the force of gravity
in any fubftance is counterafted, that fubftance cannot
appear to us to gravitate at all. _ , . -,0
3. The above confiderations render it/ro^/e.atlealt
that there is in nature a quantity of water fufficient to
delude the w’orld, provided it was applied to the pur-
pofe We muft next confider whether there is any na¬
tural agent powerful enough to effeauate this purpofe.
We {hall take the phrafes ufed by Moles in their moft
obvious fenfe. The breaking up-of the fountains of the
Deluge
* See Ehc
tricity and
E.'vapara-
tioa.
■f See Earth
quake.
DEL [ i
deep, we may reafonably fuppofe to have been the open-
^ ing’ of all paffages, whether fmall or great, through
which the fubterraneous waters poflibly could difeharge
themfelves on the furface of the earth. opcnui'y of
the windows of heaven we may alio fuppofe to be the
pouring out the water contained in the atmofphere,
through thofe invilible paflages by which it enters infuch
a manner as totally to elude every one of our fenfes, as
when water is abforbed by the air in evaporation. As
both thefe are faid to have been opened at the fame time
it feems from thence probable, that one natural agent
was employed do do both. Now it is certain, that the
induftry of mpdern inquiry hath difeovered an agent
unknowm to the former ages, and whofe influence is
great, that with regard to this world, it may be
faid to have a kind of omnipotence. I'he agent we
mean is eleftricity. It is certain, that, by means of it,
immenfe quantities of water can be raifed to a great
height in the air. This is proved by the phenomena
of w’ater-fpouts. Mr Forfter relates, that he happen¬
ed to lee one break very near him, and obferved a flalh
of lightning proceed from it at the moment of its
breaking. The conclufion from this is obvious. When
the eleftric matter was difeharged from the water, it
could no longer be fupported by the atmofphere, but
immediately fell down. Though water fpouts do not
often appear in this country, yet every one muff have
made an obfervation fomewhat fimilar to Mr Forfter’s.
In a violent ftorm of thunder and rain, after every flafh
of lightning or difeharge of eleftricity from the clouds,
the ram pours down with increafed violence ; thus Ihow-
^.at t^le cloud, having parted with fo much of its
electricity, cannot longer be fupported in the form of
vapour, but muff defeend in rain. It is not indeed yet
difeovered that eleftricity is the caufe of the fufpenfion
of water m the atmofphere ; but it is certain that eva¬
poration is promoted by electrifying the fluid to be
- ^.apora1ted *• I,: may therefore be admitted as a pofR.
bihty, that the electric fluid contained in the air is the
agent by which it is enabled to fufpend the water
which rues in vapour. If therefore the air is deprived
° .he due proportion of this fluid, it is evident that
ram muff frill in prodigious quantities.
Again, we are alfured from the moft undeniable ob-
vat ions, that eleftricity is able to fwell up water on
tie furface of the earth. This we can make it do even
m our trifling experiments j and much more mufl the
whole force of the fluid be fuppofed capable of doing it,
i applied to the waters of the ocean, or any others.
The agitation of the fea in earthquakes is a fuflicient
-proof of this f. It is certain, that at thefe times there
is a ddcharge of a vaft quantity of eleftric matter from
the earth into the air ; and as foon as this happens, all
becomes quiet on the furface of the earth.
Irom a multitude of obfervations it alfo appears, that
there is at all times a pafiage of eleftric matter ’from
the atmofphere into the earth, and vice verfa, from the
earth into the atmofphere. There is therefore no ab-
furdity in fuppofing the Deity to have influenced
the action of the natural powers in fucb a manner
that for 40 days and nights the elefrric matter con¬
tained in the atmofphere fliould defeend into the bowels
of the earth,—if indeed there is oecafion for fuppo-
fing any fuch immediate influence at all, fince it is not
impoffible that there might have been, from fome na-
49 ] DEL
tural caufe, a defeent of this matter from the atmo- deluge.
fphere for that time. But by whatever caufe the de-  v*—
feent was occafioned, the confequence would be, the
breaking up of the fountains of the deep, and the opening
the windows of heaven. The water contained in the
atmofphere being left without fupport, would defeend
in impetuous rains; while the w’aters of the ocean,
thofe from which fountains originate, and thofe con¬
tained in the folid earth itfelf, would rife from the very
centre, and meet the waters which defeended from
above. Thus the breaking up of the fountains of the
deep, and the opening the windows of heaven, would
accompany each other, as Mofes tells us they aflually
did ; for, according to him, both happened on the
fame day.
In this manner the flood would come on quietly and
gradually, without that violence to the globe which
Burnet, Whifton, and other theorifls, are obliged to
fuppofe. The abatement of the waters would enfue
on the afeent of the ele&ric fluid to where it was be¬
fore. The atmofphere would then abforb the water as
formerly ; that which had afeended through the earth
would again fubfide ; and thus every thing would re¬
turn to its prifline ftate.
III. Having thus fliown in what manner it is poflible
that an univerfal deluge might take place by means of
the natural agents known to us at prefent, we fliall
next confider fome more of the evidences that fuch an
event actually did happen, and that the deluge w^as
univerfal. The proof here is fo llrong from the tnw
ditions prevalent among almoft every nation on the
face of the earth, and which have been already fo
amply treated, that no farther objedlion could be
made to the Mofaic account, were it not that the
nccefity of an univerfal deluge is denied by fome, who
contend that all the deluges mentioned in hiitory or
recorded by tradition were only partial, and may be
accounted for from the fwelling of rivers or other ac¬
cidental caufes. Many indeed, even of thofe who
profefs to believe the Mofaic account, have thought
that the deluge w^as not univerfal; or, though*3 it
might be univerfal with refpeft to mankind, that it
was not fo w-ith regard to the earth itfelf. The learn- yoflfu® s
ed liaac \oflius.was of this opinion, though his rea-feheme 8f a
Ions leem principally to have been that he could not Partial de-
conceive how an univerfal deluge could happen. “ To luge‘
effect this (fays he) many miracles muff have concur-
red ; but God works no miracles in vain. What need
wras there to drown thofe lands w-here no men lived or
are yet to be found ! Tis a foolith thing to think that
mankind had multiplied fo much before the flood as to
have overfpread all the earth. How flow and fluggiflv
the fir ft men were in propagating their kind,.is evident
trom hence, that Noah was but the ninth in a lineal
defeent from Adam, They are quite wide of the
truth, therefore, who think mankind to have fpread
over all the earth in the days of Noah, who perhaps-
at that time had not extended themfelves beyond the
borders of Syria and Mefopotamia : but no reafon ob¬
liges us to extend the inundation of the deluge be¬
yond thofe bounds which are inhabited ; yea, it is al-
together abfurd to aver, that the effetf of a p’unifhment
inflicted upon mankind only, ftiould extend to thofe-
? aces where no men lived. Although we Ihould there¬
fore believe that part of the earth only to have bear
overflowed
DEL
[ 1S° 1
DEL
Deluge, overflowed by the waters which we have mentioned,
“—v and which is not the hundredth part of the terrelfrial
globe, the deluge will neverthelefs be univerfal, (ecume¬
nical, fince the deftiu£fion was uniyerfal, and over¬
whelmed the whole habitable world.”
3i
Coetfogon’s Another fcheme of a partial deluge is publifhed by
Ccheme. Mr Coetlogon in his Univerfal Hiftory of Aits and
Sciences, under the article Antediluvians. This ap¬
pears to have been formed with a defign to accommo¬
date the belief of a deluge to the opinions of the free¬
thinkers, who deny the truth of the Mofaic accounts,
as he teUs us that they are willing to allow it. Accord¬
ing to this author, the firft inhabitants of the earth be-
in^- placed at the confluence of two great rivers, the Eu¬
phrates and Tigris, thofe rivers may have overflowed
their banks all of a hidden, and furprifed the neighbour¬
ing inhabitants not yet accuftomed to fuch forts of vifits,
and drowned part of them (and if really defigned as a
puniihment), fuch as w'ere more guilty. That iome of
the animals, particularly the more flothful, and con-
fequently not fo apprehenfive of danger or fo ready
to take to flight to avoid it, might have been involved
in the fame calamity, as well as fome of the volatiles,
which being deprived of food by the earth’s being co¬
vered with water, might have perifhed ; particularly
thofe who, by the too great weaknefs of their wings
to fupport their bodies, were not proper for a long
flight. As for others who had thefe advantages above
the reft, they would no doubt take care of their ovv^
prefervation, by flying to thofe parts of the earth which
their natural inftinft could fhow them free from the
inundation. . . , ,
„ 3* c A third fcheme of a partial deluge is given by the
Wfleet’s learned Bifttop Stillingfleet in his Ongines Sacrce. “ I
fcheme. cannot (fays he) fee any urgent neceflity from the
Scripture to affert, that the flood did fpread itlelf all
over the furface of the earth. That all mankind
(thofe in the ark excepted) were deftroyed by it, is
moft certain, according to the Scripture. When the
Lord faid, that he would deftroy man from the lace
of the earth, it could not be any particular deluge ot
fo fmall a country as Paleftine, as fome have ndicu-
loufly imagined ; for we And an univerfal corruption
in the earth mentioned as the caufe} an univerlal
threatening upon all men for this caufe *, and after¬
wards an univerfal deftruaion expreffed as the eftedt
of this flood. So then it is evident, that the flood
sgard to mankind \ but irom
a particular enumeration of the feveral kinds of deluge. ^
creeping things and fowls, if they were not all de-
ftroved ? To "this 1 anfwer *, I grant that, as far as
the flood extended, all thefe were deftroyed: but I
fee no reafon to extend the deftruaion of tnefc beyond
that compafs and fpace of the earth where men inha¬
bited, be caufe the puniftiment upon thebeafts was oc-
cafioned by, and could not be concomitant with, the
deftruaion of man ; but (the occalion of the deluge
being the fin of man, who was pumfhed in the beafts
that were deftroyed for his fake, as well as in himielf)
where the occafion was not, as where there were ani¬
mals and no men, there feems no neceflity of extend¬
ing the flood thither.—But to what end, will it there¬
fore be replied, did God command Noah, with lo
much care, to take all kinds of birds, beafts, and creep¬
ing things, into the ark with him, if all theie living
creatures were not deftroyed by the flood ? I anfwer,
becaufe all tbofe things were deftroyed wherever the
flood was. Suppofe then the whole continent of Aha
was peopled before the flood, which is as much as in
reafon we may fuppofe *, I fay, all the living creatures
in that continent were deftroyed j or if we may fuppole
it to have extended over our whole continent of the
ancient known world, what reafon would there be, that
in the oppofite part of the globe, which we fuppofe to
be unpeopled then, all the living creatures ihou.d there
be deftroyed, becaufe men had finned in this . and
would there not have been on this fuppofition a iulh-
cient reafon to preferve living creatures m the ark lor
future propagation ?” &c. 33.
Thus we have the flrength of all the arguments A
that have been offered in fufport of a partial deluge, ^ * P.
and which may all be fummed up in the three follow- }mp0{£ble.
ing articles: 1. The impoffibility, in a natural way
of accounting for the quantity of water, neceffary to
overflow the whole world ; 2. The fmall number of
mankind fuppofed at that time to have exifted on
the earth 5 and, 3. The inutility of an univerfal de¬
luge, when the divine purpofes could have been equa|-
ly well anfwered by a partial one. But to all this
we may make one general anfwer, that a deluge
is in the nature of things impoflible. We cannot
imagine that the waters could accumulate upon any
country without going off to the fea, while the lat¬
ter retained its ufual level-, neither can we fuppofe
any part of the fea to remain above the level of the
reft On the fuppofition of Bifhop Stillingfleet, there¬
fore, that the deluge extended over the whole conti¬
nent of Afia, we know that it muft have covered the
was univerfal with regard to marncuiu *
thence follows no neceflity at all of afferting the urn- ^   
verfality of it as to the globe of the earth, unlefs it be nem of‘ £rarat? on which the ark reftecl :
fufficiently proved that the whole earth was peopled. Taurus, &c. The height of Ararat is in-
before the flood, which I defpair of ever feeing proved, Ca^u ’ 1 au ^ j credit pretends to
sud what reafon can there be to extend the flood be- ^;™'^'deadS to ; but /rom the diflance at
vond the occafion of it, which was the corruption of have
mankind ?—-The only probability then of afferting
the univerfality of the flood, as to the globe of the
earth, is from the deftruftion of all living creatures to¬
gether with man. Now though men might not have
‘ fpread themfelves over the whole furface of the earth,
yet beafts and creeping things might which were all
deftroyed with the flood ; for it is faid, that all flefti
died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl and of
cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man.’ To wl]at j™1
there be not only a note of univerfality added, but luch
have alcenaea lo ns tup ,
which it is feen, we can fcarce look upon tt to be in¬
ferior to the moft celebrated mountains of the old
continent * Sir John Chardin thinks that ^
of Caucafus is higher and fuppofing each of thefe to
be only a mile and a half in height, the fea all round
the globe muft have been raifed to the fame height ,
and therefore all that could remain of dry ground as
a (belter to animals of any kind, muft have been
uninhabitable tops of fome high mountains fcattered at
immenfe diftances from one another. \\ e may_ there¬
fore with equal reafon fuppole that thefe were m^hke
DEL [i
, 3^uge. ^ tnaimer covered, and that no living creature whatever
v could find flicker even for a moment : and it is cer¬
tainly more agreeable to the charadfer of the Deity to
believe, that he would at once deftroy animal life by
fuflbcation in water, rather than allow numbers of
them to colledt themfelves on the tops of mountains
to perifli with hunger and cold. It is befides very
improbable, that any creature, whether bird or beaft,
could fuftain a continued rain of 40 days and 40 nights,
even without fuppofing them to have been abfolutely
immerfed in water.
This confideration alone is fufficient to fliow, that
if there was a deluge at all, it muft have been univerfal
with regard to the world as well as the human race 5
and the poflibility of fuch a deluge by natural means
has already been evinced. Under the article Antedi¬
luvians it is fliown, that, according to the moft mo¬
derate computation, the world mult have been vaflly
more full of people than at prefent. The leaft calcu¬
lation there made indeed feems incredible ; fince ac¬
cording to it, the world muft have contained upwards
of 68,719 times as many inhabitants as are at prefent
to be met with in the empire of China, the moft po¬
pulous country in the world : but China bears a much
larger proportion to the habitable part of the world
than this. The violences exercifed by mankind upon
one another have always been the means of thinning
their numbers, and preventing the earth from being
overftocked with inhabitants ; and the ftrong expref-
fion in Scripture, that the « earth was filled with vio¬
lence,” Ihows that it muft have gone to an extraordi¬
nary height.. But though this violence muft have un¬
doubtedly thinned the old world of its inhabitants it
muft likewife have difperfed fome of them into diftant
regions. There is therefore no reafon for fuppofing
that before the flood the human race were not driven
into the remoteft regions of the habitable world or
that America was deftitute of inhabitants then more
thanu is at prefent. At any rate, the fchemes of
V oiims and Coetlogon, who would confine the whole
race of mankind to a fmall part of Afia, muft appear
evidently futile and erroneous in the higheft degree.
Objections" ome objections have been made to the doftrine of
from i'ome''an um.verfal deluge from the ftate of the continent of
and the number of finals peculiar to that
ing peculiar fnd 0ther co«ntriej. which could not be fuppofed to
to certain to^uch a diftance either to or from the ark of
countries. I;oah- tbis fubje&.Bilhop Stillingfleet obferves
that the fuppofition of animals being propagated much
farther in the world than mankind before the flood
feems. very probable, “ becaufe the produaion of ani¬
mals is parallel in Genefis with that of fifties, and both
of them different from man. For God faith, Let the
waters, bring forth every moving creature that hath
lire, viz. filh and fowl: And accordingly it is faid that
the waters brought forth abundantly every living crea
ture after their kind, and every fowl after his kind.
Accordingly, in the produaion of beafts, we read
Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
^rd’ Ci?ttler’ an,d. e,V.ery creePJng thing, and beaft
of the earth, after his kind : and it was fo.” But in
the produaion of man it is faid, ‘ Let us make man
m our image, and after our likenefs.’ From hence I
obferve this difference between the formation of ani¬
mals and of man, that in one God gave a prolific
51 ]
DEL
power to the earth and waters for the produaion of Deluge,
the feveral living creatures which came from th-m, fo ——y-—
that the feminal principles of them were contained in
the matter out of which they were produced ; which
was otherwife in man, who was made by a peculiar
hand of the great Creator himfelf, who thence is faid
to have formed man out of the dull of the ground.
“ If now this fuppofition be embraced, by it we
prefently clear ourfelves of many difficulties concern¬
ing the propagation of animals in the world, and their
confervation in the ark j as how the unknown kind of
ferpent in Brazil, the flow-bellied creature in the In¬
dies, and all thofe ftrange fpecies of animals feen in
the Weft Indies, fhould either come into the ark of
Noah, or be conveyed out of it into thofe countries
which are divided by fo vaft an ocean on one fide, and
at leaft fo large a tra<ft of land on the other. Befides,
fome kind of animals cannot live out of the climate
W’here they, are ; and there are many forts of animals
dilcovered in America and the adjoining iflands, which
have left no remainder of themfelves in thefe parts of
the world.. And it feems ftrange, that thefe fhould
propagate into thofe parts of the world from the place
of the Hood., and leave none at all of their number be-
h^^them in thefe parts whence they were propaga-
To this Mr Cockburn, in his treatife on the deluge,Repiie5s bj
replies, 1. That as it pleafed God to create only oneMr^°ck«-
man and one woman at the beginning, and their pofte-burn*
rity were fufficient to overfpread the earth, it micrfit
well be fuppofed to be furnifhed with animals from^an
original pair of each. 2. On the fuppofition of many
pairs of brute animals having been created originally,
they muft, when the human race were few in number^
have multiplied to fuch a degree as to render the world
uninhabitable. In confirmation of this, he informs us
from the accounts of the Indian mifhonaries, that in 3^
the kingdom of.Champua in the Indies, the river cal-Countnes
led by the natives Tmacorcu, but by the Portuguefererldered
Varel/a, goes up 80 leagues into the country to a moun-ku'wu3"
tain aWcd Mo;,ca/or above which it is much broader, abundance
but not fo deep by far ; there being banks of fand in of brute
fome places, and lands overflowed with .water, wherecreature3?
there are an infinite number of fowls that cover all the
country ; infom.uch, that by reafon of them the whole
kingdom of C.hintalcuhos had for 40 years been defo-
!ate, though it was eight days journey in length :
which, at 30 miles a-day, made it 240 miles long.
After pafhng this country, another was met with more
wild, and full of great rocks j where there were a vaft
number of animals yet worfe than the fowls, as ele-
pnants., rhinocerofes, lions, bears, buffaloes, and other
beafts in luch multitudes, that whatever men cultivat¬
ed for the fupport of life was fpoiled or deftroyed by
them, nor was it poflible for the inhabitants to pre¬
vent it. ^
The iHe of France may be faid to be the kingdom
ot rats. 1 hey come down from the mountains like
*    -..v* AIKC
an army, creep up the fteepeft rocks, march into the
at country,, affemble in the marfhy grounds, and
bring defolation everywhere, efpecially in the night.
Men can fcarce fleep for them, and are obliged to roll
the.mfelv.es in fuch things as may beft fecure them from
their bitings. It was the fame in the ifle of Bourbon,
Which was as much infefted with them at firft, till it
became
i)e!uge.
v 37
Vaft in-
creafe of
the animal
creation.
38
Of the peo¬
pling of A-
merica, and
migration
of animals
to it.
DEL [1
became more fully peopled. “ We have good rea-
fon therefore (fays Mr Cockburn) to conclude, that
there was but one pair of animals created at firlt, that
they might not increafe too fall for mankind •, and
though they would multiply much more, and increaie
faller than men could do, they had room to fpread
themfelves for a long time without much annoyance
to man •> and as men increafed in number, and ex¬
tended their habitations, they would be able to drive
them further off, or defend themfelves from their de¬
predations.” The fame mode of reafomng is by our
author made ufe of with regard to aquatic animals.
The multitude of thefe indeed, however great, could
be no detriment to man, who lived on land ; but il we
confider how large and numerous a fpawn firtres call at
once, and in how rtiort a time they multiply to im-
menfe numbers, he thinks it reafonable to conclude
that only one pair was created at once ^ and that the
command to the waters to bring forth abundantly both
firtr and fowl, related only to the variety of fpecies,
not to a number of each.
2. Though at the relloration of the world it was to
be repeopled by fix perfons inftead of two, and though
at the fame time animal food was given to man, yet
Noah was commanded only to take a fing e pair _
each of the animals, clean hearts, which are but few m
number, only excepted. It is further obfervable, that
notwithfianding this fcanty fupply of ammais tiey
had increafed fo much by the time of Nimrod, that it
then became neceffary to hunt and deftroy them; mid
Nimrod was celebrated for his courage and fkil!
in that neceffary employment. “ So numerous (adds
he') were the animals before the flood, though but
two of a kind were created, that Dr \\ oodwaid, from
the remains of that earth, as well the animal a' Vege-
table productions of it flill preferved, concludes, tha
« at the time the deluge came the earth was
with herbage, and fo thronged with -imals th* fuch
an expedient was even wanting to eafe of the bu
den, and to make room for a new fucceflion of its pro
dUf10Mr Cockburn is of opinion that Amerl^a
have been peopled before the flood, as the old conti¬
nent could ^ be fuppofed able to hold the number
Df r^Withregard to the main difficulty, viz. how the
animals peculiar to different countries coffi^mvel t:o
pit "itatTmtica! whkhVirtmp’stillingfleet chiefly
A Vica • each of them having animals peculiar to them¬
felves It is alfo pcffible, that there might formerly
be a more eafy communicatmn be^
American continents than there
€'e^r.XKTbf^«, d* .roughtheark
refted on Mount f pTac^
waS built, which n, ght be tar enoug J
“cX"Selca’^gh, no,, have fo far
.0 the arb as ^^on.y^apued^Thls
Deluge.
39
52 3 DEL
tamia would have had as far to travel from thence to _
America, as the American animals from their own
country to Mefopotamia, according to the common
opinion. But in whatever part of the earth Noahlived
and the ark was built, it was at God scommand that
the feveral kinds of animals came thither in order to
their prefervation; and his command could bring
them from the firtheft parts of the earth during the
12o years that all the world lay under condemnation.
Though after all, none of the animals might have very
far to travel to the ark; for if only one pair of each
kind was created at firft, and all of theie in °>\near
one place, fince they were all brought before Adam,
and received names from him, there is no abfurdity m
fuppofing that fome of every kind might remain in the
country where they were firft produced, from thence
Noah’s habitation might not be very diftant. _
can any objeaion be brought from the extmaion ot
fome fpecies of animals in certain countries, of the
world, fince they might have been hunted and de¬
ft royed either by the human race or by other crea ur
Thus it is faid, that there are now few or no deer m
Switzerland, though formerly there were a gr«t many
when it was full of woods. In Britain a fo there are
no wolves now to be found, though the ifland was m-
fefted with them in former tirtres. of ^ fab.
In confidering the fubjea of the deluge, g ^ fiftence of
queftions which occur, one is, by what means were carimor ms
ravenous animals, which feed only upon fteffi,
ported in the ark ? For this fome authors have fup-the
pofed, that Noah, beftdes thefe animals whom he took
into the ark for prefervation took hkewife a great
number for flaughter. For this purpofe Biffiop W il-
kinshas allowed no fewer than 1825 flieep, thoug
be was of opinion that there were no carnivorous
animals before the flood ; and this latter opinion is
adopted by Mr Cockburn. The idea indeed of flaugh-
tering a number of harmlefs animals to fat is fy a lew
vile rapacious ones, and that too in a place defigned
for the3common afylum of the animal creation, feems
inconfiftent with that fcheme of mercy difplayed m
the whole tranfaftion. It is by much the more Pr0“
bable fuppofition then, that though fome animals had
been accuftomed to live on flelh in their natural
ftate they could neverthelefs fubftft upon vegetable
food! This feems the more probable, as fome animals
naturally carnivorous, particularly dogs and cats, may
L fupported in their domeftic ftate by vegetable food
1 If we extend this to the whole canine and fe-
alone. If we exte"d tn,S, j moft of the beafts of
4-,to^ds, panthers nolves,
r ^ * u c far Bears aie well known fometimes
fnakes wiUea, bread and naUk- and
there Is no reafon to fuppofe that even the moft c -
nivorous birds could not be kept alive by gram or o-
ther vegetable food. By thus «clud“« iu
her of uCelels animals, a very conliderablo Ipace sv^
be allowed tor th^ c.rcukt.OTof^air^^^.^u,
DEL
Deluge.
[ i
habitants, the great fpace' neceffary for the food
with which they were to be fupplied, and the con¬
tinual pollution of the air by their dung and filth,
as well as the effluvia from their bodies, there
feems little probability that even fuch a vaft bulk of
air could fuffice for any length of time. This diffi¬
culty will appear the greater, when we confider that
any ventilation was impoffible, as this could not have
been done without both opening the door and win-
dow ; and the former, we are certain, was not opened
until the time that the command was given to come
forth out of the ark. Neither is there the fmalleft
probability, that the opening of a fingle window could
renew the air in fuch a manner as to make it fit for
breathing throughout the whole extent of the ark.
In this particular, therefore, we muft have recourfe to
the immediate interpofition of Divine power, and fup-
pofe that the air was miraculoufly preferved of a fuffi-
cient degree of purity, as the garments of the Ifrae-
lites were preferved from turning old, and their feet
from being affeded by the journey through the dcfert
in which they wandered fo long.—Many other que-
ftions concerning the economy of the ark might be
propofed ; as, how they lupplied themfelves with wa¬
ter ; in what manner they could ufe fire for the dref-
fing of their victuals, &c. But as every anfwer to
thefe muft be founded wholly upon conjecture, and
none can pretend that there was a natural impoffibility
of effecting any of thefe things, we forbear to infill
farther upon them. The cafe, however, is very dif¬
ferent with refpeft to the air neceffary for fuftaining
animal life j for here there is a plain impoffibility in a
natural way; nay, w'e may even doubt whether the
general mafs of atmofphere, after being deprived of its
cleClric matter, or otherwife altered in fuch a manner
as to let fall fuch a quantity of the water it contain¬
ed, was fit for the fupport of animal life ; fo that a
miracle would have been neceffaiy at any rate. To
this indeed it may be replied, that on fuch a fuppofi-
tion, men and other animals would have been de-
ftroyed, not by the flood, but by the vitiated air they
oreathed. But, as has been already hinted, it is im¬
probable that any living creature could refill the vio¬
lent rain which took place, and which would foon
drive the birds from their Ihelter, as the waters begin¬
ning to overflow the ground would foon expel the hu¬
man race from their houfes ; and it would not be till
the end of the 40 days and 40 nights that the air
could beat its worft ftate, long before which time all
animal life would be extindf.
f We a‘a11 conclude this article with confidering fome
Senpbce0, ' altuerati°"SJ which ^PRofed to have taken
in confe- P,aC.e !.n .t5le world m confequence .of the deluge. One
quence of °‘ tlle‘e 15 the much greater quantity of water on the
the deluge, prefent than on the old world. Dr Keill has indeed
endeavoured to prove, that the prefent extent of the
furface of the waters is neceffary to raife fuch a quan¬
tity of vapours as.may fupply the furface of the earth
with ram. and with fprings. In anfwer to this, it is
laid, that it may be juftly queftioned whether all fprings
are derived from the vapours raifed by the fun’s heat >
and, 2. Whether the primitive earth flood in need of
luch a quantity of ram to render it as fertile as the pre-
ient Dr Woodward gives the following reafon for
fuppofing the antediluvian feas to have been nearly of
Vol. VII. Part I. *
41
Changes
53 3 DEL
the fame extent with thofe at prefent, viz. that “ the
fpoils of the fea, the fhells and other marine bodies,
are left in fuch prodigious numbers, and in heaps upon
heaps in the earth, befides thofe which have long fince
perifhed, that they could not have been left in fuch
quantities, had not the feas occupied much the fame
fpace as they do now.” This argument, however, is
thought by Mr Cockburn to be alfo inconclufive :
“ For (fays he), 1. Animal food, whether fifti or flefh,
was not ufe.d by mankind before the deluge : but,
2. Suppofe it had, yet for the firft 500 years the num¬
ber of mankind was but final], and likely at a great
diftance from the fea j fo that the increafe of all kinds
of filh during fo long a time muft have been prodigi¬
ous. We need not be furpnfed, then, at the immenfe
quantities of the exuvice of marine animals left on the
earth by the deluge. But the reafon he brings to
prove that the feveral continents of the world were
encompaffed with feas as they are now, viz. that as
there are different forts of fifties in the different feas
of the world, fo the exuviae of the fame kind are ge¬
nerally found upon contiguous lands, does not always
hold, fince there are fome {hells found in the continent
which are ftrangers to the parts of the fea contermi¬
nous to thefe continents. That the feas in the pre¬
fent earth are vaftly more extended, and confequently
the dry land fo much lefs in proportion, may likewife
be inferred from the great multitude of iilands that
lie near the ffiores of the greater continents, if it be
true what fome allege, that they are parts broken off
by the deluge from the main land, which before that
reached to and beyond them. And though iflands are
thought to be rarely found in the great ocean, yet
there have of late been found in the midft of the In¬
dian ocean vaft clufters of ifiands, &c.
To all this it may be replied, That the Mofaic ac¬
count fays nothing of the extent of the feas either be¬
fore or after the flood ; but Amply tells us, that the
waters were poured out upon the furface of the earth
from the windows of heaven and the fountains of the
deep, and that as the flood decreafed, the waters re¬
turned from off the face of the earth. If part of them
returned, we have not the leaft reafon to fuppofe that
the whole did not do fo likewife. That the fiffi, as
well as land animals, were more numerous in the ante¬
diluvian world than now when fuch quantities are de-
ftroyed by mankind, is very probable, as we fee they
abound to this day in uninhabited places. This may
account for . the aftonifliingr quantities of their exuviae
to be met with in many different parts of the earth ;
but from the formation of iflands nothing can be
concluded concerning the antediluvian world. Late
difcoveries have (hown that many iflands have a volca¬
nic origin ; others are formed by the growth of coral 5
fome by an accumulation of fea-weeds and other mat¬
ters floating on the furface of the ocean, and detained
upon fand banks or funk rocks : while not a few of
thofe near the great continents owe their origin to the
quantities of mud brought down by the great rivers
w'bich empty themfelves into the ocean. Authentic
hillory fcarcely affords an inftance of an ifland formed
by the breaking off a piece from the continent, though
it does many ot iflands being joined to continents by
fome one or other of the caufes juft mentioned.
The inferior fertility of the earth after the deluge is
U much
Deluge,
DEL [i
Deluge, much infilled upon by the fame author, for the f0}!r0W-
   ing reafons: “ I. The grant of animal food to Noah
and his pofterity *, rvhich he thinks is an indication of
greater barrennels in the ground than formerly. 2. Our
Saviour compares the days of Noah with thole of
Lot j and as the country about Sodom is faid to have
been exceedingly fertile like the garden of the Lord,
he is of opinion that the antediluvian world mult have
been very fertile alfo. 3. As (according to Dr Wood¬
ward) the firft earth brought forth all manner of
plants of itfelf, without any labour or culture of man,
and even before there was a man to till the ground,
we may reafonably fuppofe that the exterior ftratum
or furface of the earth confided of fuch terreftnal
matter as was fit for thefe productions j that is, of
a rich light mould, affording plentifully matter for
, vegetation. Now, though God was pleafed, upon
man’s tranfgreffion, to withdraw in part his benedic¬
tion from the earth *, yet the earth itfelf was untouch¬
ed till the deluge, the fame furface of rich mould was
ftill upon it, and brought forth plentifully, efpecially
when man’s culture for corn was added. But the
inundation of waters at the deluge greatly altered the
conftitution of the earth itfelf *, it mixed and confound¬
ed this upper ftratum of vegetative earth with other
terreftrial matter not fit for vegetation, with land, gra¬
vel, ftones, and all kinds of mineral matter, which mult
needs render the earth in general much lels fertile than
before, and which made the plough neceffary to dig
up the proper vegetative mould, and bring it to the
furface, and alfo manure or compoft to mcreafe and
enrich it ; neither of which before the flood it needed.
4. There is a moral reafon why the earth after the
flood fhould be lefs fertile than before. The luxu¬
riant produaions of the firft earth, after man’s nature
became corrupted, and to deviate more and more from
righteoufnefs, ferved only to excite and foment his
luffs, and to minifter plentiful fuel to his vices and
luxury. To cut off, therefore, fuch occafion of hn
and wickednefs, God, in great mercy to men, retrench¬
ed the earth in its former fertility, thereby obliging
them to labour and diligence, and employing mott of
their time to procure their neceffary fubfiftence, which
the earth by diligent culture will ftill afford, but not
that luxuriant abundance it did before the flood. It
we take a furvey of the different regions and countries
of the world, we {hall find this to be the truth of the
cafe. Some places, both in Afia and America, are
as it were a paradife in refpeft of the reft, to (how
us perhaps what was and would have been the ftate of
the earth had not man finned j. but far the greateft
part is nothing to be compared to thefe, and evidently
fhows that effedl which the fins of men had upon the
earth itfelf. In a word, if we take a furvey of the
whole, it cannot be thought that the firft bleffmg was
xeftored to the earth after the flood, or that it came
out of the hands of its Maker in the {fate it is nt pre-
fent, fince fo great a part of it bears ftill the marks of
the curfe laid upon it.”
Notwithftanding all that is here alleged, the extra¬
ordinary fertility of the ancient earth mutt ftill ap¬
pear very problematical, if we confider all circumftan-
ces. For, .
I. Even at the creation, when the earth was at its
utrooft perfe&ion, we cannot fuppofe that every part
54 1 DEL
of it produced fpontaneoufly like the garden of Eden. _ Demge.
On the contrary, we are told that this garden was
planted by the Lord God, and that Adam was put into
it to drefs it and to keep it. It appears, therefore, that
even in the Paradifaical ftate the earth would not have
produced food for man without culture j for as God
planted the firft garden, there can be no doubt that
had man continued in his ftate of innocence and mul¬
tiplied, he muft have planted other gardens when it be¬
came neceffary. After the fall, the fertility of the
earth was exprefsly removed, and that not m a flight
degree j but if we can judge from the prefent ftate of
things, it muft have become extremely wild and bar¬
ren. Thus, when it is faid, “ Thorns alfo and thirties
(hall it bring forth to thee-,” we may judge of the
ftate of the foil from that which we fee bringing iorth
thorns and thirties at this day. Every one knows that
an abundant crop of thefe weeds indicates poor ground,
which will require a great deal of cultivation to bring
it into order. Nay, that we may be fure that the cul¬
tivation of the earth was at this time no eafy matter,
it is likewife faid, “ In forrow (halt thou eat of it all
the days of thy life.” Hence it would appear, that
the antediluvian earth, inftead of being more fertile,
was much more barren than at prefent. That the a-
bour of cultivating the ground at that time was alio
fo great as to be almoft intolerable, is evident froin the
fpeech of Lamech on the birth of Noah : “ This fame
(fays he) (hall comfort us concerning our work and
toil of our hands, concerning the ground which the
Lord hath curfed.” t,
2 There is a very evident natural reafon why the
antediluvian world Ihould have been moi^ barren than
the prefent, and why the deluge ftiould have removed
that barrennefs. Under the article Antediluvians,
N° IQ. it is hinted, that the purity of the air at that
time was a principal caufe of the longevity of the hu¬
man race. If this was really the caie which is very
probable, we muft fuppofe the atmofphere to have
then contained a greater quantity of pure air than it
does at prefent j for experiments have put it beyond
doubt, that from this the fupport of animal life is im¬
mediately derived. But this kind of air, however fa¬
vourable to animal life, is found to be very unfavour¬
able to vegetation 5 and therefore m proportion to i s
abundance in the antediluvian atmofphere, the animals
will be healthy, and the vegetables weak, puny, and
fickly. But the deluge, by overflowing the earth for
a whole year, deftroyed every animal and vegetable,
and confequently induced a vaft putrefaftion all over
the globe j the confequence of which.was the Prod“
tion§of an immenfe quantity of what « called phlogft-
catedair (azoticgas). This mixing with the pure atmo¬
fphere vitiated it into fuch a degree as to make it lefs
S to animal life, but more fo to vegetation.
Hence the prefent world muft naturally be more fer¬
tile than the former-, and not only on this account,
but by reafon of its being manured by the ftagnation
of the waters upon its furface for a twelvemonth and
the immenfe quantity of animal matter left by them,
the ground, inftead of being leffenedm its ^ihty, as
Dr Woodward fuppofes, muft have been reftored as
far as we can judge, to the very ftate it was m at its
original^formation. ^ ^ cafe appears probable from
DEL
Deluge.
xvhat the Deity faid to Noah after offering up his facri-
fice. I will not (fays he) curfe the ground any more
for man’s fake.” Now this was plainly intimating that
the earth was reftored to its primitive fertility, and
that he would no more take it away ; for when he did
fo to the primitive world', it was in thefe wTords, “ Cur-
fed is the ground for thy fake.” That the curfe here
alluded to was really the depriving the earth of its
fertility, and not the overflowing the earth with water,
is evident; becaufe, after declaring that he would no
more curfe the ground for man’s fake, he adds, “ Nei¬
ther will I again fmite every living thing as I have
done.”
4. The moral reafons afligned why the ptefent
[ *5$ 1
DEM
world Ihould be lefs fertile than the former, feem to
be inconclufive. However barren we may reckon the
earth juft now, it is certain that it produces, or might
produce, much more than would fuffice for all its in¬
habitants. The difficulties which mankind undergo
are not at all owing to the barrennefs of the earth,
but to their own conduft, or their oppreflion of one
another. Neither does it clearly appear that animal
food is really in any degree cheaper than vegetable,
but rather the contrary.: fo that whatever was the
zeafon of this grant after the flood, we cannot fairly
afcribe it to a forefight of the future barrennefs of the
earth.
Another queftion which naturally occurs on the
fubjedl of the deluge is, Whether there was any rain
before it or not ? The argument againft the exiftence
of rain before the flood, is obvioufly derived from the
rainbow being made a fymbol of the divine favour im¬
mediately after. It is certain, indeed, that unlefs we
fuppofe the nature of light or of water to have been
different before this event from what it was afterwards,
there is a natural impoflibility of the refra&ion of the
fun’s light being prevented from {bowing the appear¬
ance of a rainbow, whenever the fun and” clouds were
in a certain pofnion with regard to one another. It
appears improbable to thofe who take this fide of the
queftion, that the Deity fliould inftitute any thing as
an emblem of his difpleafure being turned away, when
the fame emblem had been feen perhaps a very fliort
time before the cataftrophe happened. On the other
hand, it is replied, that there is no abfurdity in fuppo-
fing this to have been the cafe; for though the rain¬
bow exifted before the deluge, yet it never was ap¬
pointed to be the fymbol of this particular event, viz.
the reconciliation of the Deity ; and the impoffibility
of vegetables being fupplied with a fufficient quantity
of moifture without rain, is likewife urged as a decifive
argument. Still, however, it appears, that even ve¬
getation. may fubfift, and that in its utmoft perfec¬
tion, without rain; for we are informed, that by
means of a mift the ground was originally watered,
and vegetables fupplied with moifture, before there’
was any rain ; and if this was the cafe at one time,
it might have been at any other, or at any number of
times we can fuppofe. Indeed, as matters ftand at
prefent, this would undoubtedly be a very fcanty fup-
ply and perhaps fo it was in the antediluvian world $
and thus the want of rain might have been one caufe
of that barrennefs in the antediluvian world which we
"ave abcady mentioned as probable, and which Mr
Bryant mentions as the opinion of all the ancient my- Demadci
thologifts, ||
DEMADES, a famous Athenian, who from being Pemetrius;
a mariner, became a great orator, and appealed Philip
by his eloquence, after the famous vi&ory over the A-
thenians at Cheronea, in the 338th year B. C.
DEMAIN, or Demesne, in Law, is commonly
underftood to be the lord’s chief manor place, with
the lands thereto belonging, which he and his ancef-
tors have, time out of mind, kept in their own manual
occupation.
DEMAND, in its popular fenfe, denotes a calling
for or requiring one’s due.
Demand, in Law, has amorefpecial fignification, as
contradiftinguiftied ixom p/aint; for all civil aftions are
purfued either by demands or plaints; according to
which the purfuer is called either demandant or plaintiff;
viz. in real adlions, demandant; and in perfonal ac¬
tions, plaintiff. See Plaintiff.
DEMESNE. See D EMAIN.
Demesne Lands. See Revenue.
DEMETRIA, a feftival in honour of Ceres, called
by the Greeks Demeter. It was then cuftomary for
the votaries of the goddefs to lafti themfelves with
whips made with the bark of trees. The Athenians
had a folemnity of the fame name in honour of Deme¬
trius Poliorcetes.
. DEME IRIUS, a fon of Antigonus and Strato-
nice, furnamed Poliorcetes, “ Deftroyer of towns.” At
the age of 2 2, he was fent by his father againft Ptolemy,
who invaded Syria. He was defeated near Gaza j
but he. foon repaired his lofs by a vittory over one of
the generals of the enemy. He afterwards failed with
a fleet of 250 Ihips to Athens, and reftored the Athe¬
nians to liberty, by freeing them from the power of
Caffander and Ptolemy, and expelling the garrifon,
which was ftationed there under Demetrius Phalereus!
After this fuccefsful expedition, he befieged and took
Munychia, and defeated Callander at d'hermopylse.
His reception at Athens after thefe victories was at¬
tended w'ith the greateft fervility, and the Athenians
were not afliamed to raife altars to him as a god, and
confult his oracles. This uncommon fuccefs raifed
the jealoufy of the fucceffors of Alexander ; and Seleu-
cus Caffander and Lyfimachus united to deftroy An¬
tigonus and his fon. Their hoftile armies met at Ipfus,
299 years before the Auguftan age. Antigonus was’
killed in the battle ■, and Demetrius, after a fevere
lofs, retired to Ephefus. His ill fuccefs raifed him
many enemies; and the Athenians, who had lately
adored him as a god, refufed to admit him into their
city. He foon after ravaged the territory of Lyfima¬
chus, and reconciled himfelf to Seleucus, to whom he
gave his daughter Stratonice in marriage. Athens
now laboured under tyranny, and Demetrius relieved it
and pardoned the inhabitants. The lofs of his poffelfions,
in Afia recalled him from Greece, and he eftabHffied’
himfelf on the throne of Macedonia by the murder of
Alexander the fon of Caffander. Here he was conti¬
nually at war with the neighbouring ftates, and the
fuperior power of his adversaries obliged him to leave*
Macedonia, after he had fat on the throne for feven
years. He paffed into Afia, and attacked fome of the
provinces of Lyfimachus, with various fuceefs; but fa-
U 2 mine
/
DEM
[ 156 1
DEM
Demetrius, mine and peftilence deftroyed the greateft part of his
v-"" ' army, and he retired to the court of Seleucus for fup-
port and afliftance. He met with a kind receptionj
but hoftilities were foon begun j and after he had
gained fome advantages over his fon-in-law, Demetrius
was totally forfaken by his troops in the field of battle,
and became an eafy prey to the enemy. Though he
was kept in confinement by his fon-in-law, yet. he
maintained himfelf like a prince, and paffed his time
in hunting, and in every laborious exercife. His Ion
Antigonus offered Seleucus all his poffeflions, and even
his perfon, to procure his father’s liberty j but all
proved unavailing, and Demetrius died in the 54ttl
of his age, after a confinement of three years, 286
years before Chrift. His remains were given to An-
tigonus, and honoured with a fplendid funeral pomp
at Corinth, and hence conveyed to Demetrias. His
pofterity remained in poffeffion of the Macedonian
throne till the age of Perfeus who was conquered by
the Romans. Demetrius has rendered himfelf famous
for his fondnefs of diffipation when among the diffolute,
and for his love of virtue and military glory in the
field of battle. He has been commended as a great
warrior •, and his ingenious inventions, his warlike en¬
gines, and ftupendous machines in the war with the
Rhodians, juftify his claims to that chara&er. He has
been blamed for his voluptuous indulgences j and his
biographer obferves that no Grecian prince had more
wives and concubines than Poliorcetes. _ His obedience
and reverence to his father has been juftly admired •,
and it has been obferved, that Antigonus ordered the
ambaffadors of a foreign prince particularly to remark
the cordiality and friendlhip which fubfifted between
him and his fon. , , 1 • r
Demetrius, furnamed Donatus, fucceeded his rather
Antigonus on the throne of Macedonia. He reigned
12 years, and was fucceeded by his fon Philip. _
Demetrius, a fon of Philip king of Macedonia,
delivered as an hoflage to the Romans. His
delivered his father from a heavy accufation laid be¬
fore the Roman fenate. When he returned to Mace¬
donia, he was falfely accufed by his brother Perfeus,
who was jealous of his popularity, and his father too
credulouflv confented to his death. _
Demetrius I. furnamed Soter or Saviour, was Ion ot
Seleucus Philopator, the fon of Antiochus the Great,
king of Syria. His father gave him as a hoftage to
the& Romans. After the death of Seleucus, Antio¬
chus Epiphanes, the deceafed monarch’s brother, ulur-
ped the kingdom of Syria, and was fucceeded by us
fon Antiochus Eupator. This ufurpation difplealed
Demetrius, who was detained at Rome. He procured
his liberty on pretence of going to hunt, and lied to
Syria, where the troopts received him as their law u
fovereign. He put to death Eupator and Lyfias, and
eftablifhed himfelf on his throne by cruelty and opprel-
fion. Alexander Bala, the fon of Antiochus Epiphanes,
laid claims upon the crown of Syria, and defeated De¬
metrius in a battle, 250 years before Chriit.
Demetrius II. furnamed Nice tor, or Conqueror was
fon of Soter, to whom he fucceeded by the afliftance
of Ptolemy Philometor. He married Cleopatra the
daughter of Ptolemy, who was before the wife ot the
expelled monarch Alexander Bala. Demetrius gave
himfelf up to luxury and voluptuoufnefs, and fuffered Demetrius
his kingdom to be governed by his favourites. At Den^Au
that time a pretended fon of Bala, called Diodorus Uci>
Tryphon, feized a part of Syria •, and Demetrius, to •   »
oppofe his antagonift, made an alliance with the Jews,
and marched into the eaft, where he was taken by the
Parthians. Phraates, king of Parthia, gave him his
daughter Rodogyne in marriage ; and Cleopatra was
fo incenfed at this new connexion, that (he gave her-
felf up to Antiochus Sidetes her. brother-in-law and
married him. Sidetes was killed in a battle agamu the
Parthians, and Demetrius regained the poffeltion ot his
kingdom. His pride and oppreflion rendered him odi¬
ous : and his fubje£ts afked a king of the houfe °f Se-
leucus from Ptolemy Phyfcon king of Egypt ; and ^
metrius, unable to refill the power of his enemies, fled
to Ptolemais, which was then in the hands of his wife
Cleopatra. The gates were (hut up againft his approach
by Cleopatra ; and he was killed by order of the gover¬
nor of Tyre, whither he had fled for proteaion, A. U. C.
627. He was fucceeded by Alexander Zebina, whom
Ptolemy had raifed to the throne. .
Demetrius Phalereus, a celebrated orator and Peri¬
patetic philofopher, was the fcholar of Theophraftus.
He acquired fo much authority at Athens, that he go¬
verned the city for ten years j and ruled with lo much
wifdom and virtue, that they fet up 36 ftatues in honour
of him. By the flanders of fome malicious perlons in
his abfence, he was, however, condemned to die j and
his image was pulled down j which, when Demetrius
heard, he faid, they could not pull down that virtue
for which thofe images were fet up. He efcaped into
Egypt, and was prote&ed by Ptolemy Lagus. This
king, it is faid, afked his advice concerning the fuccet-
fion of his children to the throne •, viz. whether he
ought to prefer thofe he had by Eundice to Ptolemy
Philadelphus, whorfl he had by Berenice . and Deme¬
trius advifed him to leave his crown to the former.
This difpleafed Philadelphus fo much, that his father
being dead, he banifhed Demetrius ; who was after¬
wards killed by the bite of an afp. Demetrius compofed
more works in profe and verfe than any other Peripa¬
tetic of his time j and his writings confifted of Poef.ry,
hiftoiy, politics, rhetoric, harangues, and embalhes.
None of them are extant except his rhetoric, which is
ufually printed among the Rhetores Se/efli.
Demetrius, a Cynic philofopher, difciple of Apo -
lonius Tyaneeus, in the age of Caligula. . The empe¬
ror wilbed to gain the philofopher to his mtereft by a
large prefent; but Demetrius refufed it with indigna¬
tion, and faid, If Catigula wifhes to bribe me let him
fend me his crown. Vefpafian was difpleafed with his
infolence, and banifhed him to an ifland. The Cynic
derided the punifhment, and bitterly inveighed againft
the emperor. He died in a great old age ; and Seneca
obferves that “ nature had brought him forth to fhow
mankind that an exalted genius can live fecurely, with¬
out being corrupted by the vices of the world.
DEMI (formed from dxmidium), a uled in
compofition with other words to figmfy half.
DEMi-Attici, boroughs or larger villages of Alt.
The Athenian tribes were diftinguifhed into Demi. -
mer, in his catalogue, diliinguifhes the Athenians by
the appellation Demos. And when Thefeus Preval1^
DEM [ i
Demi-cul- on them to quit the country and fettle at Athens, they
ftill continued to frequent the demi, and to perform
their feveral religious ceremonies there.
DEMi-Cuhenn, a piece of ordnance ufually 4^ inches
bore, 2700 pounds weight, 10 feet long, and carrying
point blank 175 paces. A demi-culverin of the lead
fize is 44 inches bore, 10 feet long, and zoco pounds
weight. It carries a ball of 4 inches diameter and of
9 pounds weight, and its level range is 174 paces. A
demi-culverin of the largeft fort is 4^ inches bore.
I3y feet long, and weighs 3000 pounds weight. It
carries a ball 4^ inches diameter, weighing 12 pounds
II ounces, point blank 178 paces.
DzMi-God. See Hero.
DEMi-Gorge, in Fortification, is that part of the poly¬
gon which remains after the flank is raifed, and goes
from the curtain to the angle of the polygon. It is half
of the vacant fpace or entrance into a baftion.
Df.Mi-^uaver, a note in Mujtc, two of which are
- equal to a quaver.
Demi-Semi-Quaver, in Mific, the fliorteft note, two
of them being equal to a femi-quaver.
DEMISE, in Law, is applied to an eftate either in
fee-fimple, fee-tail, or for a term of life or years; and
fo it is commonly taken in many writs. The king’s
death is in law termed the demife of the king.
Demise and Redemife, denote a conveyance where
there are mutual leafes made from one to another of
the fame land, or fomething out of it.
DEMIURGE (from which denotes a “public
fervant,” and tgyov “work”), in the mythology of the
eaftern philofophers, was one of the iEONS employed
by the fupreme Deity in the creation of the world.
1 he character they gave him is a compound of Ihining
qualities and infupportable arrogance ; and his exceflive
lull of empire effaces his talents and virtues. He is
reprefented as claiming dominion over the new world
he has formed, as his fovereign right; and excluding
totally the fupreme Deity from all concernment in it,
he demands from mankind, for himfelf and his affo-
ciates, divine honours.
DEMOCRACY, from “ people,” and
“ to command” or “ govern 5” the fame with a popular
government, wherein the fupreme power is lodged in
the hands of the people 5 fuch were Rome and Athens
of old $ but as to our modern republics, Bafil only ex¬
cepted, their government comes nearer to ariftocracy
than democracy. See Law Index. -
DEMOCRITUS, one of the greateft philofophers
of antiquity, was born at Abdera, a town of Thrace,
about the 80th Olympiad ; that is, about 460 years*
before Chrift. His father, fays Valerius Maximus,
was able to entertain the army of Xerxes 5 and Dio¬
genes Laertius adds, upon the teflimony of Herodotus,
that the king, in requital, prefented him with fome*
Magi and Chaldeans. From thefe Magi and Chalde-
ans4Democritus received the firfl part of his education ;
and from them, whilft yet a boy, he learned theology
and aftronomy. He next applied to Leucippus, and
learned from him the fyftem of atoms and a vacuum.
His father dying, the three fons, for fo many there were,
divided the eftate. Democritus made choice of that
part which confifted in money, as being, though the
leaft {hare, the moft convenient for travelling ; and it
isfaid, that his portion amounted to above 100 talents,
Demo¬
critus,
57 ] DEM
which is near 20,000k fterling. His extraordinary
inclination for the fciences and for knowledge, induced
him to travel into all parts of the world where he hoped (Dem0lvrc*
to find learned men. He went to vifit the priefts of
Egypt, from whom he learned geometry •, he confulted
the Chaldeans and the Perfian philofophers; and it is
faid that he penetrated even into India and Ethiopia,
to confer rvith the Gymnofophifts. In thefe travels
he wafted his fubftance 5 after which, at his return, he
was obliged to be maintained by his brother ; and if
he had not given proofs of the greateft underftanding,
and thereby procured to himfelf the higheft honours,
and the ftrongeft intereft of his country, he would have
incurred the penalty of that law which denied in¬
terment in the family-fepulchre to thofe who had fpent
their patrimony. After his return from travelling, he
lived at Abdera, and governed there in a moft abfolute
manner, by virtue of his confummate wifdom. The
magiftrates of that city made him a prefent of 500 ta¬
lents, and erefted ftatues to him even in his lifetime :
but being naturally more inclined to contemplation
than delighted with public honours and employments,
he withdrew into folitude and retirement. Democri¬
tus inceffantly laughed at human life, as a continued
farce, which made the inhabitants of Abdera think he
was mad $ on which they fent Hippocrates to cure
him : but that celebrated phyfician having difcourfed
with the philofopher, told the Abderians, that he had
a great veneration for Democritus ; and that, in his
opinion, thofe who efteemed themfelves the moft heal-
tny were the moft diftempered. Democritus died, ac¬
cording to Diogenes Laertius, in the 361ft year before
the Chriftian era, aged 109. It is faid that he put out
his eyes, in order that he might meditate more pro¬
foundly on philofophical fubjefts; but this has little pro¬
bability. He was the author of many books, which are
loft ; and from thefe Epicurus borrowed his philofophy.
DEMOIVRE, Abraham, an eminent mathema¬
tician, was born at Vitri in Champagne, May 1667.
The revocation of the edia of Nantz, in 1685, deter¬
mined him to fly into England, rather than abandon
the religion of his fathers. He laid the foundation of
his mathematical ftudies in France, and perfefted bim-
felf at London ; where a mediocrity of fortune obliged
him to employ his talents in this way, and to read pu¬
blic le&ures for his better fupport. The Principia
Mathematica of Newton, w’hich chance is faid to have
thrown in his way, made him comprehend at once,
how little he had advanced in the fcience he profeffed!
He fell hard to w’ork: he fucceeded as he went along ;
and he foon became conne&ed with, and celebrated
among, the firft-rate mathematicians. His eminence
and abilities foon opened to him an entrance into the
Royal Society of London, and afterwards into the Aca¬
demy of Sciences at Paris. His merit was fo known
and acknowledged by the former, that they judged him
a fit perfon to decide the famous conteft between Newr-
ton and Leibnitz. The colleftion of the academy of
Paris contains no memoir of this author, who died at
London Nov. 1754, foon after his admiflion into it j
but the Philofophical T ranfaftions of London have fe¬
veral, and all of them interefting. He publifhed alfo
fome capital works, fuch as, Mifcellanea Analytica, de
fenebus et quadrature, &c. 1730, 4to. But perhaps
he has been more generally known by his “ Doftrine
i ' “ oi
Detnon-
jftrable
ll
Demo-
fthenes.
DEM I
u of Chances •, or, Method of calculating the Pro-
“ babilities of Events at Play.” This work was firfl:
printed 1618, in 4to, and dedicated to Sir Ifaac New¬
ton : it was reprinted, 1738, with great alterations and
improvements; and a third edition was afterwards pu-
bliihed with additions, and “ A Treatife on Annui-
“ ties,” dedicated to Lord Carpenter.
DEMONSTRABLE, a term ufed in the fchools
to fignify that a thing may be clearly proved. Thus,
it is demonftrable, that the three angles of a triangle
are equal to two right ones.
DEMONSTRATION, in Logic, a feries of fyllo-
gifms, all whofe premifes are either definitions, felf-
evident truths, or propofitions already eftablilhed. See
Logic.
DEMONSTRATIVE, in Grammar, a term given
to fuch pronouns as ferve to indicate or point out a
thing. Of this number are hie, hac, hoc, among the
Latins $ and this, that, thefe, thofe, in Englilh.
DEMOSTHENES, the famous Athenian orator,
was born at Athens 38* B. C. He loft his father at
feven years of age j and was placed under the condudl
of guardians, who robbed him of his fubftance, and ne-
gle£led his education. Demofthenes repaired this lofs
by his love of eloquence and his extraordinary abilities.
He became the difciple of Ifaeus and Plato, and ap¬
plied himfelf to ftudy the orations of Ifocrates. At
the age of 17 he gave an early proof of his eloquence
and abilities againft his guardians, from whom he ob¬
tained the retribution of the greateft part of his eftate.
His rifing talents were, however, impeded by various
natural defeas. But thefe were at laft conquered by
dint of refolution and unwearied attention. He de¬
claimed by the fea-lhore, that he might be ufed to the
noife of a tumultuous affembly $ and with pebbles in
his mouth, that he might correa a defea in his Ipeech.
He praaifed at home with a naked fword hanging
over his (boulder, that he might check an ungraceful
motion to which he was fubjea. He alfo confined
himfelf in a fubterraneous cave, to devote himfelf more
clofely to ftudious purfuits j and to eradicate all curio-
(ity of appearing in public,, he (haved one half of his
head. In this folitary retirement, by the help of 9.
glimmering lamp, he compofed the greateft part of his
orations, which have ever been the admiration of every
age j though his contemporaries and rivals inveighed
againft them, and obferved{,that they fmelt of oil. His
abilities as an orator raifed him to confequence at A-
thens, and he was foon placed at the head of govern¬
ment. In this public capacity he roufed his country¬
men from their indolence, and animated them againft
the encroachment of Philip of Macedonia. In the
battle of Cheronaea, Demofthenes betrayed his pufilla-
nimity, and faved his life by flight. After the death
of Philip, he declared himfelf warmly againft his fon
and fucceffor Alexander *, and when the Macedonians
demanded of the Athenians their orators, Demofthenes
reminded his countrymen of the fable of the iheep,
which delivered their dogs to the wolves. By the
prevalence of party, however, he was forced to retire
from Athens j and in his bamfhment, which he piifled
at Treezen and ALgina, he lived with more effemi¬
nacy than true heroifm. When Antipater made war
againft Greece after the death of Alexander, Demo-
fthencs was publicly recalled from his exile, and a galley
l
158 ] DEM
was fent to fetch him from iEgina. His return was
attended with much fplendor, and all the citizens ^
crowded at the Piraeus to fee him land. His triumph
and popularity were fliort. Antipater and Craterus
were near Athens, and demanded all the orators to be
delivered up into their hands. Demofthenes fled to
the temple of Neptune in Calauria } and when he faw
that all hopes of fafety were vanifhed, he took a dole
of poifon, which he always carried in a quill, and ex¬
pired on the day that the Thefmophoria were celebra¬
ted, 322 years before Chrift. The Athenians raifed a
brazen ftatue to his honour, with an infeription tranf-
lated into this diftich :
Dema-
fthenes.
Si tibi par meriti robur, Vir magne,fuijfet,
Grttcia non Macedo JnccubuiJJ'et hero.
Demofthenes has been defervedly called the prince
of orators. Indeed no orator had ever a finer field
than Demofthenes in his Olynthiacs and Philippics,
which are his capital orations } and undoubtedly to
the greatnefs of the fubjeft, and to that integrity and
public fpirit which breathe in them, they owe a large
portion of their merit. The fubjedl is, to excite
the indignation of his countrymen againft Philip of
Macedon, the public enemy of the liberties of Greece j
and to guard them againft the treacherous meafures
by which that crafty tyrant endeavoured to lull them
into a neglefl of their danger. I o attain this end,
we fee him ufe every proper means to animate a
people diftinguiftred by juftice, humanity, and valour,
but in many inftances become corrupt and degenerate.
He boldly accufes them of venality, indolence, and
indifference to the public good j while, at the
fame time, he reminds them of their former glory,
and of their prefent refources. His contemporary
orators, who were bribed by Philip, and who per-
fuaded the people to peace, he openly reproaches as
traitors to their country. He not only prompts to
vigorous meafures, bnt teaches how they are to be
carried into execution. His orations are ftrongly a-
nimated, and full of the impetuofity and ardour of
public fpirit. His compofition is not diftinguiftied by
ornament and fplendour. It is an energy of thought,
peculiarly his own, wThich forms his charadler, and
raifes him above his fpecies. He feems not to attend
to words, but to things. We forget the orator, and
think of the fubjeft. He has no parade and oftenta-
tion, no ftudied introdudlions : but is like a man full
of his fubjea ; who after preparing his audience by a
fentence or two for the reception of plain truths,
enters direaiy on bufinefs.
The ftyle of Demofthenes is (Long and concife *,
though fometimes, it muft be confelieo, harfti. and
abrupt. His words are highly expreflive, and his ar¬
rangement firm and manly. Negligent of lefler graces,
he feems to have aimed at that fublime which lies in
fentiment. His aftion and pronunciation are faid to
have been uncommonly vehement and ardent ; which,
from the manner of his writings, we ftiould readily
believe. His charafter appears to have been of the
auftere rather than of a gentle kind. He is always
grave, ferious, paflionate } never degrading himfelf,
nor attempting any thing like pleafantry. If. his
admirable eloquence be in any refpeft faulty, it is
that he fometimes borders on the hard and dry. He
may
DEM
Demo- may be thought to want fmoothnefs and grace j which
De fter is attribut®d to Ilis imitating too clofely the manner
■ e’r‘^> er‘- of Thucydides, who was his great model for ftyle,
and whofe hiftory he is faid to have tranfcribed eight
times with his own hand. But thefe defedls are
more than atoned for by that mafterly force of maf-
culine eloquence, which, as it overpowered all who
heard it, cannot in the prefent day be read without
emotion.
Cicero calls him a perfeft model, and fuch as he him-
felf wifhed to be. Thefe tivo great princes of eloquence
have been often compared together ; but the judgment
hefitates to which to give the preference. The arch-
bilhop of Cambray, however, feems to have dated their
merits with great juflice and perfpicuity in his Reflec¬
tions on Rhetoric and Poetry. The paflage, tranfla-
ted, is as follows : “ I do not hefitate to declare that
I think Demollhenes fuperior to Cicero. I am per-
fuaded no one can admire Cicero more than I do. He
adorns whatever he attempts. He does honour to
language. He difpofes of words in a manner peculiar
to himfelf. His ftyle has great variety of charafler.
Whenever he pleafes, he is even concife and vehement;
for inftance, againft Catiline, againft Verres, againft
Antony. But ornament is too vifible in his writings.
His art is wonderful, but it is perceived. When the
orator is providing for the fafety of the republic, he
forgets not himfelf, nor permits others to forget him.
Demofthenes feems to efcape from himfelf, and to fee
nothing but his country. He feeks not elegance of
expreflion ; unfought for, he pofleffes it. He is fupe¬
rior to admiration. He makes ufe of language, as a
modeft man does of drefs, only to cover him. He
thunders,, he lightens. He is a torrent which carries
every thing before it. We cannot criticife, becaufe
we are not ourfelves. His fubjeft enchains our atten¬
tion, and makes us forget his language. We lofe him
from our fight : Philip alone occupies our minds. I
am delighted with both thefe orators ; but I confefs
that I am lefs affe&ed by the infinite art and magnifi¬
cent eloquence of Cicero, than by the rapid fimplicity
of Demofthenes.”
DEMPSTER, Thomas, a very learned man, but
of a Angular charaaer. He was born in Scotland, but
we do not find in what year. He went over to France
for the fake of embracing the Catholic religion, and
taught claffical learning at Paris about the beginning
of the 17th century. Though his bufinefs was to teach
fchool, yet he was as ready to draw his fword, and as
quarrelfome as if he had been a duellift by profeflion :
and it is faid, that there fcarce pafied a day but he had
fomething or other of this kind upon his hands. This
fpirit and.turn of temper drew him into many fcrapes •
and one in particular, which obliged him to quit the
country. Gran.gier, principal of the college of Beau¬
vais at Paris, being obliged to take a journey, appoint¬
ed Dempfter his fubftitute. Dempfter caufed whip a
fcholar, in full fchool, for challenging one of his fel¬
lows to fight a duel. The fcholar, to revenge this af-
- front» brought three gentlemen of his relations, who
were of the king’s life-guards, into the college. Demp¬
fter made the whole college take arms ; hamftrung the
three life-guard-men’s horfes before the college vate ;
and put himfelf into fuch a pofture of defence,0 that
[ 159 1
DEN
Derb’gh.
the three fparks were forced to alk for quarter. He Dempfter
gave them their lives; but imprifoned them, and did of court
not releafe them for fome days. They fought another
way to revenge themfelves : they caufed an informa¬
tion to be made of the life and moral behaviour of
Dempfter, and got fome witnefles to be heard againft
him. Upon this he went over to England, where he
found refuge ; but did not make any long flay. He
went, abioad again, and read leftures upon polite learn¬
ing in feveral univerfities ; in that of Nifmes particu¬
larly, where he difputed for a profeflbr’s chair, and ob¬
tained it. He wrent to Bologna, and was profeflbr
there for the remainder of his life } and was there alfo
admitted a member of the Academy Della Rotte. He
died there in September 1625, having behind him fe¬
veral learned works j as Commentaries on Rofinus de An-
tiquitatibus Romanorum, and upon Claudian, &c. j four
books of Epiftles ; feveral dramatic pieces, and other
poems ; fome books of law ; an Apparatus to the Hi¬
ftory of Scotland ; a Martyrology of Scotland ; and a
Lift of the Scottifli Writers.
Demfstkr of Court, the name formerly given in
Scotland to the common executioner or hangman.
DEMSTER, or Deemster. See Deemster.
DEMULCENTS, among phyficians, medicines
good againft acrimonious humours. Such are the roots
of marlh-mallows, of white lilies, of liquorice, and of
viper-grafs, the five emollient herbs, &c.
DEMURRAGE, in Commerce) an allowance made
to the mailer of a fliip by the merchants, for flaying in
a port longer than the time firft appointed for his de¬
parture.
DEMURRER, in Law, a flop put to any a£Hon
upon lome point of difficulty which muft be determined
by the court, before any further proceedings can be
had in the fuit.
DEN, a fy 11 able which, added to the names of
places, ffiows them to be fituated in valleys or near
woods ; as Tenterden.
DENARIUS, in Roman antiquity, the chief filver
coin among the Romans, wrorth in our money about
fevenpence three farthings. As a weight, it was the
feventh part of a Roman ounce.
Denarius is alfo ufed in our law-books for an
Engliffi penny.
DENBIGHSHIRE, a county of Wales, bounded
on the fouth by Merioneth and Montgomery fhires,
on the north by Flintfhire and the Irifli fea, on the’
weft by Caernarvon and part of Merionethfhire. It is
about 40 miles long and 21 broad. The air is whole-
fome, but ffiarp, the county being pretty hilly, and the
fnow lying long on the tops of the mountains. The foil
m general is barren : but the vale of Clwyd, fo called
from its being watered by that river, is a very fertile
pleafant fpot of great extent, and well inhabited. The
chief commodities are black cattle, ffieep, and goats,
rye, called here amelcorn> and lead-ore. The county
fends two members to parliament, viz. a knight for the
ffiire, and a burgefs for Denbigh the capital.
Denbigh, the capital towm of Denbighffiire in North
Wales. It isfeated on the fide of a rocky hill, on a
branch of the river Clwyd, and was formerly a place
of great ftrength, with an impregnable caftle, now de-
moliflied. It is pretty large, well built, and inhabited
by
DEN
3- 3°-
DenJera by tanners and glovers, and gives the title of
the noble family of Fielding. W. Long.
N. Lat. 53. 15.
DEND ERA, a town of Egypt, on the weft fide of
the Nile. Near it are very magnificent ruins, fuppoied
to be thofe of an ancient temple of Serapis. It is 48
miles fouth fouth-eaftof Girge, and 242 fouthof Cairo.
E. Long. 31. 40. N. Lat. 26. 10.
DENDERiVIOND, a handfome and ftrong town
of the Auftrian Netherlands, in Flanders, with a ftrong
citadel. It was taken by the allies in i'7o6, and by
the French in 1745. It is farrounded by marftres and
fine meadows, which the inhabitants can lay under
water wrhen they pleafe. It is feated at the contlu-
ence of the Dender aud Scheldt. E. Long. 4. 3.
N. Lat. 51. 3.
DENDR ACHATES, in Natural Hi/lory, the name
•ufed by the ancients for an extremely elegant and
beautiful fpecies of agate, the ground of which is
whitifh, variegated with veins of a brighter white.
Thefe veins are beautifully difpofed in a number of va¬
rious figures j but generally in many concentric irregu¬
lar circles, drawn round one or more points. It is
common alfo, in various parts of this ftone, to find very
beautiful delineations of trees, mofles, fea-plants, and
the like, fo elegantly expreffed, that many have erro-
neoufly taken them for real plants included in the fub-
ftance of the ftone : whence the name dendrachates.
DENDROMETER (from a tree, and
I meafure\, an inftrument invented by. Mefirs Dun-
combe and Whittel, for which they obtained a patent ;
and i’o called from its ufe in meafuring trees. This in¬
ftrument confifts of a femicircle A (fig. 1.), divided into
two quadrants, and graduated from the middle.; upon
the diameter B there hangs a plummet L for fixing the
inftrument in a vertical pofition ; there is alfo a chord
D parallel to the diameter, and a radius E, palling at
Plate
CLXVIII.
rmht angles through the diameter and chord. From
a point on the radius hangs an altimeter C, between
the chord and diameter, to which is fixed a fmall femi¬
circle G, and a ferew, to confine it in any pofition.
The altimeter, which is contrived to form the fame
ano-le with the radius of the inftrument as the tree
forms with the horizon, is divided from its centre both
ways into forty equal parts : and thefe paits aie again
fubdivided into halves and quarters. Upon the fmall
femicircle G, on w'hich is accounted the quantity of
the angle made by the altimeter and radius, aie ex¬
preffed degrees from 60 to 120, being 30 on each qua¬
drant. The radius is numbered with the fame fcale
of divifions as the altimeter. There is alfo a nonius
to the fmall femicircle, which (hows the quantity of
an angle to every five minutes. On the back of the
inftrument the ftock M of the Hiding piece is confined
to the axis N, which moves concentrically parallel to
the elevation index F on the oppofite fide, to which it
' is fixed. This index is numbered by a fcale of equal
divifions with the altimeter and radius: at the end of
the index is a nonius, by which the angles of eievation
above, or of depreflion below, the horizon, meafured
upon the femicircle of the inftrumeot, are determined
to ev ry five minutes. There is alfo a groove in the
radiu-, that ftides acrofs the axis by means of a ferew
I, working bet-veen the chord and femicircle cf the
inftiument 3 and this ferew is turned by the key O.
[ 160 ] DEN
earl to Upon the ftock M (fig. 2.) is a Aiding piece P, that al¬
ways a&s at right angles with the altimeter, by-meansof ^
a groove in the latter. Io the fhank of the Aiding
piece is affixed a moveable limb which forms the
fame angle with the altimeter as the bough forms
with the body or trunk of the tree. This limb may
be of any convenient length, divided into equal parts
of the fame fcale with all the foregoing divifions. At
the extremity of the fixed axis, on a centre, an index
R, with telefcopic fights, woiks horizontally upon the
moveable limb of the Aiding piece. Upon this hori¬
zontal index R may be fixed a fmall quadrant T, de-
feribed with any convenient radius from the centre on
which the index moves, and divided into 90 degrees,
beginning at a right line drawn from the centre at
right angles with the fiducial edge of the faid index 3
and upon the extremity of the axis is a nonius, where¬
by to determine the quantity of an angle upon the
quadrant every five minutes. There are alfo two imall
circular arches S, S, ferving to keep the fights in a
parallel pofition, each containing an equal number of
degrees. Upon thefe arches is meafured the angle,
fubtending a fide equal to the difference of the alti¬
tudes of the obferved obje£ts above the plane of the
horizon, and whofe bafe is the neareft diftance between
the perpendiculars in which thefe objefts are fituated.
The dendrometer is fitted to a theodolite, and. may be
ufed either wdth or without it as occafion requires.
The principal ufe of this inftrument is for meafuring
the length and diameter of any tree., perpendicular or
oblique, to an horizontal plane, or in any fituation of
the plane on which it refts, or of any figure, whether
regular or irregular, and alfo the length and diameter
of the boughs, by mere infpeftion 3 and the . inventors
of it have calculated tables, annexed to their account
of the inftrument itfelf, by the help of which the quan¬
tity of timber in a tree is obtained without calculation,
Dendro¬
meter.
or the ufe of the Aiding rule. . The inftrument is rec¬
tified by fetting it in a perpendicular pofition, by means
of the plummet, and ferewing it to the ftaff; then the
altimeter is placed in the exadl pofition of .the tree,
whether perpendicular, reclining, or inclining, and
ferewed faff. If the tree ftands on level ground, the
horizontal diftance from the tree to the axis of the in¬
ftrument is meafured with a tape-line, and the radius
is moved with the key till that diftance be cut upon it
by the infide of the diameter : but if the ground be
Aanting, the diftance from the tree to the inftrument
is meafured, and the elevation index is moved till the
point of the tree from which the diftance was meafured
is feen through the fights, and there ferewed faft 3 and
the radius is moved backwards or forwards, with the
key, till this diftance is cut upon the elevation index
by the perpendicular line of the altimeter ; and the ho¬
rizontal line will be marked upon the radius by the
infide of the diameter. In order to obtain the length
of the tree, the elevation index is firft moved down¬
wards, till the bottom of the tree cut by the hori¬
zontal wires is obferved through, the fights, and the
feet and inches marked by the index upon the aL*-
meter below the point of fight or horizontal line
are noted down : then the index is moved upwards
till the part to which you would meafure, cut by the
horizontal wires, is feen, and the feet and inches
marked on the altimeter above the point of fight are
noted :
DEN
'1rome- noted : tliefe t;vo quantities added together give the
, 'r' esa£V length of the tree, which is inferted in a field-
hook. I or «the girth of the tree, the circumference
in that part where the horizontal diftance was taken,
is meafured with the tape-line ; and a fixth part of
this circumference is added to the diitance on the ra¬
dius, which was before cut by the infide of the diame¬
ter, becaufe the tape-line, in taking the diitance, can¬
not be applied to the centre of the body of the tree ;
then the elevation index is lowered to that part of the
tree, of which the diameter is to be taken, and fcrewed
fait. Set the moveable limb of the Aiding piece
quite Araight, and the edge of the horizontal index
upon the firft divifion of it. Turn the whole infiru-
ment about to the left hand till you fee through
the lights the left fide of the tree cut exaftly by the
perpendicular wires ; then the inftrument being fixed,
move the lights only upon the Aiding piece, till you
he the right fide of the tree cut alio by the perpendi¬
cular wires ; apd you will find the true diameter mark¬
ed by the horizontal index upon the Aiding piece,
which is to be entered in a diftindl column of the field-
book.
For the boughs : let the diftance on the radius be
now reduced to its former quantity, and the elevation
index moved upwards till the bough is feen through
the fights and fcrewed fall. Set the moveable part of
the Aiding piece in a pofition parallel to the bough,
and the edge of the horizontal index on the firft divi¬
fion of it. I urn the wrhole inftrument about till you
fee through the fights the (hoot of the bough clofe
to the trunk cut by the perpendicular wires ; then
move the fights till you fee the other end of the bough
cut by the faid wires, and note the feet and inches
marked by the horizontal index on the moveable limb
of the Aiding piece, which will give the true length of
the bough to be inferted in the field-book. And the
girth of the bough may be obtained by diredling the
fights to that part of it whofe girth is defired ; then
by moving the elevation index downwards till you fee
the under fide of the bough cut by the horizontal
wires,, and there noting the feet and inches marked by
the fa id index on the altimeter ; after which, let the
elevation index be moved upwards, till the upper fide
of the bough cut by the horizontal wires is feen ; the
feet and inches marked upon the altimeter are to be
noted as before. The former quantity f«btra£ted from
the latter will give the true diameter of the bough
which is entered in the field-book. The true folidity
both of the body of the tree and of the boughs may be
found from .the diameter and lengths in tables calcu-
lated for this purpofe.
The dendrometer, fitted to a theodolite, may he
applied to meafuring.the heights and diftances of ob¬
jects, acceftible or inacceftible, whether fituated in
planes parallel or oblique to the plane in which the
inftrument is placed. It may be alfo ufed for taking
all angles, whether vertical, horizontal, or oblique in
any pofition of the planes in which .they are formed :
and thus for facilitating the pradical operations of en-
gineermg, l.and-furveying, levelling, mining, &c. and
tor performing the various cafes of plane trigonometry
without calculation ; of which the inventors have fub-
tomed to their account of this inftrument many ex¬
amples. J
Vox. VII. Part I.
[ i6j ] DEN
Dendrometer, an inftrument for meafuring di-
fiances hy a fingle obferVation, which has been propo-
fed by Mr Pitt of Pendeford, near Wolverhampton,
and of which the following is the defcription in the
words of the author.
“ The idea of an inftrument to meafure diftances by
a fingle obfervation, has fometimes been difcufled,
both in converfation and upon paper •, and, though
the fubjeft has generally been treated with negleff,
and.even with a kind of contempt, by found mathe¬
maticians, upon an idea of its extravagance and eccen¬
tricity, or upon a fuppofition of its being founded upon
falie principles, yet I cannot but ftrongly recommend
it to the attention of the ingenious mathematical in-
rtrument maker, as an article perhaps capable of being
brought to a higher degree of perfeiftion than has gene¬
rally been fuppofed.
“ Fhe method of determining diftances by two ob-
fervations, from either end of a bafe line, is well
known to every one in the leaft degree converfant with
plain trigonometry : that of determining fuch diftances
by one obfervation has been lefs explained and under-
ftood ; and to this I with to call the attention cf the
ingenious, whofe local circumftances of fituation may
enable them to inveftigate and improve the fubieft.
“ 1 o determine diftances by one obfervation, two
methods may be propofed, founded on different princi¬
ples j the one, on the fuppcfition of the obferver being
in the centre, and the obje6I in the circumference, of
a circle; the other, on the contrary fuppofition, of the
obferver being in the circumference, and the objeft in
the centre,
“To determine the diftance of any objedl on the
firft fuppofition, of the obferver being in the centre,
the bulk or dimenfions of fuch objeft muft be known?
either by meafure or eftimation, and the angle formed*
by lines drawn to its extremities being taken, by an
accurate inftrument, the diftance is eafily calculated ;
and fuch calculations may be facilitated "by tables, or
theorems adapted to that purpofe. For this method \
our prefent inftruments, with a nonius, and the whole
very accurately divided, are fufficient ; the only im¬
provement wanting feems to be, the application of a
micrometer to fuch inftruments, to enable the obferver
to read his angle with more minute accuracy, by nf-
certaining not only the degrees and parts of a degree,
but alfo the minutes and parts of a minute.
“ As, in this method, the bulk of inacceftible objefts
can only be eftimated, the error in diftance will be ex-
aftly in the proportion of the error in fuch eftimation ;
little dependence can therefore be placed on diftances
thus afcertained. For the purpofes of furveying, in¬
deed, a ftaff of known length may be held by an affift-
ant; and the angle from the eye of the obferver to its
two ends.being meafured by an accurate inftrument,
with a micrometer fitted to afcertain minutes and parts
of a minute, diftances may be thus determined with
great accuracy ; the application of a micrometer to
the theodolite, if it could be depended upon, for thus
determining the minute parts of a degree, in fmall
angles, is very much a defideratum with the praaical
lurveyor.
“ This method of meafuring diftances, though plain
and fimple enough, I fhall juft beg leave to illuftrate
by an example; fuppofe A, fig. 3. (Plate CLXVIII.)
X the
DEN [ 16
Dendrome- the place of the inftrument; BC, the afliftant’s flaff,
ter’ with a perpendicular pin at D» to enable the affiftant
to hold it in its right pofition j now, if the airgle BAG
could, by the help of a micrometer, be afcertained to
parts of a minute, the diftance from A to B, or to C,
may be, with little trouble, calculated as follows.
Suppofe the length of the itaff BG be too inches,
or other parts j divide the number 343,500. by the mi¬
nutes contained in the angle A, the quotient will be
the diftance AB, or AC, in the fame parts.. . .
“ The number 343,500 becomes the dividend m
this cafe, becaufe the arch of a circle fubtending an
angle of 3435 minutes, or 570 15', is equal in length
to the radius, and the objeft ftaff BC is fuppofed di¬
vided into 100 equal parts.
“ Thus, fuppofe the angle A be i°, or oo , then,
6o)^4350o(=:5725 inches ~ diftance AB.
“ Or, if the angle A be 6oVo> then 60.1 )343500(
5715-5 inches.
“ Hence it appears, that an error of -5^5- of a minute,
in the angle A, would caufe an error of 9 inches and
a half in the diftance AB, or about Part 116
whole-, the accuracy therefore, of thus taking diftances,
depends upon the accuracy wherewith angles can be
afcertained j and the error in diftance will bear the
fame proportion to the aftual diftance, as the error in
taking the angle does to the adtual angle.
“ But this method of ascertaining diftances cannot
be applied to inacceflible objefts, and it is moreover
fubieft to the inconvenience of an afliftant being ob¬
liged to go to the objeff whofe diftance u required,
(an inconvenience almoft equal to the trouble of ac¬
tual admeafurement,) therefore the person of the
fecond method propofed (if attainable) is pnncipa y
to be defired 5 namely, that of conceiving the obler-
vation made on the circumference of a circle, whole
centre is in the objeft whofe diftance is to be afcertam-
cd; and none of our inftruments now in ufe being a-
dapted to this mode of obfervation, a new conftruttion
of a mathematical inftrument is therefore propoled, the
name intended for which is the Dendrometer. .
“ This name is not now ufed for the firft time *• ^
was applied in the fame way by a gentleman who had,
as I have been informed, turned his thoughts to this
particular fubjeft *, but I do not find that he ever
brought his inftrument into ufe, or explained its prin¬
ciples; nor do lunderftand that this principle has ever
been applied, in pradlice, for the familiar purpofe of
afcertaining terrefttial diftances in furveying, or other-
wife*, though the fame principle has been fo generally,
and fuccefsfully, applied, in determining the diftance of
the heavenly bodies by means of their parallax.
“ The following principles of conftru£lion are pro¬
pofed, which may perhaps be otherwife varied and im¬
proved. O, fig- 4- the ob3ea whofe dlftance 15 re*
quired j ABCDE. the inftrument it: piano; BC, a te-
lefcope, placed exaftly parallel to the fide AEj CE,
an arch of a circle, whofe centre is at A, accurately
divided from E, in degrees, &c.-, AB), an index,
moveable on the centre A, with a nonius fcale at the
end D, graduated to apply to the divifions of the arch J
alfo with a telefcope, to enable the obferver to difcn-
minate the objeft, or any particular part or fide there¬
of the more accurately. The whole fhould be mounted
on three legs, in the manner of a plain table, or theo-
2 ] DEN
dolite, and furniftied with fpirit-tubes to adjuft it to anDendrorae-
horizontal pofition. The inftrument being placed in, * -
fuch pofition, the telefcope BC muft be brought upon
the obi eft O, or rather upon fome particular point or
fide thereof", when, being there fattened, the index
AD muft be moved, till its telefcope exaftly ftrikes
the fame point of the objeft j then the divifions, on
the arch ED, mark out the angle DAE; which will
be exaftly equal to the angle BOA, as is demonftrated
in the 15th and 29th propofitions of Euclid, Book!.;
and the fide BA being already known, the diftance
BO, or AO, may be eafily determined in two diffe¬
rent ways viz. firft, by fuppofing the triangle BO A
an ifofceles triangle then multiply the fide BA by
24.2c as before, and divide the produft by the mi¬
nutes contained in the angle DAE = the angle BOA J
the quotient will be the dittance BO = AO, very
nearly or, fecondly, by fuppofing the triangle ABO
right-angled at B, then, as the fine of the angle found
DAE BOA is to the fide known BA, fo is the ra¬
dius to the fide AO, or fo is the fine of the angle
BAO to the fide BO. To illuftrate this by an exam¬
ple, fuppofe the fide BA = 1 yard, the angle found
DAE = BOA = o° 15', then, per firft method,
i5)3435( —229 yards = the diftance BO, or AO.
Or, by iecond method,
As the fine of the angle found o° 15'— 7.6398160
Is to the fide BA = 1 yard = - 0.0000000
So is radius 90° o'= - - lo.coooooo
To the log. of the fide AO = 229 yards = 2.360x840
Or,
As to the fine of the angle found o° 15'= 7.6398160
Is to the fide BA = 1 yard = ' o.ocoocoo
So is the fine of the angle BAO=89° 45'=9-9999959
To the log. of the fide BO =229 yards = 2.3601799
“ As the perfection of this inftrument depends to¬
tally upon its accuracy in taking fmall angles, which
accuracy muft depend, for its minute divifions, upon
its being fitted with a micrometer j and as the writer
of this cannot doubt that the particular mode of doing
this muft be familiar to the intelligent inftrument-ma-
ker, he cannot but ftrongly recommend it to the at¬
tention of the ingenious of that profeffion, as an ob-
ieft which, when perfefted, would be a real and con-
fiderabie improvement in their art, and an ufeful in-
ftrument to the praftkal furveyor. It* accuracy would
alfo in fome meafure, depend upon the length of the
line BA in the figure ; that line nught therefore be
extended, by the inftrument being confliufled to fold
rflide out to a greater length when in u e; upon
wdftch principle, lonneBed with the application of a
micrometer, an accurate and nfeful .nftrument might
certainly be confttuaed. To adjuft fuch inftrument
for ufe, let a flaff be held up at a diftance, in the
nc; of fig. 1. exaaiy equal in length to the diftance
Xh" two telefcopes, and .be index AD being brought
exaftlv upon the fide AE, if the two telefcopes accu-
rately fttike either end of the flaff, the inftrument .a
properly adjufted. t{
Plate CPXVIIJ
I . .
DEISTDR OME TER
DRAW BRIDGE
j"
1 liK..
W-^=mm\jL
DEN [ 163 ] DEN
Dendrome- “ The conftruftion of a fimilar inftrument, on the
principles of Hadley’s quadrant, for naval obfervations,
Deneb w°uld alfo doubtlefs be an acceptable objeff in naviga-
* tion, by enabling the manner to afcertain the diftances
of (hips, capes, and other objefts, at a Angle obferva-
tion ; and that, perhaps, with greater accuracy than
can be done by any method now in ufe.
“ For this purpofe, the following conftruftion is
propofed : ABCDE, fig. 5. the inftrument in piano ;
O, the objeft whofe diftance is required 5 at A, at C,
at E, and at 3, are to be fixed fpeculums, properly
framed and fitted, that at 3 having only its lower part
quickfilvered, the upper part being left tranfparent, to
view the objeft j the fpeculum at A being fixed ob¬
liquely, fo that a line A I, drawn perpendicular to its
fmface, may bifedl the angle BAG in equal parts j that
at C being perpendicular to the line C 2 ; thofe at E
and 3 being perpendicular to the index E 3, and that
at E being furnifhed with a fight; the arch DC to be
divided from D, in the manner of Hadley’s quadrant j
the movement of the index to be meafured, as before,
by a micrometer } and, as the length of the line AE
would tend to the perfe&ion of the inftrument, it may
be conftrudfted to fold in the middle, on the line C 2,
into lefs compafs, when not in ufej the inftrument may
be adjufted for ufe by holding up a ftaff at a diftance,
as before pfopofed, whofp length is exaflly equal to
the line AE.
“To make an obfervation by this inftrument, it
being previoufly properly adjufted, the eye is to be
applied at the fight in the fpeculum E, and the face
turned toward the object 5 when the objeft, being re¬
ceived on the fpeculum A, is refledfed into that at C,
and again into that at E, and that at 3 on the index ;
the index being then moved, till the refledfed objedf,
in the fpeculum at 3, exadtly coincides with the real
objedf, in the tranfparent part of the glafs, the divi-
fions on the arch D 3, fubdivided by the micrometer,
will determine the angle DE 3 — the angle AOE ;
from which the diftance O may be determined as be¬
fore.
“ It is very probable that this arrangement may
be improved, by thofe who are familiar with the beft
conftrudtion of Hadley’s quadrant; which the writer
of this profefles himfelf not to be, farther than its ge¬
neral principle. He has not the leaft doubt that ufe-
ful pradtical inftruments may be conftrudled on the
principles here deferibed ; and, upon this idea, can¬
not but recommend the fubjedl to the attention of
thofe concerned in the manufadfure of fimilar inftru¬
ments.” Repertory of Arts, vol. i.
DENDROPHORIA, in antiquity, the carrying
of boughs or branches of trees •, a religious ceremony
fo called, becapfe certain priefts called from thence
dendrophori, tree-bearers, marched in proceflion, carry¬
ing the branches of trees in their hands in honour of
lome god, as Bacchus, Cybele, Sylvanus, &c. The
college of the dendrophori is often mentioned in an¬
cient marbles ; and we frequently fee in bafib relievos
the bacchanals reprefented as men carrying little fhrubs
or branches of trees.
DENEB, an Arabic term fignifying tail, ufed by
aftronomers to denote feveral fixed ftars. Thus, deneb
e/eet, fignifies the bright ftar in the lion’s tail, Deneb
etdigege, that in the fwan’s tail.
DENHAM, Sjr John, an eminent Englifh poet, Denham
the only fon of Sir John Denham, chief baron of the il
exchequer in Ireland, and one of the lords commiffion- ,Denmart:'
ers there, w-as born in Dublin in 1615 j but his father, ‘~JJ‘ V—*"
in 1617, being made a baron of the exchequer in
England, he received his education in that country.
In his youth he followed gaming more than any
thing elfe *, but, in 1641, publifhed a tragedy called
the Sophy, which was much admired by the bed
judges; and, in 1643, wr°te his famous poem called
Cooper"1 s Dill, which Mr Dryden pronounces will ever
be the ftandard of good writing for majefty of ftyle.
Denham was fent ambafiador from Charles II. to the
king of Poland; and at the Reftoration was made
furveyor-general of his majefty’s buildings, and crea¬
ted knight of the Bath. On obtaining this poft, he is
faid to have renounced his poetry for more important
ftudies ; though he afterwards wrote a fine copy of
yerfes on the death of Cowley. Pie died at his office
in Whitehall in 1668 ; and his works have been often
fince printed.
DENIER, a fmall French copper coin, of which
12 make a fol.
There are two kinds of deniers, the one tournois,
the other parifois, whereof the latter was worth a fourth
part more than the former.
DENIZEN, in Law, an alien made a fubjeft by the
king’s letters patent; otherwife called dk/wr/on, becaufc
his legitimation proceeds ex donatione regis, “ from the
king’s gift.”
& denizen is in a kind of middle ftate between an
alien and a natural-born fubjeft, and partakes of both
of them. He may take lands by purchafe or devife
which an alien may not ; but cannot take by inherit
tance ; for his parent, through whom he muft claim
being an alien, had no inheritable blood, and therefore
could convey none to the fon : and, upon a like de-
fe<ft of blood, the iflue of a denizen born before deni¬
zation, cannot inherit to him ; but his iffue born after
may. A denizen is not excufed from paying the
alien’s duty, and fome other mercantile burdens. And
no denizen can be of the privy-council, or either houfe
of parliament, or have any office of trurt civil or mili¬
tary, or be capable of any grant of lands, &c. from
the crown.
DENMARK, one of the moft ancient monarchies
in Europe, comprehending the peninfula of Jutland,
and the iflands of Zealand, Funen, &c. But Denmark,
properly fo called, is only that part of Scandinavia
which formerly went by the name of Cimbrica Cher-
fonefus, and now is called Jutland. Including Hol-
ftein, it is bounded by the fea called the Calegate on the
north ; by the Baltic on the eaft ; by the river Elbe
which feparates it from Bremen, on the fouth ; and by
the duchy of Saxe-Lauenburg towards the fouth-eaft *
extending from 54. 40. to 58. 20. N. Eat.
The origin of the name Denmark is very uncertain.Name
The moft probable conjetture concerning it is that of whence de*
Saxo-Grammaticus, the moft ancient and beft Dani^h^ive(1•
hiftorian. He derives it from Dan the fon of Humble,
the firft king, and Mar-k or Marc, fignifying a couni
try in feveral dialers of the Teutonic ; according to
which etymology, the word Denmark fignifies' the r
land or country of Dan. This Dan is thought to Dan the
have lived about 1038 years before the Chriftian era.hrft king,
X 2 Almoft
I
Almoft 3U haoL ne «» “a^^ “
—,   Humlle, a native of Zealand. H.s pofleffions and in- f<,uadroni_luppln|a ^ .J ^ me,ltiOTed.
fluence were very eonfiderable, not only In Zealand,
but in the i{lands of Langland and Mona. It was h.s
courage, however, and {kill in the art o war, that in¬
duced the inhabitants of Denmark to choofe hnn for
their king. He was called to the afhftance of the Jut¬
landers upon an irruption of the Saxons into their ter¬
ritories, and promifed the iovere.gnty of the country
if he drove out the enemy. On this he immediately
raifed an army, gained a complete v.cfory over the
Saxons, and obliged them to leave the country ; and
he was accordingly ele&ed king. . . r „
of In fuch early ages as thefe, we are not to look for
Sis country any authentic hiltory either of this or any other king-
fabulous for d(/mm The hiftory of Denmark, for a great number of
many ages. after the reign of Dm, is filled with fabulous ex¬
ploits of heroes, encounters with giants, dragons, &c.
One of their kings named Frotho, who reigned about
76i vears before Chrift, is faid to have conquered all
Britain, Slefwick, Ruflia, Pomerania, Holftem, &.c. an
affertion which cannot eafily be credited, confidermg
the difficulty which fucceedmg warriors, even t e
create ft in the world, found to fubdue the inhabitants
of thofe countries.—It is certain, however, that an¬
ciently the kingdom of Denmark made a much more
confpicuous figure than it does at prefent. I he Danes
appear to have had a very conhdepble naval force al-
moft from the foundation of their empire ; and the
conquefls they undoubtedly made in our nland aie cer¬
tain proofs of their valour.
The natural enemies of the Danes, were the Swedes
Norwegians, and Saxons-, eipecially the firft. With
one or other of thefe nations almoft perpetual vvar was
carried on. The kingdom was alfo often rent by civ.
diffenfions ; which the neighbouring monartns did no
fail to take advantage of, in order to reduce the king¬
dom of Denmark under their fubjeaion. As neither
party, however, generally came off with advantage,
the hillorv of thefe wars affords nothing intereft.ng or
entertaining. One of the greateff of the Dan.fli mo-
narchs was VMmar L who obtained the throne in
j i r7 • having defeated and killed his competitor Svcyn,
after a ten years civil war. He maintained a long war
with the Vandals, whofe power he at laft entirely
broke, and reduced under h.s fubjeaion the .{land
of Rugen. He alfo proved viaonous over the Norwe¬
gians, fo that their king and queen came in perfon to
fubmit to him. In 1165, he alio laid the foundations
of the citv of Dantzic, which, though ,t hath fince
become a place of much confequence confifted at fi. ft
onlv of a few poor fiftiermen’s huts j but the privilege.
Li immunities conferred upon it by this monarch,
foon proved the means of its becoming a ftouriftung
city In 1169* he entirely fubdued the Com.anders ,
and, foon after, was inverted wnth the duchy of Ho-
ftein by the emperor Frederic Barbaroffa. He is laid
to have been poifoned by a quack medicine, given with
a defign to recover him from a diftemper with which
he was feized in 1182. , , r a-
In the year 1195, Canute, Valdemar s fueceflhr,
caufed a muftcr to be n.ade of all the men fit to bear arm
OHS lUppilCU Uy va.arwo,   -j , _
be* The number of the land forces is not mentioned.
In the reign of this prince, the Daniih dominions were
enlarged by the entire conqueft of btromar, tne oil-
trids of Lubcc and Hamburgh, formerly known by
the name of NordalbinSia, but now included under tne
general name of Holjlein. He died >n X203, and was
fucceeded by Valdemar II. who proved a very great
Ld warlike prince. Inizti, he founded the city .f
Stralfund, oppofite to the ifte ol Rngen. e a‘
year his queen died in childbed 5 and in memory of
her he built the caftle of Dromngho/m, that name rm- 6
porting the Queen'sdjland. In 1218, he undertook an Expedition
expedition againft the Livonians, having r^elved qd'marn. a-
vice that they, affifted by the Lithuanians, Muicovites, gainft the
and other barbarous nations, had driven from their ha- Livonians,
bitations all thofe in the neighbourhood who had em¬
braced Chriftianity, and taker, an oath ot allegiance
to the crown of Denmark. Fitting out a powerful
fleet, therefore, he immediately iet fail for that cou -
try; but his troops were no fooner landed, than they
were feized with a panic at the fight ot fuch a P^er'
ful army of favages as were affembled to oppofe them.
ValdemaiT.
a great
aionarch.
Powef of
Denmark
in 1195-
lui army 01 ^ -  q r
The king himfelf was difmayed at the unuiual fpettac e
of a whole army clothed in {kins, and reiemblmg hearts
more than human creatures. Encouraged, however,
by the bifhops who attended him, he ventured an en¬
gagement, and overthrew the barbarians with mere-
dible {laughter. This viftory was gamed near he
fortrefs of Valdemar, which received its name on that
~ potent end flouriflung tile kingdom of Den-Hourillfins
mark was at this time, appears from an eft.mate ot^^
the revenues of the tributary provinces, thole countries
conquered by Valdemar, and the Handing forces of the
whole kingdom. This account was copied by I onta-
nus from Witfield, a writer of thofe days, who had it
from a regifter kept by Vaklemar’s ftewarc. From
the provinces were daily fent in 24 labs ot oats, 24 L
of rye, and half that quantity ot wheat, 13 talents of
cheefe and butter, and nine of honey 24 oxen, 30
ftieep, 200 hogs -, and 600 marks of coined money.
This was the certain revenue : but to this was ad e
near an equal fum from adventitious circumftances ,
fuch as fines, forfeitures, taxes on law-fuits and plea -
ings with a variety of other contingencies 5 the whole
amounting to upwards of 100,000 marks a day, or
23 7300C0I. per annum ; a fum in tnole days almoft
incredible. With this revenue were kept for conttant
fervice 1400 great and fmall ffiips for the king s u e,
each of which at a medium carried 1 21 foldiers n a-
bing the whole of the Handing forces, befides gam
fons, confift of 169,400 fighting men Va]deraar
In 1223, a very great misfortune befel Valdema ,
notwithftanding all his power. Henry earl of bwenn,
otherwife called Henry Palatine, a Herman pm
ving been deprived of part of his dom n J , taken pri-
mar, furpriled and carried off the king h.mteU, and foncrJ
”ep him dole prifoner for three yearn. 1 he condl-
tions on which he at laft obtained h,s liberty were very 9
hard. He was obliged to pay a prodigious fum d Relc.fcd o.
naru. xy ^ s Swpnn. Hamburgh, condition of
money
in his dominions -, 'aVdTd^ed'each proviliT
its proportion of Hupping, everyway equipped, a _ , , r„,«mnlv to fweat that he would maintain
ready for adion. The whole force of Denmark, at
and all his poliellions on ^ tain ot his t(
and laftly, folemnly to fwear that he would im tones.
DEN [ i
Denmark, this compulfive contraft, and never take any meafures
feated.
it
Civil war
' to punifh Henry or his affociates. This treaty was
figned on the 25th of March 1226.
Betides thefe territories which the Danifli monarch
had been obhged to cede by treaty, many tributary
princes took the opportunity of his captivity to re¬
cover their liberty j and among the reft, the inhabitants
of Lubec revolted, and entered into alliance with
Albert duke of Saxony againft Valdemar. The latter,
ig however, was not of a dilpofition to fubmit tamely to
thetreatks treatment* obtained a difpenfation froirTthe
butisde^’ PoPe t0 break his engagements with Henry, and im¬
mediately entered fdolftem at the head of a numerous
army. Here he was met by feveral German princes,
at the head of a very numerous army 5 and a defperate
engagement enfued. Valdemar at firft had the advan-
tage ; but being wounded in the eye, his troops were
at laft defeated with great flaughter. It doth not ap¬
pear that ever the king of Denmark was able to re¬
venge himfelf of his enemies, or to recover the domi¬
nions he had loft. So far from this, he was obliged, in
1228, to cede Lauenburg to the duke of Saxony, who
had already feized on Ratzburg and Molna. Soon
after this, his eldeft Ion Valdemar was accidentally kil¬
led as he was hunting, and his two other Tons married
the daughters of his two greateft enemies. Abel, the
third, fon, married the daughter of Adolphus duke of
Holftein ; and Eric, the fecond, married the duke of
Saxony’s daughter. Thefe misfortunes are fuppofed to
have haftened his death, which happened in the month
ol April 1 242.
. the death of Valdemar, the kingdom was di-
two fons h‘S between the Uvo y°ung prhices; and between
them a war commenced the very next year. A peace
was concluded the year following, and rvar renewed
the year after : but how long it continued, we are not
informed. In 1250, Eric paid a vifit to his brother
Abel, intreating his mediation between him and the
piinces Oi Holftein, with whom he tvas then at war.
Abel received him, in appearance, with great kindnefs,
and piomi.ed that his utmoft endeavours to procure a
reconciliation ftiould not be wanting; but in the mean¬
time, laid a plan for having him murdered at fea : this
was tnetted, and Abel became mafter of the whole
kingdom.
I ne new king did not long enjoy the foverergntv
he had fo wickedly obtained. He was tormented by
bis own confcience ; efpecially when he found amon^
his brother’s papers, one by wmich he was left heir to
the whole kingdom on the death of Eric, and many
kind expreftions with regard to himfelf. He was at
laft killed in^ a battle with his own fubje£ts in 1252,
on account of fome taxes he intended to impofe. *
From this time to the year 1333, the kingdom of
Denmark gradually declined. Ufurpers eftabliftied
themfelves in different provinces ; W'hile the kings of
Sweden did not fail to avail themfelves of the diffrac¬
ted ft ate of the Daniftr affairs. In 13315, died ChriE
topher II. who poffeffed only the cities of Scanderburg
in Jutland and Neoburg in Fionia, with fome few
other inconfiderable places, of all the hereditary do¬
minions of Denmark. Halland, Holbec, Calemburg,
and Samfoe, were held by Canute Porfius ; Schonen*
Lyftie, and Bleking, by the king of Sweden, to whom
they had been lately fold 3 John earl of Wagria had
Kingdom
divided
among a
number of
petty ty¬
rants.
65 j DEN
the jurifdiaions of Zealand, Falftre, Laaland, and Fe- Denmark-
metin ; Geruard, of Jutland and Honia ; and Eaw’rence v -1
Junea of Langland and Arras.
After the death of Ghnftopher, an interregnum of
feyen years enfued.—The firft attempt for the fove-
reignty was made by Otho, fecond fon to the late king,
who laid a fcheme for driving Gerhard out of Jutland;
but not being able to accomplifh it, he w>as taken pri¬
soner, and clofely confined by Gerhard. The king of
Sweden next wrote to Pope Benedift XIII. bcfeech-
ing his Holinefs to confirm to him the provinces of
Schonen and others which he poffeffed ; and to allow
him to fubdue the reft of the kingdom, which was now
umrped and rendered miferable by a fet of petty
princes, who knew not how to govern. To influence
him the more powerfully, he alfo promifed to hold
this kingdom of the Pope ; and to pay him the ulual
tax collefted by the church. This requeft, however,
was refufed. Valdemar of Slefwic, nephew to Ger¬
hard, tnen afpired to the fovereignty. He had for¬
merly been eledfed king ; but had" given over all
thoughts of enjoying the fovereignty, on account of
the luperior influence of Chriftopber; but now refumed
his ambitious views at the inftigation of his uncle.
Several of the nobility al!o calf their eyes on young
Valdemar, Chnftopher’s fon, now at the emperor’s T
couit. But while each of thefe princes were laying Diftrefled
Ichemes to aggrandife themfelves, the unhappy Danes fGte of the.
were diftreffed by exorbitant taxes, famine, and pefti-kinS‘lom'
lence ; the two laft in confequence of the former. The
peafants negle&ed to cultivate the lands, which they
held on a very precarious tenure ; the confequence of
this was poverty and an unwholefome diet ; and this,
co-operating with the peculiar difpofition of the. air*
produced a plague, which deilroyed more than half
the inhabitants of the country. The poor dropped
down dead on the ftreets with difeafe and hunger, and
the gentry themfelves were reduced to a ftate of wretch-
ednefs ; yet, though the whole of the kingdom was
evidently on the verge of ruin, ambitious projects em¬
ployed the great, as if every thing had been in the
molt profound tranquillity.
In the mid ft of thefe grievous calamities, Gerhard
fovereign of Jutland, propofed to his nephew Valdemar
an exchange of territories, which he believed would
piove favourable to the defigns of the latter on the
crown. A treaty for this.purpofe was atlually drawn
up and figned ; but the inhabitants, notwithrtanding
their diftreffed fituation, fo highly refented their being
dilpofed of like cattle from one mafter to another, that
they refilled to pay the ufual taxes. Gerhard refolved
to compel them ; and therefore led 10,000 men, whom
he had levied in Germany, into the heart of the pio-
vmce. Providence, however, now raifed up an enemy
to this tyrant. One Nicholas Norevi, a man greatly Nichota,
efteemed for h.s courage, public fpirit, and prudence, Norevi
beheld with iorrow the condition to which Denmark c°vers the
was reduced. He had long meditated a variety 0f hb.erty of
pojetfs for its relief, and at laft imagined things were Jutland‘
in inch a fituation that the whole depended on his fingle
arm. Young Valdemar, Chriftopher’s fon, had a num¬
ber or adherents in the kingdom ; his moft dangerous
enemy was Gerhard ; and could he be removed, the
Jutlanders would at leaft be free from an oppreffor,
and might choofe Valdemar, or any other they thought
proper,.
Denmark.
IS , ,
He is killed
iS
Margaret
unites the
crowns of
Denmark,
Sweden,
and Nor¬
way.
DEN [ 1
proper, for their fovereign. Collefting a My °f
fen Viorfe, therefore, he marched in the night to R
derthufen, where Gerhard had fixed hit head quarters!
and hav'mg forced open the tyrant’s quarters, .mme-
diately put him to death. He then fled with the ut-
moft expedition; but was purfued and overtaken by a
party of the enemy’s horfe, through which he forced
his way and efcaped. Gerhard’s Tons hearing of his
death, retired into Holftein, from whence ''"X Jad
come ; leaving the army, compofed chiefly ot Hol-
fleiners, to be cut in pieces by the enraged peafants,
who fell upon them from every quarter.
Still, however, the Holfteiners kept poffeffion of the
citadels and fortified places, from whence Nicholas re¬
eved to diilodge them. He accordingly raifed a
body of forces •, attacked and took Landen, a caftle
fituated on the river Scheme: After which he laid
fiepe to Albeg ; but the garrifon making an obftinate
dln«,te turned the fie^e into a blockade, by which
they were foon reduced to'great extremity. The go-
ThisTtcrmYnVthm fo mirch'toThe rS of fo to-
portant a place. They came up with Nicholas pft as
the governor was ready to furrender, but were defeat¬
ed -^though Nicholas was unfortunately killed in the
en5SCdnhaving thus regained its liberty, the reft of
the kingdom followed its example. Zealand firft
openly declared itfelf. Here Henry, Gerhard s fim,
Maintained feveral garrifons •, and refolved to defend
his poffeflions in fpite of all the power of the inhabi¬
tant For this purpofe he drew together an army ,
but, in the mean time, a tumult arofe among the pea¬
sants on account of a Danilh nobleman flam by he
Holfteiners. By this the people were at laft ioirri
5ted, that falling upon the Holfteiners fw°rd m Wd,
they killed c?oo of them, drove the reft out ol the
ifland, and chofe Valdemar, Chriftopher s fon, for their
^Tbi'D'anes now refumed their courage; the lands
were cultivated, the famine and peft.lence ceafed and
the kingdom began to flout,At as fotmetly^ Mattem
continued in a profperous way till 1387,
garet mounted the throne. She raifed the kingdom to
fts higheft pitch of glory, as partly by her addrefs, and
partly by hereditary right, (he formed the union of
Calma'- by which (lie was acknowledged foyereign of
Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. She he, her dig-
nitv with fuch firmnefs and courage, tha4lher"aS^
ly ftyled the Semir amis of the North Her fucc;^0
being deftitute of her great quahfications, the union of
Calrnar fell to nothing : but Norway ftill continued
annexed to Denmark. About the year I44?» the
annexed f n to Chriftian count of Olden-
buTfrom whoam the prefent royal family of Denmark
[s defended-, and, in 1556, the Proteftant religion
was eftabliftied in Denmark by that wife and politic
P1 'ciuiftian'1 v' of Denmark, in 1629, ^ ^ft the
the head of the Proteftant league formed agamft
houfe ofluftria: but, though brave in his own per
fon he was in danger of lofing his dominions j when
U was fuccceded in that command by the famous Gu-
66 1 DEN
ftavus Adolphus, king of Sweden. The DutchJa-
vine obliged Chriftian, who died in 1648, to lower
thegdutiesgof the Sound, his fon Frederic III. con
fented to accept of an annuity of 150,000 florins tor
the whole. The Dutch, after this, perfuaded him to
declare war againft Charles Guftavus king of Sweden
which had almoft coft him his crown m 1657. Charles
ftormed the fortrefs of Fredericftadt; and m the fuc-
ceeding winter, he marched h.s army over the ice to
the ifland of Funen, where he furpnfed the Danilh
troops, took Odenfee and Nyburg, and marched over
the Great Belt to befiege Copenhagen itfelf.
well, the Englifti ufurper, interpofed : and Tredenc de¬
fended his capital with great magnanimity till the 17
rvf T? ofrhild • bv which Frederic ceded the pro-Several pro-
peace or Kolcnua , oy wuieu . -Vso rtf vwices ce-
vinces of Halbnd, Bleking, and Scoma, the lfland ded to Swe-
Bornholm, Balms, and Drontheim, in Norway, to the den>
Swedes. Frederic fought to elude thofe fevere terms ,
but Charles took Cronenburg, and once more befieged
Copenhagen bv fea and land. The fteaay intrepid con¬
duit of Frederic under thefe misfortunes endeared
him to his fubjeas; and the citizens ot Copenhagen
made an admirable defence, till a VheTr
in the Baltic, and beat the Swedifli fleet. for¬
tune of war was now entirely changed m fav0UP ^re'
deric, who {bowed on every occafion great abilities,
both civil and military : and having forced Carles to
raife the fiege of Copenhagen might ^ve carried
war into Sweden, had not the Englifti fleet, unde.
Montague appeared in the Baltic. This enabled
Charlefto befiege Copenhagen a ^ ^
France and England offering their mediation, a peace
was concluded in that capitalby which the ifland of
Bornholm returned to the Danes*, but the ifland of
Rugen, Bleking, Halland, and Schonen, rcmaine
WI The 1660 affords us an example of a revolu-Remark-
tion alMoft unequalled in the ThMutio^
that of a free people refignmg their liberty into * hichthe
hands of their fovereign ; and of their own accord, and king;s
without the lead compulfion, rendering him defpotic. lered abfo-
This was occaftoned by the great charaaer which Fre-lute.
deric had acquired by his prudent and vaha"t
when Copenhagen was beheged by the king
den •, and at that time he had alfo taken care to ingra¬
tiate himfelf with the commonalty, by
nobility to allow them fome immunities which they
did nM enjoy before allowing them alfo, by a fpecial
edta .O Hto, -a eiqoy f privflegcs
nobility. After the conclufion of the ;'aty " ke
Sweden, a diet was fummoned at Copenhagen, to take
into confideration the ftate of the kingdom, which was
now very much exhaufted, both by reafon of the debts
in which it was involved, and by the calamities of war.
This diftreffed ftate of affairs was, by the co™m°nS’ ^
tributed to the nobility j who on the other hand, took
no care to conciliate the affedhons of the inferior claf-
Ms but rather increafed the difeontents by their arro¬
gance. They had even the imprudence to remonftrate
againft the immunities above-mentioned, which had
been granted by the king during the fiege. In confe-
quence of this the deputies of the commons and clergy
united againft them; and being joined by the citizen
of Copenhagen, formed a very considerable party. On
bringing forward in the affembly the fums neceffa y
den [ ,
■penmark- national exigencies, a general excife was propofed
by the nobles on every article of confumpt $ and to
which they themfelves were willing to fubmit, though,
by an exprels law, their order wras to be exempted
from all taxes. T his offer was accompanied with a re-
monftrance to the king; in which they endeavoured, not
only to reclaim many obfolete privileges, but to*add
frelh immunities, and introduce many other regula¬
tions, all of them tending to diminilh the royal prero¬
gative, and check the riling influence of the commons
and clergy. This propofal occafioned great difputes
in the diet; and the two inferior orders’ infiffed that
they would not admit of any tax which ffiould not be
levied equally upon all ranks, without referve or reftric-
tion. The nobles not only refufed to comply with this
propofal, but even to be fubjeft to the tax for more
than three years; pretending that all taxes whatever
were infringements on their privileges. By way of
cqmpenfation, however, they propofed new duties up¬
on leather and ftamped paper, and at laft offered to pay
a poll-tax for their peafants. This exchange feemed
at fir ft to be agreeable to the two inferior eftates ; but
they fuddenly altered their mind, and demanded that
the fiefs and domains, which the nobles had hitherto
poffeffed exclufively, and at a very moderate rent,
ihould be let to the higheft bidder.
Such a propofal appeared to the nobles to be to the
laft degree unreafonable. They faid it was an infraftion
ot their deareft privileges; as, by the 46th article of
the coronation oath taken by Frederic, the poffeflion
pt the royal fiefs was guaranteed to their order; but
in the heat of difpute, one of the chief fenators having
imprudently thrown out fome reproachful expreftionl
againft the commons, a general ferment enfued, and
the affembly was broken up in confufion. This gave
occafion to the internofition of - ■ - 6
j     *>* wmuiion. inis gave
occafion to the interpofition of the king’s friends; and
an idea of rendering the crown hereditary, and enlar¬
ging the royal prerogative, began to be fuggefted as
the proper method of humbling the nobility This
was firft broached by the bifhop of Zealand, at whofe
houfe a numerous meeting was held on the 6th of Oc
tober 1660, where the fcheme was fully laid open and
approved ; an aft for rendering the crown hereditary
drawn uP>; and the beft method of publicly producing
Jt taken into confideration. All this time the king
feemed quite maftive, nor could he be nrevailed upon
to take any part m an affair which fo nearly concerned
nun. But this indolence was abundantly compenfated
by the alertnefs and diligence of the queen; between
whom and the heads of the party matters were foon
concerted. On the morning of the 8th of Oftober
therefore, the biftiop of Zealand having obtained the
con lent and fignature of the ecclefiaftical deputies de
l.vered it to Naufen, burgomafter of Copenhagen and
ipeaker of the commons. The latter, in a moft per-
iuafive fpeech, expatiated upon the wretched ftate of
the kingdom, the oppreflive power of the nobles, and
the virtues of the king; concluding with an exhorta¬
tion to the commons, to fubferibe the aft, as the only
means ot laving their country.
The exhortations of the fpeaker had fuch an effe£l:
upon the affembly, that they fubferibed it without a
fingic diffent; the nobles being all the while in perfeft
lecurity, and entirely ignorant of the tranfaaion. Next
day it was prefented to the king by the bifhop and
'67 ] den
Naulen ; and as they weie returning from the palace,
they met the lenator who had already given offence
to the commons. With him they had a violent al¬
tercation, and were threatened with imprifonment for
p re fuming to approach the king without acquainting
the order of nobles. This threat was now altogether
nugatory. The nobles having got fome intelligence
ot what was going forward, had juft afftmbled in order
to confider of what was to be done, when the deputies
ot the two other eftates entered, and informed them of
their proceedings, and delivered to them the propofal
tor rendering the crown hereditary. By this declara¬
tion the nobles were thrown into the utmoft confterna-
tion ; but judging it improper to put a negative on the
propolal. at prefent, they endeavoured to gain time
and replied, that through they willingly gave their af-
fc„. to .he declaration, yet that, as if „af a matter of
great confcquence, it deferved the moft ferious dif-
cuftion Naufen, however, replied, that the other
eftates had already taken their refolution 4. that they
would lofe no time in debate ; and that if the nobles
would not concur with them, they would immediately
repair to the palace by themfelves, where they had not
Jhei^pfoffer11^ ^ ^ Sracioufly accept
In the mean time the nobles had privately difpatch-
cd a meffage to the king, intimating, that they were
r render the crown hereditary to the male line
ot his iffue, provided it was done with all the ufual for¬
malities. But this propofal did not prove agreeable to
his majefty unlefs they would confirm the right of fuc-
ceffion m the female line alfo. He added, however
with great appearance of moderation, that he by no’
means wiflied to preferibe rules for their conduft • thev
were to follow the dilates of their own judgment; but
as for bis nart- he  .1 • J ° ’
DenmadK.
- uwu juugmenr ; out
as for his part, he would owe every thing to their free
confent. While the nobles were waiting for this an-
wer, the other deputies, perceiving that they wiftied
to keep the matter in fufpenfe, loft all patience, and
repaired in folemn proceflion to the court ; where, be¬
ing admitted into the royal prefence, the matter was
opened by the biftiop of Zealand. He addreffed his
majefty on the refolution taken by the clergy and com¬
mons, offering in their name to render the crown he-
mbtary, and to invert him with abfolute authority-
adding that they were ready to facrifice their lives in
he defence of an eftablifhment fo falutary to their coun¬
try. His majefty thanked them for their favourable
intentions; but mentioned the concurrence of the
nobles as a neceffary condition ; though he had no
doubt of this when they fhould have time to accom-
pany the dedaration with all the neceffary formalities -
he affured them of his protedion, promifed a redrefs of
all grievances and difmiffed them with an exhortation
o continue their fittings, until they fhould have
brought their defign to perfedion, and he could re!
cave their voluntary fubmiffion with all due folemnity
rb Un‘ePkarture ofrth<: commons from the place where
hey had been conferring with the nobles, the latter
had been fo diftraded and confufed, that they broke
up without coming to any refolution, defignina how
ever, to decide the matter finally at their meeting on
the afternoon of the following day. But while ^hey
were thus wavering and irrefolute, the court and the
popular party took the neceffary meafures to force them
t©
D
_ _T r 1 D E N
E N L ■* rf rVarks of Sweden from his exile, lie
This was effeaually done^by an °n ^eJC ^ war agalnft Denmark with a nloft
.... , . ^n^th of that prince, wo
'•^nmark. to a concurrence. x ms fo much
     nrfier to (hut the gates ; for by this tney wcj<^
difpirited, that they inftantly difpatched deputies to the
"X’th" Ammons, and fubfeibe to all the conditions
ef kth^'now twined bo, to ratify .be tranfaflion
with all pfoper folemnfty. Accordingly, on the ..6th
r obber the eftates annulled, in the molt lolemn
manner ^tbe capitulation or charters figned by the tog
on his acceffton to the throne ; abfolved hm, from all
bi, engagements •, and cancelled all tbe bmuattons .m-
nis engage • , ’Tbf. whole was concluded
r/lr^emoTuSg Lmat tbe new
«th »i«h g- ceremony t new form^of
government was promulgated under th
Royal Law of Denmark. , . r rhrlftlnn'V
Frederic was fucceeded in:i67obyhis fon ChnftianV
who ohhged the duke of Holbein Gottoip to renounce
all the advantages he had gamed by the trea y °f
child. He then recovered a number of plac 1 m
o i u. . Vik aimv was defeated in u.c oio. uy
Schonen j hue his XL of Sweden. This
^ “-e
Cme0maftTof,tt duchy, had not the Engto and
Putch fleets raifed tlje
young king of Swede , Ch 1 m;ies of Co.
than i6 y^^^totherlbw the duke of Hoi-
penhagen^ bably WOUld have made himielf ma-
?em' f ConenhaS n had not his Danifli majefly agreed
duke’s favour. himfelf to furnifh a
body "of6troops, who were to be paid by t^conkd^rate^;
and who afterwards did great Service ag petuai.
Perprtuat Notwithflandi.-g th,s peace We « was jmpe^^
warGhh ly engaged m a wa- Athe S»ed«, ^ Holftein
Sweden. was an exile at Bender, ne
;r Swedl0'd toTTky of stde! His7 troops,
Bremen, and took t ^ted bv the Swedes at Ga-
SlXlaidb^^UyoCAhenaUafl^
rariLmTnpd'fpnrg,Ls;e|;fnera,Co^
X aiming^'at the'lovereignty of all Scandinavra. Up-
bittered fpint j but on the death of that prince, wl
v.as killed at the fiege of Frederjcflial, rredenc dml
net refufe the ofYer of his Britannic majefty s tried,ation
between him and the crown of Sweden ; m confluence
of which, a peace was concluded at Stockhnun, " -
left him in poffeffion of the auchy of Slefw.ck. Tie-
diic died in the year , 7.30, after hav.ng t^jxa
before feen his capital reduced to allies by an acciden
,al fire His fo!, and fueceffor, Cbr.fuan Fredenc,
made no other ufe of bis power, and the advantage.
with which he mounted the throne, than >0 cultivat
peace with all his neighbours, and to promote the «p-
pinefs of all his Cubjccts, whom he eafed of many op-
preffiva taxoa ^ ,he Pragpati.c Sane-
tion,' Chrdlian fc«6poo men to the a(miar,ce of the
cmneror during the difpute of the fuccefl.on to the
crown of Poland. Though he was Pacific’ yet ie ^
iealous of his rights, efpecially over Tam, u , -
obligedIbe Hamburghets ,0 call in the medm.on of
PrufTia to abolifli their bank, to admit the c
Demnatk as current, and to pay him a rnrUmn of fil-
ver marks. He had, two years after, vj*. » I,o»,
difoute with his Bntanmc mayefty about the m
loidibip of Steinhorft, which had been moitgaged to
the latter by the duke of Holftein Lauenburg, and
Sich Chriftian faid belonged .0 h.m. Spme blood
r M 1 • • in which Chriitian, it is 2q
was ipilt during i _ h It brought on, how-An advan-
thought, never was in earneit. ^ oroug Brl.tageouS
ever a treaty, in which he availed htmftlf of his B _ § ^kh
predileaion for b,s Ge»» W
-oTh krf ngS a year” o^condkion of keeping in
7SdX for tbe proteaion of Hanover :
this wasf Dutch fttips for trading
Soul his’ leave w Iceland : but the differ ence was
made up by the -mediation of Sweden. _ Ghnttian naa
fo greafa party in tha, kingdom, that
1 c Up Up tamnlal revive the union of Calmar, by
ly thought he would re fuccelror lo his then
Kiln ft Some tps for tha, putpole were
bwtclnh y hatever Chriftian’s views might
certainly take • b fru ft rated by the jealoufy
no, bear^thrmgtoof
Xl'^rlX/Xtaa'Iof beingke father of
“ HU fon and fncceffor, Frederic V. had in I 743.
maSdThe princefs Louifa, daughter ,0 h.s Brnanmc
maieft, He 71. took "ok’onk.n, V
happmels of nis people > -por ,t
cent that of a mediator, in the German war. 1 or ■ t
Pmmm'
ther of Ms fucceffor, he married a daughter of the
duke of Brunfwick Wolfonbuttel ^‘t his ^
ChUftiarVlT'X married the orincefs Carol™a
MuT of England. But this alhance ptove^.a-
z
DEN [ 169 ] DEN
Penmark. tremely unfortunate, which is generally afcribed to
v ' the intrigues of the queen-dowager, mother-in-law to
Intr^ues of^6 Pre^ent ^'nS* reprefented as ambitious,
the dowa- artfui» and defigning ; and as one wrho wiflied to have
ger, and fet afide the king himfelf in favour of her own fon Fre-
misfortunes deric. On the arrival of the young queen, however, fire
ot theyoung received her with much apparent affedfion, telling her
qu^e i. the faults of her hulband, at the fame time promifing
to affift her on all occafions in reclaiming him from his
vicious couifes. Thus, under pretence of kindnefs
and friendlhip, (lie fowed the feeds of diffenfion betwixt
the royal pair, before the unfortunate princefs had the
leaft fufpicion of her danger; and while the un¬
thinking queen revealed to the dowager all her fe-
crets, the latter is faid to have placed fpies about the
king to keep him conftantly engaged in riot and de¬
bauchery, to which he was at any time too much
inclined. At laft it was contrived to throw a miftrefs in
his w’ay, whom he was advifed to keep in his palace.
—It was impoffible that any woman could pafs fuch
a piece of conduft unnoticed $ however, in this affair,
the queen-dowager behaved with her uiiial duplicity.
In the abfence of the king, die pretended great refent-
tnent againfl: him, and even advifed the queen not to
live with him j but as foon as he returned, when his
confort reproached him, though in a gentle manner,
with his conduct, (he not only took his part, but in-
lifted that it was prefumptuous in a queen of Den¬
mark to pretend to direft her hulband’s conduft. Not-
withftanding this incendiary behaviour, the queen was
in a fhort time reconciled to her hulhand, and lived
on very good terms with him until fhe again excited
the jealoufy of the dowager, by affirming to herfelf the
direftion of that part of the public affairs which the
dowager had been accuftomed to look upon as her
own privilege. For fome time it feemed to be difficult
For her to form any effe&ual plan of revenge, as the
king had difplaced feveral of her friends wdro had for
lome time had a ffiare in the adminiftration. Two
new favourites, Brandt and Struenfee, had now appear¬
ed ; and as thefe paid great court to the queen, the
dowager took occafion to infinuate, not only that the
queen was harbouring improper defigns with regard
to the government, but that ffie had an intrigue with
Struenfee. The new minifters indeed behaved impru¬
dently, in attempting to make a reformation in feve¬
ral of the departments of the ftate at once, inftead of
waiting patiently until an opportunity ffiould offer ;
and in thefe precipitate fchemes they were certainly
fupported by the queen. Thefe inftances of want of
circumfpedion in the minifters were reprefented by the
dowager and her party to be a fettled fcbeme to make
an alteration in the government; and a defign was even
fpoken of to fuperfede the king as being incapable
of governing, to declare the queen regent during the
minority of her fon, and to make Struenfee prime mi-
nifter.
T hus a very formidable oppofttion was formed againft
Brandt and Stmenfee j and as the latter had made
fome innovations in the military department as well as
the civil, fome of the principal officers, who were the
creatures of the dowager, reprefented him as defign¬
ing to overthrow the whole fyftem of government.
When matters were brought to a proper bearing, it
was at laft refolved to furprife the king in the middle
Vol. VII. Part L ,
of the night, and force him inftantly to fign an order, Denmark,
which was to be ready prepared, for committing the —"V—
obnoxious perfons to feparate prifons, accufe them of
high treafon in general, and particularly with a defign
to dethrone or poifon the king. If this could not be
properly authenticated, it was determined to fuborn
witneffes to confirm the report of a criminal corre-
fpondence between the queen and Count Struenfee.
This defign was executed on the night of the 16th of
January 1772, when a mafked ball was given at the
court of Denmark. The queen, after having danced
moft part of the night with Count Struenfee, retired to
her chamber about two in the morning. About four
the fame morning, Prince Frederic got up, and went
with the queen-dowager to the king’s bed chamber,
accompanied by General Eichftedt and Count Rantzau.
Having ordered the king’s valet de chambre to awake
him, they informed his majefty, that the queen, with
Count Struenfee, his brother, and Brandt one of the
new minifters, were at that moment bufy in drawing
up an aft of renunciation of the crown, which they
would immediately after compel him to fign; and
therefore there was a neceffity for him to give an order
for their arreftment. The king is faid to have hefitat-
ed for fome time, and inclined to refufe this fcandalous
requifition ; but at length, through importunity, and,
according to fome accounts, being even threatened in¬
to compliance, he confented to what they required.
Count Rantzau was difpatched at that untimely hour
into the queen’s apartments, and immediately executed
the orders of the king. The unfortunate princefs was
conveyed in one of the king’s coaches to the caftle of
Cronenburgh, together with the infant princefs, attend¬
ed by Lady Moftyn, and efcorted by a party of dra¬
goons. Struenfee and Bramdt were feized in their
beds and imprifoned, as well as feveral other members
of the new adminiftration, to the number of 18. The
queen-dowager and her adherents feemed to affume the
government entirely into their own hands, and a total
change took place in the departments of adminiftration.
The prince royal, fon of Queen Matilda, then in the
fifth year of his age, was put under the care of a lady
of quality who was appointed governefs, under the
fuperintendency of the queen dowager, Struenfee and
Brandt were put in irons, and very feverely treated :
they underwent long and frequent examinations ; and
Struenfee at laft confeffed that he had a criminal inter-
courfe with the queen. Both their heads were ftruck Execution
off on the 28th of April ; but many of their partifans of Struenfee
were fet at liberty. The confeffion of Struenfee is by aiul ^andt,
many, and indeed with no fmall degree of probability,
fuppofed to have been extorted by fear of the torture, »
and to have no foundation in truth ; but as no means
were ufed by the court of Britain to clear up the queen’s
charafter, the affair muft undoubtedly wear a fufpici-
ous afpeft. At laft, however, his Britannic majefty
interfered fo far as to fend a fmall fquadron of (hips to
convey the unhappy princefs to Germany. Here the
city of Zell was appointed for her refidence j and in
this place ffie died of a malignant fever on the 10th of
May 1775, aged 23 years and xo months.
The inhuman treatment of this princefs did not
long prove advantageous to the queen-dowager and her
party:- A new revolution took place in April 1784, change i
when the queen-dowager’s friends were removed, a the admini.
Y new ftratioa.
Denmark.
• *4 ,
Divifion of
the king¬
dom.
25
Language,
religion,
&c.
3.6
Covein
ment.
DEN [17
new council was formed under the aufpices of the prince
royal, and no inftrument deemed authentic unlefs figg¬
ed by the king and counterfigned by the prince. Since
that'time, the king, who from the beginning of his
adminiftration fhowed a great degree, of incapacity,
has been entirely laid afide from public bufinefs, and
has no fhare in the government. The Danes en¬
gaged on the fide of Ruffia in her laft war with the
Turks, the immediate opponent of Denmark being
Sweden. .
The kingdom of Denmark at prefent is divided into
fix grand diftridls or provinces ; viz. 1. Denmark pro¬
perly fo called, comprehending the illands of Zealand,
Funen, Langland, Laaland, Falflria, Mona, Samfoe,
Arroe, Bornholm, Anhoult, Leffaw, and. that part
of the continent called North Jutland. 2. 1 he duchy
of Slefwick, or South Jutland. 3. The duchy of Hol-
ftein. 4. The earldoms of Oldenburg and Delmenhorft.
5. The kingdom of Norway ; and, 6. Iceland, with
the i(lands lying in the northern feas ; for a particular
defcription of which fee thefe articles;
The language of Denmark is a dialeft of the 1 eu*
tonic, and bears a ftrong affinity to the No'rwegian
tongue ; but is difagreeable to (Irangers, on account of
the drawling tone with which it is pronounced. They
have borrowed many words from the German , and
indeed the High Dutch is ufed in common difcourfe
by the court, the gentry, and the burghers. The bet¬
ter fort likewife underhand French, and fpeak it flu¬
ently. The Lutheran do&rine is univerfally embraced
through all Denmark, Sweden, and Norway (o that
there is not another feft in thefe kingdoms. Denmark
is divided into fix diocefes, one in Zealand, one in Fu¬
nen, and four'in Jutland : but the bifhops are, proper¬
ly fpeaking, no other than fuperintendants, or prwn
inter pares. They have no cathedrals, ecclefiaftical
courts, or temporalities. Their bufinefs is to infpeft
the doarine and morals of the inferior clergy. The re¬
venue of the bifliop of Copenhagen amounts to about
sooo rixdollars •, and this is the richeft benefice in the
kingdom. The clergy are wholly dependent on the
government. They never intermeddle, and are never
employed or confulted in civil affairs. They neverthe-
Jefs have acquired great influence, and erefted a lort
of fpiritual tyranny over the minds of the common
people, by vdiom they are much revered. They are,
generally fpeaking, men of exemplary lives, and feme
erudition. Their churches are kept more clean, and
better adorned, than thofe of England \ the people are
great lovers of mufic, and their organifts commonly
entertain the congregation for half an hour before and
after fervice. The ftate of literature is very low in
Denmark. There is, indeed, an univerfity at .Copen¬
hagen $ but meanly endowed, and very ill fupplied with
matters. Tafte and the belles lettres are utterly un¬
known in this country, which yet has produced fome
men of great eminence in mathematics and medicine j
fuch as Tycho Brahe, Borrichius, and the Barthohnes.
The conftitution of Denmark was heretofore of the
flee Gothic original. The convention of the eftates,
even including the reprefentatives of the boors or pea-
fants, eleaed a king for his perfonal virtues, having
flill a regard to the fon of their late monarch, whom,
however, they made no fcruple of fetting afide, if they
deemed him unworthy of the royal dignity. They
o ] DEN
enafted laws ; conferred the great offices of ftate j de- Denmark.
bated all affairs relating to commerce, peace, war, and
alliances 5 and occafionally gave their confent to the
impofition of neceffary taxes. The king was no other
than chief magiftrate, generaliffimo, and as it were
prime minifter to his people. His bufinefs was to fee
iuftice adminiftered impartially } to command the army
in time of war } to encourage induftry, religion, arts,
and fciences j and to watch over the interefts of his
fubiedts. . , .
In 1660, however, the conftitution was new model¬
led, as has been already related, and which was to the
following purport. “ The hereditary kings of Den¬
mark and Norway fhould be in effedt, and ought to be
efteemed by their fubjefts, the only fupreme head up¬
on earth •, they (hall be above all human laws, and ffiall
acknowledge, in all ecclefiaftical and civil affairs, no
higher power than God alone. The king ffiall enjoy
the right of making and interpreting, the laws, of
abrogating, adding to, and difpenfing with them. He
may alfo annul all the laws which either he or his pre-
deccffors ttiall have made, excepting this royal law,
which mutt remain irrevocable, and be confidered as
the fundamental lawT of the ftate. He has the power
of declaring war, making peace, impofing taxes, and
levying contributions of all forts, &c. &x.
Then follow the regulations for the order of fuccef-
fion. the regency in cafe of minority, the majority of
the king, the maintenance of the royal family j and,
after having enumerated all the poffible prerogatives
of regal uncircumfcribed authority, as if fufficent had
not yet been laid down, it is added in the 26th aiticle..
<( that we have hitherto faid of power and emi¬
nence, and fovereignty, and if there is any thing fur¬
ther which has not been exprefsly fpecified, ffiall all be
comprifed in the following words: “ The king of
Denmark and Norway ffiall be the hereditary monarch,
and endued with the higheft authority •, infomuch,
that all that can be faid and written to the advantage
of a Chriftian, hereditary, and abfolute king, ffiall be
extended under the moft favourable interpretation to
the hereditary king and queen of Denmark and Nor¬
way,” &e. &c. 111 27
The laws of Denmark are fo concife, that, the whole Laws> &c<(
body is contained in one quarto volume, written in the
language of the country. Every man may plead his
own caufe, without employing either ccunfel or attor¬
ney •, but there are a few advocates for the. benefit of
thofe who cannot or will not fpeak in their own de¬
fence. The proceedings are fo fummary, that^a (uit
may be carried through all the courts, and finally de¬
cided in 1 3 months. There are three courts in Den¬
mark, and an appeal lies from the inferior to the fupe-
rior tribunal. The loweft of thefe is, in cities and
towns, denominated the Byfoghds Court; and in the
countrv, the Herredsfougds. Caufes may be appealed
from this to the LanJIag, or general head court for
the province *, but the final appeal lies to the court ot
High right in Copenhagen, where.the king prefides in
perfon, affifted by the prime nobility. The judges of
the two other courts are appointed by his majefty’s
letters patent, to fit and determine caufes durante bene
placito. Thefe are puniffiable for any mifdemean-
ours of which they may be guilty j and when conviaed
of having paffed an unjuft fentence, they are condemned
0 -to
DEN [ i
Denmark, to make reparation to the injured party. Their falaries
v~ are very inconfiderable, and paid out of the king’s trea-
fury, from the fines of delinquents, befides a fmall gra¬
tuity from the plaintiff and defendant when fentence is
paded. Such is the peculiar privilege enjoyed by the
city of Copenhagen, that caufes appealed from the By-
foglids court, inilead of palling through the provincial
court, are tried by the burgomafter and common coun¬
cil ; from Whence they proceed immediately to the
higheft court as the laft refource. Affairs relating to
the revenue are determined in the rent-chamber of
Denmark, which is analogous to our court of exche¬
quer. To another tribunal, compofed of fome mem¬
bers from this rent-chamber, from the admiralty, and
college of commerce, merchants appeal for redrefs
when their commodities are feized for non-payment of
duties. All difputes relating to the fea are determined
by the court of admiralty, conffituted of commiffioners
appointed for thefe purpofes. The chancellary may be
more properly termed a fecretary's office. It confifls of
clerks, who write and ilfue all the king’s decrees and
citations, tranfcribe papers, and according to the di-
re&ions they receive, make draughts of treaties and
alliances with other nations. The government of Den¬
mark is very commendable for the excellent police it
maintains. Juftice is executed upon criminals writh
great feverity j and fuch regulations are eftablifhed as
effe&ually prevent thofe outrages that are daily com¬
mitted in other countries. No man prefumes to wag
his tongue againft the government, far lefs to hatch
fchemes of treafon. All the fubje&s are, or feem to
be, attached to their fovereign by the ties of affeftion.
Robbery on the highway, burglary, coining or clip¬
ping, are crimes feldom or never heard of in Den¬
mark. The capital crimes ufually committed are theft
and manflaughter. Such offenders are beheaded very
dexteroufly with one ftroke of a fword. The exe¬
cutioner, though infamous, is commonly rich ; be-
caufe, befide the proper funftions of his office, he is em¬
ployed in other mean occupations, which few other
perfons will undertake. He, by means of his under-
ftrapper, called the prachcr, empties all the jakes, and
removes from houfes, ftables, or ftreets, dead dogs,
horfes, &c, which no other Dane would vouchfafe to
28 touch on any confideration whatever.
The Danifh nobility and gentry are all included in
the Danilh t!le term ; and formerly there were no diftinc-
^fubjedts. tions of title ; but within thefe 60 or 70 years fome
few favourites have been dignified with the titles oicount
and baron. Thefe, and thefe only, enjoy the privilege
of difpofing of their eftates by will j though others
may make particular difpofitions, provided they have
fufficient intereft to procure the king’s approbation and
lignature. The nobleffe of Denmark formerly lived at
their own feats with great magnificence ; and at the
conventions of eftates met the king with numerous
and fuperb retinues; but fince he became abfolute,
they are fo impoverifhed by exorbitant taxes, that they
can hardly procure fubfiftence; but, for the moft part,
live obfcurely in fome corner of their ruined coun¬
try palaces, unlefs they have intereft enough to pro¬
cure fome employment at court. They no longer in¬
herit the fpirit and virtues of their anceftors ; but are
become fervile, indolent, oftentatious, extravagant, and
oppreffive.
71 ] DEN
Their general charafter is a ftrange compofition ofD enmark.
pride and meannefs, infolence and poverty. If any gen- —-
tleman can find a purchafer for his eftate, the king, by
the Danifh laws, has a right to one-third of the pur-
chafe-money ; but the lands are fo burdened with im-
pofitions, that there would be no danger of an aliena¬
tion, even though this reftiiflion was not in force.-—*
Nay, fome gentlemen in the ifland of Zealand have ac¬
tually offered to make a fiirrender to the king of large
tra&s of very fertile land in the ifland of Zealand, if
his majefty would be pleafed to accept of them in place
of the impofitions laid on them. The reafon of this is,
becaufe, by the law of Denmark, if any eftate is bur¬
dened beyond what it can bear, the owner muft make
up the deficiency out of his other eftates, if he has any.
Hence the king generally refufes fuch offers; and fome
gentlemen have been tranfported with joy when they
heard that his majefty had been “ gracioufly pleafed to
accept their whole eftates.”
This oppreflion of the nobles by the king produces
in them a like difpofition to opprefs the commons ; and
the confequence of all this is, that there is no part of
the world where extravagance and diflipation reign to
fuch a degree. The courtiers maintain fplendid equi¬
pages, wear fine clothes, drink a vaft quantity of Trench
wine, and indulge themfelves with eating to excefs.
Such as derive money from their employment, inftead
of purchafing land in Denmark, remit their cafti to the
banks of Hamburgh and Amfterdam. The merchants
and burghers tread in the fteps of their fuperiors ; they
fpend all their gains in luxury and pleafure, afraid of
incurring the fufpicion of affluence, and being ftripped
by taxation. The peafant, or boor, follows the fame
example. No fooner has he earned a rix-dollar than he
makes hafte to expend it in brandy, left it fflould fall
into the hands of his oppreffive landlord. This lower
clafs of people are as abfolute flaves as the negroes in
the Weft Indies, and fubfift upon much harder fare.
The value of eftates is not computed by the number of
acres, but by the ftock of boors, who, like the timber,
are reckoned a parcel of the freehold ; and nothing can
be more wretched than the ftate of thefe boors ; they
feed upon ftock-fifli, failed meats, and other coarfe diet;
there is not the leaft piece of furniture of any value in
their houfes, except feather-beds, of which there is
great plenty in Denmark, and which are ufed not only
as beds to lie on, but as blankets for covering. After
the boor has toiled like a flave to raife the king’s taxes
he muft pay the overplus of his toil to his needv land¬
lord. Should he improve his ground and repair his
farm houfe, his cruel mafter will immediately tranfplaut
him to a barren farm and a naked habitation, that he
may let the improved ground to another tenant at a
higher price. The peafants likewife fuftain a great deal,
of damage and violence from the licentious foldiers that
are quartered in their houfes. They are moreover obli¬
ged to furnifli horfes and waggons for the royal family
and all their attendants, W’hen the king makes a progrefs
through the country, or removes his refidence from
one place to another. On fuch occafions the neigh¬
bouring boors are fummoned to affemble with their
cattle and carriages, and not only to live at their own.
expence, but to bear every fpecies of outrage from the
meaneft lacquies of thofe who attend his majefty. The
warlike Ipirit of the Danes no longer fubfifts; the com-
Y ,2 mon
DEN
[ I72 3
DEN
49
Brefs, Sac
Denmark. m0n people are mean-fpirited, fufpicious, and deceitful,,
  ' nor have they that talent for mechamcs, fo remarkable
in fome northern nations. While the peafants are em-
ployed in their labour without doors, the women are
occupied at home in fpinning yarn for linen, which
here made in great perfection.
In Denmark all perfons of any rank above the vul¬
gar drefs in the French tafte, and aftea finery; the
winter-drefs of the ladies is peculiar to the country,
very neat, warm, and becoming. The common peo-
ple^re likewife remarkably neat, and pride them-
felves in different changes of linen. They are very
little addled to jollity and diverfion- their whole
amufements confift in running at the goofe on Shr v
Tuefday, and in winter in being drawn in fledges up¬
on the ice. With refpea to marriage, the man and
woman frequently cohabit together m contraCl long
before the ceremony is performed-, the nobility and
gentry pique themfelves on fumptuous burials and
monuments for the dead-, the corpfe is very often
kept in a vault, or in the chancel of a church, for
feveral years, before an opportunity offers of celebra-
^The6 taverns in this country are poorly fupphed-,
-and he who diets in them muft be contented eat ‘n
a public room, unlefs he will condefcend to pay an ex¬
travagant price for a private apartment the metropo¬
lis is but indifferently furnifhed with game ; the wild
ducks and plover are hardly eatable-, but the hares
are good, and the markets fometimes produce tolerable
roebuck-, their fea-fifh are not to be commended , but
the rivers produce plenty of delicious carp, perch, an
craw-filh -, the gardens of the gentry are well provided
with melons, grapes, peaches, and all forts of greens
and falads in perfeaion. . the troons
The army of Denmark is compofed, I. ol the troops
of Denmark and Holftein *, and a. of Norway.
The forces of Denmark and Holftein are divided
into regulars and national or militia. Thefe forces
(the foot and horfe guards excepted, who are all regu¬
lars) are not feparated, as in our army, into diftindt
regiments, but are formed m the following manner .
Eefore the late augmentation, every regiment of in¬
fantry, when complete, confided of 26 officers and
1622y privates, divided into ten companies of fufileers
and Jo of grenadiers. Of thefe 1632 privates, 480,
who ar* chiefly foreigners enlifted m Germany, are
regulars. The remaining 1152 afe the national mi-
litfa or peafants who refide upon the eftates of their
landholders, each eftate furniffiing a certain number m
proportion Jo its value. Thefe national troops are occa-
fionally exercifed in fmall corps upon Sundays and ho¬
lidays- and are embodied once every year foi about 1 7
afyTin their refpedV.ve diftriat. By a late add.t.cn
o Jen men to each company, a regiment of infantry is
increafed to 1778, including officers. The expence of
each regiment, which Before amounted to 6°oo1-
been raffed by the late augmentation to 8000I. The
cavalry is upon the fame footing -, each regiment con¬
fiding of 17 officers, including ferjeants and corporals
and C6? privates, divided into five fquadrons. _ Of
thefe about 260 are regular, and the remainder national
troons. The regiments of foot and horfe-guards are
regulars; the former is compofed of 21 officers and 465
3° r
Army of
Denmark.
men, in five companies; and the latter of 7 officers and De™™^
t ca men. in two fousdrons#
5 The forces of Norway are all national troops or
militia excepting the two regiments of Sundenfield
and Nordenfield j and as the peafants of that kingdom
are free, the forces are levied in a different manner
from thofe of Denmark. Norway is divided into a
certain number of diftrias, each tvhereo furmte. a
foldier. All the peafants are upon their birth, re-
giftered for the militia; and the firft on the 1 ft up-
plies the vacancy for the diftna to whlch ^ b^ngS*
After having ferved from 10 to 14 years, they are ad¬
mitted among the invalids -, and when they have at¬
tained the feniority of that corps, receive their d.fm f.
fion. Thefe troops are not continually under arms,
but are only occafionally exercifed, like the national
forces of Denmark. A fixed ilipend is affigned to
the officers, nearly equal to that of the officers in the
regularsT but thecommon foldiers do not receive any
iay except when they are m aftual fcrvice, or perform-
mg their annual manoeuvres. The Academy of Land
Cadets, inftituted by Frederic IV. fnpphes the army
with officers. According to this foundation 74 -
dets are inftruaed in the military fciences at the ex
pence of the king. The whole amount of the Damfli
"Tom Si:: fi,r:;. the Danes have always
excelled as a maritime people. In the earlier ages,
then piracy was an honourable profeffion they were
T race of plates, and iffued from the Baltic to the
conquefts ol England and Normandy. And though,
fince the improvement of navigation by the invention
of the compafs, other nations have nfen to a greater
degree of naval eminence, ftill, however, the Danes,
asffiey inhabit a clufter of iflands, and poffefs a large A
tradl of fea-coaft, are well verfed m maritime affaus
and are certainly the moft numerous as well as the
S^erfiparSXDtffiliy is fiarioned in
the harbour of Copenhagen, which lies within the for¬
tifications-, the depth of water being only 20 feet,
he ffiips have not their lower tier of guns on board,
but take them in when they get out of port Befides
large magazines, each veffel has a feparate ftorehoufe
on§the water’s edge, oppofite to which ffie is moored
when in harbour, and may by this means be mftantly
equipped -, the number of regiftered feamen are near
40 000, and are divided into two claffes-, the firft com-
nriffisthofe inhabiting the coafts, who are allowed to
engage in the fervice of merchant-ffiips trading to any
part of the world. Each receives 8s. annually from
the crown as long as he fends a certificate of his be-
the crown as | ^ tQ a recai in Cafe of war.
Thelecond comprehends the fixed failors, who are
companies*: .hey a.e^a.ioued a. CoP^hagen for the
"S It Tt: re|vedsOC8s
per month, bef.de a fufficieot quant.ty of ^
two years a coinpletc lull ox
r0td eteS /ear bSes, flockings, (hoes,
fod reap Sle^of them are lodged in barracks.
When they fail, their pay is angmented to aos-^
I /J f
Dali a
fh’tfnrtitt.rr/ront Z.o/nJon \iX
3i
Navy.
32
Revenue
DEN [ i
Denmark, month. The marine artillery confifls of 800 men, in
Dennis. ^ four div;rionS-
The whole navy confifts of 38 (hips of the line, in¬
cluding 9 of 50 guns and one of 44, and 20 frigates ;
but if we except thofe which are condemned, and thofe
which are allotted only for parade, we cannot eftimate
that in 1779 the fleet confifted of more than 25 fhips
of the line, and 15 frigates fit for fervice j a number,
however, fully adequate to the fituation of Denmark :
and if we include the excellence of the failors, it muft
be efteemed as complete a navy as any in the north.
The revenue of his Danifli majefty arifes from taxes
laid on his own fubje&s, from the duties paid by fo¬
reigners, from his own eftate, crown lands, and con-
fifcations. The taxes are altogether arbitrary, and
therefore fluftuating j but they are always grievous to
the fubjeft. They commonly confift of cuftoms or toll,
for export and import j of excife upon the confump-
tion of wine, fait, tobacco, and all kinds of provifions;
of taxes upon marriages, paper, brewing, grinding,
and the exercife of different profeflions ; of impofitions
on land, poll-money, ground-rent for all houfes in Co¬
penhagen and elfewhere •, of money raifed for main¬
taining fortifications, and for a portion to the king’s
daughter when flie happens to be married ; but this
feldom exceeds 100,000 rix-dollars. One confiderable
article in the revenue is the toll paid by foreign fhips
that pafs through the Sound, or Ore Sound (the ftrait
between Schonen and Zealand), into the Baltic. This
was originally no other than a fmall contribution,
which trading nations agreed to make for maintaining
lights at certain places, to direft their courfe through
the paflage in dark and ftormy weather. At the fame time
thefe trading nations agreed, that every {hip fliould pafs
this w’ay, and pay its fliare of the expence, rather than
ufe the Great Belt, which is the other paflage, but un¬
provided with any fuch conveniency. In procefs of
time'the Danes converted this voluntary contribution
into an exorbitant toll, and even exafled arbitrary
firms in proportion to the weaknefs of the nation whofe
fhips they vifited. Thefe exadtions fometimes involved
them in quarrels with their neighbours, and the toll was
regulated in repeated treaties.
DENNIS, John, the celebrated critic, was the fon
of a reputable tradefman in London, and born in the
year 1657. He received the firft branches of education
at the great fchool in Harrow on the Hill, where he
commenced acquaintance and intimacy with many
young noblemen and gentlemen, who afterwards made
confiderable figures in public affairs,, whereby he laid
the. foundation of a very ftrong and extenfive intereft,
which might, but for his own fault, have been of infi¬
nite ufe to him in future life. From Harrow7 he w7ent
to Caius-college Cambridge ; where, after his proper
itanding, he took the degree of bachelor of arts. When
he quitted the univerfity, he made the tour of Eu¬
rope j in the courfe of which he conceived fuch a de-
teftation for defpotifm, as confirmed him ftill more in
taofe Whig principles which he had from his infancy
imbibed.
On his return to England he became early ac¬
quainted with Dryden, Wycherly, Congreve, and
Southerne ; wdiofe converfation infpiring him with a
paflion for poetry, and a contempt for every attainment
that had not fomething of the lelles leltres, diverted
73 1 DEN
him from the acquifition of any profitable art, or the
exercife of any profeflion. This, to a man who had
not an independent income, was undoubtedly a misfor¬
tune : how7ever his zeal for the Proteftant fucceflion
having recommended him to the patronage of the duke
of Marlborough, that nobleman procured him a place
in the cuftoms worth tzol. per annum *, which he en¬
joyed for fome years, till from profufenefs and want of
economy, he was reduced to the neceflity of difpofing
of it to fatisfy feme very prefling demands. By the
advice of Lord Halifax, however, he referved to him-
felf, in the fale of it, an annuity for a term of years ;
which term he outlived, and was, in the decline of his
life, reduced to extreme neceflity.
Mr Theo. Cibber relates an anecdote of him, wftffch
we cannot avoid repeating, as it is not only highly cha-
rafteriftic of the man whofe affairs we are now confi-
dering, but alfo a ftriking and melancholy inftance,
among thoufands, of the diftrefsful predicaments into
which men of genius and literary abilities are perhaps
apter than any others to plunge themfelves, by paying
too flight an attention to the common concerns of life,
and their own moft important interefts. “ After that
he was worn out (fays that author) with age and po¬
verty, he refided wdthin the verge of the court, to pre¬
vent danger from his creditors. One Saturday night
he happened to faunter to a public houfe, which in a
ftiort time he difcovered to be without the verge. He
was fitting in an open drinking-room, when a man of
a fufpicious appearance happened to come in. There
was fomething about thfe man which denoted to Mr
Dennis that he w7as a bailiff. This ftruck him with
a panic ; he w7as afraid his liberty was at an end ;
he fat in the utmoft folicitude, but durft not offer to
ftir left he fhould be feized upon. After an hour or
two had paffed in this painful anxiety, at laft the clock
ftruck twelve 5 when Mr Dennis, in an ecftafy, cried
out, addreffing hitnfelf to the fufpe&ed perfon, “ Now,
Sir, bailiff or no bailiff, I don’t care a farthing for
you, you have no power now.” The man was afto-
niffied at his behaviour j and when it was explained to
him, w7as fo much affronted with the fufpicion, that
had not Mr Dennis found his prote&ion in age, he
would probably have fmarted for his miftaken opinion.
A ftrong pi&ure of the effefts of fear and apprehen-
fion, in a temper naturally fo timorous and jealous as
Mr Dennis’s 5 of which the following is a ftill more
whimfical inftance. In 1704 came out his favourite
tragedy, “ Liberty Afferted in w'hich were fo many
ftrokes on the French nation, that he thought they
were never to be forgiven. He had worked himfelf
into a perfuafion that the king of France would infill
on his being delivered up, before he would confent to
a peace y and lull of this idea of his own importance,
when the congrefs was held at Utrecht, he is laid to
have waited on his patron the duke of Marlborough,
to defire that no fuch article might be ftipulated. The
duke told him he had really no intereft then with the
miniftry j but had made no fuch provifion for his owm
fecurity, though he could not help thinking he had
done the French as much injury as Mr Dennis himfelf.
Another ftory relating to this affair is, that being at a
gentleman’s houfe on the coaft of Suffex, and walking
one day on the fea-lhore, he faw a Ihip failing, as he
fancied, towards him j he inftantly fet out for London,
Dennis.
Denomina- Sd w'S ^^r0”
coyed him down to his houfe, to furrender him up to
tiop
Denfity.
the French* .
Mr Dennis, partly through a natural peeviftmeis
and petulance of temper, and partly perhaps for the
fake of procuring the metpis of fubfiftence, was conti¬
nually engaged in a paper-war with his contemporaries,
whom he ever treated with the utmoft fever,ty : and,
though many of his obfervations were judicious, yet
he ufually -conveyed them in language fo fcurrilous and
abufive, as deftroyed their intended effe& *, and as his
attacks were almoil always on perfons of-fupenor abi¬
lities to himfelf, viz. Addifon, Steele, and Pope, their
replies ufually turned the popular, opinion fo greatly
againft him, that, by irritating his tefty temper the
more, it rendered him a perpetual torment to himielt;
till at length, after a long life of viciffitudes, difappoint-
ments, and turmoils, rendered wretched by
tion, and hateful by malevolence, having outlived the
reverfion of his eftate, and reduced to diftrels, from
which his having been daily creating enemies nad lett
him fcarcely any hopes of relief, he was compelled to
what mull be the molt irkfome fituation that.can be
conceived in human life, the receiving obligations
from thofe whom he had been continually treating ill.
In the very clofe of his days, a play was a£led for his
benefit at the little theatre in the Hay-market, procu¬
red through the united interefts of Meffrs Thomion,
Mallet, and Pope *, the laft of whom, tiotwithftandmg
the grofs manner in which Mr Dennis had on ma^y
occafions ufed him, and the long warfare that had lub-
fifted between them, interefted himfelf very warmly
for him ; and even wrote an occafional prologue to
the play, which was fpoken by Mr Cibber. Not long
after this, viz. on the 6th of January 1733, he died,
being then in the 77th year of his, age.
Mr Dennis certainly was poffeffed of much erudi¬
tion, and a confiderable lhare of genius. In profe he
is far from a bad writer, where abufe.or perfonal icur-
rility does not mingle itfelf with his language. In
verfe, he is extremely unequal; his numbers being at
fome times fpirited and harmonious, and his hibjects
elevated and judicious-, and at others flat., harlh, and
puerile.-—As a dramatic author, he certainly <3^65
not to be held in any confideration. It was juftly laid
of him by a wit, that he was the moft complete m-
ftru&or for a dramatic poet, fince he could teach him
to diftinguilh good plays by his precepts, and bad ones
by his examples. . , , ,
DENOMINATION (from denotnuio, ot de and.wo-
men “ a name) a name impofed upon any thing,
tiTually exprefling fome quality predominant therein. .
DENOMINATOR, in Arithmetic, a term uled in
fpeaking of fraaions. See Arithmetic, N.° 21.
Denominator of a ratio, is the quotient anfing from
the divifion of the antecedent by the confequent. 1 hus,
6 is the denominator of the ratio 30 to 5 *, became 30
divided by 5 gives 6. This is otherwife called the ex¬
ponent the ratio.
DENSITY of Bodies, is that property diredtly
oppofite to rarity, whereby they contain fuch a quan¬
tity of matter under fdch a bulk.
Accordingly, a body is faid to have double or triple
the denfity of another body, when their bulk being
piC U1C     
Dsnsitt of the Air, is a property that has employ¬
ed the later philofophers, fince the difiyovery of the
Torricellian experiment.
It is demonflrated, that in the fame veffel, or even
in veffels communicating with each other, at the fame
diftance from the centre, the air has everywhere the
fame denfity. The denfity of air, c^teru paribus m-
creafes in proportion to the comprefling power. Hence
the inferior air is denfer than the fuperior *, the denfity,
however, of the lower air is not proportional to the
weight of the atmofphere, on account of heat and cold,
and other caufes perhaps, which make great alterations
in denfity and rarity. However, from the elaftiaty ot
the air, its denfity muft be always different at different
heights from the earth’s furface *, for the lower parts
being preffed by the weight of thofe above, will be
Itenfity
11 .
Dentifrice.
oeing picucu uj r
made to accede nearer to each other, and the more o
as the weight of the incumbent air is greater. Hence
the denfity of the air is greateft at the earth’s furface,
and decreafes upwards in geometrical proportion to the
altitudes taken in arithmetical progreffion.
If the air be rendered denfer, the weight o. bodies
in it is diminifhed ■, if rarer, increafed, becaufe bodies
lofe a greater part of their weight m denfer than in
rarer mediums. Hence, if the denfity of the air be
fenfibly altered, bodies equally heavy in a rarer air, it
their fpecific gravities be confiderably different will
lofe their equilibrium in the denfer, and the fpecifically
heavier body will preponderate. See Pneumatics.
DENTALIUM, a fhell-fifh belonging to the order
of vermes teftacea. See Conchology
DENTARIA, tooth-wort, or Tooth-violet: A.
genus of plants belonging to the tetradynamia clafs;
and in the natural method ranking under the 39th or¬
der, SiHquofte. See Botany Index.
DENTATUS, Cuaius, a renowned diiinterelted
Roman general, whofe virtues render him more me¬
morable than even his great military reputation, flou-
riflied 272 years B. C. He was thrice coniul; he
conquered the Samnites, Sabines, and Lucamans ; and
gave each citizen 40 acres of land, allowing himielt
no more. The ambaffadors of the Sammies making
him a vifit, found him boiling turnips in a pipkin j
upon which they offered him gold to come over to
their intereft •, but he told them, his defign was not to
grow rich, but to command thofe who were io. He
defeated Pyrrhus near Tarentum, and received the ho¬
nour of a triumph. f ,
DENTELLA, in Botany : A genus ot plants be-
longlnp to the pentandria clafi. See Botasv Index.
DENTILES, or Dentils, in ArchteBure, an or¬
nament in corniches bearing fome refemblance to teet ,
particularly ufed in the Ionic and Corinthian oiders.
See Architecture. „ ,
DENTIFRICE, in Medicine, a remedy mr the
teeth. There are various kinds j generally made oi
earthy fubftances finely pounded, and mixed with alum,
or fome other faline fubftances: but theie are perni¬
cious on account of their wearing away the enamel
of the teeth, but more efpecially by the luality
with which thefe earthy fubftances are endowed. On
this account, a portion of Peruvian bark finely pound-
ed is now commonly added, which anfwers the double
D E P [ ,
Dentifcal- purpofe of cleaning the teeth, and prefervlng them af-
FA terwards from corruption.
Dephieg r ^^^T'iSCALPRA, in Surgery, an inftrument for
mation. louring yellow, livid, or black teeth ; to which being
    applied near the gums, it fcrapes off the foul morbid
cruft.
* ^NTITION, the breeding or cutting the teeth
in children. See Medicine Index.
DENUNCIATION, a folemn publication or pro¬
mulgation of any thing.
. 411 veffels of enemies are lawful prizes, after denun¬
ciation or proclamation of war. The defign of the
denunciation of excommunicated perfons is, that the
fentence may be the more fully executed by the per-
fon’s being more knowm. r
Den uncut ion at the Horn, in Scots Law. See Law
Index.
DENYS THE little. See Dionysius.
Dents, St, a famous town of France, in the de¬
partment of Pans. Here is an ancient and magnifi¬
cent church, in which were the tombs of many of the
iretmh kings; and in the treafury, among other cu-
riobties, the fwords of St Lewis and the Maid of Or¬
leans, and the fceptre of Charlemagne. The abbey of
L-at<kBene?iaineS’ a magnJficent piece of modern
architeaure, has more the appearance of a palace than
a convent. In 1793, after the abolition of royalty
the royal tombs in the church were all deftroyed : and
the name of the town was changed to that of Fran-
ciade. It is feated on the river Crould, near the Seine,
five miles north of Paris. E. Long. 2.26. N. Lat.
DEOBSTRUENTS, in Pharmacy, fuch medicines
as open obdru£tions. See Detergent.
DEODAND, in our cuftoms, a thing given or for-
eited as it were to God, for the pacification of his
wrath in a cafe of mifadventure, whereby a Chriftian
loul comes to a violent end without the fault of any
realonable creature. ^
As, if a horfe ftrike his keeper and kill him : if a
man m driving a cart, falls fo as the cart-wheel runs
over him, and preffes him to death; if one be felling a
tree and gives warning to the ftanders by to look to
yeta n?an/.is killed b7 the fall thereof; in
thC hjr-fe’m the recond> tbe cart-wheel,
cart, and horfes ; and in the third, the tree, is Deo dan-
.t,0 be, g,ve,n to God»” that is, to the king, to
be diftributed to the poor by his almoner, for expia¬
tion of this dreadful event ; though effefted by irra¬
tional, nay, fenfelefs and deadly creatures.
movent ad m°rtem funt Deodanda ;
hat moves to death, or kills him dead.
Is Deodand, and forfeited.
S “ b' 'lraitation of thi>' <" Exodus,
LT r If ^ °X g°re a man or a woman with
thC °X fha11 be ftoned to
inno^nt ’’ 6 ^ 5 f° fhaI1 his owner be
'f5ys’ Deodand is to be fold, and the price
diftnbuted to the poor, for the foul of the king his
DEPHTFrMA^1 Pe°ple dtParted this
f J HLEGMATION, is an operation by which
tic fupcrabundan, „ater 0f a body ^ ,aken ^
ticated
i!
Depreca¬
tion.
75 ] D E P
and it'S principally effeaed by evaporation or dillilla-DepMogif.
ion. Dephlegmation is alfo called concentration par-
ticularly when acids are the fubjeft. See Concen¬
tration.
DEPHLOGISTICATED, in Chemiflry, any thing
deprived of the phlogifton fuppofed to be contained in
Dephlogist 1 catkd Air, is the fame with oxygen
gas of modern chemiftry, and is an invifible elaftic
uid, of fomewhat greater fpecific gravity than that of
the common atmofphere, and capable of fupporting
animal life and flame for a much longer time than the
'/WcT ^ 7 brCathC' See0x¥GEN» Chemistry
j Dtiri1LAJ°LRyMEDlCINES> thofe aPPlied in or¬
der to take off the hair : fuch are lime and orpiment
known to be, but which ought to be ufed with great
caution. 8
tn ‘m L4tin grammar> a ^rm applied
to verbs which have a<3ive hgmfications, but paflive
terminations or conjugations, and want one of their
participles paflive.
Dkfonent in tbe Law of Scotland, a perlon who
makes a depofition. See Deposition.
DEPOPULATION, the aft of diminifliing the
number of people m any country, whether by war,
difeafe, or political caufes. ^ *
DEPOR1ATION, a fort of banifhment ufed by
the Romans, whereby fome ifland or other place was
allotted to a criminal for the place of his abode, with
deaT^h111011 n0t t0 ftir °Ut °f the fame °n Pain of
DEPOSIT, among civilians, fomething that is com¬
mitted to the cuftody of a perfon, to be kept without
ret?rned again demand.
DEPOSITARY, m Law, a perfon intruded as
Keeper or guardian of a depofit.
DEPOSITION, in Law, the teftimony given in
court by a witnefs upon oath.
Deposition is alfo ufed for the fequeflrating or
depriving a perfon of his dignity and office. *
his depofition only differs from abdication, in that
the latter is fuppofed voluntary, and the a& of the diV
nitary or officer himfelf; and the former of compul
ion, being the aft of a fuperior power, whofe autho¬
rity extends thereto Some fay the depofition, and
fome the abdication of King James II
Depofition does not differ from deprivation : we
cial 1^dc'fferentIy’ a deP°fcd or deprived biffiop, offi-
Depofition differs from fufpenfion, in that it abfo-
lutely and for ever ftnps or divefts a prieft, &c. of all
dignity, office &c. whereas fufpenfion only prohibits,
or reftrains, the exercile thereof.
Depofition only differs from degradation, in that
the latter is more formal, and attended with more
urcumftances, than the former: but in effea and
ftance tney are the fame; thofe additional circum*
fiances being only matter of ffiow, firft let on foot out
of zeal and indignation, and kept up by cuftom but
-warranted by the laws or canons, ^ee D^gra-
DEPRECATION, in Rhetoric, a figure whereby
the orator invokes the aid and affiftance of fome one^
or
D E P
[
-r- s assist, sr
Depth. l irTt CPRECATORY, or Dkprecativk, in TZieo/o-
a term applied to die manner of performing fome
ceremonies in the form of prayer. _ . ,
The form of abfolution is deprecative in the Greek
church being conceived in thefe terms, M*y GoJ ,b-
the vou: whereas it is in the declarative form in the
Latiifchu.ch, and in fome of the reformed churches,
1 "nFPRESSION of the Pole. When a perfon fails
or travels towards the equator, he is fold to deprefs the
We • becaufe as many degrees as he approaches nearer
, t. mrmv degrees will the pole be nearer
the iwrizon. This phenomenon arifes from the fphe-
or o/<*e So,,, is its diftance
below the horizon ; and is meafored by an arc of a ver¬
tical circle, intercepted between the horizon and the
Vifibh Horizon, or D>>e/tie Ho-
rizon, denotes its finhing « e^e,b ting rffod
ho,izontal plane ^ confeq-uenCe of which,
t^t^-ft’objea is\y fo much too
PRESSOR, or Deprimens, in Jnatomy,* name
app^fd to feveral iufcles, becaufe they deprefs the parts
^DEPRIVATION, in the common law, the aft of
bereaving divefting, or taking away a/p.ritual pro-
bereavmg, -as when a bilhop, vicar, prebend,
o^thTlike fs depofed or deprived of his pre^rment,
?or fome matter, or fault, in faa, or in law. See Da-
P°Depriv*ation is of two kinds; 3 henofich, el ab offcio.
Deprivation a benefmo is, when for fome great
crime a minifter is wholly and for ever deprived of his
living *0^ preferment ; which differs from fufpenfion,
in that the latter is only temporary. .
Deprivation ab officio is, when a mimfter is for
ever deprived of his order*, which is the fame, m rea
tv with what we otherwife call depofition and degra-
J’ * \nd is ufually for fome heinous crime defervmg
death,^and^is5performed by the bifoop in a foiemn man-
""dEPTFORD, a town of Kent in England, confi-
deraMe for its fine docks and f“r '.’’^G^nwieh
ftnrehoufes. It was anciently called Welt ^reenwien.
?, s d°^ded into Upper and Lower Deptford, and has
two parifti churches. Here is an hofpital, ‘"c0^°r^
bv Henry VIII. called Trinity houfe of Dep.tord
slrond The brethren of the Trinity Houfe hold their
corporation
"Vmote modern Rruaure
“I ^
who have a handfome monthly allowumcm »;P'f“d
fnnr m;ies eaft of London. E. Lon. 0. 4. N . i-at. 51-3U
DEPTH, the meafure of any thing from the lur-
^MeoZZlfDeern, by .be Barometer, depends on
the fame principles on which heights are roeafure y
76 1 D E R
the fame inftrument. The menfuration of depths being
chiefly u fti" mOretProefC,the0Uva ions
the menfuration of heights, on account of the various
kfodTlf vapours with which thefe fnbterraneous -gion
are filled But for a particular account of theie dim
culties, with the beft methods of obviating them, fee
■Rardmeter and IVIines. . . ,
dIptv of a Squadron, or Bat,chon is the num-
ber of men in a file ; which in a fquadron is three,
and in a battalion generally fix. See SquAORON,
r'wefoy, the battalion was drawn up fix deep; the
enemy’s horfe was drawn up five deep.
DEPURATION, is the freeing of any Amd
its heterogeneous matter or feculence. It is of three
kinds * if Decantation; which is performed by lett ng
the liquor to be depurated ftand for fome‘time m a
pretty^deep veffel, till the grofs fediment has fallen to
by pafling the fluid through cloth or porous paper.
DEPURATORY tever, a name given by byden
caufe*he fuppofod that pre¬
mised'b^propc1’ concoaion, for expulfion in a certain
Le, either by a copious fweat or a freer perfpira-
“deputation, a miffion of felefl Perf°’'5' °"J
a company or body, to a prince or affembly, to
0fDEprUTY!'tpnearfon fent upon fome bufinefs by
foEi5 Cp™ yU™ Afo one that exercifes an oflr.ee in ano¬
ther's right ; and the forfeiture or m.fdemeanour of
f„c“ deputy (hall caufe the perfon whom he reprefeuts
t0 DEPUTATUS, among the ancients, a name ap-
£if:rSa^-«2;
take care of the wounded m engagements, and y
formerly pl^rwiere wUd beafts herded together fo
called from the Saxon, deop, /era, unleis tne
was near fome river. r Afi- ?n Ppvfia faid
DERBEND, a ftrong town of Afia, in Pei ,
it are uic , r jt feated near the <-ai-
pian'foa.'atthe foot of Mount Caucafus. E. Long.
^DERBv'ihfcapital of a county of the fame name
• ? 1 J ’ It is thought to have received its name
in England. It s th g ^ {qt deej. . and
for being foimerly P more obable ;s> that the
what makes this luPP f buchPcouchant in a park.
arms of the ° been a ro;a, borough in the
It is very ancient, hay g nrpfpnt it is a neat
time of Edward the Confeffor At prefem ■ « _
town, very populous, and fends two membe
D E R [ i
Derby (lure l! ament. In digging for foundations of houfes, hu-
D^relidb man ^one^ a monftr°us fize have fometimes been
-i J-re>“C ‘ i found. I he trade confifts in wool, corn, malt, and
ale, of which confiderable quantities are fent to Lon¬
don. Here aifo is that curious machine for throwing
lilk, the model of which Sir Thomas Lombe, at the
hazard of his life, brought from Italy. Before that
time, the Englilh merchants ufed to purchafe thrown
filks of the Italians for ready money. But by the
help of this wonderful machine, one hand mill will
twill: as much fdk as 50 people could do without it. It
W’orks 73,726 yards of filk every time the w^ater-wheel
goes round, which is thrice in a minute. The houfe
in which it is contained is five or fix dories high, and
half a quarter of a mile in length. When Sir Thomas’s
patent expired in 1732, the parliament were fo fenfible
of the value and importance of the machine, that they
granted him a farther recompenfe of 14,000!. for the
hazard and expence he had incurred in introducing and
crediting it, upon condition he fhould allow an exadl
model of it to be taken. This model is depofited in
the d ower of London, in order to prevent fo curious
and important an art from being loll. The town of
Derby is watered by a river and a brook 5 the latter
of W’hich has nine bridges over it, the former only
one. Derby gives title of earl to the noble family of
Stanley, being the fecond earldom in England. W.
Long. 1. 45. N. Lat. 52. 57.
DERBYSHIRE, a county of England, bounded on
the call by Nottinghamfhire, and a part of Leicelter-
fiiire, wLich lall bounds it alfo on the fouth. On the
well it is bounded by StafFordfhire, and part of Che-
fliire j and on the north by Yorklhire. It is near 40
miles in length from fouth to north ; about 30 in
breadth on the north fide, but on the fouth no more
than fix The air is pleafant and healthful, efpecially
on the call fide ; but on the weft, about the Peak, it
rs lharper and more fubjeft to wind and rain. The
foil is very different in different parts of the country.
In the call and fouth parts it is very fruitful in all
kinds of grain 5 but in the weft, beyond the Derwent,
it is barren and mountainous, producing nothing but a
little oats. I here is, how:ever, plenty of grafs in the
valleys, w-hich afford pallure to a great number of
fheep. I his part of the county is called the
fiom a Saxon word fignifymg “ an eminence.” Its
mountains are very bleak, high, and barren ; but ex¬
tremely profitable to the inhabitants. They yield
great quantities of the bell lead, antimony, iron,
Icythe-ftones, grind-ftones, marble, alabaiier, a coarfe
fort of cryftal, azure, fpar, and pit-coal. In thefe
mountains are two remarkable caverns, named Pool's
Hole, and Elden-Hole; for a defeription of which, fee
thefe articles.
DEREHAM, a town of Norfolk in England, fitu-
ated in E. Long. 1. o. N. Lat. 52. 40. It is pretty
laige, and the market is noted for woollen yarn.
. DERELICT S (from de, and relirujuo, “ I leave”),
in the civil law, are Inch goods as are wilfully throwm
away, or relinquilhed by the owner.
Derelict is alfo applied to fuch lands as the fea
receding from leaves dry, and fit for cultivation. If
they are left by a gradual recefs of the fea, they are
adjudged to belong to the owner of the adjoining
Ends; but when an ifland is formed in the fea, or a
Vol. VII. Part I.
77 ] D E R
large quantity of new land appears, fuch dereli£l lands Derham
belong to the king. ||
DERHAM, Dr V illiam, a very celebrated ^
Engliftr philolopher and divine, born in 1657. In , - ^—
1682, he was prefented to the vicarage of Wargrave
in Berklhire ; and in 1689, to the valuable redlory of
Upmin(ter in Effex j which latter lying at a conveni¬
ent diftance from London, afforded him an opportu¬
nity of converfing and coirelponding with the greateft
virtuofos of the nation. Applying himfelf there w ith
great eagernefs to natural and experimental philofo-
phy, he foon became a diftinguiftied member of the
Royal Society, w'hofe Philofophical Tranfadlions con¬
tain a great variety of curious and valuable pieces, the
fruits of his laudable induftry. In his younger years
he publiftied his Artificial Clockmaker, which has been
often printed: and in 1711, 1712, and 1714, he
pleached thofe fermons at Boyle’s ledlure, which he
afterwards digefted under the well known titles of
Phyjico-Theology and Sl/lro-Theology, and enriched with
vamable notes and copper-plates. The laft: thing he
publifhed of bis own compofition was Chri/lo-Tbeo/ogy,
a demonftration of the divine authority of the Chriftfan
religion, being the fubftance of a fermon preached at
Bath in 1729. This great good man, after (pending
his life in the moft agreeable as well as improving ftu-
dy of nature, died at Upminfler in 1735 : and be-
fides inany other wmrks, left a valuable colleftion of cu-
riofities,^ particularly fpecimens of birds and infedls
of this ifiand.—It may be neceffary j’uft to obferve,
that Dr Derham^ was very well Ikiiled in medical
as well as in pbyiical knowledge ; and was conftantly
a phyfician to the bodies as well as the fouls of his
parifhioners.
DERIVATION, in Medicine, is when a humour
which cannot conveniently be evacuated at the part af¬
fected, is attracted from thence, and difeharged elfe-
where ; thus a blifter is applied to the neck to draw
aw'ay the humour from the eyes.
n I)erivatioN, in Grammar, the affinity one w’ord has
with another, by having been originally formed from
it. See Derivative.
DERI VAT IVE, in Grammar, a word which takes
its origin from another word, called its primitive.  
Such is the word derivative itfelf, which takes its
origin from the primitive rivus, a rivulet or chan¬
nel, out of which leffer rtreams are drawn ; and thus
manhood, deity, lawyer, &c. are derived from man, deus,
law, &c.
DERMESTES, a genus of infe&s belonging to
the order of coleoptera. See Entomology Index.
DERNIER resort. See Resort.
DEROGA I ION, an a£l contrary to a preceding
one, and which annuls, deftroys, and revokes it, either
in whole or in part.
DEROGA 1 OR^ , a claufe importing derogation.
A derogatory claufe in a teftament, is a certain fen-
tence, cipher, m fecret charpdTer, which the teftator
inferts in his will, and of which he -referves the know¬
ledge to himfelf alone, adding a condition, that no will
he may make hereafter is to be reckoned valid, if this
derogatory claufe is not inferted exprefsly and word
for ward. It is a precaution invented by lawyers
againft latter-wills extorted by violence, or obtained by
fuggeftion.
Z
DERPS
D E R
[
Berp
II.
Dervis.
DERP, a town of Livonia, and capital of a palati¬
nate of the fame name, with a bifhop’s fee and an uni-
verfity. It is fubjeft to the Ruffians, and lies near t e
river Ambeck. E. Long. 31. 55- N. Lat. 30. 40.
DERTONA, Derton, or Dertbon, m Ancient
Geography, a colony of the Cifpadana j called Ju m
Augujla on infcriptions and coins-, midway between
Genoa and Placentia, and fituated to the eaft of the
Tanarus in Liguria. Now Tortona, a city of Milan.
E. Long. 9. 12. N. Lat. 45- . , •_ 1 r
DERTOSA, in Ancient Geography, the capital, ot
the Hercaones, in Tarraconenfis, or the Hither Spam :
a municipium and colony ; furnamed >//* Ilergavoma
(Coins'). Dertofani, the people. Now Tortofa, m
Catalonia, on the Ebro. E. Long. 15. N. Lat. 40. 45.
DERVENTIO, in Ancient Geography, a river ot
the Brigantes in Britain. Now the Darwent, in the
eaft of Yorklhire, falling into the Oufe. Alfo a town
of the Brigantes on the fame river. Now called Auldby,
feven miles from York, to the north-eaft (Camden).
DERVIS, or Dervich, a name given to a lort pt
monks among the Turks, who lead a very auftere life
and profels extreme poverty, though they are allowed
to marry. The word is originally Perfian, *
nifying a “ beggar,” or “ perfon who has nothing .
and becaufe the religious, and particularly the follow¬
ers of Mevelava, profefs not to poffefs any thing, they
call both the religious in general, and the Mevelavites
in particular, Bervifes or Dervicbes. .
The dervifes, called alfo Mevelavites, are a Maho¬
metan order of religious the chief or founder where¬
of was one Mevelava. They are now very numerous.
Their chief monaftery is that near Cogna in Natolia,
where the general makes his refidence, and where aft
the affiemblies of the order are held the other houfes
being all dependent on this, by a privilege granted to
this monaftery under Ottoman I* .
The dervifes affe£! a great deal ofmodefty, patience,
humility, and charity. They always go bare-legged
and open-breafted, and frequently burn themfelves with
hot irons, to inure themfelves to patience. rh(T a "
ways faft on Wednefdays, eating nothing on thofe
days till after funfet. Tuefdays and Fridays they
hold meetings, at which the fupenor of the houfe pre-
fides. One of them plays all the while on a flute, and
the reft dance, turning their bodies round and round
with the greateft fwiftnefs imaginable. Long cuftom
to this exercife from their youth has brought them to
fuch a habitude, that it does not difcompofe them at
all This praftice they obferve with great ftrictneis,
in memory of Mevelava their patriarch’s turning mi-
raculoufly round, as they pretend, for the fpace of four
days, without any food or.refrefhment ; his companion
Hamfa playing all the while on the flute *, after whic i
he fell into an ecftafy, and therein received wonderful
revelations for the eftablifhment of his order They
believe the flute an inftrument confecrated by Jacob
and the ffiepherds of the Old Teftament oecau e they
fang the praifes of God upon them They profefs po¬
verty, chaftity, and obedience, and really obferve them
while they remain dervifes : but it they choofe to go
out and marry, they are always allowed.
The generality of dervifes are mountebanks : iome
apply themfelves to legerdemain, poftures, &c. to arau.e
78 ] D E S
the people j others give in to forcery and magic: but all Dervu
- .r 1 _ . _  arp lain to
tne people j uiiicij v j 0 r * a +
of them, contrary to Mahomet’s precept, are iaid .to
drink wine, brandy, and other ftrong liquors, to give   
them the degree of gaiety their order requires.
Befide their great faint Mevelava, there are particu¬
lar faints honoured in fome particular monafteries: as
Kiderele, greatly revered in the monafteries of Egypt,
and held by fome to be St George ; and by others,
with more probability, the prophet Elias.
The dervifes are great travellers ; and, under pre¬
tence of preaching, and propagating their faith, are
continually paffing from one place to another:.on which
account they have been frequently ufed as fpies.
There are alfo dervifes in Perfia, called in that coun¬
try Abdals, q. h.fervants of God. They lead a. very
penurious, auftere life, and preach the Alcoran m the
ftreets coffee-houfes, and wherever they can meet with
auditors. The Perfian dervifes retail little but fables
to the people, and are in the utmoft contempt among
the men of fenfe and letters. , r ,
There are in Egypt two or three kinds $ thole that
are in convents, are in a manner of the religious or¬
der and live retired ; though there are of thele iome
who travel and return again to their convents. Some
take this charaaer, and yet live with their families,
and exercife their trades *, of this kind are the dancing
dervifes at Damafcus, who go once or twice a-week to
a little uninhabited convent, and perform their extra¬
ordinary exercifes ; thefe alfo feem to be a good peo¬
ple • but there is a third fort of them who travel about
the country, and beg, or rather oblige people to give,
for whenever they found their horn fomethmg mult be
given them. The people of thefe orders, m Egypt,
wear an odagonal badge, of a greemffi white alabafter,
at their girdles, and a high ftiff cap without any thing
round it. ^ , •
DESAGUILIERS, John Theophilus, who in¬
troduced the praftice of reading public lectures in expe¬
rimental philofophy in the metropolis, and who made
feveral improvements in mechanics -, was the fon of the
reverend John Defaguiliers, a French Proteftant refu¬
gee, and was born at Rochelle in 1683. His father
brought him to England an infant; and at ^ proper
age placed him at Chrift-Church College, Oxford ;
where he fucceeded Dr Keil in reading leftores on
experimental philofophy at Hart-Hall. The magni¬
ficent duke of Chandos made Dr Defaguibers his
chaplain, and prefented him to the living ot Edgeware,
near his feat at Cannons: and he was afterwards chap¬
lain to Frederic prince of Wales. He read, leftures
with great fuccefs to the time of his death in 1749-
He communicated many curious papers printed in the
Philofophical Tranfaftions; publiffied a valuable Courje
of Experimental Philofophy, in 2 vols 4to : and gave an
edition of Gregorfs Elements of Catoptrics and Dioptrics,
with an Appendix on refleamg telefcopes 8vo. He
was a member of the Royal Society, and of feveral fo¬
reign academies. i u
DESART a large extent of country entirely bar-
ren, and producing nothing. In this fenfe forae arc
Tandy defarts; as thole of Lop, Xamo, Arabia, and
feveral others in Af.a i in Africa, thofe of Libya and
Zara : others are (tony, as the defart of Pharan in A-
rabia Petrea. tre
D E S [ t
Dcfart 'The DESARr, properly fo called, is that part of
■npiLnf -^rab‘a> Iduth of the Holy Land, where the children
i 1. of Ifrael wandered forty vears.
DESCANT, in Mujtc, the art of compofing in fe-
veral parts. See Composition.
Defcant is three-fold, viz. plain, figurative, and
double. »
Plain Descant is the ground-work and foundation
of all muiical compofitions, confiding altogether in the
orderly placing of many concords, anfwering to fimple
counterpoint. See Counterpoint.
Figurative or Florid Descant, is that part of an air
of mufic wherein fome difcords are concerned, as well,
though not fo much, as concords. This may be term¬
ed the ornamental and rhetorical part of mufic, in re¬
gard that there are introduced all the varieties of
points, fyncopes, diverfities of meafures, and whatever
is capable of adorning the compofition.
Descant Double, is when the parts are fo contrived,
that the treble, or any high part, may be made the
bafs ; and, on the contrary, the bafs the treble.
DESCARTES. See Cartes.
DESCENDANT. The iffue of a common parent,
m infinitum, are called his defcendants. See the article
Descent.
DESCENSION, in AJlronomy, is either right or
•blique.
Ri%ht Descension, is an arch of the equino£Hal, in¬
tercept d between the next equinoaial point and the
interfeaion of the meridian, pairing through the centre
of the objea, at its fetting, in a right fphere.
Oblique Descension, an arch of the equinoaial, inter¬
cepted between the next equinoaial point and the
horizon, paffing through the centre of the objea, at its
letting, in an oblique fphere.
DESCENT, in general, is the tendency of a body
from a higher to a lower place ; thus all bodies, unlefs
otherwife determined by a force fuperior to their gra¬
vity, defcenu towards the centre of the earth. See
Gravity and Mechanics.
Descent, or Hereditary Succejion, in Law, is the
title whereby a man, on the death of his anceftor, ac¬
quires his eftate by right of reprefentation, as his heir
at law. An heir, therefore, is he upon whom the law
cafts the eftate immediately on the death of the anceftor:
and an eftate fo defcending to the heir is in law called
the inheritance.
Defcent is either lineal or collateral. The former is
that conveyed down in a right line from the grandfather
to the father, and from the father to the fon, and from
the fon to the grandfon. The litter is that fpringing
out of the fide of the line or blood } as from a man to
his brother, nephew or the like.
The doctrine of defcents, or law of inheritances in
fee-fimple, is a point of the higheft importance : (See
the article Fee). All the rules relating to purchafes,
wdiereby the legal courfe of defcents is broken and al¬
tered, perpetually refer to this fettled law of inheritance,
as a datum or firft principle univerfally known, and upon
which their fubfequent limitations are to work. Thus
a gift in tail, or to a man and the heirs of his body, is
a limitation that cannot be perfectly underftood with¬
out a previous knowledge of the law of defcents in fee-
finiple. One may well perceive, that this is an eftate
confined in its defcent to fuch heirs only of the donee
79 1 D E s
as have fprung or ftiall fpring from his body: but who Defcent.
thofe heirs are, whether all his children both male and  v 
female, or the male only, and (among the males) whe¬
ther the eldeft, ybungeft, or other fon alone, or all the
fons together, ihall be his heir ; this is a point that we
muft refult back to the ftanding law of defcents in fee-
fimple to be informed of.
And as this depends not a little on the nature of
kindred, and the feveral degrees of confanguimty, it
will be neceffary to refer the reader to the article Con-
sanguinity, where the true notion of this kindred or
alliance in blood is particularly ftated.
We ftiall here exhibit a feries of rules or canons of
inheritance, with illuftrations, according to which, by
the law of England, eftates are tranfmitted from the
anceftor to the heir.
i. “ Inheritances (hall lineally defcend to the ifiue
of the perfon laft adually feifed in injinitum, but Ihall
never lineally afcend.
To underftand both this and the fubfequent rules, it
muft be obferved, that by law no inheritance can veft,
nor can any perfon be the aftual complete heir of ano¬
ther, till the anceftor is previoufiy dead. Nemo ejl ha¬
res viventis. Before that time, the perfon who is next
in the line of fucceflion is called heir apparent, or heir
prefumptive. Heirs apparent are fuch whole right of
inheritance is indefeafible, provided they outlive the
anceftor ; as the eldeft fon or his iffue, who muft, by
the courfe of the common law, be heirs to the father
whenever he happens to die. Heirs prefumptive are
fuch, who, if the anceftor Ihould die immediately, would
in the prefent circumftances of things be his heirs ; but
whofe right of inheritance may be defeated by the con¬
tingency of fome nearer heir being born : as a brother
or nephew, whofe prefumptive fucceffion may be de-
ftroyed by the birth of a child $ or a daughter, whofe
prefent hopes may be hereafter cut off by the birth of a
fon. Nay, even if the eftate hath defcended, by the
death of the owner, to fuch a brother, or nephew, or
daughter ; in the former cafes, the eftate fliall be di¬
verted and taken away by the birth of a pofthumous
child ; and, in the latter, it Ihall alfo be totally divert¬
ed by the birth of a pofthumous fon.
We muft alfo remember, that no perfon can be pro¬
perly fuch an anceftor as that an inheritance in lands
or tenements can be derived from him, unlefs he hath
had aflual feifin of fuch lands, either by his own
entry, or by the poffeffion ot his own or his anceftor’s
leffee for years, or by receiving rent from a leffee of
the freehold : or unlefs he hath what is equivalent to
corporal feifin in hereditaments that are incorporal;
fuch as the receipt of rent, a prefentation to the church
in cafe of an advowfon, and the like. But he ftiall not
be accounted an anceftor who hath had only a bare
right or title to enter or be otherwife feifed. And
therefore all the cafes which will be mentioned in the
prefent article, are upon the fuppofition that the de-
ceafed (whofe inheritance is now' claimed) was the laft
perfon aftually feifed thereof. For the law requires
this notoriety of poffeflion, as evidence that the ance- Comment,
ftor had that property in himfelf, which is now to be
tranfmitted to hL heir. Which notoriety hath fucceed-
ed in-the place of the ancient feodal inveftiture, where¬
by, while feuds w'ere precarious, the vaffal on the de¬
fcent of lands was formerly admitted in the lord’s court
Z 2 (as
D E 5 ' [
Bcfcent fas is (Ml Me praaice in Scotland) ; and therefore re-
ceived his feifin, in the nature of a renewal of hr, an-
ceftor’s grant, in the pretence of the feodal peers . t 1
at length, when the right of fncceffion became rndefea-
fible, “an entry on any part of the lands »lMm ‘he
county (which if difputed was afterwards to be tried
, „ oeersl, or other notorious poffedion, was ad-
mhted asPequi»alent to the formal grant of feifin, and
made the tenant capable of tranfmming his eftate by
defcent. The feifin therefore of any perfon, thus u„-
derftood, makes him the root or (lock from wtoch all
future inheritance by right of blood mult be derived
which is very briefly expreffed in this maxim, feifina
■^V^en "therefore a perfon dies fo feifed, the mherl-
tacce firft goes to his ilfue : as if there be Geoffrey,
John, and Matthew, grandhther, father, and fon ^nd
fohn purchafes lands and dies; his fon Matthew ihall
fucceed him as heir, and not the grandfather Geoffrey t
to'*whom the land lhall never afcend, but lhall rather
efeheat be admitted before the fe-
m.,k ” Thus fons (hall be admitted before daughters ;
or, as our male lawgivers have Yn'XbTnre-
fanh’v exnreffed it, the worthreft of blood (hall be pre
Lied As if John Stiles had two fons, Matthew and
Gilbert, and Jo daughters, Margaret and Chariot e
j a- r . firft Matthew, and (m cale or his dear
“iltiffue) th^Gilbert U be admitted to the
fucceflion in preference to both the daughter..
, ii Where there are two or more males in equal de-
3' ,V„. elded only (liall inherit; but the females al
together.” As if a man hath two fons, Matthew and
cflhert and two daughters, Margaret and Charlotte
d dies ; Matthew his eldeft (on (hall alone fucceed
« his edate, in excluf.on of Gilbert the fecond fon and
both the daughters ; but if both the Tons die w,,h-
ou ilfue before the father, the daughters Margaret
and Charlotte (hall both inherit the edate as copal-
Cen,erV. The lineal defeendants, m hfimm, of any
uerlim deceafed, (hall reprefent their ancedor ; that
l (hall dand in the fame place as. the perfon him elf
would have done had he been living.” Thus the
, hild grand-child, or great-grand-child (either male or
female I of the eldell fon, fucceeds before the younger
fori and fo In infinitum. And thefe reprefentat.ves
|S, iake neither more nor lefs, but jud fo much as
rteir principals would have done. As if there be two
f|ftersP Margaret and Charlotte; and Margaret dies,
S ’ fix daughters ; and then John SMes the lather
of the8 two fiders dies without other ilTue , thefe (i
dauVhteis fliall take among then, exaflly the fame as
their mother Margaret would have d°ne’
living : that is, a moiety of the lands of John bilks
in coparcenary : fo that, upon partition made if the
land be divided into twelve parts, thereof Charlotte
the furviving filter (hall have fix, and her fix nieces, the
daughters of Margaret, one a-piece.
rg “ On failure of lineal defeendants, or iffue of he
nerion laft feil'ed, the inheritance lhall defeend to die
blood of the firft purchaler ; fubjea to the three pre¬
ceding rules.” Thus, if Geoffrey Stiles purchafes
hnl, and it defeends to John Stiles hrs fon and John
dies feifed thereof without iffue ; whoever fucceed*
i go 1 D E S
this inheritance mu ft be of the blood of Geoffrey, the Defceet.
firft purchaler of this family. The firft purchafer,
perquijitor, is he who firft acquired the eftate to his fa¬
mily, whether the fame was transferred to hrni by Gle,
or by gift, or by any other method, except only that
0t ^‘‘The collateral heir of the perfon laft feifed mull
be bis next collateral kinfman of the whole blood.
Firft he muft be his next collateral kinfman either
perfonally or jure reprefentationis ; which proximity is
reckoned^ according to the csnonical ^ “ e "hL
fanguinity: See Consanguinity. Tbm^fore the
brother being in the firft degree, he and his defeen -
ants lhall exclude the uncle and his iffue, who is on y
in the fecond.—Thus, if John Stiles dies without iffue
his eftate lhall defeend to Francis his brother, who
lineally delcended Irom Geoffrey Stiles, his next im¬
mediate ancellor or father. On failure of brethren or
fillers and their iffue, it fhall defeend to the uncle o
John Stiles, the lineal defendant of his grandfather
George ; and fo on in wfimtim.
But, fecondly, the heir need not be the neared kin^
man ablolutely, but only >6 ,h=‘.h' ““e
be the neareft kinfman ol the whole blood , lor if there
be a much nearer kinfman of the W/blood a diftan
kinfman of the whole blood lhall be admitted, and the
ether entirely excluded. A kinfman of the whole blood
is he that is derived, not only from the fame anceftor,
but from the fame couple of anceftors For as every
man’s own blood is compounded of the bloods of his
refpeftive anceftors, he only is properly of the whole
or entire blood with another who hath (fo far as the
diftance of degrees will permit) all the lame mgredients
in the compofition of his blood that the other hat *
Thus, the blood of John Stiles being compofed of thofe
of Geoffrey Stiles bis father, and Lucy Baker his mo¬
ther, therefore his brother Francis, being descended
from both the lame parents hath entireiy the fame
blood with John Stiles; or he is ^ brother of the
whole blood. But if, after the death of Geoff^y L -
cy Baker the mother marries a fecord bulland, :
Gay, and hath iffue by him : the blood of this iffue
being compounded of the blood of Lucy Baker (it is
true) on the one part, but that of Lewis Gay (inftead
of Geoffrey Stiles) on the other part, it bath therefore
only half the fame ingredients with that of John S >
fo that he is only his brother of the half blood, and lor
that reafon they (hall never inherit to ea'h L
alfo, if the father has two fons, A and B, by difttre
venters or wives; now thefe two brethren are not bre¬
thren of the whole blood, and therefore fhall never in¬
herit to each other, but the eftate lhall rather efeheat t
the lord. Nay, even if the father dies, and his land
defeend to his7 eldeft fon A, who enters thereon, and
dies feifed without iffue ; Hill B ^11 not be he^o this
eftate becaufe he is only of the half blood to A, the
perfon laft feifed : bu. had A died fjf,
B might have inherited ; not as heir t
brother, but as heir to their common father, who was
tHp oerfon Isift a6iu3lly fciicd* , .
The rule .hen, together with its !
t0this Thatin etder to keep Me efta e o Joh^S.,^
Z'Cl muftPd“ndm.o';h=Tirueof th/neateft coupje
of anceftors that have left defeendants behtnd themq
Koto cjlxc;
Defcent
D E S [ ,
becaufe tlie defcendants of one anceftor only are not
fo likely to be in the line of that purchaling anceftor
as thofe who are-defcended from two.
But here a difficulty arifes. In the fecond, third,
fourth, and every fuperior degree, every man has
many couples of anceftors, increafmg according to the
diftances in a geometrical progreffion upwards, the de¬
fcendants of all which refpeftive couples are (repre-
fentatively) related to him in the fame degree. Thus,
m the fecond degree, the ilTue of George and Cecilia
Stiles and of Andrew and Either Baker, the two
grandlires and grandmothers of John Stiles, are each
in the fame degree of propinquity 5 in the third degree,
the refpeftive ifiues of Walter and Chriftian Stiles, of
Luke and Frances Kempe, of Herbert and Hannah
Baker, and of James and Emma Thorpe, are (upon
the extinflion of the two inferior degrees) all e-
quaily entitled to call themfelves the next kindred of
the whole blood to John Stiles. To which therefore
of thefe anceflors muft we firft refort, in order to find
out defcendants to be preferably called to the inheri¬
tance > In anfwer to this, and to avoid the confufion
and uncertainty that might arife between the feveral
flocks wherein the purchafing anceftor may be fought
for.—
7. The feventh and laft rule or canon is, “ That in
collateral inheritances the male flocks lhall be prefer¬
red to the female (that is, kindred derived from the
blood of the male anceftors {ball be admitted before
thofe from the blood of the female j)—unlefs where
the lands have in fa£I defcended from a female.—
J bus the relations on the father’s fide are admitted in
infinitum, before thole on the mother’s fide are admit¬
ted at all ; and the relations of the father’s father, be¬
fore thofe of the father’s mother j and fo on.
For the original and progrefs of the above canons,
the reaions upon which they are founded, and their
agreement with the lawTs of other nations, the curious
leader may confult Blackjlone1 s Commentaries, vol. ii.
p. 208—237.
We lhall conclude with exemplifying the rules them-
.lelves by a fhort fketch of the manner in which w7e
muft fearch for the heir of a perfon, as John Stiles,
w'ho aies feifed of land which he acquired, and which
theiefore he held as a feud of indefinite antiquity. See
the Table of Dsscsnts on Plate CLXIX.
^ In the firft. place fucceeds the eldeft fon, Matthew
otiles, or his iffue, (Ne 1.) :—If his line be extindl,
«.hen Gilbert Stiles and the other fons refpe£lively, in
order of birth, or their iffue, (N° 2.) in default of
thefe, all the daughters together, Margaret and Char¬
lotte Stiles or their iffue, (N° 3.) On the failure
of the defcendants of John Stiles himfelf, the ilfue of
Geoffrey and Lucy Stiles, his parents, is called in ;
viz. firft, Francis Stiles, the eldeft brother of the
whole blood, or his iffue, (N° 4.) then Oliver Stiles,
and the other whole brothers refpeftivelv, in order of
birth, or their iffue, (N° 5.) then the fifters of the
whole blood altogether, Bridget and Alice Stiles, or
their iffue, (N° 6.).—In deleft of thefe, the iffue of
George and Cecilia Stiles, his father’s parents ; refpeft
being ftill had to their age and fex, (N° 7.) : then
the iffue of Walter and Chriftian Stiles, the parents of
his paternal grandfather, (N° 8.) then the iffue of
Kjehard and . Anne Stiles, the parents of his paternal
81] D E S
grandfather’s father, (N° 9.) and fo on in the pater¬
nal grandfather’s paternal line, or blood of Walter Stiles,
in infinitum. In defeft of thefe the iffue of William
and Jane Smith, the parents of his paternal grandfa¬
ther’s mother, (N° 10.) :—and fo on in the paternal
grandfather’s maternal line, or blood of Chriftian
Smith, in infinitum ; till both the immediate bloods of
George Stiles, the paternal grandfather, are {pent.-—
I hen we muft relort to the iflue of Luke and Frances
Kempe, the parents of John Stiles’s paternal grandmo¬
ther, (N II.) :—then to the iffue of Thomas and Sa¬
rah Kempe, the parents of his paternal grandmother’s
father, (N 12.) :—and fo on in the paternal grand¬
mother’s paternal line, or blood of Luke Kempe, in in¬
finitum. In default of which, we muft call in the iffue
of Charles and Mary Holland, the parents of his pa¬
ternal grandmother’s mother, (N° 13.) : and fo on in
the paternal grandmother’s maternal line, or blood of
Frances Holland, in infinitum; till both the immediate
bioods of Cecilia Kempe, the paternal grandmother,
are alfo fpent.—Whereby the paternal blood of John
Stiles entirely failing, recourfe muft then and not be¬
fore, be had to his maternal relations ; or the blood of
the Bakeis, (N° 14, 15, 16.), Willis’s (N° 17.)
Thorpe’s (N° 18. 19.), and White’s (N° 20.) ; in
the fame regular fucceflive order as in the paternal
line.
The ftudent fttould bear in mind, that during this
whole procefs, John Stiles is the perfon fuppofed to
have been laft aftually feifed in the eftate. For if ever
it comes to veil in any other perfon, as heir to John
Stiles, a new order of fucceflion muft be obferved up¬
on the death of fuch heir; fince he, by his own feifin,
now becomes himfelf an anceftor, oxfiipes, and mufl
be put in the place of John Stiles. Fhe figures-there¬
fore denote the order in which the feveral claffes would
fucceed to John Stiles, and not to each other; and be¬
fore we fearch for an heir in any of the higher figures,
(as N° 8 ) we muft firft be affured that all the^ow’er
claffes from (N° 1. to 7.) were extinft at John Stiles’s
deceafe.
Defcent;
Descent, or Succefiion, in the Law of Scotland. See
Law Index.
Descent of the Crown. See Succession.
Descent of Dignities. A dignity differs from com¬
mon inheritances, and goes not according to the rules
of the common law : for it defeends to the half-blood;
and there is no coparcenerlhip in it, but the eideft takes
the whole. The dignity of peerage is perfonal, an¬
nexed to the blood ; and fo infeparable, that it cannot *
be transferred to any perfon, or furrendered even to
the crown ; it can move neither forward nor backward,
but only downward to pofterity ; and nothing but cor¬
ruption of blood, as if the anceftor be attainted of trea-
fon or felony, can hinder the defcent to the riehr
heir. 6
Descent, in genealogy, the order or fucceffion of
defcendants in a line or family; or their diftance from
a common progenitor : Thus we fay, one defcent, two
defeents, &c.
Descent., in Heraldry, is ufed to exprefs the com¬
ing down of any thing from above ; as, a lion en def-
cent is a lion with his head towards the bafe points, ami
his heels towards one of the corners of the chief, as i£
he were leaping.down from fome high place.
° DESCHAMPS,
D E S [ 182 1 D E S
Befchamps DESCHAMPS, Francis, a French poet, boifi in
^ Champagne, was the author of a tragedy entitled Cato
■ > of Utica, and a hiifory of the French theatre. He
died at Paris in 1747.
DESCRIPTION, in literary compofition, is fuch
a ftrdng and beautiful reprefentation of a thing, as
gives the reader a diftinft view and fatisfaftory notion
of it. See Narration and Defcription.
DESEADA, or Desiderara, one of the Carib-
bee iflands fubjeft to France, lying eaftward of Gua*
daloupe.
DESERT, or Desart. See Desart.
DESERTER, in a military lenfe, a foldier who,
by running away from his regiment or company, aban¬
dons the fervice.
A deferter is, by the articles of war, punifhable by
death ; which, after conviftion, is executed upon him
at the head of the regiment he formerly belonged to,
with his crime written on his bread.
DESERTION, in Law. See Law Index.
DESHABILLE, a French term, naturalized of
late. It properly fignifies a night-gown, and other
neceffaries, made ufe of in drefling or undreffing. Mr
 is not to be fpoken with, he is yet in his defha-
bille, i. e. undreflfed, or in his night-gown. The word
is compounded of the primitive de and s'habdler^ “ to
drefs one’s felf.”
DESHACHE', in Heraldry, is where a bead has
its limbs feparated from its body, fo that they dill re¬
main on the efcutcheon, with only a fmall leparation
from their natural places.
DESIDERATUM, is ufed to fignify the defirable
perfections in any art or fcience j thus, it is a dedde-
ratum with the blackfmith, to render iron fufible by a
gentle heat, and yet preferve it hard enough for ordi¬
nary ufes ; with the glafsmen and looking-glafs ma¬
ker, to render glafs malleable ; with the clock-maker,
to bring pendulums to be ufeful where there are irre¬
gular motions, &c.
DESIGN, in a general fenfe, the plan, order, re¬
prefentation, or condruftion of a building, book, paint¬
ing, &c. See Architecture, Painting, Poetry,
Oratory, History.
Design, in the manufactories, expreffes the figures
wherewith the workman enriches his duff or filk, and
which he copies after fome painter or eminent
draughtfman, as in diaper, damalk, and other flowered
iilk and tapedry, and the like.
In undertaking of furh kinds of figured duffs, it is
neceffary, fays Monf. Savary, that before the fird droke
of the (buttle, the whole defign be reprefented on the
threads of the warp, we do not mean in colours, but
with an infinite number of little packthreads, which,
being difpofed fo as to raife the threads of the warp,
let the workmen fee, from time to time, what kind of
filk is to be put in the eye of the (buttle for woof.
This method of preparing the wmrk is called reading
the defign, and reading the figure, which is performed
in the following manner : A paper is provided, confi-
derably broader than the duff, and of a length propor¬
tionate to wdiat is intended to be reprefented thereon.
This they divide lengthwife by as many black lines as
there are intended threads in the w'arp *, and crofs thefe
lines by others drawn breadthwife, which, with the
former, make little equal fquares ; on the paper thus
I
fquared, the draughtfman defigns his figures, and height- Defign.
ens them with colours as he fees fit. When the defign “
is finilhed, a workman reads it, while another lays it
on the fimblot.
To read the defign, is to tell the perfon who ma¬
nages the loom the number of fquares or threads com-
priled in the fpace he is reading, intimating at the
fame time, whether it is ground or figure. To put what
is read on the fimblot, is to faden little drings to the
feveral packthreads, which are to raife the threads
named : and this they continue to do till the whole
defign is read.
Every piece being compofed of feveral repetitions of
the fame defign, when the w'hole defign is drawn, the
drawer, to re-begin the defign afrefli, has nothing to do
but to raife the little drings, wuth flip-knots, to the
top of the fimblot, which he had let down to the bot¬
tom ; this he is to repeat as often as is neceffary till
the wdiole be manufaClured.
The ribbon-weavers have likewife a defign, but far
more fimple than that now defcribed. It is drawn on
paper with lines and fquares, reprefenting the threads
of the warp and wmof. But indead of lines, whereof
the figures of the former confid, thefe are condituted
of points only, or dots, placed in certain of the little
fquares formed by the interfeCHon of the lines. Thefe
points mark the threads of the warp that are to be rai¬
led, and the fpaces left blank denote the threads that
are to keep their fituation ; the red is managed as in
the former.
Design is alfo ufed, in Painting, for the fird idea
of a large work, drawn roughly, and in little, with an
intention to be executed and finilhed in large.
In this fenfe, it is the fimple contour' or outlines
of the figures intended to be reprefented, or the lines
that terminate and circumfcribe them : fuch defign is
fometimes drawn in crayons or ink, without any (ha-
dows at all j fometimes it is hatched, that is, the (ha-
dows are expreffed by fenfible outlines, ufually drawn
acrofs each other with the pen, crayon, or graver.
Sometimes, again, the fhadows are done with the cray¬
on rubbed fo as that there do not appear any lines'j
at other times, the grains or flroke of the crayon ap¬
pear, as not being rubbed : fometimes the defign is
walked, that is, the (hadowTs are done with a pencil in
Indian ink, or fome other liquor $ and fometimes the
defign is coloured, that is, colours are laid on much
like thofe intended for the grand work.
Design, in Mafic, is juftly defined by Rouffeau to
be the invention and the conduct of the fubje<ff, the
difpofition of every part, and the general order of the
whole.
It is not fufficient to form beautiful airs, and a le¬
gitimate harmony j all thefe muff be conne&ed by a
principal fubjeft, to which all the parts of the work
relate, and by which they become one. Thus unity
ought to prevail in the air, in the movement, in the
chara&er, in the haimony, and in the modulation. All
thefe muft indifpenfably relate to one common idea
which unites them. The greateft difficulty is, to recon¬
cile the obfervation of thofe precepts with an elegant
variety, which, if not introduced, renders the whole
piece irkfome and monotonic. Without queftion, the
mufician, as well as the poet and the painter, may rilk
every thing in favour of this delightful vafiety; if,
under
D E S [ i
Defign under the pretext of contrafting, they do not endea-
H vour to cheat us with falfe appearances, and inftead of
e ' , pieces juftly and happily planned, pvefent us with a
mulical minced-meat, compofed of little abortive frag¬
ments, and of charafters fo incompatible, that the whole
affembled forms a heterogeneous monfter.
Non ut placidis coeant immitia, non nt
Serpentes avibus geminentur, tigribus agni.
Tranflated thus:
But not that nature Ihould revers’d appear j
Mix mild with fierce, and gentle with feverej
Profane her laws to contradiftion’s height:
Tygers with lambs, with ferpents birds unite.
It is therefore in a diftribution formed with intel¬
ligence and tafie, in a juft proportion between all the
parts, that the perfeftion of defign confifts; and it is
above all, in this point, that the immortal Pergolefo has
fhown his judgment and his tafte, and has left fo far
behind him all his competitors. His Stabat Mater,
his Orfeo, his Serva Padrona, are, in three different fpe-
cies of compofition, three mafterpieces of dejign equally
perfect.
This idea of the general defign of a work is like-
wife particularly applicable to every piece of which
it confifts: thus the compofer plans an air, a duet,
a chorus, &c. For this purpofe, after having invent¬
ed h is fubjedl, he diftributes it, according to the rules
of a legitimate modulation, into all the parts where it
ought to be perceived, in fuch a proportion, that its
impreffion may not be loft on the minds of the audi¬
ence; yet that it may never be reiterated in their ears,
without the graces of novelty. The compofer errs in
defigning who fuffers his fubjedl to be forgot ; he is
ftill more culpable who purlues it till it becomes trite
and tirefome.
DESIGNATION, the adl of marking or indica¬
ting, and making a thing known. The defignation of
fuch an eftate is made by the tenants, butments, and
bounding?. Among the Romans, there were defigna-
tions of the confuls and other magiftrates, fome time
before their election.
DESIGNATOR, a Roman officer, who afligned
and marked each perfon his place and rank in public
ceremonies, flrows, proceflions, &c. The word is
formed from the verb dejignare, “ to defign.”
The defignator was a kind of marftral, or mafter of
the ceremonies, who regulated the feats, march, order,
&c. There were defignators at funeral folemnities,
and at the games, theatre, and ftrows, who not only
affigned every one his place, but alfo led him to it ;
as appears from the prologue to the Poenulus of Plau¬
tus. Much of the fame nature were the agonathetce
of the Greeks.
DESIGNING, the art of delineating or drawing
the appearance of natural objects, by lines on a plane.
To defign, according to the rules of mathematics,
makes the objeft of perfpe&ive, See Perspective.
DESPOT, a term fometimes ufed for an abfolute
' P«nce : (fee next article). The word, in its firft
origin, fignified the fame with the Latin herus, and
the Englifh majler; but in time it underwent the fame
fate on medals, as, among the Latins, Caefar did with
regard to Auguftus; BACIAEYC anfvvering to Auguf-
83 1 D E S
tus, and AECIIOTHC, defpotes, to Csefar. See Caesar. Defpot
Thus, Nicephorus having ordered his fon Stauracius to |!
be crowned, the fon, out of refpeft, would only take , De^iult-
the name AECTIOTHC, leaving to his father that of
EACIAEYC. For it is to be noted, that it was juft a-
bout the time that the emperors began to ceafe to ufe
Latin infcriptions. This delicacy, however, did not
laft long ; for the following emperors preferred the
quality of AECIIOTHC to that of BACIAEYC, particu¬
larly Conftantine, Michael Ducas, Nicephorus Boto-
niates, Romanus Diogenes, the Comneni, and fome
others. In imitation of the princes, the princeffes like-
wife aflumed the title of AECITOINA.
It was the emperor Alexius, furnamed the angel,,
that created the dignity of deipot, and made it the
firft after that of emperor, above that of Auguftus or
Sebaftocrator and Crefar. See August.
I he defpots were ufually the emperor’s Tons or fons-
in-lawq and their colleagues or copartners in the empire,
as w'ell as their prefumptive heirs. The defpots that
were fons of the emperors had more privileges and
authority than thofe that w'ere only fons-in-law. Co-
din, p. 38. defcribes the habits and ornaments of the
defpot. See the notes of Father Goar on that author,
Under the fucceffors of Conftantine the Great, the title
defpot of Sparta was given to the emperor’s fon or bro¬
ther, who had the city of Sparta or Lacedemon by
way of apannege.
Despot is at prefent a title of quality given to
Wallachia, Servia, and fome of the neighbouring
countries.
DESPOTICAL, in general, denotes any thing
that is uncontrouled and abfolute ; but is particularly
ufed for an arbitrary government, where the power of
the prince is unlimited, and his will a law to his fub-
jefts ; luch as thofe of Turkey, Perlia, and moft of
the eaftern governments ; and even thofe of Europe,
if we except the republics, our own, and of late the
French government.
DESPOLJILLE, in Heraldry, the whole cafe, fkin,
or Hough of a beaft, with the head, feet, tail, and all
appurtenances, fo that being filled and fluffed it looks
like the entire creature.
DESPREAUX. See Boileau.
DESSAULI, Peter Joseph, a diftinguiftied
French furgeon, was born at Magny Vernois, a village
of Franche Comte, in the year 1744. He was de-
fcended of parents of an humble rank in life. He re¬
ceived the early part of his education in a fchool of
the Jefuits, and was deftined for the church ; but his
own inclination tended to the ftudy of medicine, and
in this he was at length indulged, and fettled as an ap¬
prentice in the military hofpital of Befort. Here he'
acquired fome knowledge of anatomy and furgery; and
having previouffy made confiderable progrefs in ma¬
thematical ftudies, he applied this knowledge, after the
example of Borelli and others, to the invetiigation of
physiological fubjeiffs. He tranffated the work of Bo¬
relli, De Motu Animalium, and added notes and illuf-
trations, in wEich, although he proceeded upon wrong
principles, he difcovered at a very early period ftrong
proofs of his zeal and induftry.
About his 20th year he went to Paris, where he en¬
joyed the beft opportunities of ftoring his mind with
the knowledge of furgery and anatomy, which he pro-
fecuted
TWlV.uU.
F S f 1S4 1 D E vS
J /> f TTp fnpnt ferent After being twice examined, be we£s ieized
fecuted with the utmoft ardour and fuccef,. He p ^ • delivering a lefture, carried away from
almoit the whole of his time at the anatont.cal thea re^ he wa, del. ^ of the Loxem.
and hofpitals; but by this clofe attendance his health his theatre, anu ^ ^ and ner-
DefTault
II
DefuJtor.
fuffered'greatly. He was ieized with a cacheaical dif-
ea^e, which confined him to bed for a twelvemonth ;
and he was indebted for his recovery to the vigour ot
his conftitution, and the kind offices of a young friend
who conftantly watched the progrefs of his difordei.
His health being re-eftabhffied, neither his circum-
ftances nor the aftivitv of his mind would permit him
to indulge in repofe. He commenced teacher of ana-
tomv hv the winter of 1766, and was foon attended
by 300 pupils, a .great proportion of whom was offier
than himfelf. But this fuccefs excited.the jealoufy of
the eftabliffied teachers and profeffors, who exer’-ed a11
the influence of authority to filence him; and althoug
he was patronifed and proteaed by fome furgeons of
great eminence, the oppofition which he met wit
would have obliged him to renounce public teaching,
had he not been permitted to go on by the expedien
of adopting the name of another as a fanaion. H.s
reputation was now greatly extended ; but «‘11 ie de*
clined private praftice, till he was eftabliffied in fome
diflinguiffied public ftation. In the year 1776, he was
admitted a member of the corporation of furgeons, and
it would appear that his finances were at this time ex¬
tremely limited, from the circumftance of his being
indulged by that body in paying his fees when t
ihould be convenient for himfelf. He fucceffively I -
led the honourable ftations in the corporation and aca¬
demy of furgery, and in the year 1782, he was ap¬
pointed furgeon-major to the hofpital De a^harf}
Deffault was now regarded as one of the firft fur¬
geons of Paris. He fucceeded to the next vacancy at
the Hotel Dieu ; and after the death of Moreau, al-
moft the whole furgical department of that hofpital
was intrufted to him. Here he inftituted a clinical
frhool of .furgery, on a liberal and extenfive plan,
which attrafted a great concourfe of ftudents, not on¬
ly from every part of France, but alfo from foreign
countries. An audience compofed of- 600 Indents
frequently met to hear his infiruaions, and moft of the
furgeons ^of the French army derived their knowledge
from his kaures.
The furgical praaice of Deffault was always d.ftm-
guiffied for its efficacy and fimphcity. Among the im¬
provements which he introduced into furgery may be
mentioned bandages for the retention of Mured
Kmbs the ufe of compreffions in promoting the cure
of ulcers, the ufe of ligature in umbilical hernia of
children, the extraaion of loofe cartilages m joints,
the nfe of bougies in fchirrofities of the reaum and
that of elaftic probes in contraaions of the uretina.
He alfo introduced effentiaUmprovements m the con-
ftruaion of various furgical inftruments.
In the year I791* he pubjiffied a work entitled
journal de Chirurgerie, the objea of which was to re¬
cord the moft interefting cafes which occurred in ns
clinical fchool, with the remarks which be made upon
them in the courfc of his kaures. The edating of
this work was intrufted to his pupils. But m the midft
of his valuable labours he became obnoxious to fome
of the prevailing parties of that turbulent period, and
5n 1792 he was denounced to the popular ka.on m
the cant language of the times, as an tgotf or
2 ,
boure. But in three days he was liberated and per¬
mitted to refume all bis funaions. When the khoo
of health was eftabliffied, he was appointed clinical
profeffor for external maladies; and it was through his
means that the Eveche was converted into an holpital
f0^egtLT£n«\vhich .ere e*MU..d in M.y
1705, made fo deep an impreffion on Ins mind, from
the anptehenfion of a renewal of the horrors winch
he had formerly experienced, that he was kized with a
fever, accompanied with delirium; an t tis put an
end to bis life on the ift of June, the fame year, at
the age of U- He had attended the dauphin m the
temple ; and from the circumftance of his death hav¬
ing happened but a ffiort time before that prince, an
opinion was prevalent among the populace that he was
poifoned, becaufe he refilled to do any thing againft
the dauphin’s life. This ftory kerns to. have no
foundation, but it affords a proof of theA0Pln,°rnrnh^
by the public of Deffault’s integrity. A penfion was
fettled on his widow by the republic. and
not emolument, had been always the objeft of his
ambition; for he negkded many opportunities of ac¬
quiring wealth. Indifferent to all other pleasures and
purfuifs, Deffault was lokly and paffionately attached
to his profeffion. His temper was ardent, and fome-
times rather violent; but his fentrments were always
elevated and noble. The only work of wh'di he s
to be confidered as the fok author, is entitled TraitS
des Maladies chirurgicales, et des Operations qui leur
conviennent* in 2 vols 8vo. .
DESSAW, a city of Upper Saxony m Germany,
fituated on the river Elbe, 60 miles north-weft of Dres¬
den, and fubjefl to the prince of Anhak Dtffaw.
L DESSERT, or Desert, a fervice of fruits and
fiveetmeats, ufually ferved up kft at table. .
DESS1CCAT1VE, or Desiccative, in Fhar-
macy, an epithet applied to fuch topical medicines as
dry*up the humours flowing to a wound or ulcer.
DESTINIES, in Mythology. See Farca..
DESTINY, among philofophers and divines. See
^DESTRUCTION, in general, an alteration of any
thing from its natural ftate to one contrary to nature,
whereby it is deemed the fame with Corruption.
A chemical deftruaion, or corruption, is nothing
but a refolution of the whole naturally mixt body into
ltS DESUDATION, in Medicine, a profufe and inor¬
dinate fweat, fucceeded by an eruption of puftuks,
called fudamina, or heat pimples. ^ner
DESULTOR, in antiquity, a vaulter or leaper,
who leading one horfe by the bridle, and ndmg ano¬
ther’, iumned from the back ot one to the other, as the
curtlm was after they had run feveral courfes or heats
This practice required great dexterity, eing p
formed before the’ufe of either faddles or fttnups.
The cuftom was praftifed in the army when necclliiy
required it; bnt chiefly amongft the Ntimidiam, wh
always carried with them two horfes at ^ “
purpofe, changing them as they ttred. The Greeks
JJetach.
. ni€nt
II
Detinue
D E T [ ,
and R.omans borrowed the practice from them ; but
only ufed it at races, games, &c. The Sarmatae were
great mailers of this exercife, and the huffars have
itill fome remains of it.
DETACHMENT, in military affairs, a certain
number of foldiers drawn out from feveral regiments
or companies equally, to be employed as the general
thinks proper, whether on an attack, at a fiege, or in
parties to fcour the country.
DETENTION (from detineo, “I detain”), the pof-
feffion or holding of lands, or the like, from fome
other claimant. The word is chiefly ufed in an ill
feni'e, for an unjufl withholding, &c.
DE 1 EN f S, in a clock, are thofe flops which, by
being lifted up or let fall down, lock and unlock the
clock in linking.
DETRNT-Wbee/, or Hoofi-Whee/, in a clock, that
wheel which ha$ a hoop almofl round it, wherein
there is a vacancy, at which the clock locks.
DETERGENTS, in Pharmacy, fuch medicines as
are not only foftening and adhefive, but alfo, by a pe¬
culiar adlivity, conjoined with fuitable configuration
of parts, are apt to abrade and carry along with them
fuch particles as they lay hold on in their paffage.
DETERIORAI ION, the impairing or rendering
any thing worfe ; it is juft the reverfe of melioration?
DETERMINATE problem, is that which has
but one folution, or a certain limited number of folu-
tions 5 in cpntradiftin&ion to an indeterminate problem,
which admits of infinite folutions.
Determinate SeHion, the name of atraft or general
problem,^ written by the ancient geometrician Apollo¬
nius. None of this work has come down to us, ex¬
cepting fome extra&s and an account of it by Pappus,
in the Preface to the 7th book of his Mathematical
Colie6lions. Pie there fays that the general problem
was, “ To cut an infinite right line in one point fo,
that, of the fegments contained between the point of
fedlion fought, and given points in the faid line, either
the fquare on one of them, or the redangle contained
by two of them, may have a given ratio? either to the
re ft angle contained by one of them and a given line, or
to the retftangle contained by two of them.”
DEI ERMINAP ION, in mechanics, fignifies much
the fame with the tendency or diredlion of a body in
motion. S e Mechanics.
. Determination, among fchool-divines, is an a£l of
divine power, limiting the agency of fecond caufes, in
every inflance, to what the Deity predeftinated con¬
cerning them. See Predestination.
DET ERSIVES, the fame with Detergents.
DETINUE, in Law, a writ or adlion that lies
again ft one who has got goods or other things deli¬
vered to him to keep, and afterwards refufes to deliver
them.—In this adlion, the thing detained is generally
to be recovered, and not damages; but if'one can¬
not recover the thing itfelf, he fhall recover damages
for the thing, and alfo for the detainer. Detinue lies
or any thing certain and valuable, wherein one may
have a property or right; a* for a horfe, cow, fheep,
hens, dogs, jewels, plate, doth, bags of monev, farks
of corn, &c. It muft be: laid fo certain, that the
thing detained may be known and recovered : and
therefore, for money out of a bag, or corn out of a
hcp. yrrf J,ICS "ot ’ lor the money or corn cannot
Vox.. VII. Part I.
85 ]
D E U
in this cafe be known from other money or corn ; fo Detanatioa
that the party muft have an a&ion on the cafe, &c. II .
Yet detinue may be brought for a piece of gold of the -Deiu’‘ui0n\
price of 22s. thought not for 22s. in money. '~
DETONATION, in Chemiftry, fignifies an explo-
fion with nolle made by the fudden inflammation of
fome combuftible body : fuch are the explofions of
gunpowder, fulminating gold, and fulminating powder.
See Chemistry Index.
DE TRANCHE, in Heraldry, a line bend-wife,
proceeding always from the dexter fide, but not from
the very angle diagonally athwart the fnield.
DE J I INGEN, a village of Germany, in the circle
of the Upper Rhine, and in the territory of Hanau.
Plere the Auflrians and the Britifh, in June 1743,
were attacked by the French, who met with a repulfe;
but as the allies were inferior in number, they could
not make the advantage of it they might otherwife
have done. E. Long. 8. 45. N. L^t. 50. 8.
or Deuna, in Ancient Geography, a town
of the Cornavii in Britain. Now Chefler, on the Dee.
W. Long. 3. o. N. Lat. 53. 15.
DEUCALEDONIUS oceanus, fuppofed to be
derived from the Gaelic words Duah Gael, the nor¬
thern Highlanders: the fea on the north-weft of Scot¬
land.
DEUCALION, king of Theffaly. The flood faid
to have happened in his time (1500 B. C.), is fup¬
pofed to have been only an inundation of that coun¬
try, occafioned by heavy rains, and an earthquake
that flopped the courfe of the river Peneus where it
ufually difcharged itfelf into the lea. On thefe cir-
cumftances the fable of Deucalion’s flood is founded.
—According to this fable, he was the fon of Prome¬
theus. He governed his people with equity ; but the
reft of mankind being extremely wicked, were de-
flroyed by a flood, while Deucalion and Pyrrha his
queen faved themfelves by afcending Mount Parnaffus.
When the waters were decreafed, they went and con-
fulted the oracle of I hemis, on the means by which
the earth was to be re-peopled : when they were or¬
dered to veil their heads and faces, to unloofe their gir¬
dles, and throw behind their backs the bones of their
great mother. At this advice Pyrrha was feized with
horror; but Deucalion explained the myflery, by obfer-
vmg, that their great mother muft mean the earth, and
her bones :he ftones; when taking them up, thofe Deu-
cahon threw over his head became men, and thofe -
throw-n by Pyrrha, women. t
Some have fuppofed that Deucalion, whom the
Greeks have reprefented under a variety of charaHers,
and concerning whom their poets have given many fa¬
bulous accounts, was the fame with the patriarch
Noah; and that Deucalion’s flood in Theffaly, as well
as that of Ogyges in Attica, and of Prometheus in
Egypt, were the fame with that of Noah recorded in
fcnpture. Diodorus Siculus exprefsly fays, that in
the deluge which happened in the time of Deucalion
almoft all flefh died. Apollodorus having mentioned
Deucalion n-hx^cty-t, “ configned to an ark,” takes no¬
tice, upon his quitting it, of his offering up an imme¬
diate lacrifice, An “ to the God who delivered
him.” As he was the father of mankind, the an¬
cients have given him great dignity and univerfal mo¬
narchy ; though fometimes he is reduced to a petty
A a king
B 4»-l »•*- “fc "t,,'8'”:;! 5t “ Zths&s z-lr~
dian, Lord Burleigh, to Trinity-college in Cambridge.
He took the degree of mafter of arts m 1582, and loon
after retired to his feat at Lampfie in South \\ ales.
He did not however continue long in this retreat; tor
we find him, in his feventeenth year, at the court _ot
Queen Elizabeth, who immediately honoured him with
fino-ular marks of her favour. Authors feem very
unneceffarily perplexed to account for this young earl s
gracious reception at the court of Elizabeth. The
Deucalion king ot Theffaly.
II native of Greece, and the fon of We
Devereux. leanl) however, from their confufed hiitory, that
    ' the perfon reprefented was the firft of men through
whom religious rites were renewed, cities built, and
civil polity eflablilhed in the world } none of which
circumftances are applicable to any king of Greece.
Philo affures us, that the Grecians call the perfon
Deucalion, but the Chaldeans ftyle him Noe, m whofe
time there happened the great eruption of waters.
Be Dea Sy- But as Lucian has given us the moft particular hiftory
it. und that which comes nearett to the
ria, vol. ii. of the deluge
p. 8Sa.
ot tne oeiugc, and "that which comes neareft to the
account given by Mofes; and as he was » native of
Samofata, a city of Commagene upon the Euphrates,
a part of the world where memorials of the. deluge
were particularly preferved, and where an obvious re¬
ference to that hiftory may be obferved in the rites
and worlhip of the country, we {hall.give the following
extraft of what he fays on the fubjeft. Having de-
fcribed Noah under the name of Deucalion, he lays,
that the prefent race of mankind are different from
thofe who firft exifted-, for thofe of the antediluvian
world were all deftroyed. The prefent world is peo¬
pled from the fons of Deucalion •, having increafed to
fo great a number from one perfon. In refpeft to the
former brood, they were men of violence, and lawlels
in their dealings. They regarded not oaths, nor ob¬
ferved the rites of hofpitality, nor fliowed mercy to
thofe who fued for it. On this account they were
doomed to deftruaion •, and for this purpofe there was
a mighty eruption of waters from the earth, attended
with heavy Ihowers from above 5. fo that the rivers
fwelled, and the fea overflowed, till the whole earth
was covered with a flood, and all flelh drowned. Deu¬
calion alone was preferved, to repeople the world. I his
mercy was fhown to him on account of his juftice and
piety His prefervation was effe&ed in this manner j
he put all his family, both his fons and their wives,
into a vaft ark which he had provided,, and he went
into it himfelf. At the fame time animals ot every
fpecies, boars, horfes, lions, ferpents whatever lived
upon the face of the earth, followed him by pairs :
all which he received into the ark, and experienced no
evil from them ; for there prevailed a. wonderful har¬
mony throughout by the immediate influence of the
Deity Thus were they wafted with him as long as
the flood endured. After this he proceeds to mention,
that upon the difappearing of the waters Deucalion
went forth from the ark, and raifed an altar to God.
Dr Bryant produces a variety of monuments that
bear an obvious reference to the deluge m the Gentile
hiftory, befides this account of Deucalion, and his
food. Analyfis of Ancient Mythology, vol. 11. p. 193
~D5EVENSHRING. See Devonshering.
DEVENTER, a large, ftrong, trading, and po¬
pulous town of the United Provinces, in Overyffel, with
an univerfity. It is furrounded with ftrong walls,
flanked with feveral towers, and with ditches full o
water. It is feated on the river Iffel, 55 miles eaft of
Amfterdam, and 42 weft of Bentheim. E. Long. 5.
8. N. Lat. 52. 18. , f tt/t a, r
DEVEREUX, Robert, earl of Effex, the ot
Walter Devereux, Vifcount Hereford, was born at Ne-
therwood in HerefordOfirc, in the year 1567. He
gracious reception in. tut ~ _ 
reafons are obvious-, he was her relation, the fon of one
of her moft faithful fervants, the fon-in-law oi her fa¬
vourite Leicefter, and a very handfome and accom-
pliftied youth. Towards the end of the following
vear, l?8c, he attended the earl of Leicefter to Hol¬
land 5 and gave fignal proofs of his perfonal courage
during the campaign of 1586, particularly at the batt e
of Zutphen, where the gallant Sidney was mortally
wounded. On this occafion the earl of Leicefter con¬
ferred on him the honour of knight banneret.
In the year 1587, Leicefter being appointed lord
fteward of the houfehold, Effex fucceeded him in the
honourable poft of mafter of the horfe ; and the year
following, when the queen affembled an army at iil-
bury to oppofe the Spanilh invafion, Effex was made
general of the horfe. From this time he was confidered
as the happy favourite of the queen. And if there
was any mfrk yet wanting to fix the people s opinion
in that refpeft, it was ftiown by the queen s conferring
on him the honour of the garter.. i
We need not wonder that fo quick an elevation, and
to fo great a height, fliould affeft fo young a man as
the earl of Effex ; who {bowed from henceforwards a
very high fpirit, and often behaved petulantly enough
to the queen herfelf, who yet did not love to be con¬
trolled by her fubjefts. His eagerneL about this time
to difpute her favour with Sir Charles Blunt, afterwards
Lord Mountjoy and earl of Devonfture coft him fome
blood j for Sir Charles, thinking himfelf affronted by
the earl, challenged him, and after a fliort difpute
wounded him in the knee. The queen, fo far from
being difpleafed with it, is faid to have fworn a good
round oath, that it was fit fomebody fliould take him
down, otherwife there would be no ruling him. How¬
ever, fhe reconciled the rivals ; who, to their honour,
continued good friends as long as they lived.
The gallant Effex, however, was not fo e^ely c P'
tivated with his fituation as to become infenfible to the
allurements of military glory. In 1589, Sir Jo 1
Norris and Sir Francis Drake having failed on an ex¬
pedition againft Spain, our young favourite without
the permiflion or knowledge of his royal «i.ftrefs, fol¬
lowed the fleet ; which he joined as they were failing
towards Liftion, and afted with great refolution m the
repulfe of the Spaniih garrifon of that city.
w-rote him a very fevere letter on the occafion, but ihe
Tat afe Ms return, foon appealed Vet rt was not
long before he again incurred her difpleafure, by mar¬
rying the widow of Sir Philip Sidney In l59L ^
was lent to France with the command of 4000 men
to the afiiftance of Henry IV. In 1596, he was joined
wi* the lord high admiral Howard m the eommand
of the famous expedition againft Cadiz, the fu«els
which is univcrfally known. In t;97 he wax ap-
DEV f i
• pointed ittafter of the ordnance j and the fame year
r commanded another expedition againft Spain, called
the IJland voyage^ the particulars of which are alfo well
known.
Soon after his return, he was created earl marlhal of
England j and on the death of the great Lord Burleigh,
in IJ9S, eledted chancellor of the univerlity of Cam¬
bridge. I his is reckoned one of the iaft inftances of
this great man’s felicity, who was now advanced too
high to fit at eafe ; and thofe who longed for his ho¬
nours and employments, very clofely applied them-
felves to bring about his fall. The firft great Ihock he
received in regard to the queen’s favour, arofe from a
warm difpute between her majefty and himfelf, about
the choice of fome fit and able perfon to fuperintend
the affairs of Ireland. The affair is related by Cam¬
den ; who tells us, that nobody was prefent but the
lord admiral, Sir Robert Cecil fecretary, and Winde-
bank clerk of the leal. The queen looked upon Sir
William Knolls, uncle to Effex, as the molt proper
perfon for that charge: Effex contended, that Sir
George Carew was a much fitter man for it. When
the queen could not be perfuaded to approve his choice,
he fo far forgot himfelf and his duty, as to turn his
back upon her in a contemptuous manner 5 which in-
folence her majefty not being able to bear, gave him a
box on the ear, and bid him go and be hanged. Effex,
like a blockead, put his hand to his fword, and fwore
revenge. Where was his gallantry on this occafion ?
Could a ftroke from an angry woman tinge the honour
of a gallant foldier ? This violent ftorm, however, foon
fubfided $ and they were again reconciled, at leaft ap¬
parently.
The total reduction of Ireland being brought upon
the tapis foon after, the earl was pitched upon as the
only man from whom it could be expetted. This was
an artful contrivance of his enemies, who hoped by this
means to ruin him. Nor were their expectations dif-
appointed. He declined this fatal preferment as long
as he could: but perceiving that he Ihould have no
quiet at home, he accepted ; and his commiffion for
lord lieutenant palled the great feal on the 12th of
March 1598, His enemies now began to infinuate
that he had fought this command, for the fake of
greater things which he then was meditating; but
there is a letter of his to the queen, preferved in the
Harleian collections, which {hows, that he was fo far
from entering upon it with alacrity, that he looked
upon it rather as a banilhment, and a place affigned him
lor a retreat from his fovereign’s difpleafure, than a
potent government bellowed upon him by her favour.
“ To the %ueen.
“ From a mind delighting in forrow j from fpirits
“ wafted with paflion ; from a heart torn in pieces
“ with care, grief, and travail ; from a man that
hateth himfelf and all things elfe that keep him alive j
* what fervice can your majefty expeCt, fince any fer-
vice pall deferves no more than baniftiment and pro-
“ feription to the curfedeft of all illands > It is your
reoels pride and fuccellion muft give me leave to
ranfom myfelf out of this hateful prifon, out of my
“ Joshed body 5 which if it happen fo, your majefty
“ ^all have no caufe to miflike the faftuon of my death,
fince the courfe of my life could never pleafe you.
1 DEV
“ Happy he could finifh forth his fate, DeVerea*.
“ In fome unhaunted defert moft obfeure y—*.
“ From all fociety, from love and hate
41 Of wordly folk j then fiiould he lleep fecure.
“ Then wake again, and yield God ever praife,
“ Content with hips and haws, and brambleberryj
“ In contemplation paffing out his days,
“ And change of holy thoughts to make him merry.
“ W ho when he dies, his tomb may be a bufti
“ Where harmlefs robin dwells with gentle thrufti.
“ Your majefty’s exiled fervant,
“ Robert Essex.’4
T he earl met with nothing in Ireland but ill fuc-
cefs and croffes : in the midft of which, an army was
fuddenly raifed in England, under the command of the
earl of Nottingham 5 nobody well knowing why, but
in reality from the fuggeftions of the earl’s enemies to
the queen, that he rather meditated an invafion on his
native country, than the reduction of the Irifti rebels.
This and other confiderations made him refolve to quit
his poft, and come over to England j which he accord-
ingly did without leave. He burft into her majelty’s
bed-chamber as ihe was riling, and ftie received him
with a mixture of tendernefs and feverity : but (he
foon after thought fit to deprive him of all his employ¬
ments, except that of mafter of the horfe. He was
committed to the cuftody of the lord-keeper, with
whom he continued fix months. No fooner had he re¬
gained his liberty, than he was guilty of many extra¬
vagancies j to which he was inftigated by knaves and
fools, but perhaps more powerfully by his own pallions.
He firft determined to obtain an audience of the queen
by force. He refufed to attend the council when fum-
moned.. When the queen fent the lord-keeper, the
lord chief-juftice, and two others, to know his grievan¬
ces, he confined them j and then marched with his
friends into the city, in expeftation that the people
would rife in his favour •, but in that he was difap-
pointed. He was at laft befieged, and taken in his
houfe in Effex-ftreet j committed to the tow'er ; tried
by his peers, condemned, and executed. Thus did
this brave man, this favourite of the queen, this idol of
the people, fall a facrifice to his want of that difiimu-
lation, that cunning, that court-policy, by which his
enemies were enabled to effeCl his ruin. He was a po¬
lite fcholar, and a generous friend to literature.
To thofe who have not taken the trouble to confult
and compare the feveral authors who have related the
ftory of this unfortunate earl, it muft appear wonder¬
ful, if, as hath been fuggefted, he was really beloved
by Queen Elizabeth, that {he fliould confent to his exe¬
cution. Now that fire had conceived a tender palTioa
for him, is proved beyond a doubt by Mr Walpole in
his very entertaining and inftruftive Catalogue of Noble
Authors :—“ I am aware (fays that author) that it is
become a mode to treat the queen’s paflion for him as
a romance. Voltaire laughs at it $ and obferves, that
when her ftruggle about him muft have be m the great-
eft (the time of his death), fhe was fixty-fight.—Had
he been fixty-eight, it is probable flie wpuld not have
been in love with him.”—“ Whenever Effex a&ed a fit
of ficknefs, not a day palled without the queen’s fend¬
ing often to fee him j and once went fo far as to fit
A a z long
DEV [
lone by bitn, and order bis broths and things. It is re¬
corded by a diligent obferver of that court, that in one
of his Tick moods, he took the liberty of going up to
the queen in his night-gown. In the height of tnele
fietful fooleries, there was a mafic at h>lack Fryais
on the marriage of Lord Herbert and Mrs Ruffel.
Eight lady mafkers chofe eight more to dance the
meafures. Mrs Litton, who led them, went to the
queen, and wooed her to dance. Her majefty afked
what die was ? Jffettion, die faid. AffeBton ! laid the
queen ; AffeBion is falfe. Were not theie the murmurs
of a heart ill at eafe ? Yet her majedy rofe, and
danced. She was then dxty-eight. Sure it was as
natural for her to be in love.”
Mr Walpole farther obferves, that her court and
contemporaries had an uniform opinion of her paflion
for EiVex, and quotes feveral inilances from a letter
written by Sir Francis Bacon to the early m which,
among other things, he advifes him to confult her tade
in his very apparel and gedures, and to give way to
any other inclination die may have._ Sir Francis advi-
fed the queen herfelf, knowing her inclination, to keep
the earl about her for fociety. What Henry FV . o
France thought of the queen’s affection for Lffex, is
evident ftom what he faid to her ambaffador—'
fa maiefle ne laifferoit jamais fon coufin d'Etfex eloigner
de [on cotill' n.'n—After his confinement, on hearing
he was ill, die lent him word, with tears in her eyes,
that if die might with her honour, die would viht him.
“ If (fays Mr Walpole) thefe indances are proble¬
matic, are the following fo ? In one of the curious
letters of Rowland White, he fays, the queen hath oj
late ufed the fair Mrs Bridges with words and blows oj
anrer. In a fubfequent letter, he fays, the earl is again
fallen in love with his fairejl B. It cannot choofe but
come to the queen's ear, and then he is undone. —B.ffex
himfelf fays, that her fond parting with him when he
fet out for Ireland, pierced his very foul.
Probably the reader has now very little doubt as to
Queen Elizabeth’s affea.on for the unfortunate Effex;
W in proportion to our belief of the exidence of the
affection, her motives for confenting to his execution
become more inexplicable. Queen Elizabeth had a
very high opinion of her beauty and perfonal attrac¬
tions, and probably expend more entire adoration
than the earl’s paffion for variety would differ him to
pay. Towards the latter end of her life, die was cer-
tainly an objeft of difgud. He had too much honed
fimplicity in his nature to feign a paffion which he did
not feel. She fooliddy gave credit, to the dories of his
ambitious projefts incompatible, with her fafety i and
was informed that he had once inadvertently faid, that
/he strew old and cankered, and that her mind was be¬
come as crooked as her carcafe. If this be true where
is the woman that would not facrifice fuch a lover to
her refentment ? ' . , .
It is faid, however, that, concerning his execution,
It IS laia, Iiuwcvci,  ;  n
her maiedy was irrefolute to the lad, and fent orders to
countermand -it : but, confidering his obdinacy in re-
fufing to aft her pardon, afterwards directed that he
diould die. It is reported that the queen, in t.,e height
of her paffion for the earl of Effex, had given him a
ring, ordering him to keep it, and that whatever crime
he fhould commit, die would pardon him when he
ffiould return that pledge. The earl, upon his con-
l88 ] X, „ v
demnation, applied to Admiral Howard’s lady, his re¬
lation, defiring her, by a perfon whom (he could trud,
to return it into the queen’s own hands j but her hul-
band, who was one of the earl’s greated enemies, and
to whom (he had imprudently told the circumdance,
would not fuffer her to acquit herfelf of the commiffion ;
fo that the queen confented to the earl’s death, being
■full of indignation againd fo proud and haughty a Ipi-
rit, who chofe rather to die than implore her mercy.
Some time after, the admiral’s lady fell fick, and being
near her death, die fent word to the queen that die had
fomething of great confequence to communicate before
die died. The queen came to her bedfide, and having
ordered all her attendants to withdraw, the lady re¬
turned, but too late, the ring, defiring to be excu.e.d
that die did not return it fooner : on which, it is
faid, the queen immediately retired, overwhelmed with
SnThe earl of Effex died in the thirty-fourth year of
his age j leaving by his lady one fon and two daugh-
ters. . _ „
DEVICE, among painters. See Devise.
DEVIL (Diabolus), an evil angel, one of thole ce-
ledial fpirits cad down from heaven for pretending to
equal himfelf with God. The Ethiopians paint the
devil white, to be even with the Europeans who paint
There is no mention of the word devil u\ the Old
Tedament, but only of the word Satan and Belial: nor
do we meet with it in any heathen authors, in the fen e
it is taken among Chridians, that is, as a creature re¬
volted from God. Their theology went no farther
than to evil genii or daemons. . .
Some of the American idolaters have a notion of
two collateral independent beings, one of whom is
good and the other evil : which lad they imagine has
the direaion and fuperintendence of this eaith, for
which reafon they chiedy worffiip him *, ^bence thole
that give us an account of the religion of theie favages
F out, »i.h feme impropriety, that they worlh.p
the devil. The Chaldeans, in like manner beheved
both a good principle and an evil one ; which laft they
imagined was an enemy to mankind.
Ifaiah, fpeaking, according to lome commentator ,
of the fall of the devil, calls him Lucifer, from .
former elevation and date of glory : but others explain
this paffage of Ifaiah in reference to the king of Ba¬
bylon, who had been precipitated front bis throne and
glory. The Arabians call Lucifer, Ebhs ; which fome
think is only a diminutive or corruption of the word
^Deni on the Neck, a. tormenting engine made of
iron, draitening and wincing the neck o a rnaiff ^
his legs together, in a horrible manner- fo that the
more he dirreth in it, the draiter it preffeth him J for-
merlv in ufe among the perfecuting papiits.
DEVINCTION (DevwBio), m antiquity
. r> • r nr mrsntation to ga
Device
11.
Devife.
was
ufed to fignify a love charm or incantation to gain the
affe&ion of a perfon beloved. , . , , r .
1, was done by tying knots; and ts thus defcr.bcd
by Virgil in his eighth Eclogue :
HeBe tribus nodis terms, Amarylh, colores :
NeBe, Amarylli, tnodo j et Veneris, die, vincula neB<K
DEVISE, or Device, in Heraldry, Paint*"f>j
DEV [ *89 ] DEV
Devife Sculpture, any emblem ufed to reprefent a certain fa-
11 mily, perfon, aftron, or quality ; with a fuitable motto,
1 cvo^_^c; applied in a figurative fenfe. See Motto.
7'he efience of a device confills in a metaphorical fi-
militude between the things reprefenting and repre-
fented : thus, a young nobleman, of great courage and
ambition, is faid to have borne for his devife, in a late
caroufal at the court of France, a rocket mounted in
the air, with this motto in Italian, li poco duripurche
vi'inal'ziexpreffing, that he preferred a (hort life,
provided he might thereby attain to glory and emi¬
nence.
The Italians have reduced the making of devifes in¬
to an art, fome of the principal laws of which are thefe :
1. That there be nothing extravagant or monftrous in
the figures. 2. That figures be never joined which
have no relation or affinity with one another ; except¬
ing fome whimfical unions effablilhed in ancient fables,
which cuftom has authorifed. 3. That the human
body be never ufed. 4. The fewer figures the better.
5. The motto ffiould be every way fuitable.
Devise, in Law, the aft whereby a perfonbequeathes
his lands or tenements to another by his laid will or
tedament.
DEUNX, in Roman antiquity, 11 ounces, or 4T of
the Libra.
DEVOLVED, fomething acquired by right of de¬
volution. Such a right is devolved to the crown :
fuch an eftate devolved on M  by the death of
N 
The word is alfo nfed for a right, acquired by a fu-
perior, of conferring a benefice, when the inferior and
ordinary collator has neglefteffito confer, or has con¬
ferred it on an unqualified perfon.
If a patron neglefts to prefent to a benefice in fix
months, the prefentation lapfes or devolves upon the
bifliop, from thence to the primate, and from thence
to the king.
DEVOLUTION, in Law, a right acquired by fuc-
ceffion from one to another.
DeVONSHERING, a term ufed by the farmers
to exprefs the burning of land by way of manure : the
method is to cut off the turf about four inches thick,
and burn.it in heaps, and then fpread the allies upon
the land. The name is probably derived from its having
been earlieft pr ftifed'in Devonffiire.
DEVONSHIRE, a county of England, bounded
on the fouth by the Engliffi channel, on the north by
the Briftol channel, on the eaft by Somerfetlhire, and
on the well by Cornwall. It is about 69 miles long
and 66 broad. The foil is various ; in the weftern
parts of the county it is coarfe and mooriffi, bad for
ffieep, but proper for black cattle. In the northern
parts, the dry foil and downs are well adapted to Iheep,
■With numerous flocks of which they are well covered.
Tolerable crops of corn are alfo produced there when
the land is well manured. The foil of the reft of the
country is rich and fertile both in corn and pafture,
yielding alfo in fame places plenty of marie for ma¬
nuring it. In other places they pare off and burn the
furface, making ufe of the afhes as a manure. Dr
Campbell ftyles it a rich and pleafant country ; as in
different parts it abounds with all forts of grain, pro¬
duces abundance of fruit, has mines of lead, iron, and
filver, in which it formerly exceeded Cornwall, though
now it is greatly inferior. On the coaft alfo they have Devotion;
herring and pilchard fitheries. Devonffiire fends two v V  
members to parliament, and gives title of duke to the
noble family of Cavendilh.
DEVOTION, (Devotid), a fincere ardent worffiip
of the Deity.
Devotion, as defined by Jurieu, is a foftening and
yielding of the heart, .with an internal confolation,
which the fouls of believers feel in the praftice or ex-
ercife of piety. By devotion is alfo underftood certain
religious praftices, which a perfon makes it a rule to
difeharge regularly ; and with reafon, if the exaftitude
be founded on folid piety, otherwife it is vanity or fu-
perftition. 1 hat devotion is vain and trifling, which
would accommodate itfelf both to God and to the
world. Lrevoux.
The charafter of devotion has frequently fuffered
from the forbidding air which has been thrown over it,
by the narrownefs of bigotry on one hand, or the
gloom of fuperftition on the other. When freer and
more cheerful minds have not had occafion to fee it
accompanied with thofe feelings of delight and bene¬
volence which naturally attend it, they are apt to be
prejudiced againft piety at large, by miftaking this un¬
gracious appearance for its genuine form. Nor has
the rant of vulgar enthufiafts contributed a little to
beget or {Lengthen the fame averfion, in perfons of a
cool and fpeculative temper ; who have happened to
meet with fuch images and phrafes among religionifls
of a certain ftrain, as ill fuit the rational, pure, and
fpiritual nature of true devotion. It may likewife be
remarked on the other fide, that people of tafte and
fenfibility have not feldom been difgufted with the in-
fipid ftyle too often employed on fuch fubjefts, by
thofe who poffefs neither, or who purpofely avoid every
thing of that kind, from an aim at fimplicity mifun-
derftood, or perhaps from a fear of being thought too
warm, in an age of fafliionable indifference and falfe
refinement.
Wherever the vital and unadulterated fpirit of Chri-
ftian devotion prevails, its immediate objeft will be to
pleafe Him whom we were made to pleafe, by adoring
his perfeftions ; by admiring his works and ways j by
entertaining with reverence and complacence the va¬
rious intimations of his pleafure, efpecially thofe con¬
tained in holy writ ; by acknowledging our abfo-
lute dependence, and infinite obligations ; by conftf-
fing and lamenting the diforders of our nature and
the tranfgreffions of our lives ; by imploring his grace
and mercy through Jefus Chrift $ by interceding for
our brethren of mankind ; by praying for the propa¬
gation and embellifliment of truth, righteoufnefs, and
peace on earth in fine, by longing for a more entire
conformity to the will of God, and breathing after the
everlafting enjoyment of his friendftiip. The effefts
of fuch a fpirit habitually cheriflied, and feelingly ex-
preffed before him, with conceptions more or lefs en¬
larged and elevated, in language more or lefs empha-
tical and accurate, fententious or diffufe, muft furely
be important and happy. Among thefe effefts may
be reckoned, a profound humility in the fight of God,
a high veneration for his prefence and attributes, an
ardent zeal for his worfhip and honour, an affefticnate
faith in the Saviour of the world, a conflant imitation
of his divine example, a diffufive tharity for men of ail
denominations, -
D E
fDevotion, denominations, a generous   _
Deutero- for of virtue and fociety, a total refignation to
canonical.^ prov-ldence> an increafing efteem for the gofpel^with
-clearer and firmer hopes of that immortal life which it
has brought to light.
Devotion, among the Romans, was a kind of ia-
.crifice or ceremony, whereby they confecrated them-
felves to the fervice of fome perfon. The ancients had
a notion, that the life of one might be ranfomed by
the death of another ; whence thofe devotions became
frequent for the lives of the emperors. Devotion to
any particular perfon was unknown among the Ro¬
mans till the time of Auguftus. The very day after
the title of Auguftus had been conferred upon O&a-
vius, Pacuvius, a tribune of the people, publicly de¬
clared, that he would devote himfelf to Auguftus, and
obey him at the expence of his life (as wTas the pradlice
among barbarous nations), if he was commanded. His
example was immediately followed by all the reft ; till
at length it became an eftablifhed cuftom never to go
to falute the emperor, wuthout declaring that they were
devoted to him.—Before this, the prafticc of the Ro¬
mans was that of devoting themfelves to their country.
See Decius.
DEUTEROCANONICAL, in the fchool theo-
logyt an appellation given to certain books of holy
Scripture, which were added to the canon after the
reft •, either by reafon they were not wrote till after
the compilation of the canon, or by reafon of lome
difpute as to their canonicity. The word is Greek,
being compounded of ^ivn^^fecond^ and KxrcitKtf, cano-
The Jews, it is certain, acknowledged feveral books
in their canon, which were put there latex than the
They fay, that under Efdras, a great aflembly
■my
II
Dew.
v [ 190 1 DEW
and unwearied felf-denial are in Daniel, the hymn, of the three children J the Deuterono
prayer of Azariah J the hiftones of Sulannah, 01 Hel
and the Dragon ; the laft chaper of St Mark ; the
bloody fweat, and the appearance of the angel, related
in St Luke, chap. xxii.; and thejiiftory of the adulte¬
rous womandn St John, chap. viii.
DEUTERONOMY, one of the facred books of
the Old Teftament j being the laft of thefe written by
Mofesj (See Pentateuch). The word is Greek,
compounded of cst/Txgij, fecond% and law.
Deuteronomy was written in the 40th year after the
delivery from Egypt, in the country of the Moabites,
beyond Jordan ; Mofes being then in the 120th year
of his age. It contains, in Hebrew, 11 paraches,
though only 10 in the edition of the rabbins at Venice j
20 chapters, and 955 vcrks* 1° Greek, Latin,
and other verfions, it contains 34 chapters. The
laft is not of Mofes. Some fay it was added by
Jolhua immediately after Mofes’s death 5 which is the
moft probable opinion. Others will have it added by
Efdras. . .
DEUTEROPOTMI, in Grecian antiquity, a de-
fignation given to fuch of the Athenians as had been
thought dead, and, after the celebration of the fu¬
neral rites, unexpeftedly recovered. It was unlaw¬
ful for the deuteropotmi to enter into the temple of
the Eumenides, or to be admitted to the holy rites,
till after they were purified, by being let through the
lap of a woman’s gown, that they might feem to be
new born. ,. . ,
DEUTEROSIS, the Greek name by which the
Jews called their Mifchnah, or fecond law. See Mi-
SCNAH. .
DEUTZIA, a genus of plants belonging to the de-
candria clafs. See Botan* Index.
DEW, a denfe, moift vapour, found on the earth
low the horizon. . . .
It hath been difputed whether the dew is formed
from the vapours afcending from the earth during the
nicdit-time, or from the defcent of fuch as have been
already raifed through the day. The moft remarkable
experiments (adduced in favour of the firrt hypothefis
are thofe of Dr Dufay of the Royal Academy of
Sciences at Paris.
that if the dew
reft. They fay, that under Eldras, a _
ment. And they agree that they put books therein
which had not been fo before the Babylonifti captivi¬
ty j fuch are thofe of Daniel, Ezekiel, Haggai, t>~c.
and thofe of Efdras, and Nehemiah.
And the Romifh church has fince added [others to
the canon, that were not, and could not be, in the
canon of the Jews, by reafon fome of them were not
compofed till after. Such is the book of Ecclefiafti-
cus, with feveral of the apocryphal books, as the IMac-
cabees, Wifdom, &c. Others were added ftill later,
by reafon their canonicity had not been yet examined •,
and till fuch examen and judgment they might be fet
afide at pleafure.—But fince that church has pronoun¬
ced as to the canonicity of thefe books, there is no
more room now for her members to doubt of them,
than there was for the Jews to doubt of thofe of the
canon of Efdras. And the deuterocanonical books are
wTith them as canonical as the protocanonical; the
only difference between them confifting in this, that the
canonicity of the one was not generally known, exa¬
mined, and fettled, fo foon as that of the others.
The deuterocanonical books in the modern canon,
are the book of Efther, either the whole,, or at leaft
the feven laft chapters thereof; the Epiftle to the
Hebrews that of James; and that of Jude 5 the fe¬
cond of St Peter j the fecond and third of St John ; and
the Revelation. Ths deuterocanonical parts of books,
a. . ....... He fuppofed,
abended, it muft wet a body placed low down fooner
than one placed in a higher fituation j and, if a num¬
ber of bodies were placed in this manner, the lower-
moft would be wetted firft *, and the reft in like manner,
gradually up to the top.
To determine this, he placed two ladders againft
one another, meeting at their tops, fpreading wide
afunder at the bottom, and fo tall as to reach 32 feet
high. To the feveral fteps of thefe he faftened large
fquares of glafs like the panes of windows, placing
them in fuch a manner that they ihould not overftiade
one another. On the trial it appeared exaftly as Dr
Dufay had apprehended. The lower furface of the
loweft piece of glafs was firft wetted, then the upper,
then the lower furface of the pane next above it; and
fo on, till all the pieces were wetted to the top. hr™'0
it appeared plain to him, that the dew confifted of the
vapours afcending from the earth during t e n*£ "
thne ; which, being condenfed bv the ^Wn^of^e
V
I
DEW [ 191 ] DEW
Bew. atmofphere, are prevented from being diflipated as in
^ the day-time by the fun’s heat. He afterwards tried
a fimilar experiment with pieces of cloth inftead of panes
of glafs, and the refult was quite conformable to his
expectations. He weighed all the pieces of cloth next
morning, in order to know what quantity of water each
had imbibed, and found thofe that had been placed
lowermoft confiderably heavier than fuch as had been
placed at the topj though he owns that this experiment
did not fucceed fo perfectly as the former.
M. Mufchenbroek, who embraced the contrary opi¬
nion, thought he had invalidated all Dr Dufay’s proofs,
by repeating his experiments, with the fame fuccefs,
on a plane covered with Iheet-lead. But to this Dr
Dufay replied, that there was no occafion for fuppo-
fing the vapour to rife through the lead, nor from that
very fpot ; but that as it arofe from the adjoining
open ground, the continual fluctuation of the air could
not but fpread it abroad, and carry it thither in its
afcent.
But though this experiment of M.^Mufchenbroek’s
is not fufficient to overthrow thofe of Dr Dufay, it
mull ftill remain dubious whether the dew rifes or falls.
One thing which feems to favour the hypothefis of its
defcent is, that in cloudy weather there is little or no
dew to be obferved. From this M. de Luc brings an
argument in favour of the hypothefis juft nowr men-
PbU. accounts ^or it in the following manner :
vol.lxiii. When there are no clouds in the air, the heat of the
part 2. inferior air and that which rifes from the earth difii-
pates itfelf into the fuperior regions j and then the va¬
pours which are difperfed throughout the air condenfe,
and fall down in dew : But, when the clouds continue,
they feparate the inferior from the fuperior part of the
atmofphere, and thus prevent the diflipation of the
heat, by w'hich means the vapours remain fufpended.
When the Iky grows cloudy, fome hours after funfet,
although the heat has been fenfibly diminifhed, it is
again increafed 5 becaufe continuing to rife out of the
earth, it is accumulated in the inferior air. But nei¬
ther can this be reckoned a pofitive proof of the de¬
fcent of the dew ; fince we may as well fuppofe the
heat of the atmofphere to be great enough to diflipate
it in its afcent, as to keep it fufpended after its afcent
through the day.
On the other hand, its being found in greater quan¬
tities on bodies placed low down than on fuch as are
high up, is no proof of the defcent of the dew ; becaufe
the fame thing is obferved of rain. A body placed low
down receives more rain than one placed in an elevated
fituation ; and yet the rain certainly defcends from the
atmofphere. The reafon why the dew appears firft on
the lower parts of bodies may be, that, in the evening,
the lower part of the atmofphere is firft cooled, and
confequently moft difpofed to part with its vapours. It
is alfo certain, that part of the water contained in the
air may be condenfed at any time on the fides of a
glafs, by means of cold, fo as to run down its fides in
fmall drops like dew. It feems therefore, that this
fubjeft is not fufficiently determined by fuch experi¬
ments as have yet been made j nor indeed does it ap¬
pear eafy to make fuch experiments as ftiall be perfect¬
ly decifive on the matter.
Several fubftances expofed to the fame dew receive
and charge themfelves wifh it in a very different man¬
ner ; fome more, others lefs, and fome even not at all.
The drops feem to make a fort of choice of what bo¬
dies they lhall affix themfelves to ; glafs and cryftals
are thofe to which they adhere in the moft ready man¬
ner, and in the largeft quantity j but metals of all kinds
never receive them at all, nor do the drops ever adhere
to them. The reafon of this is, probably, becaufe me¬
tals promote evaporation more than glafs does. Thus,
if a piece of metal and a piece of glafs are both made
equally moift, the former will be found to dry in much
lefs time than the latter. Hence it would feem, that
there is between metals and water fome kind of re-
pulfion j and this may be fufficient to keep off the very
fmall quantity that falls in dew j for whatever tends
to make water evaporate after it is aCtually in contaCl
with any fubftance, alfo tends to keep the water from
ever coming into contadf with it. On this fubjeft
feveral curious particulars are mentioned by Dr Per-
cival relative to the attraClion and repulfion between
dew and glafs or metalline veffels. The experiments
were made by M. du Fay, who, in order to determine
with certainty whether the difference between vitrified
fubftances and metals was the fame in all cafes, fet a
china faucer in the middle of a filver plate, and on one
fide, adjoining to it, was placed a china plate, with
a filver diffi very much refembling the faucer in the
middle. In this experiment the china faucer was co¬
vered with dew, but the plate, though extending four
inches round it, was not moiftened in the leaft. The
china plate alfo had become quite moift, while the filver
veffel in the middle had not received the Ifnalleft drop-
M. du Fay next endeavoured to afeertain whether a
china faucer fet upon a plate of metal, as already deferi-
bed, did not receive more dew than it would have done
if expofed alone. To accomplifti this defign, he took
two wratch cryftals of equal dimenfions, and placed the
one upon a plate of filver, the other upon a plate of
china, each with its concavity uppermoft. That which
was upon the filver plate he furrounded with a ferrel
of the fame metal, well poliflred, that no watery par¬
ticles might attach themfelves to the convex furface of
the glafs. In this fituation he expofed the cryftals
for ffveral days fucceffively, and always found five or
fix times more dew in that which was on the china plate
than on the other placed on the filver. The repulfion
between the dew and filver is further confirmed by^he
following experiment of M. du Fay, with regard to the
cryftal on the filver plate. He informs us, that the fmall
quantity of dew on the fide near the centre, w7as in
minute drops; and that round the border there was a
fpace of five or fix lines perfectly dry 5 towards which
the drops regularly decreafed in magnitude, as if the
filver ferrel had driven away the dew from that part of
the glafs which was contiguous to it. Thefe experi¬
ments were repeated thirty times with invariable fuc¬
cefs. M. du Fay’s experiments have received a re¬
markable confirmation, from fome lately made by Dr
Watfon, now biflrop of Llnndaff, with a view7 to de¬
termine the quantity of vapour that afeends from a
given furface of earth. “ By means of a little bees¬
wax {fays he), I faftened a half-crown very near, but
not quite contiguous, to the fide of the glafs; and,
fetting the glafs wdth its mouth downward on the
grafs, it prefently became covered with yapour, except
that part of it which was next the half-crown. Not only
the.
DEW [i?
-Dew. the half-crown itfelf was free from vapour, but it had
'-"■‘v'*—-' hindered any from fettling on the glafs which was near
it ; for there was a little ring of glafs furrounding the
half-crown, to the diftance of a quarter of an inch,
which was quite dry, as well as that part of the glafs
which was immediately under the half-crown 5 it feem-
ed as if the filver had repelled the rvater to that dif¬
tance. A large red wafer had the fame effeft as the
half-crown j it was neither wetted itfelf, nor was the
ring of glals contiguous to it wetted. A circle of
white paper produced the fame effeft, fo did feveral
other fubftances, which it would be too tedious to enu¬
merate.” . .
Subdances of a very different kind from the uiual
dew are faid to have fometimes fallen from the atmo-
fphere. In the Phil. Tranf. we are told, that in the
year 1695 there fell in Ireland, in the provinces of
Lcinder and Munder, for a confiderable part of the
winter and fpring, a fatty fubdance refembling butter,
indead of the common dew. It was of a clammy tex¬
ture, and dark-yellow colour •, and was, from its great
refemblance, generally called dew-butter by the country
people. It alw'ays fell in the night, and chiefly in the
moorifli low grounds j and was found hanging on the
tops of the grafs, and on the thatch of the houfes of
the poor people. It was feldom obferved to fall twice
in the fame place ; and ufually, wherever it fell, it lay
a fortnight upon the ground before it changed colour 5
but after that it gradually dried up, and. became
black. The cattle fed in the fields where it. lay as
well as in others, and received no harm by it. It
fell in pieces of the bignefs of one’s finger-end *, but
they wTere difperfed fcatteringly about, and it had an
offenfive fmell like a church-yard. There were in
the fame places very {linking fogs during the winter,
and feme people fuppofed this no other than a fedi-
ment from the fog. It would not keep veiy long,
but never bred worms.
May Dev wdiitens linen and wax j the dew of au¬
tumn is converted into a white froft. Out of dew pu-
trified by the fun, arife divers infefts, which change a-
pace from one fpecies into another-, what remains is
converted into a fine white fait, with.angles like t.hofe
of faltpetre, after a number of evaporations, calcinations,
and fixations. .
There is a fpirit drawn from May-dew, which has
wonderful virtues attributed to it. The method of col-
le£Iing and preparing it, is deferibed by Hanneman,
. phyfician at Kiel. It is to be gathered in clean linen
-cloths ; expofed to the fun in clofe vials; then diftilled,
and the fpirit thrown upon the caput mortuum this
is to be repeated till the earth unite with the fpirit, and
become liquid which happens about the feventh or
eighth cohobation or diftillation. By fuch means you
gain a very ted, odoriferous fpirit. Stolterfoht, a phy¬
fician of Lubec, thinks May-dew may be gathered in
glafs-plates, efpecially in Bill weather, and before fun-
rife. And Etmuller is of the fame fentiment. It might
likewife be collefted with a glafs. funnel, expofed to the
air having a crooked neck to bring the dew into a vial
in a chamber. See Phil. Tranf. N° 3. Hofiman, and
others. It is apparently from the preparation of this
dew, that the brothers' o*7 the Rofy-Crofs took their
denomination. See Rosicrucians.
De-jt-Bow, in country affairs, a diftemper in cattle,
2
2 ] DEW
being a fwelling in the body, as much as the Ikin can
hold, fo that fome beafts are in danger of buifting.
This diftemper proceeds from the greedinefs of a beaft
to feed, when put into a rank pafture, but commonly
when the grafs is full of water. In this cafe the beaft
ftrould be ftirred up and down, and made to purge
well but the proper cure is bleeding in the tail -, then
take a grated nutmeg, with an egg, and breaking the
top of the {hell, put out fo much of the white as you
may have room to flip the nutmeg into the fhell mix
them together, and then let fhell and all be put down
the beaft’s throat ", that done, walk him up and down,
and he will foon mend.
Dev Worm. See Lumbricus, Helminthology
Index.
DEWAN, in the Mogul government, is the re¬
ceiver-general and civil governor of the province. In
private affairs the fame word fignifies a fteward.
DEWANNY, the revenue department of a pro¬
vince.
DE WIT, John, the famous penfionary, was bom
in 1625, at Dort ; where he profecuted his ftudies fo
diligently, that, at the age of 23, he pubhflied Ele¬
ment a Curvarum Linearum, one of the profoundeft books
in mathematics at that time. After taking his degrees,
and travelling, he, in 1650, became penfionary of Dort,
and diftinguifhed himfelf very early in the management
of public affairs. He oppofed with all his power the
war between the Englifti and the Dutch -, and when
the event juftified his predidlions, he was unanimoully
chofen penfionary of Holland. In this capacity he
laboured to procure a peace with Cromwell ; in which
peace a fecret article was introduced by one fide or
other, for the exclufion of the houfe of Orange. In
the war with England after the king’s reftoration,
when it was thought expedient, on Opdam’s defeat
and death, that fome of their own deputies ftiould com¬
mand the fleet, he was one of the three put in commit-
fion 5 and wrote an accurate relation of all that hap-
pened during the expedition he was engaged in, for
which, at his return, he received the folemn thanks of
the States General. In 1667, he eftabliftied the per¬
petual edift for aboliftiing the office of Stadtholder, to
fix the liberty of the republic, as it was hoped, on a
firm bafis; which produced feditions and tumults, that
reftored the office, on pretence that the De Wits were
enemies to the houfe of Orange, and plundered the
ftate. The penfionary begged difmiffion from his poll ;
which was granted, with thanks for his faithful fervices*
But the invafion of the French, and the internal ivi-
fions among the Hollanders themfelves, fpread every¬
where terror and confufion \ which the Orange party
heightened to ruin the De Wits. Cornelius, the pen-
fronary’s brother, was imprifoned and condemned to
exile -, and a report being raifed that he would be re
feued, the mob armed, and furrounded the priIon where
the two brothers then were together, dragged them
out, barbaroufly murdered them, hung the bodies on the
callows, and cut them to pieces, which many of them
even broiled and ate with favage fury. Such was the
end of one of the greateft geniufes of his age; of whom
Sir William Temple, who was well acquainted with
him, writes with the greateft efteem and admiration.
He obferves, that when he was at the head of the go¬
vernment, he differed nothing in his manner of Jiving
Dew-
Wortn
II
De Wit.
D I A [ ,
Sextans from an ordinary citizen. His office, for the fiift ten
J3iabolus ^ears’ brought him in little more than 300I. and in the
t. ^ , latter part of his life, not above yool. per annum. He
refufed a gift of io,oool. from the ttates-general, be-
caufe he thought it a bad precedent in the govern¬
ment. Vv ith great reafon, therefore, Sir William
'i emple, fpeaking of his death, obferves, “ He was a
perfon that deferred another fate, and a better return
irom his country, after 18 years fpent in their mini-
ftry, without any care of his entertainments or eafe,
nnd httle of his fortune. A man of unwearied indu-
ilry, inflexible conftancy, found, clear, and deep un¬
derfunding, and untainted integrity; fo that whenever
he was blinded, it was by the paffion he had for that
v\hich he efteemed the good and intereft of the ftate.
This teftimony is juftly due to him from all that were
well acquainted with him ; and is the more willingly
paid, fince there can be as little intereft to flatter, as
honour to reproach, the dead.”
Befides the works already mentioned, he wrote a
book containing thole maxims of government upon
which he a£ied ; which will be a never-fading monu¬
ment to his immortal memory. A franflation of it
from the original Dutch, entitled, The true interejl and
political maxims of the republic of Holland, has been
printed in London ; to the laft edition of which, in
1746, are prefixed hiftorical memoirs of the illuftrious
brothers Cornelius and John de Witt, by John Camp¬
bell, Efq. 1
DE.XIANS, in Roman antiquity, ten ounces, or
4° of their libia. See Libra.
DEXT ER, in Heraldry, an appellation given to
whatever belongs to the right fide of a ftiield or coat
01 arms : thus we fay, bend-dexter, dexter point &c
DEX PROCHERE, or destrochere, in Herald-
ry, is applied to the right arm painted in a ftn'eld,
lometimes naked, fometimes clothed, or adorned with a
bracelet ; and fometimes armed, or holding fome move-
able or member ufed in the arms.
^ DE\ , the title of the fovereign of Algiers, under
tne protection of the grand fignior. A prince under
this title was appointed by the fultan, at the requeft
oftheTurkifh loldiers, in the year 1710. The term
dey in the Turkifh language, fignifies an uncle by the
mother’s fide ; and the reafon of the denomination is
this : that the Turkilh military confider the grand fig¬
nior as their father ; the republic as their mother, by
w-hich they are nouriftred and maintained; and thedey
as the brother of the republic, and confequently the
uncle of all who are under his dominion. Befides the
age, experience, and valour, which are neceffary qua-
lihcations of a perfon to be eleded, he muft alfo be a
native Turk, and have made the voyage to Mecca. He
has no guards or confiderable retinue. He prefides
at the divan, and is moft diftinguilhed by the refpeift
and iubmiffion which are paid him.
DIABETES, in Phy/ic, a preternatural difeharge
ot urine, which has changed its properties, and exceeds
llqUlds drank- See Ivl£D*CiNE Index,
DIABQLUS. See Detil.
Ind!lAS0LVS Marinus% See Ra,a> Ichthyology
. DlAB0LV$ Metallorum, a title given by chemifts to
jupiter or tin : becaufe, when incorporated with other
Vcl. VH. Part I.
93 ] D I A
metals, it renders them incapable of reduiflion, or at Diacauilic
leaf! very difficult to undergo that operation. li
DIACAUST1C curve, a Ipecies of the cauflic Diserefis~.
curves formed by refraCiu n. ' "
DIACHYLON, in Pharmacy, an emollient dige-
ftive plafter, compoled of mucilages or vifeid juices
drawn from certain plants. See Pharmacy.
DI AC ODIUM, in Pharmacy, a lyrup prepared
from poppy heads. It is alfo called the fyrupus de me-
conio. See Pharmacy.
DIACOUS I ICS, called alfo diaphonics, the con-
fideration of the properties of refraded found, as it
pafles through different mediums. The word is form¬
ed from the Greek out, per, “ through,” which inti¬
mates a paffage ; and “ I hear,” q. d. the confi-
deration of the paffage of the founds we hear. See A-
coustics.
DIACRII, in antiquity, was the name of a party
or fadion at Athens.—d'hat city, we read, was divid¬
ed into two parties : the one favourers of an oligarchy,
who would only have a few perfons employed in the
government ; the other confifted of fuch as were for a
democratical or popular government, wherein the whole
people fiiould have a fhare. The firft were called dia-
cru, and the latterpediaci; the latter inhabiting the
lower, and the former the axgav, or upper quarter or
part of the city.— I he law^s of Solon imported, that
Pinftiatus fhould be chief of the diacrii ; though the
fcholiaft on Ariftophanes’s comedy The Wafps, af¬
firms, that Pandion diftributed the quarter of the 'dia¬
crii among his fons, and put Lycus at their head.
DIADELPHIA (£<?, “ twice,” and ocdeMpog, “ a
brother”), tlie 17th clafs in the fexual fyftem, com¬
prehending tiiofe plants which bear hermaphrodite
flowers with two fets of united ftamina ; but this cir-
cumftance muft not be abfblutely depended on. They
are the papilionaceioi Tournefort, the irregu/ares tetra-
petah of Rivinus, and the legumirwfee of Ray. See
Botany Index.
DIADEM, in antiquity, a head-band or fillet, worn
by kings as a badge of their royalty. It was made of
jilk, thread, or wool, and tied round the temples and
forehead, the ends being tied behind, and let fall on
the neck. It was ufually white and quite plain ;
tnough fometimes embroidered with gold, and fet with
pearls and precious ftones. In latter times, it came to
be twifted round crowns, laurels, &c. and even ap¬
pears to have been worn on divers parts of the body.
See Crown. The word comes from the Latin diade-
ina; of the Greek diadrtfut, “ a little band encompaf-
hng the head,” of the verb dixdec*, cingo, t< I gird.”
Diadem, in Heraldry, is applied to certain circles
or. rlms -ferving to inclofe the ciowns of fovereign v
princes, and to bear the globe and crofs, or the fleur
de hs, for their creft. The crowns of fovereigns are
.bound, fome with a greater and fome with a Ids num¬
ber of diadems.—-The bandage about the heads of
Moors on fiuelds is alfo called diadem in blazoning.
DIzERESIS, in Surgery, an operation ferving to
divide and feparate the part when the continuity is a
hinderance of the cure.
Diuresis, in Medicine, is the confuming of the vef-
fels of an animal body, when, from fome corroding caufe.
Certain paffages are made which naturally ought not
B b
D I A
[ »94 3
D I A
B'iserefo
i!
Diah.
to have been *, or certain natural paffages are dilate
beyond their ordinary dimenfions, fo that the humours
, which ought to have been contained in the veilels ex-
travafate or run out. , c r,11o
Di/eresis, in Grammar, the divifion of one i)lia¬
ble into two, which is ufually noted by two points over
a letter, as aulai, inftead of aul*, diffoluenda for dijfol-
DliETETiE, in Grecian antiquity, a kind of
iudges, of which there were two forts, the cleroti and
diallafterii. The former were public arbitrators, cho.en
by lot to determine all caufes exceeding ten drachms,
within their own tribe, and from their fentence an ap¬
peal lay to the fuperior courts. .
The diallafterii, on the contrary, were private arbi¬
trators, from whofe fentence there lay no appeal, and
accordingly they always took an oath to admimiter
iuftice without partiality.
J DIAGLYPHICE, the art of cutting or engraving
figures on metals, fuch as feals, intaglios, matrices of
letters, &c. or coins for medals. See Engraving.
DIAGNOSIS, (from to difcern or dt-
flineuifh), the diagnoftics or the figns of a dileale.
They are of two kinds, viz. the adjunft and ^ P3*
thognomonic : the firft are common to feveral difeales
and ferve only to point out the dilference b^en dii-
eafes of the fame fpecies j the latter are thofe which
always attend the difeafe, and diftinguidi it from a
0t DIAGNOSTIC, in Medicine, a term given to thofe
figns which indicate the prefent date of a difeafe, its
nature and caufe. . , . ,
DIAGONAL, in Geometry, a right line drawn a-
crofs a quadrilateral figure, from one angle to another;
by fome called the diameter, and by others the diame¬
tral, of the figure. See Geometry.
DIAGORAS, furnamed the Atheifl, lived in the
Old Olympiad. He was not a native of Athens, but
he philofophifed there. He delighted in making ver-
fes, andhad compofed a poem which a certain poet
dole from him. He fued the thief who fwore it was
his own, and got glory by it. 1 his tempted Diago-
ras to deny a Providence. The Athenians Summoned
him to give an account of his doanne. He fled, and
they fet a price upon his head, promifing a reward to
any who ihould kill him ; but he took fluppmg, and
'^DIAGRAM, in Geometry, a fcheme for explaining
and demonftrating the properties of any figure, whe¬
ther triangle, fquare, circle, &c. See GeometRY*. ,
Diagram, among ancient muficians, the fame with
the fcale of the modern. See Scale.
DIAH, Diat, a name given by the Arabs to the
■punilhment of retaliation. By the Mahometan law,
l brother, or the next relation of a murdered perlon
ought to take part againft the murderer and demand
1m blood in reparation for that vvhich he has (lied,
fore the time of Mahomet, the Arabs had a cuftom of
putting a freeman of their pnfoners to death in lieu of
Tvery flave they loft in battle, and a man for every
woman that was killed. But Mahomet regulated he
laws of reprifal; direftmg m the Alcoran, by the di ,
that a freeman ftiould be required for a freeman, and a
fiave for a flave. The Turks, probably in confequence
of this law, formerly maffacred almoft ad their pnfo¬
ners of war, but they now content themfelves with en- Diahexap.a
Having and felling them. Dialeflics.
DIAHEXAPLA, or Diahexapte, among tar-
tiers, a compound medicine, fo called from its contain¬
ing fix ingredients, viz. birthwort and gentian roots,
iuniper-berries, bay-berries, myrrh, and ivory ftiavings.
It is commended for colds, confumptions, purfinefs, and
many other diforders in horfes. ^
DIAL, an inftrument ferving to meafure time «
which, if eftefted by the aid of the fun, is called a/»«-
dial. The word is from the Latin dies, day, _ be-
caufe indicating ibe hour of the The ancient,
alfo called it fciatherium, from its effea by the ftiadow.
See the article Dialling.
DIALECT, an appellation given to the language
of a province in fo far as it differs from that of the
whole kingdom. The term, however, is more parti¬
cularly ufed in fpeaking of the ancient Greek, whereof
there were four dialefts, the Attic Ionic, JEohc, and
Doric ; each of which was a perfeft language in its
kind, that took place in certain countries, and had pe¬
culiar beauties. , r. f
In Great Britain, befides the grand diverfity of Eng-
li(h and Scotch, almoft every county has a dialed ot
its own, all differing confiderably in pronunciation,
accent, and tone, although one and the fame lan-
SUDIALECTICS, in the literary hiftory of the an¬
cients, that branch of logics, which taught the rules
and modes of reafoning. See Logic, Part 1 .
Zeno Eleates was the firft who difeovered the natu¬
ral feries of principles and conclufions obferved in rea¬
foning, and formed an art thereof in form of a dia¬
logue^ which, for this reafon, was called
SThe dialedica of the ancients is ufually divided int
feveral kinds ; the firft was the eleatica, that of Zeno
Eleates, which was threefold *, viz. confecutionum, col-
loquutionum, and contentior.um. The firft confifting o
rules for deducing or drawing conclufions The fe-
cond, the art of dialogue ; which became of fuch urn
verfal ufe in philofophy, that all reafoning was called
ZTrrogation .then, fyllogifm being laid afide the pm-
lofophfrs did all by dialogue it lying on the refpon-
denfto conclude and argue from the feyeral concefl.ons
made. The laft part of Zeno’s dialefucs, was
contentious, or the art of difputing co^iamg J
though fome, particularly Laertius, afenbe this part to
P ThfSnd M au,W
Vrot'agoras : though there are two »PPr°P™ted_
to him : the firft, that he impugned the demonftr, ^
tions of others, not by affumptions, but
continually making SaAe fa afido
fequence to confequence . the iecot , ... ,
all arguments drawn from companfons of fimihtude
'inHed„aS fucceeded by Eubulides, from whom the
fophiftic way of reafoning is faid to be ^erree .
his time the art is deferibed as manifold . mentiens,
fallens, ekara, obvelata, arcevalis, cornuta and ca va.
^The'tbird is the dialeflies of Plato which he pro-
pofl 's a kind of analyfis to dirta the human rmnd.
DIAL
Dialectics.by dividing, defining, and bringing things to the firft
. where being arrived, and flopped there a little,
it applies itfelf to explain fenfible things, but with a
view to return to the firft truth, where alone it can
reft. Such is the idea of Plato’s analyfis.
The fourth is Ariflotle’s dialectics •, containing the
doctrine of Ample words, delivered in his book of Prge-
dicaments ; the do&rine of propofitions, in his book
De Interpretatione; and that of the feveral kinds of
fyllogifm, in his books of Analytics, Topics, and Elen-
chufes.
The fifth is the dialectics of the Stoics ; which they
call a part of philofophy, and divide into rhetoric and
dialectic ; to which fome add the definitive, whereby
things are juftly defined ; comprehending likewife the
canons or criterions of truth.
The Stoics, before they come to treat of fyllogifms,
have two principal places ; the one about the fignifica-
tion of words, the other about the things fignified. On
occafion of the firft, they confider abundance of things
belonging to the grammarian’s province : what, and
how many letters ; what is a word, di&ion, fpeech,
Sec. On occafion of the latter, they confider things
themfelves, not as without the mind, but as in it, re¬
ceived in it by means of the fenfes. Accordingly, they
nrft teach, that ml Jit in intelledu, quod non prius fue-
rit mfenfu ; “ whatever is in the mind came thither by
the fenfes 5” and that aut incurjione fui, as Plato, who
meets the fight j aut Jimilitudine, as Caefar by his effigy j
aut proportioned either by enlarging as a giant, or by
diminifhing as a pigmy ; aut tranjlatione, as a Cy¬
clops ; aut compajitione, as a Centaur 5 aut contrario)
as death ; autprivatione, as a blind man.
The fixth is Epicurus’s dialectics ; for though he
feems to have defpifed diakaic, he cultivated it with
LING. r9
vigour. He was only averfe to that of the Stoics; Dialia
who he thought attributed too much to it, as pro- . ij ,
nouncing him alone wife who was well verfed in dia- D,aUt,ia'
lectics. —-v"
For this reafon, Epicurus, Teeming to fet afide the
common dialectics, had recourfe to another way, viz.
to certain canons which he fubftituted in their Head,
the collection whereof he called canonica ; and as all
queftions in philofophy are either de re or de voce, he
gave feparate rules for each. See Epicureans.
■DfALIA, in antiquity, facrifices performed by the
flamen dialis. See Flamen.
DIALING, or Dialling. See Dialling.
DIALIS, in antiquity, a Latin term fignifylng
fomething that belongs to Jupiter.-—The word is form¬
ed from A/ej, the genitive of Zevj, Jupiter.
Flamen Dialis. See Flamen.
DIALIIHA, in the writings of the ancients, a
word ufed to exprefs the elegant ornaments of the
Greeks and Romans, compoied of gold and gems.
They alfo called thefe litbocol/a, “ cemented flones or
gems $” the gold being in this cafe as a cement to hold
the ftones together. They wore bracelets and other
ornamental things about their habits thus made ; and
their cups and table-furniture, for magnificent treats,
were of this kind. The green ftones w^ere found to
lucceed beft of all in thele things , and the emerald
and greenifh topaz, or, as we call it, chryfolite, w'ere
moft in efteem for this purpofe. This ufe of the ftones
explains what Pliny very often fays of them in his de-
feription : Nihiljucundius aurum decet, “ Nothing be¬
comes gold better this he fays of the green topaz or
chryfolite j and this and many other like paflages have
greatly perplexed the critics, who did riot hit upon
this explication.
DIALLING,
rT^HE art of drawing dials on the furface of any gi¬
ven body or plane. The Greeks and the La¬
tins. call this art gnomonica and fciatherica, by reafon it
diftinguiffies the hours by the ffiadow of the gnomon.
Some, call it photo-fciatherica, becaufe the hours are
fometimes ftiown by the light ©f the fun. Laftly,
1 others call it horologiography.
Utility of Dialling is a moft neceflary art: for notwithftanding
art< we are provided with moving machines, fuch as clocks
and watches, to ftiow time ; yet thefe are apt to be out
of order, go wrong, and ftop : confequently they ftand
frequently in need of regulation by fome invaiiable in-
ftrument, as a dial; which being rightly conftru&ed and
duly placed will always, by means of the fun, inform
Us of the true folar time , which time being correfled
by the equation table publilhed annually in the ephe-
merides, almanacks, and other books, will be the
2 mean time to which clocks and watches are to be fet.
■'Hiftory. The antiquity of dials is beyond doubt. Some at¬
tribute their invention to Anaximenes Milefius j and
others to Thales. Vitruvius mentions one made by
the ancient Chaldee hiflorian Berofus, on a reclining
plane, almoft parallel to the equinodfial. Ariftarchus
Samius invented the hemifpherical dial. And there
were fome fpherical ones, with a needle for a gnomon.
T he. difeus of Ariftarchus was a horizontal dial, wuth
its limb railed up all around, to prevent the fhadow
ftretching too far.
It was late ere the Romans became acquainted with
dials. The firft fun-dial at Rome was fet up by Papi-
rius Curfor, about the year of the city 460 ; before
which time, fays Pliny, there is no mention of any ac¬
count of time but by the tun’s rifing and fetting : it
was fet up at or near the temple of Quirinus, but went
ill. About 30 years after, M. Valerius Meffala being
confid, brought out of Sicily another dial, which he
fet up on a pillar near the roftrum ; but for want of
its being made for that latitude, it could not go true.
They made ufe of it 99 years ; till Martius Philippus
fet up another more exa£h
But there feem to have been dials among the Jews
much earlier than any of thefe. Witnefs the dial of
Ahaz : who began to reign 400 years before Alexan¬
der, and within 12 years of the building of Rome;
mentioned by Ifaiah, chap, xxxviii. ver. 8.
The firft proteffed writer on dialling is Clavius ; who
demonftrates all, both the theory and the operations,
after th,e rigid manner of the ancient mathematicians $
£ b 2 but
dialling.
but fo intricately, that few, we dare fay, ever read them
all. Dechaks and Ozanam give much eafier demon-
ftrations in their Courfes, and Wolfius in his Elements.
M Picard has given a new method of iarSe
dials, by calculating the hour-lines-, and M. de la
Hire, in his Dialling, printed in 1683, a geometrical
method of drawing hour-lines from certain points de¬
termined by obfervation. Eberhardus Welperus, in
162 c publiihed his Dialling, wherein he lays down a
method of drawing the primary dials dn a v eaf
foundation. The fame foundation is defcnbea at length
by Sebaftian Munfter, in his Rudimenta Mathematical
publiihed in 1551. Sturmius, in 1672 publifhed a
new edition of Welperus’s Dialling, with the addition
of a whole fecond part, about inclining and declining
dials &c In 1708, the fame work, with Sturmius s
additions, was republithed, with the addition of a
fourth part, containing Picard’s and de la Hue s me¬
thods of drawing large dials. Paterlon, Michael, and
Muller, have each wrote on dialling in the German
torigue ; Coetfius in his Horologiograf>hia PW, print¬
ed iu xbSo ; Gaupennius, in his Gnornomca Mechamca;
Bion, in his Ufe of Mathematical Ifruments ; the late
ingenious Mr Fergufon, in his MeclDclures, Mr
Emmerfon, in Vis Dialling i and Mr . Jones, in his
In/lrurnenCal Dialling. , , . ,
s A Dial, accurately defined, is a plane, upon which
lines are defcribed in fuch a manner, that the lhadow
of a wire, or of the upper edge of another plane, erect¬
ed perpendicularly on the former, may Ihow the true
time of the day. , . , . . r. 1
The edge of the plane by which the time of the day
is found, is called the/f/e of the dial which muft be
parallel to the earth’s axis and the line on which the
faid plane is erefted, is called the/^/e.
The angle included between the fubllile and ftile,
is called the elevation or height of the file.
Thofe dials whofe planes are parallel to the plane o
the horizon, are called horizontal dials: and thole
dials whofe planes are perpendicular to the plane of the
horizon, are called vertical or ereEl dials.
Thole ereft dials, whofe planes direaiy front the
north or fouth, are called diretf north ox fouth dials ;
and all other ereft dials are called declmers, becau e
their planes are turned away from_the north or fouth.
Thofe dials whofe planes are neither parallel nor per¬
pendicular to the plane of the horizon, are called in¬
clining or reclining dials, according as ^eir planes
make acute or obtufe angles wuth the horizon , and if
their planes are alfo turned a fide from facing the fou
or north, they are called declining-inclining ox dechnwg-
TeC’Yhe 1 nterfettion of the plane of the dial, with that
of the meridian, palling through the fide is called
the meridian of the dial, or the hour-line oj All.
Thofe meridians, whofe planes pafs through the
ftile, and make angles of 15, 3°» 45* 6°’ 7.*’and U
degrees with the meridian of the place (which marks
the hour-line of XII.) are called hour-circles; and
their interfecfions with the plane of the dial are called
^TntTdeclining dbk the fubftile make, an angle
„;,h the hour-line of XII. and this angle is called the
dijlance of the fub/lile from the meridian.
The declining plane’s difference of Ipngitude, is
an<rie formed at the interfe&ion of the ftile and plane
of the dial, by two meridians j one of which pafies
through the hour-line of XII. and the other throug
the fubftile. . .
Thus much being premifed concerning dials in ge¬
neral, we lhall now proceed to explain the different
methods of their conftru&ion. Plate
If the whole earth a¥ ep were tranfparent, and CLXXI.
hollow, like a fphere of glafs, and had its equator F ig. 1.
divided into 24 equal parts by fo many nJer. ‘^Theuniver-
femicircles, a, b, c, d, e,f g, &c. one of which is thefalTrinciplc
geographical meridian of any given place, as Londonon which
(which is fuppoled to be at the point a) -, and if theduUhrg c -
hour of XII were marked at the equator, both upoM
that meridian and the oppofite one, and all the reft of
the hours in order on the reft of the meridians, thofe
meridians would be the hour-circles of London : then,
if the fphere had an opaque axis, as PE/>, terminating
in the poles P and />, the fhadow of the axis would
fall upon every particular meridian and hour, when
the fun came to the plane of the oppofite meridian
and would confequently firow the time at London, and
at all other places on the meridian of London. S ,
If this fphere was cut through the middle by a lolid Horizontal
plane ABCD, in the rational horizon of London, onedial.
half of the axis EP would be above the plane, and the
other half below if, and if ftraight lines were drawn
from the centre of the plane to thole points where its
circumference is cut by the hour-circles of the fphere,
thofe lines would be the hour-lines of a horizonta dial
for London: for the fhadow of the axis would fall
upon each particular hour-line of the dial, when it
fell upon the like hour-circle of the fphere. _
If the plane which cuts the fphere be upright, as Fig. z.
AECG, touching the given place (London) at b,
and direaiy facing the meridian of London, it will
then become the plane of an ereft dirt.a foutlu dial . and
if right lines be drawn from its centre E to thofe points
of it°s circumference where the hour-circles of the fphere g
cut jt thefe will be the hour-lines of a vertical or direa Vertical
fouth-dial for London, to which the hours.are to be jet La .
as in the figure (contrary to thofe on a horizontal dial),
and the lower half E/> of the axis will call a fhadow on
the hour of the day in this dial, at the fame time that
it would fall upon the like hour-circle of the iphere,
if the dial plane was not in the way.
If the plane (Hill facing the meridian) be made to
incline or recline, any given number of degrees the
hour-circles of the fphere will fil l cut the edge of the
plane in thofe points to which the hour lines, muft be
drawn ftraight from the centre ; and the axis of the
fphere will calf a fhadow on thefe lines at the relpeclive 7
hour,. The like will Ml hold, if the plane be made Inchmn?,
to decline by any given number of degrees from and dedhl_
meridian towards the eaft or weft : provided the. dech-ing dials.
nation be lefs than 90 degrees, or the reclmation be
lei's than the co-latitude of the place : and the axis of
the fphere will be a gnomon or ftile, for. the dial,
it cannot be a gnomon, when the declination js quite
00 degrees, nor when the rechnation is equal to the
co-latitude ; becaufe in thefe two cafes, the axis has no
elevation above the plane of the dial.
And thus it appears, that the plane of every dial re-
prefents the plane of fome great circle upon the earth,
the and the gnomon of the earth’s, axis, whether it be a
!97
DIAL
fraall wire as in the above figures, or the edge of a thin
plate, as in the common horizontal dials.
The whole earth, as to its bulk, is but a point, if
compared to its diftance from the fun ; and therefore,
if a fmall fphere of glafs be placed upon any part of
the earth’s furface, fo that its axis be parallel to the
axis of the earth, and the fphere have fuch lines upon
it, and fuch planes within it, as *above defcribed j it
will (how the hours of the day as truly as if it were
placed at the earth’s centre, and the' Ihell of the earth
were as tranfparent as glafs.
But becaufe it is impcffible to have a hollow fphere
of glafs perfedlly true, blown round a folid plane j or
if it was, vve could not get at the plane within the glafs
Fig. x. 2. to *n any given pofition j we make ufe of a wire-
fphere to explain the principles of dialling, by joining
24 femicircles together at the poles, and putting a
s thin flat plate of brafs within it.
Dialling by A common globe of 12 inches diameter has gene-
the com- rally 24 meridian femicircles drawn upon it. If fuch
moiyierre. a globe be elevated to the latitude of any given place,
ia & u e- and turned about until one of thefe meridians cut the
horizon in the north point, where the hour of XII is
fuppofed to be marked, the reft of the meridians will
cut the horizon at the refpedlive dillances of all the
other hours from XII. Then if thefe points of diftance
be marked on the horizon, and the globe be taken out
of the horizon, and a flat board or plate be put into its
place, even with the furface of the horizon ; and if
flraight lines be drawn from the centre of the board
to thole points of diflance on the horizon which were
cut by the 24 meridian femicircles; thefe lines will be
the hour lines of a horizontal dial for that latitude, the
edge of whofe gnomon muft be in the very fame fitua-
tion that the axis of the globe was, before it was taken
out of the horizon ; that is, the gnomon muft make an
angle with the plane of the dial, equal to the latitude
of the place for which the dial is made.
If the pole of the globe be elevated to the co-lati¬
tude of the given place, and any meridian be brought
to the north point of the horizon, the reft of the me¬
ridians wall cut the horizon in the refpeftive diftances
of all the hours from XII, for a diredl fouth dial, whofe
gnomon muft be an angle with the plane of the dial,
equal to the co-latitude of the place ; and the hours
muft be fet the contrary way on this dial to what
they are on the horizontal.
But if your globe have more than 24 meridian femi¬
circles upon it, you muft take the following method
9 for making horizontal aud. fouth dials.
To con- Elevate the pole to the latitude of your place, and
ftruift a ho-turn the globe until any particular meridian (fuppofe
dial1*3* ^le comes to the north point of the hotizon,
and the oppofite meridian will cut the horizon in the
fouth. Then fet the hour-index to the uppermoft
XII on its circle *, which done, turn the globe weft-
ward until 15 degrees of the equator pafs under the
brazen meridian, and then the hour index will be at
/ (for the fun moves 15 degrees every hour), and the
firft meridian will cut the horizon in the number of
degrees from the north point that I is diftant from
XII. Turn on until other 15 degrees of the equa¬
tor pafs under the brazen meridian, and the hour in¬
dex will then be at II, and the firft meridian wdll cut
the horizon in the number of degrees that // is di-
LING.
ftant from XII: and fo by making 15 degrees of
the equator pafs under the brazen meridian for every
hour, the firft meridian of the globe wdll cut the ho¬
rizon in the diftances of all the hours from XII to
VI, which is juft 90 degrees ; and then you need go
no farther, for the diftances of XI, X, IX, VIII
VII, and VI, in the forenoon, are the fame from XII
as the diftances of /, II, III, IV, V* and VI, in the
afternoon : and thefe hour-lines continued through
the centre, will give the oppofite hour-lines on the
other half of the dial.
Thus, to make a horizontal dial for the latitude of
London, wdiich is 514 degrees north, elevate the north
pole of the globe 514. degrees above the north point
of the horizon and then turn the globe, until the firft
meridian (which is that of London on the Englifh ter-
re ft rial globe) cuts the north point of the horizon, and
fet the hour-index to All at noon.
Then turning the globe weftward until the index
points fucceffively to /, II, III, IV, V, and VI, in the
afternoon, or until 15, 30, 45. 60, 75, and 90 degrees
of the equator pafs under the brazen meridian, you will
find that the firft metidian of the globe cuts the hori¬
zon in the following number of degrees from the north
towards the eaft, viz. iif, 24^, 38A, 534, 7i-/T, and
90 ; which are the refpedive diftances of the above
hours from XII upon the plane of the horizon.
'Eo transfer tbefe, and the reft of the hours, to aFig. 3v
horizontal plane, draw the parallel right lines a c and
d b, upon the plane, as far from each other as is equal
to the intended thicknefs of the gnomon or ftile of
the dial, and the fpace included between them wrill be
the meridian or twelve o’clock line on the dial. Crofs
this meridian at right angles with the fix'o’clock line
g h, and fetting one foot of your compafles in the in-
terfedlion a, as a centre, defcribe the quadrant g e
with any convenient radius or opening of the compaf-
fes : then, fetting one foot in the interfedfion b, as a
centre, with the fame radius defcribe the quadranti/'^,
and divide each quadrant into 90 equal parts or de¬
grees, as in the figure.
Becaufe the hour-lines are lefs diftant from each other
about noon, than in any other part of the dial, it is
beft to have the centres of thele quadrants at a little di¬
ftance from the centre of the dial plane, on the fide op¬
pofite to XII, in order to enlarge the hour-diftances
thereabouts, under the fame angles on the plane. Thus
the centre of the plane is at C, but the centres of the
quadrants are at a and b.
Lay a ruler over the point b (and keeping it there
for the centre of all the afternoon hours in the quadrant
fh) draw the hour-line of I through 11 f- degrees in the
quadrant; the hour-line of II, through 244 degrees ; '
of///, through 38rrT degrees; ////, through 534;
and V, through : and becaufe the fun rifes about Fig. 3.
four in the morning, on the longeft days at London,
continue the hour-lines of ////and Fin the afternoon
through the centre b to the oppofite fide of the dial. 
This done, lay the ruler to the centre a of the quadrant
eg ; and through the like divifions or degrees of that
quadrant, viz. Ilf, 244, 5^4. and 7iTV, draw
the forenoon hour-lines of A/, X, IX, VIII, and F//;
and becaufe the fun fets not before eight in the even¬
ing on the longeft days, continue the hour lines of VII
and VIII in the forenoon, through the centre a, to
198 DIAL
VII and VIII in the afternoon j and all the hour-lines
will be finilhed on this dial ; to which the hours may¬
be fet, as in the figure.
Lallly, through 514- degrees of either quadrant, and
from its centre, draw the right line ag for the hypo-
thenufe or axis of the gnomon (i g i } and ^rom gi
fall the perpendicular g iy upon the meridian line a iy
and there will be a triangle made, whofe fides are a g,
g i, and in. If a plate fimilar to this triangle be made
as thick a-s the diftance between the lines a c and b d,
and fet upright between them, touching at a and b, its
hypothenufe ag will be parallel to the axis of the world,
when the dial is truly fet j and will caft a lhadow on
the hour of the day.
N. B. The trouble of dividing the two quadrants
mav be faved if you have a fcale with a line of chords
upon it (as reprefented in the plate) 5 for if you ex¬
tend the compaffes from o to 60 degrees of the line of
chords, and with that extent, as a radius, defcribe the
two quadrants upon their refpe£tive centres, the above
diftances may be taken writh the compaffes upon the
lines, and fet off upon the quadrants.
Fig. 4. To male an ere El direct fouth dial. Elevate the pole
ro to the co-latitude of your place, and proceed in ad
An ere& refpg&s as above taught for the horizontal dial, from
jouth dial, jn the morning to VI in the afternoon } only the
hours mud be reverfed as in the figure ; and the
hypothenufe ag of the gnomon agfy mut! make an
angle with the dial-plane equal to the co-latitude of
the place. As the fun can Ihine no longer on this
dial than from fix in the morning until fix in the even¬
ing, there is no occafion for having any more than 12
hours upon it.
To male an ereEl dialy declining from the fouth to-
?i;nin.r wards the eaf or wejl. Elevate the pole to the latitude
dial. ° of your place, and fcrew the quadrant of altitude to
the zenith. Then, if your dial declines towards the
eaft (which we (hall fuppofe it to do at prefent), count
in the horizon the degrees of declination, from the eaft
point towards the north, and bring the lower end of
the quadrant to that degree of declination at which the
reckoning ends. This done, bring any particular me¬
ridian of your globe (as fuppofe the firfl meridian) di-
re£tly under the graduated edge of the upper ^part of
the brazen meridian, and fet the hour to XII at noon.
Then, keeping the quadrant of altitude at the degree
of declination in the horizon, turn the globe eaftward
on its axis, and obferve the degrees cut by the firfl:
meridian in the quadrant of altitude (counted from toe
zenith) as the hour-index comes to XI, X, IX, &c. in
the forenoon, or as 15, 30, 45, &c. degrees of the
equator pafs under the brazen meridian at thefe hours
refpe&ively •, and the degrees then cut in the quadrant
by the firft: meridian, are the refpe&ive diftances of the
forenoon hours from \II on the plane of the dial.—-
Then, for the afternoon hours, turn the quadrant of
altitude round the zenith, until it comes to the degree
in the horizon oppofite to that where it -was placed be¬
fore ; namely, as far from the weft point of the hori¬
zon towards the fouth, as it was fet at firft from the
eaft point towards the north •, and turn the globe weft-
ward on its axis, until the firft meridian comes to the
’brazen meridian again, and the hour-index to XII \
then, continue to turn the globe weftward ; and as the
index points to the afternoon hours /, //, III, &c. or
I
LING.
as 15, 30, 45, &c. degrees of the equator pafs under
the brazen meridian, the firft meridian will cut the
quadrant of altitude in the refpedlive number of degrees
from the zenith that each of thefe hours is from Xll
on the dial.—-And note, that when the firft meridian
goes off the quadrant at the horizon in the afternoon,
the hour-index Ihows the time when the fun will come
upon this dial, and w hen it goes off the quadrant in
the afternoon, the index will point to the time when
the fun goes off the dial.
Having thus found all the hour-diftances from XII,
lay them down upon yonr dial-plane, either by dividing
a femicircle into two quadrants of 90 degrees each (be¬
ginning at the hour-line of XII), or by the line of
chords, as above dire&ed.
In all declining dials, the line on which the ftile or
gnomon (lands (commonly called thefubjlile-line) makes
an angle with the twelve o’clock line, and falls among
the forenoon hour-lines, if the dial declines towards- the
eaft j and among the afternoon hour-lines, when the
dial declines towards the weft ; that is, to the left hand
from the twelve o’clock line in the former cafe, and to
the right hand from it in the latter.
To find the diftance of the fubftile from the twelve
o’clock line ; if your dial declines from the fouth to¬
ward the eaft, count the degrees of that declination in
the horizon from the eaft point towards the north, and
bring the lower end of the quadrant of altitude to that
degree of declination where the reckoning ends : then
turn the globe until the firft meridian cuts the horizon
in the like number of degrees, counted from the fouth
point towards the eaft 5 and the quadrant and firft me¬
ridian will then crofs one another at right angles; and
the number of degrees of the quadrant, which are in¬
tercepted between the firft meridian and the zenith, is
equal to the diftance of the fubftile line from the twelve
o’clock line ; and the number of degrees of the firft
meridian, which are intercepted between the quadrant
and the north pole, is equal to the elevation of the ftile
above the plane of the dial.
If the dial declines weftward from the fouth, count
that declination from the eaft point of the horizon to¬
wards the fouth, and bring the quadrant of altitude to
the degree in the horizon at which the reckoning ends *,
both for finding the forenoon hours and diflance of the
fubftile from the meridian: and for the afternoon hours,
bring the quadrant to the oppofite degree in the hori¬
zon, namely, as far from the weft towards the north,
and then proceed in all refpefts as above.
Thus we have finifhed our declining dial j and in fo
doing we made four dials, viz.
I. A north dial, declining eaftward by the fame
number of degrees. 2. A north dial, declining the
fame number weft. 3. A fouth dial, declining eaft.
And, 4. A fouth dial, declining weft. Only, placing
the proper number of hours, and the ftile or gnomon
refpeftively, upon each plane. For (as above-men¬
tioned) in the fouth-weft plane, the fubftilar-line falls
among the afternoon hours •, and in the fouth-eaft, of
the fame declination, among the forenoon hours, at
equal diftances from XII. And fo all the morning hours
on the weft decliner will be like the afternoon hours
on the eaft dccliner : the fouth-eaft decliner will pro¬
duce the north-weft decliner •, and the fouth-weft de¬
cliner the north-eaft decliner, by only extending the
hour-lines
*99
12
An eafy
method for
oonftrudb.
ing of dials.
He- s-
DIAL
hour-lines, ftile and fubftile, quite through the centre :
the axis of the ftile (or edge that cads the fhadow on
the hour of the day) being in all dials whatever paral¬
lel to the axis of the world, and confequently pointing
towards the north pole of the heaven in north latitudes,
and towards the fouth pole in fouth latitudes.
But becaufe every one who would like to make a
dial, may perhaps not be provided with a globe to affifl
him, and may probably not underfland the method of
doing it by logarithmic calculation *, we fliall fhow how
to perform it by the plain dialing lines, or fcale of la¬
titudes and hours (as reprefented on the Plate), and
which may be had on fcales commonly fold by the
mathematical-inftrument-makers.
This is the eafieft of all mechanical methods, and by
much the beft, when the lines are truly divided : and
not only the half-hours and quarters may be laid down
by all of them, but every fifth minute by moft, and
every fingle minute by thofe where the line of hours is
a foot in length.
Having drawn your double meridian line o £, c d,
on the plane intended for a horizontal dial, and crof-
fed it at right angles by the fix o’clock line f e (as in
fig. 3.), take the latitude of your place with the com-
paffes, in the icale of latitudes, and fet that extent
from c to e, and from u to f, on the fix o’clock line:
then, taking the whole fix hours between the points
of the compafles in the fcale of hours, with that ex¬
tent fet one foot in the point c, and let the other foot
fall where it will upon the meridian line c d, as at d.
Do the fame from f to b, and draw the right lines e d
and fb, each of which will be equal in length to the
whole fcale of hours. This done, fetting one foot of
the compafles in the beginning of the fcale at XII, and
extending the other to each hour of the fcale, lay off
thefe extents from d to e for the afternoon hours, and
from b to f tor thofe of the forenoon : this will divide
the lines de and bf\x\ the fame manner as the hour-
fcale is divided at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 ; on which the
quarters may alfo be laid down, if required. Then,
laying a ruler on the point c, draw the firll five hours
in the afternoon, from that point, through the dots at
the numeral figures, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, on the line de; and
continue the lines of //// and Vthrough the centre c
to the other fide of the dial, for the like hours of the
morning : which done, lay the ruler on the point a, and
draw the laft five hours in the forenoon through the
dots, 5, 4, 3, 2, I, on the liney'Z'; continuing the hour-
lines of VII and VIII through the centre a to the
other fide of the dial, for the like hours of the evening ;
and fet the hours to their refpeftive lines, as in the fi¬
gure. Laftly, make the gnomon the fame way as
taught above for the horizontal dial, and the whole will
be finilhed.
To make an ereft fouth dial; take the co-latitude
of your place from the fcale of latitudes, and then pro¬
ceed in all refpedls for the hour-line as in the hori¬
zontal dial j only reverfing the hours, as in fig. 4. and
making the angle of the ftile’s height equal to the co¬
latitude.
But, left the young diallift fhould have neither globe
nor wooden fcale, we lhall now fhow him how he may
make a dial without any of thefe helps. Only, if he
Las not a Hue of chords, he muft divide a quadrant in-
L I N G.
to 90 equal parts or degrees for taking the proper angle
of the ftile’s elevation ; which is eafily done.
With any opening of the compaffes, as Z L, de-Fig-S-
fcribe the two femicircles LF k and LQJ, upon the
centres Z and z, where the fix o’clock line croffes the
double meridian line, and divide each femicircle into
unequal parts, beginning at L (though, ftriftly fpeak- t,
ing, only the quadrants from L to the fix o’clock line Horizontal
need be divided) 5 then conneft the divifions which dial,
are equidiftant from L, by the parallel lines KM, IN,
HO, GP, and FQ^ Draw VZ for the hypothenufe
of the ftile, making the angle VZE equal to the lati¬
tude of your place ; and continue the line VZ to R.
Draw the line Rr parallel to the fix o’clock line ; and
fet off the diftance a K from Z to Y, the diftance b I
from Z to X, c H from Z to W, d G from Z to T,
and e F from Z to S. Then draw the lines Sr, T /,
W vj, X x, and Yy, each parallel to R r. Set off the
diftance y Y from <7 to 11, and from fto\\ the diftance
x X from b to 10, and from ^ to 2 ; to W from c to 9,
and from to 3 5 /T from d to 8, and from i to 4 ;
s S from e to 7, and from n to 5. Then laying a ruler
to the centre Z, draw the forenoon hour-lines through
the points 11, 10, 9, 8, 7 5 and laying it to the centre
%, draw the afternoon lines through the points 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 ; containing the forenoon lines of VII and
VIII through the centre Z,-to the oppofite fide of the
dial, for the like afternoon hours j and the afternoon
lines //// and V through the centre z, to the op¬
pofite fide, for the like morning hours. Set the
hours to thefe lines as in the figure, and then ereft
the ftile or gnomon, and the horizontal dial will be
finiftied.
To conftruft a fouth dial, draw the line VZ, making
an angle with the meridian ZL equal to the co-latitude
of your place j and proceed in all refpe&s as in the
above horizontal dial for the fame latitude, reverfing
the hours as in fig. 4. and making the elevation of the
gnomon equal to the co-latitude.
Perhaps it may not be unacceptable to explain the
method of conllrufting the dialling lines, and fome
others *, wrhich is as follows : ^
With any opening of the compaffes, as EA, ac-Dialling
cording to the intended length of the fcale, defcribe ^nes> ^ov’'r,
the circle ADCB, and crofs it at right angles by the *
diameters CEA and DEB. Divide the quadrant AB 7*
firft into 9 equal parts, and then each part into 10 }
fo fliall the quadrant be divided into qd equal parts or
degrees. Draw the right line AFB for the chord of
this quadrant; and fetting one foot of the compaffes
in the point A, extend the other to the feveral divi¬
fions of the quadrant, and transfer thefe divifions to
the line AFB by the arcs 10, 10, 20, 20, &c. and
this will be a line of chords, divided into 90 unequal
parts ; which, if transferred from the line back again
to the quadrant, will divide it equally. It is plain by
the figure that the diftance from A to 60 in the line
of chords, is juft equal to AE, the radius of the circle
from which that line is made j for if the arc 60, 60,
be continued, of which A is the centre, it goes exadlly
through the centre E of the arc AB.
And therefore, in laying down any number of de¬
grees on a circle, by the line of chords, you muft firft
open the compaffes fo as to take in juft 60 degrees
upon
loo
D I A L L I N ’ G.
upon that line as from A to 60: and then, with that
extent, as a radius, defcribe a circle, which will be
exaftly of the fame fize with that from w-hich the line
was divided: which done, fet one foot of the compalfes
in the beginning of the chord line, as at A, and ex¬
tend the other to the number of degrees you wrant
■ - upon the line} which extent, applied to the circle, will
include the like number of degrees upon it.
Divide the quadrant CD into 90 equal parts, and
from each point of divifion draw' right lines, as 1 h /,
&c. to the line CE, all perpendicular to that line, and
parallel to DE, which wall divide EC into a line of
lines : and although thefe are feldom put among the
dialling lines on a‘ fcale, yet they aflift in drawing the
line of latitudes. For if a ruler be laid upon the point
D, and over eachdivifion in the line of lines, it will di¬
vide the quadrant CB into 90 unequal parts, as Btf,
BZ>, &c. Ihown by the right lines 10/7, 20b, 30c, &c.
drawn along the edge'of the ruler. If the right line
BC be drawn, fubtending this quadrant, and the near-
eft diftances B <?, B B c, &c. be taken in the compaf-
fes from B, and fet upon this line in the fame manner
as directed for the line of chords, it will make a line of
latitudes BC, equal in length to the line of chords AB,
and of an equal number of diviftons, but very unequal
as to their lengths.
Draw the right line DGA, fubtending the quadrant
DA ; and parallel to it, draw the right line r s, touch¬
ing the quadrant DA at the numeral figure 3. Divide *>
this quadrant into fix equal parts, as I, 2, 3* &c> ar|d
through thefe points of divifion draw right lines from
the centre E to the line rs, which will divide it at the
points where the fix hours are to be placed, as in the
figure. If every fixth part of the quadrant be fubdi-
vided into four equal parts, right lines drawn from the
centre through thefe points of diviiion, and continued
Fig 8. to the line r s, will divide each hour upon it into quar-
15 ters" r 1 1
A dial on a jn we have the reprefentation of a portable
'CarcL dial, which may be eafily drawn on a card, and carried
in a pocket-book. The lines ad, a b, and b c of the
gnomon, muft be cut quite through the card ; and as
the end a b of the gnomon is raifed occafionally^ above
the plane of the dial, it turns upon the uncut line c d
as on a hinge. 1 he dotted line AB muft be flit quite
through the card, and the thread C muft be put through
the flit, and have a knot tied behind, to keep it from
being eafily drawn out. On the other end of this thread
is a final 1 plummet D, and on the middle of it a Imall
bead for ftiowing the hour of the day.
To reftify this dial, fet the thread in the flit right
againft the day of the month, and ftretch the thread
from the day of the month over the angular point
where the curve lines meet at XII) then Ihift the bead
to that point on the thread, and the dial will be redli-
fied.
To find the hour of the day, raife the gnomon (no
matter how much or how7 little) and hold the edge of
the dial next the gnomon towards the fun, fo as the
uppermoft edge of the ftiadow of the gnomon may
juft cover the Jhadow line ; and the bead then playing
freely on the face of the dial, by the weight of the
plummet, will ftiow the time of the day among the
hour-lines, as it is forenoon or afternoon.
Jo find the time of fun-rifmg and fetting, move the
2
thread among the hour-lines, until it either covers fome
one of them,°or lies parallel betwixt any two 5 and then
it will cut the time of fun-rifing among the forenoon
hours, and of fun-fetting among the afternoon hours,
for that day of the year to which the thread is fet in
the fcale of months.
To find the fun’s declination, ftretch the thread from
the day of the month over the angular point at XI1,
and it will cut the fun’s declination, as it is noith or
fouth, for that day, in the proper fcale.
To find on what days the lun enters the figns, when
the bead, as above redlified, moves' along any of the
curve-lines which have th6 figns of the zodiac marked
upon them, the fun enters thofe figns on the days
pointed out by the thread in the fcale of months.
The conftru&ion of this dial is very eafy, efpecially
if the reader compares it all along with fig. 9. Elate
CLXXII as he reads the following explanation of that
figure.
Draw the occult line AB (fig* 9*) Para e to t“e Plate
top of the card, and crofs it at right angles with the fix CLXXIL t
o’clock line ECD j then upon C, as a centre, with the
radius CA, defcribe the femicircle AEL, and divide it
into 12 equal parts (beginning at A), as A r, A.s, &c.
and from thefe points of divifion draw the hour-lines r,
s, t, u, v, E, w, and v, all parallel to the fix o’clock line
EC. If each part of the femicircle be fubdivided into
four equal parts, they will give the half-hour-lines and
quarters, as in fig. 2. Draw the tight line ASD 0,
making the angle SAB equal to the latitude of your
place. Upon the centre A defcribe the arch RST,
and fet off upon it the arcs SR and ST, each equal to
23-r degrees, for the fun’s greateft declination 5 and
divide them into 234-eflual Par^s» as 'n 2- ^ hrough
the interfeftion D of the lines ECD and AD 0, draw
the right line FDG at right angles to AD 0. Lay a
ruler to the points A and R, and draw the line ARE
through 23-5- degrees of fouth declination in the aic
SR ; and then laying the ruler to the points A and f,
draw the line ATG through 23! degrees of noiuh de¬
clination in the arc ST : fo fliall the lines ARE and
ATG cut the line FDG in the proper lengths for the
fcale of months. Upon the centre D, with the radius
DF, defcribe the femicircle F 0 G j which divide into
fix equal parts, Ym, m n, n 0, &c. and from thefe points
of divifion draw the right lines m h, n i, ft b, and q e,
each parallel to 0 D. Then fetting one foot of the
compoffes in the point F, extend the other to A, and
defcribe the arc AZH for the tropic of >j> : with the
fame extent, fetting one foot in G, deicribe the arc
AEOfor the tropic of S5- Next fetting one foot in
the point h, and extending the other to A, defcribe thepig. secern*
arc ACI for the beginnings of the figns see and } ; -u with
and with the fame extent, fetting one foot in the point hS- •
/, defcribe the arc AN for the beginnings of the figns
U and Jl. Set one foot in the point i, and having
extended the other to A, defcribe the arc AK for the
beginnings of the figns X and tip ; and with the fame
extent, fet one foot in by and deicrioe the arc AM for
the beginnings of the figns 8 anc^ ^ ^en
one foot in the point D, and extending the other to A,
defcribe the curve AL for the beginnings of qr and
and the figns will be finifhed. This done, lay a ruler
from the point A over the fun’s declination in the aich
RST; and where the ruler cuts the line FDG, make
marks:
201
DIAL
marks : and place the days of the months right againft
theie marks, in the manner ihown by fig. 2. Laftly,
draw the fliadow line PQ^, parallel to the occult line
AB ; make the gnomon, and fet the hours to their
relpeftive lines, as in fig. 2. and the dial will be fi-
nilhed.
Univerfal There are feveral kinds of dials called vniverfal, be-
dials. caufe they ferve for all latitudes. One, of Mr Pardie’s
conttruftion, was formerly confidered as the bell. It
Plate confifts of three principal parts j the firft whereof is
CLXXII. ca|ieci tlje horizontal plane, A fig. 10. becaufe in
pradlice it muft be parallel to the horizon. In this
plane is fixed an upright pin, which enters into the edge
of the fecond part BD, called the meridional plane ;
which is made of two pieces, the loweft whereof B
is called the quadrant, becaufe it contains a quarter of
a circle, divided into 90 degrees ; and it is only into
this part, near B, that the pin enters. The other piece
is a femicircle D adjufted to the quadrant, and turn¬
ing in it by a groove, for raifing or depreffing the dia¬
meter EF of the femicircle, which diameter is called
the axis of the injlrument. The third piece is a circle
G, divided on both fides into 34 equal parts, which
are the hours. This circle is put upon the meridional
plane fo that the axis EF may be perpendicular to
the circle, and the point C be the common centre of
the circle, femicircle, and quadrant. The ftraight edge
of the femicircle is chamfered on both fides to a (harp
edge, which paffes through the centre of the circle.
Gn one fide of the chamfered part, the fitft fix months
of the year are laid down, according to the fun’s de-
-clination for their refpe&ive days, and on the other fide
the laft fix months. And againft the days on which the
fun enters the figns, there are ftraight lines drawn upon
the femicircle, with the characters of the figns marked
upon them. There is a black line drawn along the
middle of the upright edge of the quadrant, over which
hangs a thread H, with its plummet I, for level¬
ling the inftrument. N. B. From the 23d of September
to the 20th of March, the upper furface of the circle
muft touch both the centre C of the femicircle, and
the line of <Y' and ^ ; and from the 20th of March to
the 23d of September, the low^er furface of the circle
muft touch that centre and line.
To find the time of the day by this dial. Having
fet it on a level place in funfhine, and adjufted it by
the levelling fcrews k and /, until the plumb-line hangs
■over the back line upon the edge of the quadrant, and
parallel to the faid edge ; move the femicircle in the
quadrant, until the line of <y* and =q> (where the circle
touches) comes to the latitude of your place in the
quadrant : then turn the whole meridional plane BD,
with its circle G, upon the horizontal plane A, until
the edge of the (hadow of the circle fall precifely on
the day of the month in the femicircle ; and then the
meridional plane will be due north and fouth, the axis
EF will be parallel to the axis of the world and will
caft a ftiadow upon the true time of the day among the
hours on the circle.
N. B. As, when the inftrument is thus rectified, the
quadrant and femicircle are in the plane of the meri¬
dian, fo the circle is then in the plane of the equinoc¬
tial. Therefore, as the fun is above the equinoifial in
fummer (in northern latitudes), and below it in winter ;
the axis of the femicircle will caft a ftiadow on the
Vet. VII. Part I.
LING.
hour of the day, on the upper furface of the circle,
from the 20th of March till the 23d of September 5
and from the 23d of September to the 20th of March,
the hour of the day will be determined by the ftiadow
of the femicircle upon the lower lurface of the circle.
In the former cafe, the fhadow of the circle falls upon
the day of the month, on the lower part of the dia¬
meter of the femicircle } and in the latter cafe, on the
upper part.
The method of laying down the months and figns
upon the femicircle is as follows: Draw the right line
ACB, fig. 11. equal to the diameter of the femicircle
ADB, and crofs it in the middle at right angles with
the line ECD, equal in length to ADB ; then EC will
be the radius of the circle FCG, which is the fame as
that of the femicircle. Upon E, as a centre, defcribe
the circle FCG, on which fet off the arcs C h and C i,
eachequal to 234 degrees, and divide them accordingly
into that number for the fun’s declination. Then lay¬
ing the edge of a ruler over the centre E, and alfo over
the fun’s declination for every fifth day of each month
(as in the card-dial), mark the points on the diameter
AB of the (emicircle from a to g, which are cut by the
ruler j and there place the days of the months accord¬
ingly, anfwering to the fun’s declination. This done,
fetting one foot of the compaffes in C, and extending
the other to a ox g, defcribe the femicircle a b c d ef g;
which divide into fix equal parts, and through the points
of divifion draw right lines parallel to CD, for the be¬
ginning of the fines (of which one half are on one fide
of the femicircle, and the other half on the other), and
fet the charadters of the fines to their proper lines, as
in the figure.
An univerfal dial, of a very ingenious conftrudfion, 11
has lately been invented by Mr G. Wright of London. byn^T'v q"'
The hour-circle or arch E (fig. 19.), and latitude arch Wright. ’
C, are the portions of two meridian circles; one Plate
fixed, and the other moveable. The hour or dial-plate CLXXIII.
SEN at top is fixed to the arch C, and has an index
that moves with the hour-circle E j therefore the con-
ftruftion of this dial is perfedtly fimilar to the conftruc-
tion of the meridians and hour-circle upon a common
globe. The peculiar problems to be performed by
this inftrument are, 1. To find the latitude of any place.
2. The latitude of the place being known, to find the
time by the fun and fiars. 3. To find the fun orfiar's
azimuth and altitude.
Previous to ufe, this inftrument fhould be in a well-
adjufted (fate : to perform which, you try the levels of
the horizontal plates A a, by firft turning the fcrew’S
BBBB till the bubbles of air on the glafs tubes of the
fpirit-levels (which levels are at right angles to each
other) are central or in the middle, and remain fo
when you turn the upper plate A half round its cen¬
tre j but if they ftrould not keep fo, there are fmall
fcrews at the end of each level, which admit of being
turned one way or the other as may be requifite, till
they are fo. The plates A a being thus made horizon¬
tal, fet the latitude arch or meridian C fteadily between
the two grooved fides that hold it (one of which is feen
at D) by the ferew behind. On this fide D is divided
the nonius or vernier, correfponding with the divifions
on the latitude arch C, and which may be fubdivided
into 5 minutes of a degree, and even lefs if required
The latitude arch C is to be fo placed in D, that the
C c pole
pole M may be in a vertical pofition j which is done by
making 90° on the arch at bottom coincide with the o
of the nonius. The arch is then fixed by the tighten¬
ing fcrew at the back of U. Hang a filken plumb-
line on the hook at G j which line is to coincide with a
mark at the bottom of the latitude arch at H, all the
while you move the upper plate A round its centre.
If it does not fo, there are four fcrews to regulate this
adjuftment, two of which pafs through the bafe I into
the plate A ; the other two fcrews faften the nonius
piece D together j which when unfcrewed a thread or
two, the nonius piece may be eafily moved to the right
or left of 90° as may be found requifite.
Prob. I. To find the latitude of the place. Faften the
latitude and hour circles together, by placing the pm K
into the holes; Aide the nonius piece E on the hour-
circle to the fun’s declination for the given day : the
fun’s declination you may know in the ephemeris by
White, or other almanacks, for every day in the year.
The nonius piece E muft be fet on that portion of the
hour-circle marked NX) or SI), according as the fun
has north or fouth declination. About 20 minutes
or a quarter of an hour before noon, obfervc the fun s
lhadow or fpot that paffes through the hole at the axis
O, and gently move the latitude arch C down in its
groove at D, till you obferve the fpot exaftly fall on
the crofs line on the centre of the nonius piece at L ;
and by the falling of this fpot, fo long as you obferve
the fun to increafe in altitude, you deprefs the arch
C : but at the inftant of its ftationary appearance the
fpot will appear to go no lower j then fix the arch by
the fcrew at the back of D, and the degrees thereby
cut by the nonius on the arch will- be the latitude of
the place required : if great exa&nefs is wanted, al¬
lowance flmuld be made for the refraaion of the at-
mofphere, taken from fome nautical or aftronomical
treatife. . - ,
Prob. 2. The latitude of the place being given, to find
the time by the fun orfiars. From an ephemeris, as be¬
fore, you find the fun’s declination for the day north or
fouth, and fet the nonius piece E on the arch accord¬
ingly. Set the latitude arch C, by the nonius at D,
to the latitude of the place j and place the magnifying
e-lafs at M, by which you will very correftly fet the
index carrying a nonius to the upper XII at S.
out the pin K, flacken the horizontal fcrew N, and
gently move, either to the right or left as you fee ne-
ceffary, the hour-circle E, at the fame time with the
other hand moving the horizontal plate A round its axis
to the right and left, till the latitude arch C fall
into the meridian ; which you will know by the fun’s
fpot falling exa&ly in the centre of the nonius piece,
or where the lines interfeft each other. The time
may be now read off exaftly to a minute by the no¬
nius on the dial-plate at top, and which will be the
time required. The horizontal line drawn on the no¬
nius piece L, not feen in the figure, being the paral¬
lel of declination, or path that the fun-dial makes, it
therefore can fall on the centre of that line at no
other time but when the latitude arch C is in the
meridian, or due north and fouth. Hence the hour-
circle, on moving round with the pole, muft give the
true time on the dial-plate at top. There is a hole to
the right, and crofs hairs to the left, of the centre axis
hole O, where the fun’s rays pafs through j whence
the fun’s fhadow or fpot will alfo appear on the right
and left of the centre on the nonius piece L, the
holes of which are occafionally ufed as fights to ob¬
ferve through. If the fun’s rays are too weak for a fha¬
dow, a dark glafs to fcreen the eye is occafionally
placed over the hole. The moft proper time to find a
true meridian is three or four hours before or after
noon j and take the difference of the fun’s declination
from noon at the time you obferve. If it be the
morning, the difference is that and the preceding day ,
if afternoon, that and the following day ; and the me¬
ridian being once found exaff, the hour-circle E is to
be brought into this meridian, a fixed place made for
the dial, and an objeft to obferve by it alfo fixed for it
at a great diftance. T he fights LO muft at all timet,
be diredted againft this fixed objedf, to place the dial
truly in the meridian, proper for obferving the planets,
moon, or bright ftars, by night.
Prob. 3. To find the fun's azimuth and altitude. The
latitude arch C being in the meridian, bring the pole
M into the zenith, by fetting the latitude arch to 90°.
Faften the hour-circle E in the meridian by putting in
the pin K j fix the horizontal plates by the fcrew
N j and fet the index of the dial-plate to A/7, which
is the fouth point : Now take out the pm K, and gent¬
ly move the hour-circle E ; leaving the latitude arch
fixed, till the fun’s rays or fpot paffing through the
centre hole in the axis O fall on the centre line of the
hour-circle E, made for that purpofe. I he azimuth in
time may be then read off on the dial-plate at top by
the magnifying glafs. This time may be converted
into degrees, by allowing at the rate of 15 f°r every
hour. By Aiding the nonius piece E, fo that the
fpot (hall fall on the crofs line thereon, the altitude
may be taken at the fame time if it does not exceed
45 degrees. Or the altitude may be taken more uni-
verfally, by fixing the nonius piece E to the O on the
divifions, and Aiding down the latitude-arch in fuch a
manner in the groove at D, till the fpot falls exaftly
on the centre of the nonius E. The degrees and mi¬
nutes then Aiown by the nonius at H, taken from 9®»
will be the altitude required. By looking through the
fight-holes LO, the altitude of the moon, planets, and
flars, may be eafily taken. Upon this principle it is
fomewhat adapted for levelling alfo ; by lowering the
nonius piece E, equal altitudes of the fun may be had ,
and by raifing it higher, equal depreftions.
More completely to anfwer the purpofes of a good
theodolite, of levelling, and the performance of pro¬
blems in prattical aftronomy, trigonometry, &c. the
horizontal plate D is divided into 360°, and an oppo-
fite nonius on the upper plate A, fubdividing the de¬
grees into 3 or more minutes. A telefcope and fpint-
level applies on the latitude arch at HG by two
fcrews, making the latitude arch a vertical arch j and
the whole is adapted to triangular ftaffs with parallel
plates, fimilar to thofe ufed with the beft theodolites. jg
A dial more univerfal for the performance of pro-Anequi-
blems than the above, though in fome particulars not notfial dial
fo convenient and accurate, has been invented by fome^™1*
inftrument-makers. It confifts of the common equato¬
rial circles reduced to a portable fize, and inftead of a
telefcope carries a plain fight. Its principal parts con- Plate
fift of the fight-piece OP, fig. 20. moveable over the CLXXIIL
declination’s femicircle D. It has a nonius Q^ to the
fexpicircle.
DIAL
femicircle. A dark glafs to Ikreen the eye applies oc-
Cafionally over either of the holes at O ; thefe holes on
the inner fide of the piece are interfered by crofs lines,
as feen in the figure below 5 and to the fight P two
pieces are fcrewed, the lower having a imall hole for
the fun’s rays or fhadow, and the upper two crofs hairs
or wires.
The declination circle or arch D is divided into two,
90° each ; and is fixed perpendicularly on a circle with
a chamfered edge, containing a nonius divifion that fub-
divides into Angle minutes the under equatorial circle
MN, which in all cafes reprefents the equator, and is
divided into twice 1 2 hours, and each hour into five
minutes. At right angles below this equatorial circle
is fixed the femicircle of altitude AB, divided into two
quadrants of 900 each. This arch ferves principally to
meafure angles of altitude and depreffion ; and it moves
centrally on an upright pillar fixed in the horizontal
circle E.F. This circle EF is divided into four qua¬
drants of 90° each, and againft it there is fixed a fmall
nonius plate at N. The horizontal circle may be turn¬
ed round its centre or axis; and two fpirit levels LL
are fixed on it at right angles to one another.
We have not room to detail the great variety of
aftronomical and trigonometrical problems that may
be folved by this general inftrument, which is defcribed
in Jones’s “ Inftrumental Dialling.” One example con-
nefted with our prefent purpofe may here fuffice, viz.
*ToJind the time when the latitude it given. Suppofing the
inftrument to be well adjufted by the dire&ions here¬
after given : The meridian of the place ftrould be firft
obtained to place the inftrument in, which is fettled
by a diftant mark, or particular cavities to receive the
fcrews at IGH, made in the bafe it ftands on. The
meridian is beft found by equal altitudes of the fun.
In order to take thefe, you fet the middle mark of
the nonius on the declination arch D at o, and fix it
by the fcrew behind •, then fet the horary or hour circle
to XII. The circle EF being next made horizontal, you
direft the fights to the fun, by moving the horizontal
circle EF and altitude femicircle AB: the degrees and
minutes marked by the nonius on the latter will be the
altitude required. To take equal altitudes, you obferve
the fun’s altitude in the morning two or three hours be¬
fore noon by the femicircle AB: leave the inftrument in
the fame fituation perfe&ly unaltered till the afternoon,
when, by moving the horizontal circle EF, only find
the direftion of the fight or the fun’s fpot to be juft
the fame, which will be an equal altitude with the
morning. The place of the horizontal circle EF
againft the nonius at each time of obfervation is to be
•carefully noted; and the middle degree or part between
each will be the place where the femicircle AB, and
fight OP, will ftand or coincide with, when dire&ed
to the fouth or north, according to the fun’s fituation
north or fouth at noon at the place of obfervation.
Set the index, or fight-piece OP, very accurately to
this middle point, by direfting the fight to fome di-
ftam objeft ; or againft it, let one be placed up ; this
object will be the meridian mark, and will always
ferye at any future time. To find the time, the me¬
ridian being thus previoufty known by equal altitudes
of the fun (or ftar), and determined by the meridian
mark made at a diftance, or by the cavities in the bafe
to fet the fcrew in : Place the equatorial accordingly.
LING.
and level the horizontal circle EF by the fpirit-leveis
thereon. Set the femicircle AB to the latitude of the
place, and the index of the fights OP to the declina¬
tion of the fun, found by the ephemeris, as before di-
refted. Turn the femicircle D till the fight-holes are
accurately direfted to the fun, when the nonius on the
hour-circle MN will (how the time. It may eafily be
known when the fun’s rays are direft through, by the
fpot falling on the lower interfe&ors of the marks acrofs
the hole at O. See the figure S adjoining.
T he adjuftments of this equatorial dial are to be
made from the following trials, ift, To adjuft the
levels LL on EF : Place the o of any of the divi-
fions on EF to the middle mark or ftroke on the
nonius at N; bring the air-bubbles in the levels in the
centres of each cafe, by turning the feveral fcrews
at IGH : this being exactly done, turn the circle EF
two 90° or half round : if the bubble of air then re¬
mains in the centre, they are right, and properly ad-
jufted for ufe ; but if they are not, you make them fo
by turning the neceflary fcrews placed for that purpofe
at the ends of the level-cafes by means of a turn-fcrew,
until you bring them to that fixed pofition, that they
will return when the plate EF is turned half round.
2dly, To adjuft the line of fight OP: Set the no¬
nius to o on the declination arch D, the nonius on the
hour-circle to VI, and the nonius on the femicircle
AB to 90*. Dire6I to fome part of the horizon where
there may be a variety of fixed objefts. Level the
horizontal circle EF by the levels LL, and obferve
any objeft that may appear on the centre of the crofs
wires. Reverfe the femicircle AB, viz. fo that the
oppofite 90° of it be applied to the nonius, obferving
particularly that the other nonii preferve their fitua*
tion. If then the remote objeft formerly viewed ftili
continues in the centre of the crofs wdres, the line of
fight OP is truly adjufted ; but if not, unfcrew the
two fcrews of the frame carrying the crofs wires, and
move the frame till the interfedlion appears againft
another or new objeft, which is half way between the
firft and that which the wires were againft on the re-
verfion. Return the femicircle AB to its former po¬
fition : when, if the interfeftion of the wires be found
to be againft the half-way objeft, or that to which they
were laft divided, the line of fight is adjufted ; if not,
the operation of obferving the interval of the two ob-
jefts, and applying half way, mult be repeated.
It is neceftary to obferve, that one of the wires
fliould be in the plane of the declination circle, and
the other wire at right angles ; the frame containing
the wires is made to Ihift for that purpofe.
The hcle at P which forms the fun’s fpot is alfo to
be adjufted by directing the fight to the fun, that the
centre of the lhadow of the crofs hairs may fall ex-
a£tly on the upper hole ; the lower frame with the hole
is then to be moved till the fpot falls exadlly on the
lower fight hole,
Laftly, it is generally necefiary to find the correc¬
tion always to be applied to the obfervations by the
femicircle of altitude AB. Set the nonius to o on
the declination arch D, and the nonius to XII on the
equator or hour circle: Turn the fight to any fixed
and diftinft objeft, by moving the arch AB and circle
EP only: Note the degree and minute of the angle of
altitude or depreftion : Reverfe the declination ftmi-
C c 2 circle
204
dial
circle by placing the nonius on the hour-circle to the
oppofite XII: Direft the fight to the fame objeft
again as before. If the altitude or depreflion now gi¬
ven be the fame as was obferved in the former pofition,
no correftion is wanted; but if not the fame, half the
difference of the two angles is the correaion to be ad¬
ded to all obfervations or reifications made with that
quadrant by which the leaft angle was taken, or to be
fubtrafted from all obfervations made with the other
quadrant. Thefe feveral adjuftments are ablolutely
neceffary previous to the ufe of the inftrument; and
when once well done, will keep fo, with care, a conh-
Univerfal The Univerfal or AJlrommical EquinoBial Ring-Dial,
Ring-dial. js an inftrument of an old conftruaion, that al[° ferve®
Flg- aI’ 22,to find the hour of the day in any latitude of the earth
Opiate (fee fig. 21.). It confifis of two flat rings or circles,
CLXXIII. ufually from 4 to 12 inches diameter, and of a mode¬
rate thicknefs; the outward ring AE reprefenting the
meridian of the place it is ufed at, contains two di-
vifions of 90° each oppofite to one another, ferving
to let the Aiding piece H, and ring G (by which the
dial is ufually fufpended), be placed on one fide from
the equator to the north pole, and on the other fide to
the fouth, according to the latitude of the place. The
inner ring B reprefents the equator, and turns diame¬
trically within the outer by means of two pivots m-
ferted in each end of the ring at the hour XI .
Acrofs the two circles is ferewed to the meridian a
thin pierced plate or bridge, with a curfor C, that
Aides along the middle of the bridge : this curfor has
a fmall hole for the fun to Anne through. The middle
of this bridge is conceived as the axis of the world,
and its extremities as the poles : on the one fide
are delineated the 12 figns of the zodiac, and lome-
times oppofite the degrees of the fun s declination ;
and on the other fide the days of the month through¬
out the year.' On the other fide of the outer ring A
are the divifions of 90°, or a quadrant of altitude .
It ferves, by the placing of a common pin P in the
hole h (fee fig. 2 2.), to take the fun s altitude or height,
and from which the latitude or the place piay eafily be
of the Dial. Place the line a in the middle of
the Aiding piece H over the degree of latitude of the
place. Suppofe, for example, 5^ for Lond°n »
the line which croffes the hole of the curfor C to the
day of the month or the degree of the_ fign. Open
the inflrument till the two rings be at right angles to
each other, and fufpend it by the ring G; that the
axis of the dial reprefented by the middle of the bridge
be parallel to the axis of the earth viz. the north pole
to the north, and vice verfa. I hen turn the flat fi e
of the bridge towards the fun, fo that his rays paffing
through the fmall hole in the curfor may fall exaftly in
a line drawn through the middle of the concave fur-
face of the inner ring or hour-circle^ the bright fpot
by which (hows the hour of the day in the fa id con¬
cave furface of the dial. Xote, The hour XII cannot
be fliown by this dial, becaufe the outer ring being
then in the plane of the meridian, excludes the fun s
rays from the inner; nor can this dial flrow the hour
,when the fun is in the equinoaial, becaufe his rays
then falling parallel to the plane of tne inner circle or
equinoaial) are excluded by it.
ao
Its ufe.
LING.
Do take the altitude of the fun by this dial, and with
the declination thereby to find the latitude of the place.
Place a common pin P in the hole h projeaing m
the fide of the meridian where the quadiant of altitude
is ; then bring the centre mark of the Aiding piece H
to the o or middle of the two divifions of latitude on
the other fide, and turn the pin towards the iun till it
cuts a fhadow over the degree of the quadrant of alti¬
tude ; then what degree the ftiadow cuts is the altitude.
Thus, in fig. 22. the ftiadow h g appears to cut 35 , the
altitude of the fun. . . r
The fun’s declination is found by moving the curlor
in the Aiding piece till the mark acrofs the hole ftands
juft againft the day of the month; then by turn.ng to
the other fide of the bridge, the mark will Hand againlt
the fun’s declination. , - , , ur
In order to find the latitude of the place, oblerve
that the latitude and the declination be the fame, viz.
both north or fouth ; fubtraft the declination from
the meridian or greateft daily altitude of the fun, and
the remainder is the complement of the latitude,
which fubtraded from 90°, leaves the latitude.
Example.
Deg. Min.
The meridian altitude may be 57
The fun’s declination for the day 19 to
38 3°
Complement of latitude
The latitude
90
51 3°
But if the latitude and decimation be contrary, add
them together, and the fum is the complement of the
latitude. This dial is fometimes mounted on a ftand,.
with a compafs, two fpirit levels, and adjuftmg ferews,
&c &c. (fee fig. 23.), by which it is rendered more
ufeful and convenient for finding the fun’s azimuth,
altitudes, variation of the needle, decimations of planes,
& A„&W/ D.V
Mr Eergufon. It is moveable on a joint C, to I
vating i^o any given latitude on the quadrant C . 90
as it ftands upon the horizontal board A. arms
of the crofs ftand at right angles to the “lddle P"rt’
and the top of it from to «, is of equal length with
either of the arms near mk. See fig. 24.
This dial is reaified by fetting the middle line r« to
the latitude of the place on the q«ad"nt; the
A level and the point N northward by the needle ,
LrL pLc of the croft will be paralle to the-
plane of the equator. Then, from 7/1 o’clock ,n the
morning till FI, the upper edge £ / of the arm *0
will caft a ftiadow on the time of the day on the fide
If the arm cm: from VI till IX, the lower edge , of
the arm io will caft a ftiadow on the hours on the fide
on From IX in the morning to A// at noon, the
edge * b of the top part * « will caft a ftiadow on the
hours on. the arm « ef; from XII to ^ ™ th
noon, the edge c d ot the top part ^1r1;.caftrjf1!adf0,W
on the hours on the arm klm; from III to VI m the
evening the edge g h will caft a ftiadow on the hours
on«begp..t and from r/tiU JX, fhe (badowof
DIAL
the edge ef will (how the time on the top part a n.
The breadth of each part, a b, ef, &c. muft be fo
great, as never to let the fhadow fall quite without the
part or arm on which the hours are marked, when the
fun is at his greateft declination from the equator.
To determine the breadth of the fides of the arms
which contain the hours, fo as to be in juft propor¬
tion to their length; make an angle ABC (fig. 25.) of
23- degrees, wrhich is equal to the fun’s greateft de¬
clination ; and fuppofe the length of each arm, from
the fide of the long middle part, and alfo the length
of the top part above the arms, to be equal to B d.
Then, as the edges of the ftiadow, from each of the
arms, will be parallel to B e, making an angle of 234-
degrees with the fide B of the arm, W'hen the fun’s
declination is 234*, it is plain, that if the length of
the arm be B d, the leaf! breadth that it can have, to
keep the edge B ^ of the fhadow egd from going off
the fide of the arm d e before it comes to the end of
it e d> muft be equal to e*/ or d'B. But in order to
keep the ftiadow within the quarter divifions of the
hours, when it comes near the end of the arm, the
breadth of it ftiould be ftill greater, fo as to be almoft
doubled, on account of the diftance between the tips of
the arms.
The hours may be placed on the arms, by laying
down the crofs abed (fig. 26.) on a ftieet of paper;
and with a black lead pencil held clofe to it, drawing
its fhape and fize on the paper. Then take the length
a e in the compaffes, and with one foot in the corner
a, deferibe with the other the quadrant e f Divide
this arc into fix equal parts, and through the points
of divifion draw light lines ag, ah, &c. continuing
three of them to the arm c e, which are all that can
fall upon it; and they will meet the arm in thofe points
through which the lines that divide the hours from
each other, as in fig. 24. are to be drawn right acrofs
it. Divide each, arm, for the three hours contained in
it, in the fame manner; and fet the hours to their pro¬
per places, on the fides of the arms, as they are mark¬
ed in fig. 33. Each of the hour fpaces fhould be di¬
vided into four equal parts, for the half hours and
quarters, in the quadrant e f; and right lines fliould
be drawn through thefe divifion-marks in the quadrant,
to the arms of the crofs, in order to determine the
places thereon where the fubdivifions of the hours muft.
be marked.
This is a very fimple kind of univerfal dial ; it is
eafily made, and has a pretty uncommon appearance in
■xi a garden.
Eafy me- Fig. 27. is called an Univerfal Mechanical Dial, as
thod of by its equinoctial circle an eafy method is had of de-
diarby^he a on ar>y kind of plane. For example :
univerfal Suppofe a dial is required on an horizontal plane. If
mechanical the plane be immoveable, as ABCD, (fig. 27.) find
dial. a meridian line as GF ; or if moveable, aflume the
meridian at pleafure : then by means of the triangle
EKF, w’hofe bafe is applied on the meridian line,
raife the equinoCtial dial H till the index GI becomes
parallel to the axis of the earth, (which is fo, if the
angle KEF be equal to the elevation of the pole),
and the 12 o’clock line on the dial hand over the me¬
ridian line of the plane or the bafe of the triangle. If
then, in the night time or a darkened place, a lighted
candle be fucceftively applied to the axis GI, fo as the
LING, 205
ftiadow of the index or ftile GI falls upon one houf-
line after another, the fame lhadow will mark out the
feveral hour-lines on the plane ABCD. Noting
the points therefore on the ftiadow, draw lines
through them to G; then an index being fixed on
G, according to the angle IGF, its ftiadovv will
point out the feveral hours by the light of the fun.
If a dial were required on a vertical plane, having
raifed the equinoctial circle as direCted, puih forward
the index GI till the tip thereof I touch the plane.
If the plane be inclined to the horizon, the elevation
of the pole ftrould be found on the fame ; and the
angle of the triangle KEF fhould be made equal
thereto.
Mr Fergufon deferibes a method of making three Dials on
dials on three different planes, fo that they may allJhow threepl31163
the time of the day by one gnomon. On the fiat board Sn0*’
ABC, (fig. 28.) delcribe an horizontal dial, with its
gnomon FGH, the edge of the ftiadow of which (hows
the time of the day. To this horizontal board join
the upright board EDC, touching the edge GH of
the gnomon ; then making the top of the gnomon at
G the centre of the vertical fouth dial, deferibe it on
the board EDC. Befides, on a circular plate IK de¬
feribe an equinodlial dial, and, by a {lit c d in the
X// o’clock line from the edge to the centre, put
it on the gnomon EG as far as the flit will admit.
The fame gnomon will fhow the fame hour on each of
thefe dials.
Xn Univerfal Dial, Jhowing the hours of the day by ^ate
a terrefrial globe, and by the Jhadows of feveral gno-
mans, at the fame time : together with all the places of Ig
the earth which are then enlightened by the fun ; and
thofe to which the fun is then rifing, or on the meridian,
or fetting. This dial is made of a thick fquare piece
of wood, or hollow metal. The fides are cut into
femicircular hollows, in which the hours are placed;
the ftile of each hollow coming out from the bottom
thereof, as far as the ends of the hollows projeCt.
The corners are cut out into angles ; in the infides of
which the hours are alfo marked; and the edge of the
end of each fide of the angle ferves as a ftile for calling
a lhadow on the hours marked on the other fide.
In the middle of the uppermoft fide, or plane,
there is an equinoCtial dial ; in the centre whereof an
upright wire is fixed, for calling a fhadow on the hours
of that dial, and fupporting a imall terrellrial globe
on its top.
The whole dial Hands on a pillar, in the middle of a
round horizontal board, in which there is a compafs
and magnetic needle, for placing the meridian ftile to¬
ward the fouth. 1 he pillar has a joint with a quadrant
upon it, divided into 90 degrees (fuppofed to be hid
from fight under the dial in the figure) for fetting it to
the latitude of any given place.
The equator of the globe is divided into 24 equal
parts, and the hours are laid down upon it at thefe
parts. I he time of the day may be known by thefe
hours, when the fun Urines upon the globe.
To reClify and ufe this dial, fet it bn a level table,,
or foie of a window, where the fun Ihines, placing the
meridian ftile due fouth, by means of the needle; which
will be, when the needle points as far from the north
fleur-de-lis towards the weft, as it declines weftward, at
your place. Then bend the pillar in the joint, till the;
I black
20$
dial
black line on the pillar comes to the latitude of your
place in the quadrant.
The machine beinS thus reaified, the plane of its
dial part will be parallel to the equator, the wire or
axis that fupports the globe •will be parallel to the
earth’s axis, and the north pole of the globe will point
toward the north pole of the heavens.
The fame hour will then be fliown in feveral of the
hollows, by the ends of the fhadows of their rcfpeftive
ftiles •, the axis of the globe will call a Ihadow on the
fame hour of the day, in the equinoaial dial, in the
centre of which it is placed, from the aoth of March
to the 23d of September : and if the meridian of your
place on the globe be fet even with the meridian ftile,
all the parts of the globe that the fun fhines upon will
anfwer to thofe places of the real earth which are then
enlightened by the fun. The places where the fliade
is iuft coming upon the globe anfwer to all thofe places
of the earth to which the fun is then fetting ^ as the
places where it is going off, and the light coming on,
anfwer to all the places of the earth where the iun is
then rifing. And laftly, if the hour of VI be marked
on the equator in the meridian of your place (as it is
marked on the meridian of London in the figure), the
divifion of the light and (hade on the globe will Ihow
the time of the day. , r ,
The northern ftile of the dial (oppofite to the louth-
ern or meridian one) is hid from the fight m the fi¬
gure, by the axis of the globe. The hours in the
hollow to which that ftile belongs are alfo fuppoled
to be hid by the oblique view of the figure 5 but they
are the fame as the hours in the front hollow. Thole
alfo in the right and left hand femicircular hollows are
moftly hid from fight; and fo alfo are all thofe on the
ftdes next the eye of the four acute angles.
The conftru&ion of this dial is as follows :
On a thick fquare piece of wood, or metal, diaw t e
CLXXII. lines * c and £ fig. X 7* far from each other as you
intend for the thicknefs of the ^ abed; and in the
fame manner draw the like thicknefs of the other three
cfg hiklm, and nopy, all ftanding outright as
from the centre. . _
With any convenient opening of the compaiies, as
a A, (fo as to have proper ftrength of fluff when K1 is
equal to a A), fet one foot on c as a centre, and with
the other foot deferibe the quadrantal arc A c. 1 hen,
without altering the compaffes, fet one foot on 6 as a
centre, and with the other foot defenbe the quadrant
d B. All the other quadrants in the figure mult be
deferibed in the fame manner, and with the fame open-
ing of the compaffes, on their centres ef 1 k, and
n 0 ; and each quadrant divided into fix equal parts,
for as many hours, as in the figure 5 each of which
parts muft be fubdivided into 4, for the half hours and
^ Annual diftances from each corner, draw the right
lines I/> and K/>, I ^ and M 7 N r and O r, Pr and
Q r • to form the four angular hollows lx, L 7 M,
Nr O, and P r making the diftances between the
tins of thefe hollows, as I K, L M, N O, and PQ^
ea'ch equal to the radius of the quadrants •, and leaving
fufficient room within the angular points p q r and j,
for the equino&ial in the middle.
To divide the infide of thefe angles properly for the
hour fpaces thereon, take the following method :
LING.
Set one foot of the compaffes in the point I as a
centre, and open the other to K j and with that open¬
ing deferibe the arc K/; then, without altering the
compaffes, fet one foot in K, and with the other foot
deferibe the arc I /. Divide each of thefe arcs, from
I and K to their interfedlion at t, into four equal parts j
and from their centres I and K, through the points of
divifion, draw the right lines I 3, I 4, l5» f I 7 »
and K 2, K r, K 12, K 11 ; and they will meet the
frdes Kp and Ip of the angle Ip K where the hours
thereon muft be placed. And thefe hour ipaces rn the
arcs muft be fubdivided into four equal parts, for the
half hours and quarters. Do the like for the other
three angles, and draw the dotted lines, and fet the
hours in the infides where thofe lines meet them, as
in the figure 5 and the like hour-lines will be parallel to
each other in all the quadrants and in all the angles.
Mark points for all thefe hours on the upper fide ;
and cut out all the angular hollows and the quadrantal
ones quite through the places where their four gno-
mons murt ftand ; and lay down the hours on their
infides (as in fig. 18.), and fet in their gnomons,
which muft be as broad as the dial is thick •, and this
breadth and thicknefs muft be large enough to keep
the fhadows of the gnomons from ever falling quite
out at the fides of the hollows, even when the fun’s
declination is at the greateft.. _
Laftly, draw the equinoftial dial at the middle, all
the hours of which are equidiftant from each other }
and the dial will be finifhed.
As the fun goes round, the broad end of the fhadow
of the ftile acb d will fhow the hours in the quadrant
A c from funrife till VI in the morning : the ftradow
from the end M will fhow the hours on the fide L q
from Vto IX in the morning ; the fhadow of the ftile
e/g h in the quadrant D^ (in the long days) will ihow
the hours from funrife till VI in the morning •, and the
fhadow of the end N will fhow the morning hours on
the fide O r from III to VII. ,
Tuft as the fhadow of the northern ftile abed
goes off the quadrant Ac, the fhadow of the fouthern
ftile i k l m begins to fal^ within the quadrant r /,
at VI in the morning j and fhows the time, m
that quadrant, from VI till XII at noon ; and from
noon till VI in the evening in the quadrant m L.
And the fhadow of the end O fhows the time from
XI in the forenoon till III in the afternoon, on the
fide r N; as the fhadow on the end P fhows the time
from IX in the morning till I o’clock in the afternoon,
on the fide Qj. - .
At noon, when the fhadow of the eaftern flue ejg ■>
goes off the quadrant hC (in which it fnowed the time
from VI in the morning till noon, as it did in the qua-
drant g D from funrife till VI in the morning), the
fhadow of the weftern ftile « opq begins to enter the
quadrant H/>, and fhows the hours thereon irorn AJI
at noon till VI in the evening ; and after that till iun-
fet, in the quadrant q G, and the end CLcafts a iaadow
on the fide P s from V in the evening till IX at night,
if the fun be not fet before that time. _
The fhadow of the end I fhows the time on the
fide K p from III till VII in the afternoon ; and the
fhadow of the ftile abed fhows the time from VI m the
evening till the fun fets. . r
The fhadow of the upright central wire, that iup-
ports
DIAL
ports the globe at top, (hows the time rff the day, in
the middle or equino&ial dial, all the fummer half-year,
when the fun is on the north fide of the equator.
Having ftiown how to make fun-dials by the aflift-
ance of a good globe, or of a dialling fcale, we lhall now
proceed to the method of conftrudling dials arithmeti¬
cally j which will be more agreeable to thofe who have
learned the elements of trigonometry, becaufe globes
and fcales can never be fo accurate as the logarithms in
finding the angular diftance of the hours. Yet as a
globe may be found exa£t enough for fome other re-
quifites in dialling, we (hall take it occafionally.
The conftru&ion of fun -dials on all planes whatever
may be included in one general rule ; intelligible, if
that of a horizontal dial for any given latitude be well
underflood. For there is no plane, however obliquely
fituated with refpeft to any give place, but what is
parallel to the horizon of fome other place ; and there¬
fore, if we can find that other place by a problem on
the terreftrial globe, or by a trigonometrical calculation,
and conftrufl a horizontal dial for it, that dial applied
to the plane where it is to ferve will be a true dial
for that place. Thus, an ereft diredt fouth dial in
degrees north latitude, would be a horizontal dial
on the fame meridian, 90 degrees fouthward of 5 de¬
grees of north latitude. But if the upright plane declines
from facing the fouth at the given place, it would flill
be a horizontal plane 90 degrees from that place, but
for a different longitude, which would alter the rec¬
koning of the hours accordingly.
Case I. 1. Let us fuppofe that an upright plane at
London declines 36 degrees weftward from facing the
fouth, and that it is required to find a place on the
globe to whofe horizon the faid plane is parallel ; and
alfo the difference of longitude between London and
that place.
Re6lify the globe to the latitude of London, and
bring London to the zenith under the brafs meridian 5
then that point of the globe which lies in the horizon
at the given degree of declination (counted weftward
from the fouth point of the horizon) is the place at
which the above-mentioned plane would be horizontal.
--Now, to find the latitude and longitude of that place
keep your eye upon the place, and turn the globe eaft-
ward until it comes under the graduated edge of the
brafs meridian; then the degree of the brafs meridian
that ftands diredlly over the place in its latitude 5 and
the number of degrees in the equator, which are
intercepted between the meridian of London and
the brafs meridian, is the place’s difference of longi¬
tude. 8
Thus, as the latitude of London is 51^ degrees
north, and the declination of the place is 36 degrees
weft j elevate the north pole 5 It degrees above the ho¬
rizon, and turn the globe until London comes to the
zenith, or under the graduated edge of the meridian ;
then count 36 degrees on the horizon weftward from
the fouth point, and make a mark on that place of the
globe over which the reckoning ends, and bringing the
mark under the graduated edge of the brafs meridian,
it will be found, to be under 30^ degrees in fouth lati¬
tude ; keeping it there, count in the equator the num¬
ber of degrees between the meridian of London and the
LING.
brazen meridian (which now becomes the meridian of
the required place), and you will find it to be 42^.
Therefore an upright plane at London, declining 36
degrees weftward from the foutb, would be a horizon¬
tal plane at that place, whofe latitude is 30^ degrees
fouth of the equator, and longitude 42^ degrees weft
of the meridian of London.
Which difference of longitude being converted into
time, is 2 hours 51 minutes.
The vertical dial declining w’eftward 36 degrees at
London, is therefore to be drawn in all refpefts as a
horizontal dial for fouth latitude 30^ degrees ; fave on¬
ly that the reckoning on the hours is to anticipate the
reckoning on the horizontal dial by 2 hours 51
minutes; for fo much fooner will the fun come to the
meridian of London, than to the meridian of any
place whofe longitude is 42^ degrees weft from Lon¬
don.
2. But to be more exaft than the globe will fhow us,
we fliall ufe a little trigonometry.
Let NESW (fig. 12.) be the horizon of London,
whofe zenith is Z, and P the north pole of the fphere j
and .let Z/j be the pofition of a vertical plane at Z, de¬
clining weftward from S (the fouth) by an angle of 36
degrees ; on which plane an ereft dial for London at
Z is to be deferibed. Make the femidiameter ZD per¬
pendicular to Z. h ; and it will cut the horizon in D
36 degrees weft of the fouth S. Then a plane, in the’
tangent FID, touching the fphere in D, will be paral¬
lel to the plane Zh ; and the axis of the fphere will be
equally inclined to both thefe planes.
Let WQE be the equinodlial, whofe elevation above
the horizon of Z (London) is 38^ degrees ; and PRD
be the meridian of the place D, cutting the equinodlial
m R. Then it is evident, that the arc RD is the lati¬
tude of the place D (where the plane Zh would be
horizontal) and the arc RQJs the difference of longi¬
tude of the planes Zh and DH.
In the fpherical triangle WDR, the arc WD is gi¬
ven, for it is the complement of the plane’s declina¬
tion from S to fouth ; which complement is 540 (viz.
9°°—36°) j the angle at R, in which the meridian of
the place D cuts the equator, is a right angle 5 and
the angle RWD meafures the elevation of the equinoc¬
tial above the horizon of Z, namely 384 degrees. Say
therefore, As radius is to the co-fine of the plane’s de¬
cimation from the fouth, fo is the co fine of the lati¬
tude of Z to the fine of RD the latitude of D j which
is of a different denomination from the latitude of Zv
becaufe Z and D are on different fides of the equa¬
tor. ^
20J
As radius
To co-fine 36° o'rrRQ^
So co-fine 510 30'rzQZ
10.00000
9.90796
9-794I5
To fine 30° I4'=DR (9.70211) = the latitude of D,
whofe horizon is parallel to the vertical plane Zh
at Z.
N. B. When radius is made the firft term, it may
be omitted 5 and then by fubtradling it mentally from
the fum of the other two, the operation will be ftiort-
ened. Thus, in the prefent cafe,
To
Plate
CLXXIi
20S
D
I A L L I N G.
To the logarithmic fine of WR " * 54° 0' 9 9°79^
Add the logarithmic fine of RD 38 30 9.79415
Their fum—radius ■ “ 9.70211
gives the fame folution as above. And we (hall keep
to this method in the following part of this article.
To find the difference of longitude of the places 1)
and Z fay, As radius is to the co-fine of 38^ degrees,
the height of the equinoftial at Z, fo is the co-tangent
of 36 degrees, the plane’s declination, to the co-tan¬
gent of the difference of longitudes. Thus,
To the logarithmic fine of t 510 3°' 9-89^54
Add the logarithmic tang, of § 54 o' 1°-t3874
Their fum—radius
. . . 10.03228
is the neareft tangent of 47° 8'=WR : which is the
eo-tangent of 52'=RQ., the difference of longt-
tude fought. Which difference, being reduced to time,
is 2 hours minutes. . , . , ,
o. And thus having found the exaft latitude and
longitude of the place D, to whofe horizon the verti¬
cal®,lane at Z is parallel, we fhall proceed >° 'he “T
ftruction of a horizontal dial for the place D, w
latitude is 48'’ 14' fouth ; but anticipating the time at
D by 2 hours 51 minutes (neglefting the 4 minute in
praaice), becaufe D is fo far weftward m long^de
from the meridian of London j and_ this will be a
true vertical dial at London, declining weftward 36
dt Aflfume any right line CSL (fig-*3-) for tlie ,'"bftlle
of the dial, and make the angle KCP equal to the a-
titude of the place (viz. 30° 14'), to whofe hqruon
the plane of the dial is parallel j then CR1 will be
the axis of the ftile, or edge that cafts the ^adow °n
the hours of the day, in the dia . .j.
the contingent line EQ>_ cutting the fubftilar line at
tight angles in K ; and from K make KR perpendicu-
lar to the axis CRP. Then KG (=KR) being made
radius, that is, equal to the chord of 60 or tangent of
45° on a good feaor, take 42° 52' (the difference of
longitude of the places Z and D) from the tangents,
and having fet it from K to M, draw CM for the
hour-line of XII. Take KN, equal to the tangent of
an angle lefs by 15 degrees than KM; that is, the
tangent of 27° ^ : and through the point N draw CN
for th" bom-line of /. The tsugen, of ,z» jz' (wh-ch
i, 1?° lefs than 270 fet off the fame way, will
give a point between K and N, through which the
hour-line of II is to be drawn. I he^angent of 2 8
(the difference between 450 and 52 52 )_ placed
the other fide of CL, will determine the point through
which the hour-line of ///is to be drawn : to which
2° 8\ if the tangent of 150 be added, it will make
, 8' 5 and this fet off from K towards Qon the line
EO> will give the point for the hour-line or IV; and
fn of the reft. The forenoon hour-lines are drawn the
fame way, by the continual addition of the tangents
I5< 30°; 450, &c. to 420 52' (= the tangents of
KM) for the hours of XI, X, IX, &c. as far as ne-
ceffary ; that is, until there be five hours on each fide
of the fubftile. The fixth hour, accounted from that
hour or part of the hour on which the fubftile fails,
will be always in a line perpendicular to the iubitile,
and drawn through the centre C. ( Yrr
4 In all erea dials, CM, the hour-line of XII, i*
perpendicular to the horizon of the place for which the
dial is to ferve •, for that line is the mterfeaion of a
vertical plane with the plane of the meridian of the
place, both which are perpendicular to the plane of the
horizon: and any line HO or ho, perpend.cular to
CM will be a horizontal line on the plane ot the dial,
along which line the hours may be numbered ; and
CM being fet perpendicular to the horizon, the dial
will have its true pofition. . , , ,
r If the plane of the dial had declined by an equal
angle towards the eaft, its defcription would have dif¬
fered only in this, that the hour-line of A// wou d
have fallen on the other fide of the fubftile CL, and
the line HO would have a fubcontrary pofition to what
it has in this figure. . .
6. Andthefe two dials, with the upper points of
their ftiles turned toward the north pole, will ferve for
other two planes parallel to them ; the one decbnmg
from the north toward the eaft, and the other from the
north toward the weft, by the fame quantity of angle.
The like holds true of all dials in general, whatever be
their declination and obliquity of their planes to the
^CaseII 7 If the plane of the dial not only de¬
clines, but" alfo reclines, or inclines Suppofe its de¬
clination from fronting the foutb S (fig. I4-) be ^
to the arc SD on the horizon •, and its recimation be
equal to the arc D ^ of the vertical circle DZ then
it is plain, that if the quadrant of altitude Z JD on
the globe cuts the point D in the horizon the re-
clination is counted upon the quadrant from D to d.
the interfeaion of the hour circle PR with the equi-
noftial WQE, will determine R d, the latitude of the
place V, whofe horizon is parallel to the given^ane
Zb at Z •, and RQjvill be the difference m longitude
of the places at d and Z. . , r
Trigonometrically thus: Let a great circle pafs
through the three points, W, d, E ; and m the tn-
angle^WD right angled at D, tlie ^ ^ an
are given •, and thence the angle DW is found,
and fo is fhe bypothenufe W d. Again the d.fFerence
or the fum, of DW d and DWR, the elevation of the
equinoaial above the horizon of Z,
^/WR •, and the hypothenufe of the tnang
was juft now found j whence the fides R^ ^d WR
are found, the former being the latitude of the place
d, and the latter the complement of RCb the difference
of longitude fought. 7 Kp re0 r6r north-
Thus, if the latitude of the place Zbe 52 10 north,
the declination SD of the plane Z "oul8 ^
horizontal at i!) be 36', and the ^Imafon ^ > j or
equal to the arc V J; the fouth latitude of the place
that is, the arc Rrf, w,l. be .J 9 1 anddi^e
. The co-line of 36.0, ot of RQ, t The co-fme of 5..30, or of QZ. t The co-fme of 38.30, ot of
WPR* § Tbe co-tangent of 36.0, or oi i) W .
DIAL
diffei'enfc-e of the longitude, 36° 2'. From thefe data,
therefore, let the dial (fig. 15.) be defcribed, as in the
iormer example.
S. There are feveral other things re'quifite in the
prablice of dialling ; the chief of which (hall be given
in the form of arithmetical rules, fimple and eaiy to
thole who have learned the elements of trigonometry,
lor in practical arts of this kind, arithmetic Ihould be
tiled as far as it can go j and fcales never trulted to,
except in the final conltruction, where they are abfo-
lutely neceffary in laying down the calculated hour-
difiances on the plane of the dial.
Rule I. To find the angles which the hour-lines on any
dial make with the fubjlile. To the logarithmic fine of
the given latitude, or of. the fiile’s elevation above the
plane of the dial, add the logarithmic tangent of tire
hour (*) diftance from the meridian, or from the (f)
fubftile •, and the lum minus radius will be the loga¬
rithmic tangent of the angle fought.
For KC (fig. 13.) is to KM in the ratio compound¬
ed of the ratio of KC to KG (z=KR) and of KG to
KM ; which making CK the radius io,ooocoo, or
10,0000, or 10, or 1, are the ratio of 10,000000, or
of 10,0000, or of 10, or of 1, to KG X KM.
Thus, in a horizontal dial, for latitude 510 30', to
find the angular difiance of XI in the forenoon, or I
in the afternoon, from XII.
To the logarithmic fine of 510 30' 9-893 54 ^
Add the logarithmic tang, of 510 o' 9.42805
The fum—radius is - - 9.32159=^6
logarithmic tangent of 110 50', or of the angle which
the hour-line of XI or I makes with the hour of
XII.
And by computing in this manner, with the fine of
the latitude, and the tangents of 30, 45, 60, and 750,
for the hours of //, ///, I III, ana V in the afternoon j
or of A, IX, VIII, and VII in the forenoon j you will
find their angular diftances from XII to be 240 iS',
38° 3'* 53° 35'> and 7 10 6'; which are all that there
is occafion to compute for.—And thefe diftances may
be let off from XII by a line of chords ; or rather, by
taking 1000 from a fcale of equal parts, and fetting
that extent as a radius from C to XII; and then, ta¬
king 209 of the fame parts (which are the natural
tangent of ii°50/), and fetting them from XII to
A/ and /, on the line h 0, which is perpendicular to C
XII; and fo for the reft of the hour hues, which, in
the table of natural tangents, agairft the above dif¬
tances. are 451, 782, 1355, and 2920, of fuch equal
parts from XII, as the radius C XII contains looo.
And laftly, fet off 1257 (the natural tangent of ci°
Vol. VII. Part I. 6 a
ling.
30') for the angle of the ftile’s height, which is equal
to the latitude of the place.
Rule II. The latitude of the place, the fun's declina¬
tion, and his hour dijlnnce from the meridian, being ri¬
ven, to fad (1.) his altitude, (2.) his a%imuth. (1 )
Let d (fig. 14) be the fun’s plao , </R his dec lina¬
tion; and, in the triangle PZ d, Pd, the fum, or the
difference, of c/R, and the quadrant PR, being given
by the fuppofition, as alio, the complement of the lati¬
tude PZ, and the angle dVV, which meafures the ho¬
rary diftance of d from the meridian ; we lhall (by
Ca'e 4. of Keill’s oblique ipheric Trigonometry) find
tile bale Z n/, which is the fun’s diftance from the ze¬
nith, or the complement of his altitude.
And (2.) as fine Z d : fine Paff: fine //PZ : r/ZP,
or of its fupplement DZS, the azimuthal diftance from
the fouth.
Or the practical rule may be as follows :
Write A for the fine of the fun’s altitude, L and /
for the fine and co-fine of the latitude, D and d iox the
line and co fine of the fun’s declination, and H for the
fine of the horary diftance from VI.
Then the relation of H to A will have three va¬
rieties.
r. When the declination is toward the elevated pole,
and the hour of the day is between XII and VI; it is
A=LD-f H Id, and H =
2. When the hour is after VI, it is A=LD Wld,
and H
LD-f-A
Id '
3. When the declination is toward thedepreffed pole,
we have A=rH/^--LD, and H
I d
_ Which theorems will be found ufeful, and expedi¬
tious enough for folving thofe problems in geography
and dialling which depend on the relation of the fun’s
altitude to the hour of the day.
Example I. Suppofe the latitude of the place to be
5Tw degrees north : the time 5 hours diftant from
XII, that is, an hour after F/in the morning, or be¬
fore VI in the evening ; and the fun’s declination 20°
north. Required the fun's altitude ?
Then to log. L=log. fin. 510 30'. 1.89354**
add log. D=log. fin. 200 o' •-53405
1 heir fum 1.42759 gives
LD=logaiithm of 0.267664, in the natural fines.
d And,
dTTr'X, °f ff 4S’ 6o’ 7J'’’ for the h0l,rS of t n’ ln' //7/> and L in tlre afternoon i and IX X,
V111, VII, in the afternoon. ’
, [t\ In j!1, horizontal dials, and ered north or fouth dials, the fubftile and meridian are the fame ; but in all
declining dials the fubfhle line makes an angle with the meridian.
(|) I i which cafe the radius CK is fuppofed to be divided into 10,0000 equal parts.
- Here we confider the radius as unity, and not 10,0000 : but which, inftead of the index q, we have —r
?s above j which is of no farther ufe than making the work a little ealiere
210
DIAL
And, to log. H=tog. fin. ff 15° o' 1.41300
,, flog. /=log. fin. tt 38° °' *-794i4
ada Llog- ^=log- fin- §§ 7°° 0' I-9730°
Their fum 1.18014 gives
H /</=logarithm of 0.151408, in the natural fines.
And thefe two numbers (0.267664 and 0.151408)
make 0.419072:=^ ; which, in the table, is the near-
eft natural fine of 240 47', the fun’s altitude fought.
The fame hour diftance being aflumed on the other
fide of VI, then LD—HU is 0.116256, the fine of
6° 40^ j which is the fun’s altitude at V in the morn¬
ing, or VII in the evening, when his north declina¬
tion is 20°.
But when the declination is 20° fouth (or towards
the depreffed pole) the difference H / </—LD becomes
negative j and thereby (hows, that an hour before VI
in the morning, or paft F7in_the evening, the fun’s
centre is 6° 4o£' below the horizon.
Examp. 2. From the fame data, to find the fun’s
azimuth. If H, L, and D, are given, then (by par. 2.
of Rule II.) from H having found the altitude and its
complement TLd} and the arc P d (the diftance from
the pole) being given fay, As the co-fine of the alti¬
tude is to the fine of the diftance from the pole), fo is
the fine of the hour-diftance from the meridian to the
fine of the azimuth diftance from the meridian.
Let the latitude be 51° 30'north, the declination
150 9' fouth, and the time //h. 24 m. in the after¬
noon, when the fun begins to illuminate a vertical wall,
and it is required to find the pofition of the wall.
Then by the foregoing theorems, the complement
of the altitude will be 8i° 32V, and Vd the diftance
from the pole being 109° 5', and the horary diftance
from the meridian, or the angle </PZ, 36°.
To log. fin. 740 51' - - 1.98464
Add log. fin. 36° o' - - 1.76922
And from the fum - t-7538^
Take the log. fin. 8i° 32V i-99525
Remains 1.75861=^. fin.
3.50, the azimuth diftance fought.
When the altitude is given, find from thence the
hour, and proceed as above. 1 /
This praxis is of Angular ufe on many occafions:—in
finding the declination of vertical planes more exaftly
than in the common way, efpecially if the tranfits of
the fun’s centre are obferved by applying a ruler with
fights, either plain or telefcopical, to the wall or plane
whofe declination is required :—in drawing a meri¬
dian line, and finding the magnetic variation : in
finding the bearings of places in terreftrial furveys ; the
tranfits of the fun over any place, or his horizontal di¬
ftance from it, being obferved, together with the alti¬
tude and hour j and thence determining fmall differ¬
ences of longitude in obferving the variations at
fea, &c.
LING.
The declination, inclination, and rccKnation, of planes, *4
are frequently taken with a fufficient degree of accu-^P™^
racy by an inftrument called a declinator or dechna-
tory.
The conftru&ion of this inftrument is as follotvs :
On a mahogany board ABIK, (fig. 34.) is inferted a
femicircular arch AGEB of ivory or box-wood, di¬
vided into two quadrants of 90° each, beginning from
the middle G. On the centre C turns a vertical qua¬
drant DEE divided into 90*, beginning from the bafe
E ; on which is a moveable index CF, with a fmall
hole at F for the fun’s rays to pafs through, and form
a fpot on a mark at C. The lower extremity of the
quadrant at E is pointed, to mark the linear direftion
of the quadrant when applied to any other plane ; as
this quadrant takes off occafionally, and a plumb-line
P hangs at the centre on C, for taking the inclina¬
tions and reclinations of planes. At H, on the plane
of the board, is inferted a compafs of points and de¬
grees, with a magnetical needle turning on a pivot
over it. The addition of the moveable quadrant and
index confiderably extend the utility of the declina¬
tor, by rendering it convenient for taking equal alti¬
tudes of the fun, the fun’s altitude and bearing, at the
fame time, 8tc. _ . 35
To apply this inftrument in taking the declination To take by
of a wall or plane : Place the fide ACB in a horizon-h.the de-
tal direction to the plane propofed, and obferve f^^&c.VndtO
degree or point of the compafs the N part of the fjn(j a me_
needle ftands over from the north or the fouth, and it ridian line,
will be the declination of the plane from the north or
fouth accordingly. In this cafe, allowance muft be
made for the variation of the needle (if any) at the
place ; and which, if not previoufly known, will ren¬
der this operation very inaccurate. At London it is
now 220 30' to the weft.
Another way more exa£! may be ufed, when the
fun fhines out half an hour before noon. The fide
ACB being placed againft the plane, the quadrant muft
be fo moved on the femicircle AGB, and the index
CF on DE, till the fun’s rays pafiing through the
hole at F fall exadlly on the mark at G, and conti¬
nued fo till the fun requires the index to be raifed no
higher : you will then have the meridian or greateft
altitude of the fun 5 and the angle contained between
G and E will be the declination required. The pofi¬
tion of CE is the meridian or 12 o’clock line. But
the moft exadl way for taking the declination of a
plane, or finding a meridian line, by this inftrument,
is, in the forer.oon, about two or three hours before
12 o’clock, to obferve two or three heights or altitudes
EF of the fun j and at the fame time the refpeaive an¬
gular polar diftances GE from G : write them down 5
and in the afternoon watch for the lame, or one of the
fame altitudes, and mark the angular diftances or di¬
ftance on the quadrant AG. Now, the divifion or de¬
gree exactly between the two noted angular diftanpes
will be the true meridian, and the diftance at which
it may fall from the C of the divifions at G will be
the declination of the plane. The reafon for obferving
two
The diftance of one hour from VI.
The co-declination of the fun,
XX The co-latitude of the place.
211
DIAL
two or three altitudes and angles in the morning is,
that in cafe there (hculd be clouds in the afternoon,
you may have the chance of one correfponding alti¬
tude.
The quadrant occalionally takes off at C, in order
to place it on the furface of a pedeilal or plane intend*
ed for an horizontal dial j and thereby from equal al¬
titudes of the fun, as above, draw a meridian or ia
o’clock line to fet the dial by.
The bafe ABIK ferves to take the inclination and
^reclination of planes. In this cafe, the quadrant is
taken off, and the plummet P is fitted on a pin at the
centre C : then the fide IGK being applied to the
plane propofcd, as QL (fig. 35.) if the plumb-line cuts
the femicircle in the point G, the plane is horizontal *
or if it cut the quadrant in any point at S, then will
GCS be the angle of inclination. Laftly, if applying
the fide ACB to the plane, the plummet cuts G, the
plane is vertical j or if it cuts either of the quadrants,
it is accordingly the angle of reclination. Hence, if
the quantity of the angle of inclination be compared
with the elevation of the pole and equator, it is eafily
known whether the plane be inclined or reclined.
Of the double Horizontal Dial, and the Babylonian and
Italian Dials.
To the gnomonic projeftion, there is fometimes added
zjlereographic projection of the hour-circles, and the
parallels of the fun’s declination, on the fame hori¬
zontal plane 5 the upright fide of the gnomon being
floped into an edge, Handing perpendicularly over the
centre of the projection j fo that the dial, being in its
due pofition, the (hadow of that perpendicular edge is
a vertical circle palling through the fun, in the ftereo-
graphic projection.
The months being duly marked on this dial, the
fun’s declination, and the length of the day at any
time, are had by infpeCtion (as alfo his latitude, by
means of a fcale of tangents). But its chief property
is, that it may be placed true, whenever the fun Ihines,
without the help of any other infirument.
Plate Let d (fig. 14.) be the fun’s place in the ftereogra-
CLXX1I. phic projeCHon, x dy a the parallel of the fun’s decli¬
nation, iLd 2l. vertical circle through the fun’s centre,
P d the hour-circle ; and it is evident, that the diame¬
ter NS of this projection being placed duly north and
fouth, thefe three circles will pafs through the point
d. And therefore, to give the dial its due pofition,
we have only to turn its gnomon toward the fun, on a
horizontal plane, until the hour on the common gno¬
monic projection coincides with that marked by the
hour-circle P d, which paffes through the interfeCtion
of the fhadow Z d with the circle of the fun’s prefent
declination.
The Babylonian and Italian dial reckon the hours
not from the meridian as with us, but from the fun’s
rifing and fetting. Thus, in Italy, an hour before
funfet is reckoned the 23d hour •, two hours before fun-
iet the 22d hour ; and fq of the reft. And the fhadow
that marks them on the hour-lines, is that of the point
of a ftile.^ This occafions a perpetual variation be¬
tween their dials and clocks, which they muft correCf
from time to time, before it arifes to any fenfible quan¬
tity, by fetting their clocks fo much fafter or flower.
And in Italy, they begin their day, and regulate their
LING.
clocks, not from funfet, but from about mid-twilight,
when the Ave-Maria is faid $ which correCts the dif¬
ference that would otherwife be between the clock and
the dial.
The improvements which have been made in all
forts of inftruments and machines for meafuring time,
have rendered fuch dials of little account. Yet, as
the theory of them is ingenious, and they are really,
in fome refpefts, the belt contrived of any for vulgar
ufe, a general idea of their defcription may not be un¬
acceptable.
Let fig. 16. reprefent an ereft direct fouth wall, on
which a Babylonian dial is to be drawn, (bowing the
hours from funrifing j the latitude of the place, whofe
horizon is parallel to the wall, being equal to the angle
KCR. Make, as for a common dial, KG=:KR (which
is perpendicular to CR) the radius of the equinoftial
^EQ^and draw RS perpendicular to CK for the (file
of the dial ; the lhadow of whofe point R is to mark
the hours, when SR is fet upright on the plane of the
dial.
Then it is evident, that, in the contingent line
the fpaces K I, K 2, K 3» being taken equal to
the tangents of the hour-diftances from the meridian,
to the radius KG, one, two, three, &c. hours after
funrifing, on the equino&ial day ; the lhadow of the
point R will be found, at thefe times, refpeftively in
the points |, 2, 3, &c.
Draw, for the like hours after funrifing, when the
fun is in the tropic of Capricorn Vj> V, the like com¬
mon lines CD, CE, CF, &c. and at thefe hours the
(hadow of the point R will be found in thofe lines re-
fpeftively. Find the fun’» altitudes above the plane
of the dial at thefe hours 5 and with their co-tangents
S</, 8 e, S_/J &c. to radius SR, defcribe arcs interfe<ft-
ing the hour-lines in the points d, e,f &c. fo (hall the
right lines \ d, t e, 3/ &c. be the lines of 7, //, ///,
&c. hours after (unrifing.
The conftruftion is the fame in every other cafe j
due regard being had to the difference of longitude of
the place at which the dial would be horizontal, and
the place for which it is to ferve j and likewife, taking
care to draw no lines but what are neceffary ; which
may be done partly by the rules already given for de¬
termining the time that the fun (bines on any plane ;
and partly from this, that on the tropical days, the
hyperbola defcribed by the (hadow of the point R li¬
mits the extent of all the hour-lines.
Of the right placing of Dials, and having a true Meri¬
dian Line for the regulating of Clocks and Watches.
The plane on which the dial is to reft being duly
prepared, and every thing neceffary for fixing it, you
may find the hour tolerably exaft by a large equinoc¬
tial ring-dial, and fet your watch to it. And then the
dial may be fixed by the watch at your leilure.
If you would be more exaift, take the fun’s altitude
by a good quadrant, noting the precife time of obfer-
vation by a clock or watch. Then compute the time
for the altitude obferved ; and fet the W’atch to agree
with that time, according to the fun. A Hadley’s
quadrant is very convenient for this purpofe : for by
it you may take the angle between the fun and his
image reflefted from a bafon of water ; the half of
jvhich angle, fubtra&ing the refraftion, is the altitude
D d 2 icquired-
212
DIAL
.required. This is beft done in lummer *, and the
nearer the fun is to the prime vertical (the eart or welt
azimuth) when the obfervation is made, ib much the
better.
Or, in fummer, take two equal altitudes of the fun
in the fame day \ one any time between 7 and 10 in
the morning, the other between 2 and 5 *u the aiter-
noon : noting the moments of thefe two obfervations
bv a clock or watch : and if the watch fliows the ob¬
fervations to be at equal dillances from noon, it agrees
exadtly with the fun : if not, the watch mud be cor-
reded by half the difference of the forenoon and after¬
noon intervals j and then the dial may be fet true by
the watch*
Thus, for example, fuppofe you had taken the fun’s
altitude when it was 20 minutes pad VIII in the morn¬
ing by the watch ; and found, by obferving in the af¬
ternoon, that the fun had the fame altitude 10 minutes
before ////; then it is plain, that the watch was 5 mi¬
nutes too fad for the fun : for 5 minutes after XII is
the middle time between VIII h. 20 m. in the morn-
intr, and ///h. 50 m. in the afternoon j and therefore,
to make the watch agree with the fun, it mud be fet
back five minutes.
.a good meridian line, for regulating clocks or watch-
line!*”''1 es> may be had by the following method.^
M ke a round hole, almod a quarter of an inch dia¬
meter, in a thin plate ot metal $ and fix the plate in the
top of a fouth window, in fuch a manner that it may
recline from the zenith at an angle equal to the colati¬
tude of your place, as nearly as yo.u can guefs: for then
the plate will face the fun direftly at noon on the equi-
noftial days. Let the fun dune freely through the
hole into the room and hang a plumb line to the ceil¬
ing of the room, at lead five or fix feet from the win¬
dow, in fuch a place as that the fun’s rays, tranfmit-
ted through the hole, may fall upon the line when it is
noon by the clock ; and having marked the laid place
on the ceiling, take away the line.
Having adjuded a Hiding bar to a dove tail groove,
in a piece of wood about .1 8 inches long, and fixed- a
hook into the middle of the bar, nail the wood to
the above-mentioned place on the ceiling, parallel ^to
the iide of the room in which the window is •, the
groove and the bar being towards the floor : I hen
hang the plumb-line upon the hook in the bar, the
weight or plummet reaching almod to the floor •, and
the whole will be prepared for further and proper ad-
judment.
This done, find the true folar time by either of the
two lad methods, and thereby regulate your clock.
Then, at the moment of next noon by the clock,
when’the fun (hines, move the Hiding bar in the groove,
until the thadow of the plumb-line bifedls the image of
the fun (made by his rays tranfmitted through the hol< )
on the floor, wall, or on a white fereen placed on the
north fide of the line ; the plummet or weight at the
end of the line hanging freely in a pail of w7ater placed
below7 it on the floor.—But becaufe this may not be
quite correct for the fird time, on account that the
plummet will not fettle immediately, even in water j
it may be farther corrected cn the following days, by
the above method, with the fun and clock } and fo
brought to a very great exadtnefs.
LING.
A. B. The rays tranfmitted through the hole will
calt but a faint image of the fun, even on a white
fereen, unlefs the room be fo darkened that no fun-
(hinc may be allowed to enter but what comes through
the final 1 hole in the plate. And always, for fome
time before the obfervation is made, the plummet
ought to be immerfed in a jar of water, where it may
hang freely j by which means the line will ioon be¬
come deady, which otberwrie would be apt to continue
fwinging.
Dejcripticn of two New Injlruments for facilitating
the prachce of Dialling.
I. Ihe Dialling Seclor, contrived by the late Mr
Benjamin Martin, is an inltrument by which dials are
drawn in a more eafy, expeditious, and accurate man¬
ner. The principal lines on it are the line of latitudes
and the line of hours (Fig. 32,) They are found on
mod of the common plane icales and feffors 5 but
in a manner that greatly confines and diminifties their
ufe ; for fird, they are of a fxed length ; and feconcily,
too jmalllo'C any degree of accuracy. But in this new
feiior, the line oj latitudes is laid down, as it is called,
feBor-wfe, vrz. one line of latitudes upon each leg of
the lector, beginning in the centre ot the joint, and
diverging to the end (as upon other feftors), where the
extremes of the two lines at qc* and 90 nearly
one inch apart, and their length ll£ inches: which
length admits of great exabtnefs ; for at the 70th de¬
gree of latitude, the divifions are to quarters of a de¬
gree or I 5 minutes. Ti his accuracy of the divifions ad-
mits^of a peculiar advantage, namely, that it inay be
equally communicated to any length from I to 23 inches,
by taking the parallel didances (fee fig. 33.), viz. from
10 to 10, 20 to 20, 30 to 30, and fo on, as is done in
like cafes on the lines of fines, tangents, &c. Hence
its univerfal uie for drawing dials or any propoied fLe.
The line of hours for this end is adapted and placed
contiguous to it on the iedlor, and of a fize large
enough for the very minutes to be diflii £! on the part
where they are fmalled, w7hich is on each fide of the
hour of III.
From the conflrudlion of the line- of hours before
jfhowm, the divifions on each fide of the hour 111 at e
the fame to each end, fo that the hour-line properly is
only a double line of three hours. Hence a line of 3 hou.s
anfwers all the purpofes of a line of 6. by taking the
double extent of 3, which is the reafon why upon the
fedlor the line of hours extends only to 4L
To make ufe of the line of latitude and line of hours
on the feftor : As fingle i’cales only, they will be found
more -accurate than thofe placed on the common Icales
and fe&ors, in which the hours are dually dbdivided,
but into 5 minutes, and the line 01 latitudes into whole
degrees. But it is Ihown above how- much mose ac¬
curately thefe lines are divided on the dialling feed or.
As an example of great exaftnefs with which hori¬
zontal and other dials may be drawn by it, on account
of this new ft floral dif'pofition of thefe feales, and how
all the advantages of their great length are preferved
in any Itffer length of the VI o’clock line <r f and af,
(Fig 30.): Apply either of the diftances of c * or a/to-
the line of latitude at the given latitude of London, fup¬
pofe 5 i° 32' on one line to 5 ie 32' on the other, in the
manner down in fig. 5. and then taking all the hours*
quarters*.
213
DIAL
quarters, &c. from the hour fcale by fimilar parallel
extents, you apply them upon the lines e d and fbzs
before defcribed.
As the hour-lines on the feclot extend to but 44,
the double dijlance of the hour 3, when ufcd either
Jingly or fedlorally, muft be taKen, to be fit ft applied
from 51° 32' on the latitudes, - to its contadft on the
XII o’clock line, before the feveral hours are laid off.
The method of drawing a vertical north or fouth dial
is perfectly the fame as for the above horizontal one ;
only reverfing the hours as in fig. f. and making the
angle of the ftile’s height equal to the complement of
the latitude 38° 28'.
The method of drawing a vertical declining dial by
the ledtor, is almoft evident from what has been al¬
ready faid in dialling. But more fully to comprehend
the matter, it muft be confidered there will be a varia-
tion of particulars as follows : l. Of the fubjlile or line
over which the ftiie is to be placed *, 2. The height of
the itile above the plane ; 3. The difference between the
meridian of the place and that of the plane, or their
difference of longitude. From the given latitude of the
place., and declination of the plane, you calculate the
three requifites juft mentioned, as in the following ex¬
ample. Let it be required to make an ereffi fouth dial,
declining from the meridian wef-ward 28° 43', in the
latitude of London 510 32'. The firft thing to be
found is the diftance ot the fubftilar line GB (fig. 31.)
from tne meridian of the plane G XII. The analogy
from this is : radius is to thefne of the declination, fo
r r the co tangent of the latitude to the, tangent of the difance
fought, viz. As radius : 28° 43' : : tang. 38° 28' : tan¬
gent 200 5 s'. This and the following analogy may be
as accurately wmrked on the Gunter’s line of fines,
tangents, &c. properly placed on the feftor, as by the
common way from logarithms. Next, to find the
plane’s difference of longitude- Jls the fne of the latitude
is to radius, fo is the tangent of the declination to the
tangent of the difference of longitude, viz. As s 51°
32' : radius:: tang. 28° 43': tang. 35° o'. Laftly, to
find the height of the ftiie: As radius is to the cofne
of the latitude, fo is the co fine of the declination to the
fine of the /lile',s height, viz. Radius : s 38° 28' :: s 6i°
*7': s 53* 5'-
The three requifites thus obtained, the dial is drawn
in the following manner: Upon the meridian line G
XII, with any radius GC deferibe the arch of a circle,
upon which fet off 20° 55' from C to B, and draw
GB, which will be the iubftilar line, over wdiich the
ftiie of the dial muft be placed.
At right angles to this line GB, draw AQ^ inde¬
finitely through the point G : then from the icale of
latitudes take the height of the ftile 33° 5', and fet it
each wray from G to A and Laftly, take the
double length of 3 on the hour-line in your compaftes,
and fetting one foot in' A or Q. , with the other foot
mark the line GB in D, and join ADQ1), and then
the triangle ADQ^is completed upon the fubftile
GB.
To lay off the hours, the plane’s difference of lon¬
gitude being 35®, equal to 2 b. 20 min. in time, allow’-
ing 15° to an hour, fo that there will be 2 h. 20' be¬
tween the point D and the meridian G XII, in the
line AD. Therefore, take the fiiit 2c/ of the hour-
L I N G.
fcale in your compaffes, and fet off from D to 2 ; then
take 1 h. 20', and fet eff from D to 1; 2 h. 20', and fet
off from D to 1 2 } 3 h. 20, from D to 11 5 4 h. so'
from D to to j and 5 h. 20' from D to 9, which will
be 40' from A.
Then, on the other fide of the fubftilar line GB,-
you take 40' from the beginning of the fcale, and fet
off from D to 3 ; then take I h. 40', and fet off from D
to 4 •, alfo 2 h. 40', and fet off from D to 5 •, and fo on
to 8, which wbil be 20' from CL Then from G the
centre, through the feveral points 2, 1, f2, II, 10, 9,
on one fide, and 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, on the other, you
draw the hour-lines, as in the figure they appear. The
hour of VIII need only be drawn for the morning )
for the fun goes off from this nvefi dechner 201 before
VIII in the evening.—The quarters, &r. are all fet
off in the lame manner from the hour fcale as the
above hours were.
The next thing is fixing the ftiie or gnomon, which
is always placed in the fubftilar line GB, and which
is already drawn. The ftiie above the plane has been
found to be 33° 5': therefore,with any radius GB
deferibe an obicure arch, upon which fet oft’ o f 5'
from B to S, and draw'. GS, and tire angle SGb will
be the true height of the gnomon above the fubftile GB.
II. The Dialling Trigon is another new inftrument of ,
great utility in the practice of dialling; and was alio con¬
trived by the late Mr Martin. It is compofed of tw’O
graduated feales and a plane one. On the fcale AB
(fig. 36.) is graduated the line of latitudes ; and on
the fcale AC, the line of hours : thefe properly con¬
joined wTith the plane fcale BD, as fhown in the figure,
truly reprefent the gnomonical triangle, and is pro¬
perly called a dialling trigon. The hour-fcale AC is
here of its full length ; fo that the hours, halves, quar¬
ters, &c. and every fingle minute (if required) may
be immediately let off by a fteel point •, and from what
has before been obferved in regard to the ftdlor, it
muft appear that this method by the trigon is the moft
expeditious way of drawing dials that any mechanifm
of this fort can afford. As an example of the application
of this trigon in the conftruflion of an horizontal dial
for the latitude of London 51° 32', you muft proceed
as follows : Apply the trigon to the 6 o’clock line af
(fig. 29 ) on the morning fide, fo that the line of la¬
titudes may coincide with the 6 o’clock line, and the
beginning of the divlfions coincide with the centre a;
and at 51° 32'of the line ot latitudes place the 6 o’clock
edge of the line of hours, and the other end or begin¬
ning of the fcale clofe againft the plane tcalerr/, as
by the figure at d, andfaftening thefe bars down by the
feveral pins placed in them to the paper and board,
then the hours, quarters, &c. are all marked off with a
fteel point inftantly, and the hour lines drawn through
them as before, and as ftiown in the figure. When this
is done for the fide af ox morning hours, you move
the fcale of latitudes and hours to the other fide ce,
or afternoon fide, and place the hour-fcale to 510 32^
as before, and pulh down the hours, quarters, &c. and
draw the lines through them for the afternoon hours,
which is clearly reprefented in the figure.
In like manner is an ereB north or fouth dial drawn
(fee fig. 30.). the operation being juft the fame, only
reverfing the hours as in the figure, and marking the
angles -
2X4
DIAL
angles of the ftile’s height equal to the complement of
the latitude.
This trigon may be likewife ufed for drawing verti¬
cal declining dials (fig. 31.) as it is with the fame facility
applied to the lines AQ^GB, and the hours and quar¬
ters marked off as before dire&ed.
LING.
On the fcale BD of the trigon is graduated a line
of chords, which is found ufeful for laying eff the necef-
fary angles of the ftile’s height. The Icales of this tri¬
gon, when not in ufe, lie very clofe together, and pack
up into a portable cafe for the pocket.
D I A
D I A
Dialling
Lines
!1
Dialogue.
Dialling Lines, or Scales, are graduated lines, pla¬
ced on rules, or the edges of quadrants, and other in-
ftruments, to expedite the conftruftion of dials. See
Plate CLXXI.
DiALLiNG-SeBor. See Dialling, p. *12. and Plate
CLXXIV.
Dialling Sphere, is an inftrument madeof brafs, with
feveral femicircles Aiding over one another, on a mo¬
ving horizon, to demonftrate the nature of the doftrine
of fpherical triangles, and to give a true idea of the
drawing of dials on all manner of planes.
DiALLiNG-Trigon. See Dialling, p. 213, and Plate
CLXXIV.
Dialling, in a mine, called alfo Plumming, is the
tifing of a compafs (which they call dial), and a long
line, to know which way the load or vein of ore in¬
clines, or where to Aiift an air-Aiaft, or bring an adit
to a defired place.
DIALOGISM, in Rhetoric, is ufed for the folilo-
quy of pei ions deliberating with themfelves. See So¬
liloquy.
DIALOGUE, in matters of literature, a converfa-
tion between two or more perfons either by waiting
or by word of mouth.
Compofition and Style of written Dialogue. As the
end of fpeech is converfation, no kind of writing can
be more natural than dialogue, which reprefents this.
And accordingly w'e find it w^as introduced very early,
for there are feveral inftances of it in the Mofaic hi-
ftory. The ancient Greek writers alfo fell very much
into it, efpecially the philofophers, as the moft conve¬
nient and agreeable method of communicating their
fentiments and inftm61ions to mankind. And indeed
it feems to be attended with very confiderable advan¬
tages, if well and judicioufly managed. For it is ca¬
pable to make the drieft fubje&s entertaining and plea-
fant, by its variety, and the different charafters of the
fpeakers. Befides, things may be canvaffed more mi¬
nutely, and many leffer matters, which ferve to clear
up a fubjeft, may be introduced with a better grace,
by queftions and anfwers, oTjeftions and replies, than
can be conveniently done in a continued difcourfe.
There is likewife a further advantage in this way of
writing, that the author is at liberty to choofe his
fpeakers : and therefore, as Cicero has well obferved,
when we imagine that we hear perfons of an eftabliAied
reputation for wifdom and knowledge talking together,
it neceffarily adds a weight and authority to the dif¬
courfe, and more clofely engages the attention. The
fubjeft-matter of it is very intenfive for whatever is
a proper argument of difcourfe, public or private, fe-
rious or jocofe 5 whatever is fit for wife and ingenious
men to talk upon, either for improvement or diverfion, Dialogue,
is fuitable for a dialogue. y—J
From this general account of the nature of dialogue*
it is eafy to perceive what kind of Ayle belt fuits it.
Its affinity with Epistles, {hows there ought to be
no great difference between them in this refpeft. In¬
deed, fome have been of opinion, that it ought rather
to fink below that of an epiftle, becaufe dialogues
fhould in all refpedls reprefent the freedom of conver¬
fation *, whereas epiftles ought fometimes to be compo-
fed with care and accuracy, efpecially when written to
fuperiors. But there feems to be little weight in this
argument, fince the defign of an epiftle is to fay the
fame things, and in the fame manner, as the writer
judges would be moft fit and proper for him to fpeak,
if prefent. And the very fame thing is defigned in a
dialogue, with refpeft to the feveral perfons concerned
in it. Upon the whole, therefore, the like plain, eafy,
and fimple ftyle, fuited to the nature of the fubjeft,
and the particular charafters of the perfons concerned,
feems to agree to both.
But as greater fidll is required in writing dialogues
than letters, we ftiall give a more particular account of
the principal things neceffary to be regarded in their
compofition, and illuftrate them chiefly from Cicero’s
excellent Dialogues concerning an Orator.—A dia¬
logue, then confifts of two parts $ an intruduftion, and
the body of the difcovrfe.
I. The introduElion acquaints us with the place, time,
perfons, and occafion of the converiation. Thus Ci¬
cero places the fcene of his dialogues at Craffus’s coun¬
try feat } a very proper recefs, both for fuch a debate
and the parties engaged in it. And as they were per¬
fons of the firft rank, and employed in 'the greateft af¬
fairs of ftate, and the difcourfe held them for two days j
he reprefents it to have happened at the time of a fe-
ftival, when there was no bufinefs done at Rome, which
gave them an opportunity to be abient.
And becaufe the greateft regard is to be had in the
choice of the perfons, who ought to be fuch as are
well acquainted with the fubjedt upon which they dif¬
courfe •, in thefe dialogues of Cicero, the two principal
difputants are Craffus and Antony, the greateft orators
of that age, and therefore the moft proper perfons to
difpute upon the qualifications neceflary for their art.
One would think it fcarce nectffary to obferve, that
the conference ftiould be held by perfons who lived at
the fame time, and fo were capable to converfe toge¬
ther. But yet fome good writers have run into the
impiopriety of feigning dialogues between perfons who
lived at diftant times. Plato took this method, in
which he has been followed by Macrobius. But others,
I
Plate CLXX1.
' f./Ce/S e/cufrtirt'/cfrt ?
*
f
r-
[
dialling.
. Ho.
’ S"/ 23,
7
• 77,,. /f.r/ tTrajftfrrfrW/.
y>:.
c
t
A
D I A . [2
, Dialogue. who W been willing to bring perfons to difeourfe
together, who lived in different ages, without fuch in-
confiftency, have wrote dialogues of the dead. Lucian
has made himfelf moft remarkable in this way. As to
the number of perfons in a dialogue, they may be more
or lefs ; fo many as can conveniently carry on a con-
verfation without diforder or confufion may be ad¬
mitted. Some of Cicero’s dialogues have only two,
others three or more, and thofe concerning an orator
feven. And it is convenient they Ihould all, in fome re-
fpefts, be perfons of different charafters and abilities :
which contributes both to the variety and beauty of
the difeourfe, like the different attitudes of figures in
a pifture. Thus, in Cicero’s dialogues laft mentioned,
Craffus excelled in art, Antony principally for the force
of his genius, Catullus for the purity of his llyle, Sce-
vola for his {kill in the law, Caffar for wit and humourj
and though Sulpitius and Cotta, who were young men,
were both excellent orators, yet they differed in their
manner. But there Ihould be always one chief perfon,
who is to have the main part of the converfation ; like’
the hero in an epic poem or a tragedy, who excels the
reft in aftion ; or the principal figure in a pidlure,
which is moft confpicuous. In Plato’s dialogues, this*
is Socrates j and Craffus in thofe of Cicero above-
mentioned.
It is ufual likewife, in the introduction, to acquaint
us with the occafion of the difeoutfe. Indeed this is
not always mentioned j as in Cicero’s dialogue of the
parts of oratory, where the fon begins immediately
with defiring his father to inftruct him in the art. Bwt
it is generally taken notice of, and moft commonly
reprefented as accidental. The reafon of which may
be, that fuch difeourfes appear moft natural j and
may likewife afford fome kind of apology for the
writer in managing his different charaders, fince the
greateft men may be fuppofed not always to fpeak with
the utmoft: exaftnefs in an accidental converfation.
Thus Cicero, in his dialogues concerning an orator,
makes Craffus occafionally fall upon the fubjed of
oratory, to divert the company from the melancholy
thoughts of what they had been difeourfing of before,
with relation to the public diforders, and the dangers
which threatened their country. But the introdudion
ought not to be too long and tedious. Mr Addifon
complains of this fault in fome authors of this kind.
“ For though (as he fays) fome of the fineft treatifes
of the moft polite Latin and Greek writers are in dia-
logue, as many very valuable pieces of French, Italian,
and Englilh, appear in the fame drefs j yet in fome of
them there is fo much time taken up in ceremony, that,
before they enter on their fubjed, the dialogue is half
over.”
2. We come now to the body of the difeourfe, in
which fome things relating to the perfons, and others
to the fubjed, are proper to be remarked.
And as to the perfonst the principal thing to be at¬
tended to is to keep up a juftnefs of charader through
the whole. And the diftind charaders ought to be
lo perfedly obferved, that from the very words them-
ielves, lt may be always known who is the fpeaker.
I his makes dialogue more difficult than Angle deferip-
tion, by reafon of the number and variety of charaders
which are to be drawn at the fame time, and each of
them managed with the greateft propriety. The prin-
15 1 DIA
cipal fpeaker Ihould appear to be a perfon of great Dialogue*
fenfe and wifdom, and beft acquainted with the fub- ' *~mmJ
jed. No queftion ought to be alked him, or objedion
llarted to what he fays, but what he fhould fairly an-
fwer. And what is faid by the reft Ihould principally
tend to promote his difeourfe, and carry it through in
the moft artful and agreeable manner. When the argu¬
ment is attended with difficulties, one other perfon or
more may be introduced, of equal reputation, or near
it, but of different fentiments, to oppofe him, and main¬
tain the contrary fide of the queftion. This gives op¬
portunity for a thorough examination of the point on
both fides, and anfwering all objedions. But if the
combatants are not pretty equally matched, and ma¬
ilers of the fubjed, they will treat it but fuperficially.
And through the whole debate there ought not to bs
the leaf! wrangling, peevilhnefs, or obftinacy ; nothing
but the appearance of good humour and good breeding,
the gentleman and the friend, wuth areadinefs to fubmit
to convidion and the force of truth, as the evidence Ihall
appear on one fide or the other. In Cicero, thefe two
charaders are Craffus and Antony. And from them
Mr Addifon feems to have taken his Philander and
Cynthio, in his Dialogues upon the ufefulnefs of ancient
medals, which are formed pretty much on Cicero’s
plan. When younger perfons are prefent, or fuch
who are not equally acquainted with the fubjed, they
Ihould be rather upon the enquiry than difpute : And
the queftions they alk Ihould be neither too long nor
too frequent, that they may not too much interrupt
the debate, or appear over talkative before wifer and
more experienced perfons. Sulpitius and Cotta fuftain
this charader in Cicero, and Eugenios in Mr Addifon.
And it is very convenient there Ihould be one perfon
of a witty and jocofe humour, to enliven the difeourfe
at proper feafons, and make it the more entertaining,
efpecially when the dialogue is drawn out to any con-
fiderable length. Casfar has this part in Cicero. And
in Mr Addifon, Cynthio is a perfon of this turn, and
oppofes Philander in a merry way. Mr Addifon’s fub.
jed admitted of this : but the ferioufnefs and gravity
of Cicero’s argument required a different fpeaker for
the jocofe part. Many perfons ought not to fpeak im¬
mediately after one another. Horace’s rule for plays is:
To crowd the ftage is odious and abfurd.
Let no fourth ador ftrive to fpeak a word.
Though Scaliger and others think a fourth perfon may
fometimes be permitted to fpeak in the fame feene with¬
out confufion. However, if this is not commonly to be
allowed upon the ftage, where the adors are prefent,
and may be diftinguilhed by their voice and habit 5
much lefs in a dialogue, where you have only their
names to diftinguilh them.
With regard to the fubjett, all the arguments ffiould
appear probable at leaft, and nothing be advanced
which may feem w’eak or trivial. There ought alfo to
be an union in dialogue, that the difeourfe may not
ramble, but keep up to the main defign. Indeed, ftiort
and pleafant digreffions are fometimes allowable for
the eafe and entertainment of the reader. But every
thing fhould be fo managed, that he may ftill be able
to carry on the thread of the difeourfe in his mind, and
keep the main argument in view, till the whole is fi-
niftied. The writers of dialogue have not confined
I their
Dialogue
11 .
JDiamafti-
D I A [ 2,6 1
tlieir aifcourfes to any certain fpace of time j but ei¬
ther concluded them with the day, or broke oft when
their fpeakers have been tired, and reaflumed them
, again the next day. Thus Cicero allows two days for
his three dialogues concerning an orator ; but Mr Ad-
difbn extends his to three days, allowing a day for
each Nov has the fame method always been obierved
in compcfing dialogues. For Lmetimes the writer
by wav of narrative, relates a difcourie which palled
between other perfons. Such are the dialogues of Ci¬
cero and Mr Addifon laft mentioned, and many oti.ers
both of the ancients and moderns. But, at other times,
the fpeakers are introduced in perfon, as talking to
each other. This, as Cicero obferves, prevents the
frequent repetition of thofe words, he /aid, and he
replied •, and by placing the hearer, as it were, in the
converfation, gives him a more lively reprefentation ot
the difcourfe, which makes it the move aMing. And
therefore Cicero, who wrote his dialogue of old age in
this manner, in which Cato, who was then in years,
largely recounts the fatisfa&ion of life which may be
enjoyed in old age, tells his friend Atticus, he was
himfelf fo affeaed with that diicourfe, that when he
-reviewed it fometimes, he fancied they were not his ow-n
words, but Cato’s. There are feme other dialogues of
Cicero, written in the fame way ; as that Offnendjhip
and Of the parts of the Oratory. And both Plato and
Lucian generally chofe this method.
Dialogue, in dramatic compofuion. See Poetry,
chap. ii. 22. 23.
DIALTHALA, in Pharmacy, an unguent much
ufed as a refolvent; fo called from Althea, ormarfh-
mallows, which is the principal ingredient in it.
DIALYSIS, in Grammar, a mark or chara&er, con¬
fiding of two points, ", placed over two vowels of a
word, in order to feparate them, becaufe othervvife they
■would make them a diphthong, as Mofalc, &cc.
DIAMASTIGOSIS, a feftival at Sparta in honour
of Diana Orthia, which received that name tcv
from whipping, becaufe boys were whipped
before the altar of the goddefs. 1 hefe boys, called
-Bomonicae, were originally free born Spartans, but in
the more delicate ages they were of mean birth, and
generally of a flavifh origin. This operation was per¬
formed by an officer in a fevere and unfeeling manner ;
and that no compaffion fficuld be railed, the pneft
flood near the altar with a fmall light flatue of the god¬
defs, which fuddenly became heavy and infupportable
if the laffi of the whip was more lenient or Itfs rigo¬
rous. The parents of the children attended the folem-
nity, and exhorted them-not to commit any thing either
bv fear or groans, that might be unworthy of Laconian
education. Thefe flagellations were fo fevere, that the
blood guffied in profufe torrents, and many expired
under the laffi of the whip, without uttering a groan,
or betraying any marks of fear. Such a death was
reckoned" very honourable ; and the corpfe was buried
with much folemnity with a garland of flowers on its
head. The origin of this feflival is unknown. Some
fuppofe that Lycurgus firft inftituted it to inure the
youth of Lacedemon to bear labour and fatigue, and
render them infenfible to pain and wounds. Others
maintain, that it is a mitigation of an oracle, which
ordered that human blood ffiould be ffied on Diana’s
jdtar;. and according to their opinion, Otefles Aril in-
D I A *
troduced that barbarous cuftom, after he had brought
the flatue of Diana Taurica into Greece. 1 here is
another tradition which mentions, that Paufanias, as
he was offering up prayers and facrifices to the gods,
before he engaged with Mardonius, was fuddenly at¬
tacked by a number of Lydians, who diifurbed tne fa*
orifice, and were at laft repelled with ftaves and ftones,
the only weapons with which the Lacedemonians were
provided at that moment. In commemoration of this,
therefore, that whipping of boys was inftituted at Spar¬
ta, and after that the Lydian proceffion, .
DIAMETER, in Geometry, a right line palling
through the centre of a circle, and terminated at
each fide by the circumference thereof. See Geo-
METRY •
DIAMOND, the moft highly valued of precious
ftones. The fineft diamonds are perfeftly tranfparent
and colourlefs, of a regular form, and entirely free from
flaws and veins. They have been diftinguifhed by la¬
pidaries into oriental and occidtntal. But tlrtfe terms
are not expreflive of the country from which they are
brought, but merely of their qualities and value, the
oriental being reckoned the fineft and hardeft, and the
occidental of inferior value. See Chemistry and
Mineralogy Index.
Cornifh Diamond, a name given by many to the rock
cryflals found in the mines of tin in Cornwall. 1 hefe
cryftals are ufually bright and clear, and are found
moft frequently in the form of an hexangular cd-
lumn terminated at each end by an hexangular pyra-
mi<L/e Diamond is one that is quite flat underneath,
with its upper part cut in divers little faces, ufualiy tri¬
angles, the uppermeft of which terminate in a point
In rofe diamonds, the depth of the flone from the bale
to the point muft be half the breadth ot the diameter
of the bafe of the ftone. The diameter ot the crown
muft be -f of the diameter of the bafe. 1 he perpen¬
dicular, from the bafe to the crown, muft be -f ot the
diameter of the ftone. The lozenges which appear in
all circular rofe diamonds, will be equally divided by
the ribs that form the crown ; and the upper angles or
facets will terminate in the extreme point of the ftone,
and the lower in the bafe or girdle.
Rough Diamond, is the ftone as nature produces it
in the mines.
A rough diamond muft be chofen uniform, of a good
ffiape, tranfparent, not quite white, and free of flaws
and fliivers. Black, rugged, dirty, flawey, veiny ftones,
and all fuch as are not fit for cutting, they ufe to poui d
in a ft eel mortar made for that purpofe ; and when pul¬
verized, they ferve to faw, cut, and poliffi the reft.
Shivers are occafioned in diamonds by this, That the
miners, to get them more eaftly out of the vein, which
winds between two rocks, break the rocks with huge
iron levers, which ffiakes, and fills the ftone with cracks
and drivers. The ancients had two rmftaken notions
with regard to the diamond : the firft, I hat 11 became
foft by fteeping it in hot goats blood ; and the lecond,
that it is malleable, and bears the hammer. Experience
{hows us the contrary ; there being nothing capable ot
mollifying the hardnefs of this ftone though its hard-
nefs be not fuch, that it will endure being ftruck at plea-
fure with the hammer.
FaBitious Diamonds. Attempts have been made to
produce
D I A [2
Diamond, produce artificial diamonds, but with no great fuccefs.
Diana. —Thefe made in France called temple diamonds, on ac-
’’ count of the Temple at Paris, wheie the bell of them
are made, fall vallly Ihort of the genuine ones; accor¬
dingly they are but little valued, though the confump-
tion thereof is pretty confiderable for the habits of the
a6tors on the llage, &c. See Pastes.
Diamond, in the glafs trade, an inlfrument ufed for
Squaring the large plates or pieces ; and, among gla¬
ziers, for cutting their glafs.
Thefe forts of diamonds are differently fitted up.
That ufed for large pieces, as looking glalles, &c. is
fet in an iron ferril, about two inches long, and a quar¬
ter of an inch in diameter; the cavity of the ferril be¬
ing filled up with lead, to keep the diamond firm: there
is alfo a handle of box or ebony fitted to the ferril, for
holding it by.
Diamond, in Heraldry, a term ufed for exprefling
the black colour in the atchievements of peerage.
Guillim does not approve of blazoning the coats of
peers by precious Hones inftead of metals and colours;
but the Englifli practice allows it. Morgan fays the
diamond is an emblem of fortitude.
DIANA, the goddefs of hunting. According to
Cicero, there were three of this name ; a daughter of
Jupiter and Proferpine, who became mother of Cupid;
a daughter of Jupiter and Latona ; and a daughter of
Upis and Glauce. The fecond is the moft celebrated,
and to her all the ancients allude. She ivas born at
the fame birth as Apollo: and the pains which fhe faw
her mother fuffer during her labour gave her fuch an
averfion to marriage, that fire obtained of her father to
live in perpetual celibacy, and to prefide over the tra¬
vails of women. To fhun the fociety of men, (he de¬
voted herfelf to hunting; and was always accompanied
by a number of chofen virgins, who, like herfelf, ab¬
jured the ufe of marriage. She is reprefented with a
quiver and attended with dogs, and fometimes drawm
in a chariot by twm white Hags. Sometimes Ihe ap¬
pears with wings, holding a lion in one hand, and a
panther in the other, with a chariot drawn by two
heifers, or twTo horfes of dift'erent colours. She is re¬
prefented as tall; her face has fomething manly ; her
kgs are bare, well lhaped, andftrong; and her feet are
covered with a bulkin wrorn by huntreffes among the
ancients. She received many furnames, particularly
from the places where her worfhip was eftabliflied, and
from the funflions over which (he prefided. She was
called Lucina, Ilythia, or Juno Pronuba, when invoked
by wTomen in childbed ; and Trivia when worfliipped
in the croffways, where her ilatues were generally
eredfed. She wras fuppoled to be the fame as the moon
and Proferpine or Hecate, and from that circumfiance
Ihe was called Triformis ; and fome of her ftatues re¬
prefented her with three heads, that of a horfe, a dog,
and a boar. Her power and fundlions under thefe three
characters have been beautifully exprefled in thefe two
verfes:
Ter ret, lujlrat, n%it, Proferpina, Luna, Diana,
Ima, fuprema, feras, Jceptro, fu/gore, fagitta.
She wras alfo called Agrotera, Onthia, Taurica, Delia,
Cynthia, Aricw, &c. She was fuppofed to be the fame
as the Ifis of the Egyptians, whofe woxlhip was intro¬
duced into Greece with that of Qliiis under the name
Vox,. VII. Part I.
7 ] D I A
of Apollo. When Typhon waged war againfl the gods, Dian*
Diana metamorphofed herfelf into a cat to avoid his l|,
fury. She is generally know n, in the figures that re- .
prefent her, by the crelcent on her head, by the dogs
which attend her, and by her hunting habit. The
moil famous of her temples was that of Ephefus, which
w7as one of the (even wonders of the world : (See 1 phk-
sus.) She was there reprefented with a great number
of breads, and other fymbols, tvhich fignified the earth
or Cybele. Though die w7as the patronefs of chadity,
yet (he forgot her dignity to enjoy the company of
Endymion, and the very familiar favours which (he
granted to Pan and Orion are well known : (See En¬
dymion, Pan, Orion). The inhabitants of Taurica
were particularly attached to the worfiiip of this god¬
defs, and they cruelly offered on her altar all the
drangers that were diipwrecked on their coads. Her
temple in Aricia w;as ferved by a pried who had alw ays
murdered his predeceffor; and the Lacedemonians
yearly offered her human viclims till the age of Lycur-
gus, who changed this barbarous cudcm for the facri-
fice of tlagellation. The Athenians generally offered
her goats ; and others a white kid, and fometimes a
boar pig or an ox. Among plants, the poppy and
the dittany were facred to her. She, as well as her
brother Apollo, had fome oracles; among w-hich thofe
of Egypt, Cilicia, and Ephefus, are the mod known.
DI AN/E arbor, or Arbor Luna-:, in Chemiftry,
the beautiful arborefeent form of filver, diffolved in
nitric acid, and precipitated by another metal ; fo
called from its refembling the trunk, branches, leaves,
&c. of a tree. See Chemistry Index.
Dianjb. Fanum, in Ancient Geography, a promon¬
tory of Bithynia: now Scutari, a citadel oppofite to
Condantinople, on the ead fide of the Bofphorus
Thracius.
Dianm Portus, a port of Corfica, fituated between
Aleria and Mariana, on the ead fide.
DIANDRIA (from twice, and a man), the
name of the fecond clafs in Linnaeus’s lexual fydem,
confiding of hermaphrodite plants; which, as the
name imports, have dowers with two flamina or male
organs.
The orders in this clafs are three, derived from the
number of dyles or female parts. Mod plants wfitb
two damina have one dyle ; as jeffamine, lilach, privet,
veronica, and badard alaternus; vernal grafs has twro
dyles ; pepper, three.
DIANiUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of the
Contedani, in the Hither Spain ; famous for a temple
of Diana, whence the name : now Denia, a fmali
town of Valencia, on the Mediterranean. Alfo a
promontory near Dianium : now F.l Cabo Martin,
four leagues from Denia, running out into the Medi¬
terranean.
DI ANTHER A, a genus of plants belonging to
the diandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking
under the 40th order, Perfonatce. See Botany Index.
DIANTHUS, clove gilliflcwer, carnation,
pink, sweet-william, &.c. a genus of plants be¬
longing to the decandria clafs, and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 22d order, Caryophyllei. See
Botany Index.
There are a great number of fpecies; but not more
than four that have any confiderable beauty as garden
E e flowers.
D I A [21
Bianthus. flowers, each of which furnUhes fome beautiful yarie-
' ties. i. The caryophyllus, or clove gilliflower, inclu¬
ding all the varieties of carnation. It rifes with many
fhort trailing (hoots from the root, garnifhed with long,
very narrow, evergreen leaves; and amidft them up¬
right (lender flower-ftalks, from one to three feet high,
emitting many (ide (hoots j all of which, as well as the
main llalk, are terminated by large folitary flowers,
having (hort oval fcales to the calyx, and crenated pe¬
tals. The varieties of this are very numerous, and
unlimited in the diverfity of flowers. 2. The del-
toides, or common pink, rifes with numerous (hort
leafy (hoots crowning the root, in a tufted head clofe
to the ground, clofely garnifhed with (mall narrow
leaves ; and from the ends of the (hoots many ereft
flower-ftalks, from about 6 to 15 inches high, termi¬
nated by folitary flowers of different colours, Angle
and double, and fometimes flnely variegated. This
fpecies is perennial, as all the varieties of it commonly
cultivated alfo are. 3. The Chinenfls, Chinefe, or In¬
dian pink, is an annual plant with upright Arm flower-
ftalks, branching ereft on every Ade, a foot or 15
inches high, having all the branches terminated by fo¬
litary flowers of different colours and variegations, ap¬
pearing from July to November. 4‘ The barbatus, or
• bearded dianthus, commonly called fweet-willwm.
This rifes with many thick leafy (hoots, crowning the
root in a clutter clofe to the ground ; garnilhed with
fpear-flhaped evergreen leaves, from half an inch to
two inches broad. The Items are upright and Arm,
branching eredt two or three feet high, having all
the branches and main (tern crowned by numerous
flowers in aggregate clufters of different colours and
variegations.
Culture. Though the carnations grow freely in al-
moft any garden earth, and in it produce beautiful
flowers, yet they are generally fuperior in that of a
light loamy nature ; and of this kind of foil the florifts
generally prepare a kind of compoft in the following
manner, efpecially for thofe flne varieties which they
keep in pots. A quantity of loamy earth muft be
provided, of a light fandy temperature, from an up¬
land or dry pafture fleld or common, taking the top
fpit turf and all, which muft be laid in a heap for a
year, and turned over frequently. It muft then be
mixed with about one third of rotten dung of old hot¬
beds, or rotten neats dung, and a little fea-fand, form¬
ing the whole into a heap again, to lie three, four, or
Ax months, at which time it will be excellent for ufe •,
and if one parcel or heap was mixed with one of thefe
kinds of dungs, and another parcel with the other, it
will make a change, and may be found very beneficial
in promoting the fize of the florvers. This compoft,
or any other made ufe of for the purpofe, (hould not
be Afted, but only well broken with the fpade and
hands.—When great quantities of carnations are re¬
quired, either to furnifti large grounds, or for market,
or when it is intended to raife new varieties, it is eaAly
effefted by fowing fome feed annually in fpring, in
common earth, from which the plants will rife abun¬
dantly. Several good varieties may alfo be expelled
from the plants of each fowing ; and poflibly not one
exactly like thofe from which the feett was faved. The
Angle flowers are always more numerous than the double
ones j but it i* from the latter only that we are to fe-
s ] d 1 A
left our varieties. The feafon for fowing the feed is Diawthur.
any time from the 20th of March to the 15th of
April.—The plants generally come up in a month af¬
ter fowing: they muft be occaflonally weeded and wa¬
tered till July, when they will be fit for tranfplanting
into the nurfery beds. Thefe beds muft be made
about three feet wide, in an open fituation j and ta¬
king advantage of moift weather, prick the plants
therein four inches afunder, and finifti with a gentle
watering, which repeat occafionally till the plants have
taken good root. Here they muft remain till Septem¬
ber, whqn they will be fo well advanced in growth as
to require more room; and fhould then have their
final tranfplantation into other three feet wide beds of
good earth, in rows 9 inches afunder, where they are
to be placed in the order of quincunx. Here they
are to remain all winter, until they flower, and have
obtained an increafe of the approved varieties of doubles
by layers i and until this period, all the culture they
require is, that if the winter (hculd prove very fevere,
an occafional (helter of mats will be of advantage. In
fpring, the ground muft be loofened with a hoe $ they
muft be kept clear from weeds : and when the flower-
ftalks advance they are to be tied up to (licks, efpe¬
cially all thofe that promife by their large flower-pods
to be doubles.
The only certain method of propagating the double
varieties is by layers. The proper part^ for layers are
thofe leafy (hoots arifing near the crown of the root,
which, w'hen about five, fix, or eight inches long, are of
a proper degree of growth for layers. The general fea¬
fon for this work is June, July, and the beginning of
Auguft, as then the (hoots will be arrived at a proper
growth for that operation ; and the fooner it is done
after the (hoots are ready the better, that they may
have fufficient time to acquire ftrength before winter j
thefe laid in June and July wull be fit to take off
in Auguft and September, fo will form fine plants in
the month of Oftober. The method of performing
the work is as follows. Firft provide a quantity
of fmall hooked (licks for pegs. They muft be three
or four inches long j and their ufe is to peg the layers
down to the ground. Get ready alfo in a barrow a
quantity of light rich mould, to raife the earth, if
neceffary, round each plant, and provide alfo a (harp
penknife. The work is begun by dripping off all the
leaves from the body of the (hoots, and (hortening
thofe at top an inch or twm evenly. Then choofe a
ftrong joint on the middle of the (hoot or thereabouts,
and on the back or under fide thereof, cut with the
penknife the joint half way through, direfling your
knife upward lo as to (lit the joint up the middle, al-
moft to the next joint above, by which you form a
kind of tongue on the back of the (hoot; obferving
that the fwelling (kinny part of the joint remaining at
the bottom of the tongue muft be trimmed off, that
nothing may obftrufl the iffuing of the fibres j for the
layers always form their roots at that part. 1 his done,
loofen the earth about the plant j and, if neceffary, add
fome frefti mould, to raife it for the more ready recep¬
tion of the layers j then wuth your finger make a hol¬
low or drill in the earth to receive the layer •, which
bend horizontally into the opening, raifing the top up¬
right, fo as to keep the ga(h or (lit part of the layer
open j and, with one of the hooked flicks, peg down
D I A [2
ftianthus, tlie body of the layer, to fecure it in its proper place
Diapafon. an<l pofition, ftill preferving the top ereft and the flit
"“‘■'“V""—' open, and draw the earth over it an inch or two,
bringing it clofe about the eredl part of the fliootj and
when all the (hoots of each plant ate thus laid, give
dire&ly fome water to fettle the earth clofe, and the
Work is flnifheS, In dry weather the waterings nluft
be often repeated, and in five or fi:t weeks the layers
will have formed good roots. They mull then be fe-
parated with a knife from the old plant, gently raifed
out of the earth with the point of a knife or trowel, in
order to preferve the fibrous roots of the layers as en¬
tire as poflible ; and when thus taken up, cut off the
naked fticky part at bottom clofe to the root, and trim
the tops of the leaves a little. They are then ready
for planting either into beds or pots. In November
the fine varieties in pots Ihould be moved to a funny
Iheltered fituation for the winter ) and if placed in a
frame, to have occafional proteftion from hard froft, it
will be of much advantage. In the latter end of Fe¬
bruary, or fome time in March, the layers in the fmall
pots, or fuch as are in beds, Ihould be tranfplanted with
balls into the large pots, where they are to remain for
flower. To have as large flowers as poflible, curious
florifts clear off all fide (hoots from the flower flem, fuf-
fering only the main or top buds to remain for flower¬
ing. When the flowers begin to open, attendance
Ihould be given to aflift the fine varieties, to promote
their regular expanfion, particularly the largeft kinds
called burjiers, whofe flowers are fometimes three or
four inches diameter. Unlefs thefe are aflifted by art,
they are apt to burfi: open on one fide, in which cafe
the flower will become very irregular : therefore, at¬
tending every day at that period, obferve, as foon as
the calyx begins to break, to cut it a little open at two
other places in the indenting at top with narrow-point¬
ed fciflars, and hereby the more regular expanfion of the
petals will be promoted : obferving, if one fide of any
flower comes out fader than another, to turn the pot
about, that the other fide of the flower may be next the
fun, which will alfo greatly promote its regular expan¬
fion. When any fine flower is to be blown as large and
fpreading as poflible, florifls place fpreading paper col¬
lars round the bottom of the flowers, on which they
thay fpread their petals to the utmofl expanfion. Thefe
Collars are made of fliff white paper, cut circular about
three or four inches over, having a hole in the middle
to receive the bottom of the flower, and one fide cut
open to admit it. This is to be placed round the bot¬
tom of the petals in the infide of the calyx, the leaves
of which are made to fpread flat for its fupport. The
petals mud then be drawn out and fpread upon the col¬
lar to their full width and extent; the longed ones un-
dermod, and the next longed upon thefe; and fo on ;
obferving that the collar mud nowhere appear wider
than the flower; and thus a carnation may be rendered
very large and handfome.
1 hefe dire<dions will anfwer equally well for the pro¬
pagation of the pinks and fweet-williams, though neither
of thefe require fuch nicety in their culture as the car¬
nations.
DIAPASON, in Mujtc, a mufical interval, by which
mod authors who have wrote on the theory of mufic
ufe to exprefs the octave of the Greeks.
Diapasok, among the mufical indrument makers, a
19 ] D I A
kind of rule or fcale whereby they adjufl; the pipes of Diapaibn
their organs, and cut the holes of their hautboys, flutes, . II
&c. in due proportion for performing the tones, femi- Dia^horc"
tones, and concords, jud. . ^
Diapason Diaex, in Mafic, a kind of compound
concord, whereof there are two forts; the greater,
which is in the proportion of 10-3 ; and the Idler, in
that of 16 5.
Diapason Diapente, in Mnjic, a compound confo-
nance in a triple ratio, as 3 9. This interval fays
Martianus Capella^ confids of 9 tones and a femitone;
19 femitones, and 38 diefes. It is a fyfcphony made
when the voice proceeds from the fird to the twelfth
found.
Diapason DiateJJaron, in Mufic, a compound con¬
cord founded on the proportion of 8 to 3. To this in¬
terval Martianus Capella allows 8 tones and a femitone;
17 femitones, and 34 diefes. This is when the voice
proceeds from its fird to its eleventh found. The mo¬
derns would rather call it the eleventh.
Diapason Ditone, in Mujic, a compound concord.
whofe terms are as 10-4, or as 5 2.
Diapason Semiditone, in Mujic, a compound concordj
whofe terms are in the proportion of 12-5.
DIAPEDESIS, in Medicine, a tranfudation of the
fluids through the fides of the veflels that contain them,
occafioned by the blood’s becoming too much attenua¬
ted, or the pores becoming too patent.
DIAPENSIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DIAPENTE, in the ancient mufic, an interval
marking the fecond of the concords, and with the dia-
teffaron an oftave. This is what in the modern mufic
is called a Jifth.
DIAPHANOUS, an appellation given to all tranf-
parent bodies, or fuch as tranfmit the rays of light.
DIAPHORESIS, in Medicine, an elimination of
the humours in any part of the body through the pores
of the (kin. See Perspiration.
DIAPHORETICS, among phyficians, all medi¬
cines which promote perfoiration.
DIAPHRAGM, (Diaphragma), in Anatomy, a
part vulgarly called the midriff, and by anatomidsy^/)-
tum tranfverfum. It is a drong mufcular fubdance, fe-
parating the bread or thorax from the abdomen or
lower venter, and ferving as a partition between the
abdominal and the thoracic vifcera. See Anatomy
Index.
It was Plato, as Galen informs us, wTho fird called
it diaphragm, from the verb 2ict<p{XT%ir, to feparate or be
between two. Till his time it had been called
from a notion that an inflammation of this part produ¬
ced phrenzy ; which is not at all warranted by expe¬
rience, any more than that other tradition, that a tranl-
verfe feftion of the diaphragm with a fword caufes the
patient to die laughing.
DIAPHORESIS, ini?i>e/0rzr, is ufed to
exprefs the hefitation or uncertainty of the fpeaker.
We have an example in Homer, where Ulydes, go¬
ing to relate his fufferings to Alcinous, begins thus;
T< TTgWTW Tl S’ tTTitlx, n djvwtiov XCCT&^lt'CrJ ?
^uid primum, quid deinde, quidpojlremo alloquar?
This figure is mod naturally placed in the exordium
or introduction to a difcouvfe. See Doubting.
E e 2 DIARBECK,
D I A [
DIx\RttFXK, or Diakbekr, an extenfive pro¬
vince of Eaftern Afiatic Turkey *, comprehending m
its lateft extent, Diarbehr, properly fo called, lerack or
Cha/ctea, and Curdijlan, which were the ancient coun¬
tries of Mefopotamia, Chaldea, and Affyna, with Ly-
bvlon. It is called Diarbeck, Diarbeker, or Diarbekr as
fignifying the “ duke’s country,” from the word dbyar
“ a duke”, and bekr, “ country.” It extends along the
banks of the Tigris and Euphrates from north north-
weft to fouth-eaft, that is, from Mount Taurus, which
divides it from Turcomania on the north, to the inmoft
recefs of the Perfian gulf on the louth, about 600
miles ; and from eaft to weft, that is, from Perfia on
the eaft to Syria and Arabia Delerta on the weft, in
fome places 200, and in otheis about 300 miles,
but in the fouthern or lower parts not above 150. As
extending alfo from the 30th to the 38th degree of
latitude, it lies under part of the fifth and hxtli cli¬
mates, whole longeft day is about 14 hours and a halt
and fo in proportion, and confequently enjoys a good
temuerature of air, as well as, in the greater part of it,
a rich and fertile foil. There are indeed, as in all hot
countries, fome large deferts in it, which produce no
fuftenance for men or cattle, nor have any inhabitants.
Being a cor.tiderable frontier towards the kingdom of
Perfia, it is very well guarded and fortified ; but as for
thofe many cities once fo renowned for their greatnefs
and opulence, they are at prefent almoft dwindled into
heaps of ruins. Bagdad, Mouffal, Caramed, and a
few more, indeed continue to be populous and wealthy,
but the reft can fcarce be called by any other name
than that of forry places. The rivers Euphrates
and Tigris have almoft their whole courfe through this
Diarbeck 'Proper is bounded on the north by 1 urco-
mania, on the weft by Syria, on the fouth by part of
Arabia Deferta and Irack Proper, and on the' eaft
by Curdiltan. It was named by Mofes Padan-/train;
the latter being the general name of Syria ; and the
former fignifying fruitfu/, a proper epithet for this
country, which is really fo to a very high degree, e-
fpecially on the northern fide, where it yields corn,
wine, oil, fruits, and all neceffaries of life in great abun¬
dance. Formerly it was the refidence of many famed
patriarchs, yet was overrun with the groffeft idolatry,
not only in the time of Abraham’s coming out of it,
and Jacob’s fojourning in it, but like wife during the
time it continued under the dominion of the Affynans,
Babylonians, Medes, Perfians, and Romans. It re¬
ceived indeed the light of the gofpel foon after our
Saviour’s afcenfion, from St Thaddaeus, who is laid
to have been fent thither by St Thomas, at the requtft
of A-bgarus king of Edeffa. This account, together
with that monarch’s letter to Jefus Chnft, we have
from Eufebius, who took it from the archives or that
city • and the whole had pafied current and uncon-
tradifted for many ages, till our more enlightened mo¬
derns found reafons to condemn it ; but whether right
or wrong, it plainly appears that Chriftianity flounfh-
ed here in a moft eminent manner, till its purity was
fullied about the beginning of the fixth century by
the h refy of the Jacobites, whofe patriarch ftill re-
fides here, with a jurifdi«5fion over all that feft in the
Turkifh dominions.
Diarbeck Proper is a beglerbegate, under which
220 ] ^ ^ ^ .
are reckoned twelve fangiacs ; and the principal towns Diarbekif^
in it are, Diarbekir or Caramed, Rika, Moufful, Or-^ v
fa or Edeffa, Elbir, Nifibis, Gezir Merdin, Zibin,
Ur of the Chaldees, Amad, and Carafara ; but all now
of little note excepting Diarbekir and Moufful.
Diarbekir, the capital of the above diftria, is fi-
tuated in a delightful plain, on the banks and near
the head of the Tigris, about 155 miles or 15 cara¬
van days journey north-eaft from Aleppo, in latitude
27° 3c', eaft longitude 40° 50'. The bridge of 10
arches over the laid river is faid to have been built by
the order of Alexander the Great. It is one of the
richeft and moft mercantile cities in all Afiatic Poe*
key ; and is well fortified, being encompaffed with a
double wall, the outermoft of which is flanked, with 72
towers, faid tohave been raifed in memory of our Saviour’s
72 difciples. It has feveral ftately piazzas or market¬
places, well ftored with all kinds of rich merchandife,
and 1 2 magnificent mofques, faid to have been formerly
Chriftian churches. Its chief manufafture is the dret-
fing, tanning, and dying of goats fkins, commonly
called Turkey leather, of which the vent is almoft in-
credible in many parts of Europe and Afia : befides
this, there is another of dyed fine linen and cotton
cloths, which are nearly in the fame requeft. The
waters of the Tigris are reckoned extraordinary for
thofe two branches of trade, and give red leather a
finer grain and colour than any other._ I here is a
good number of large and convenient inns on both
fides of the river, for the caravans that go to and from
Perfia ; and on the road near the town is a chapel with
a cupola, where Job is faid to lie buried.. This place
is much frequented by pilgrims of all nations and re¬
ligions, and a Turkifh hermit has a cell clofe to it.-
The fair fex, who, in moft other parts of the Turkith
empire, are kept quite immured, and confidered as
mere Haves, enjoy here an extraordinary liberty, and
are commonly Teen on the public walks of the city m
company with the Chriftian women, and hve in great
friendfhip and familiarity with them. I he fame is
faid of the men, who are polite, affable and courteous,
and very different from what they affeft to.be, espe¬
cially the Turks, in other cities of this empire. 1 he
city is under the government of a baftra, who has great
power and very large dominions.. He has commonly
a body of 20,000 horfe under him, .or repelling the
frequent incurfions of the Curdes and Tartars, wha
always go on horfeback to rob the caravans I he ad¬
jacent territory is very rich and beautiful j the bread
wine and flefh are excellent j the fruits exquifite, and
the pigeons better and larger than any in Europe. .
Mr Ives, who paffed through this city in 1758, in¬
forms us, that “ about two years ago it was very po¬
pulous, its inhabitants amounting to. 4CO,COO fouls ?
but in the laft year 300,000 died , either by cold or
famine. The Chriftians refidmg in the city before
this calamity were reckoned to amount to 26,000, of
whom 20,000 died. This account we haa from one
of the French miflionanes, a Capuchin, who alfo faid,
that before the famine the city contained 60,000 fight¬
ing men, but that now they are not able to mufter
10,000. He affures us, that the hou.fes and l.reets,
nay the very mofques, were, filled with dead ; that
everv part of the city exhibited a dreadful image cf
death 3 and that the furviving inhabitants m* only
D I A [2
Biarrhcea greedily devoured all kinds of hearts, brutes, and rep-
^.11^ ^ tiles, but alfo were obliged to feed on human bodies.
'.Yet, in the midft of this fcene of horror, the grandees
of the city had every thing in plenty ; for they had
taken care to monopolize vaft quantities of corn, which
they fold out to the other inhabitants at moft extra¬
vagant prices, and thereby acquired for themfelves im-
menfe fortunes. Corn rofe from two piaftres a mea-
fure to 50, 60, and even 70, in the fpace of fix months,
The father added, that the very fevere winter of 1756,
and the locults in 1757, were the caufes of this dread¬
ful vifitation : for by rcafon of the former, there wTere
but few acres of land fown with corn ; and by the lat¬
ter, the fmall crop they had was in a great meafure
deftroyed. He fpoke of the feverity of that winter in
terms alvnoft incredible : that it was common to fee the
people fall down dead in the ftreets j that he himfelf
once on quitting a warm room, and going into the
open air, fell down motionlefs 5 and that his brother, in
attempting to afliit him, met with the fame fate.”
This account of the effnrts of cold in the city of Di-
arbekir, which lies only in about 38° north, feems at
firft very furprifing ; but confidering that the place
ftands on a riling ground in the midft of an extenfive
plain, and that the high Curdiftan mountains lie to
the fouth and eaft of it, and the Armenian or Turco-
xnanian to the north, whofe heads are always covered
with fnow, and even now in July fupply the city with
ice ; it will not appear at all improbable, that in a very
fevere winter, fuch as that was in 1756, the inhabi¬
tants of this city fhould fo feverely feel the efiefts of
it. Befides, fuel muft have been extremely fcarce,
efpecially among the poorer fort, as nothing of this
kind is produced but upon the mountains, and thefe
lie at fuch a dillance that the price of it mult thereby
be preatly enhanced.
DIARRHCEA, or Looseness, in Medicine, is a
frequent and copious evacuation of liquid excrement by
ftool. See Medicine Index.
DIARTHROSIS, in Anatomy, a kind of articula¬
tion or junilure of the bones; which being pretty lax
affords room for a manifeft motion. The word comes
from 5i,as, and juncture, afjemblage. It is oppof-
ed tofynarthrojis, wherein the articulation is fo clofe
that there is no fenfible motion at all. See ^natomy,
N° 2.
DIARY, a term fometimes ufed for a journal or day¬
book, containing an account of every day’s proceedings.
Thus we fay, diaries of the weather, &c.
Diary Fever, is a fever of one day. See Ephe¬
mera.
DIASCHISM, among muficians, denotes the differ¬
ence between the comma and enharmonic diefis, com¬
monly called the lejfer comma.
DIASCORDIUM, in Pharmacy, a celebrated
compofition, fo called from fcordium, one of its ingredi¬
ents. See Pharmacy. - r
DIASTOLE, among phyficians, fignifies the dila¬
tation of the heart, auricles, and arteries ; and Hands
oppoftd to the systole, or contraftion of the fame
parts. See Anatomy Index.
Diastole, in Grammar, a figure in profody where¬
by a iyllable naturally rtrort is made long. Such is the
firft fyllable of Pnamtdes in the following verfe of
Virgil:
2! ] DIG
Atque hie Priamides ! nihil 6 tibi, amice, r el ilium.
Dlafyrnras
II
DIASYRMUS, in Rhetoric, a kind of hyperbole.PichonJril;.
being an exaggeration of home low, ridiculous thinp-.
DIATESSARON, among ancient muficians, n
concord or harmonical interval, compofed of a greater
tone, a lefs tone, and one greater femitone ; its pro¬
portion in numbers is as 4 : 3.
DIATONICK in Mufc, (compounded of two
Greek words, viz. the prepoiition fignifying a tran-
fition from one thing to another, and the lubftantive
Tovaj, importing a given degree of tenfion or mufical
note), is indifferently applied to a fcale or gammut, to
intervals of a certain kind, or to a fpecies of mufic,
whether in melody or harmony, compofed of thefe in¬
tervals. Thus we fay the diatonick feries, a diatonick
interval, diatonick melody or harmony. As the diato¬
nick fcale forms the fyftem of diatonick mufic, and
confifts of diatonick intervals, it will be neceffaty, for
undeiHanding the former, that we rtiould explain the
latter. See Interval.
DIATRAGACANTH, in Pharmacy, a name ap¬
plied to certain powders, ol which gum trugacanth is
the chief ingredient.
DIBBLE, or Dibber, a fimple but ufeful inftru-
ment in gardening, ufed for planting out all forts of
young plants, &c.
DIBBLING wheat. See Agricultup.e Index.
DIBIO, or Div.o, in Ancient Geography, the Divio-
nenfc Cafrum. and tne Divionum of the lower age ; a
town of the Lingones, in Gallia Belgica : Dibionenfes
the people. Now' Dijon the capital of Burgundy. E.
Long. 5. 5. N. Lat. 47. 15.
DICE, among gamefters, certain cubical pieces of
bone or ivory, marked with dots on each of their
faces, from one to fix, according to the number of
faces.
Sharpers have feveral ways of falfifying dice. 1. By
flicking a hog’s bnftle in them, fo as to make them
run high or low as they pleafe. 2. By drilling and
loading them with quickfilver ; which cheat is found
out by holding them gently by two diagonal corners :
for if falfe, the heavy fides will turn always down.
3. By filing and rounding them. But all thefe ways
fall far fhort of the art of the dice-makers ; fome of
whom are fo dexterous this way, that your fharping
gamefter xvill give any money for them.
Dice formerly paid 5s. every pair imported, with an
additional duty of 4s. (hVo-L for every 20s. value upon
oath ; but are now prohibited to be imported.
DieAE, ARCH US, a fcholar of Ariflotle, compof¬
ed a great number of books which were much efteem-
ed. Cicero and his friend Pomponius Atticus valued
him highly. He wrote a book to prove, that men
fuffer more mifehief from one another than from all
evils befide. And the work he compoftd concerning,
the republic of Lacedemon was extremely honoured,
and read every year before the youth in the affembly
of the tphori. Geography wTas one of his principal
ftudies, on which fcience there is a fragment of a trea-
tife of his ftill extant, and preferved among the Vcteris
geographice feriptores minores.
DlCHONDRA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pent mdria cEfs ; and in the natural method ranking,
under the order Campanacet. See Botany Index.
DICHOTOMOUS,
€
DIG [ *2:
DICHOTOMOUS, in Botany. See Botany
Index.
DICHOTOMY, a term ufed by aftronomers for
that phafis or appearance of the moon, wherein {he is
bife£ted, or fhows juft half her difk. In this fituation
the moon is faid to be in a quadrate afpe&, or to be in
her quadrature.
DICKER, in old writers., denotes the. quantity of
ten hides of {kins whereof 20 made a laft s alfo IO pair
of gloves, ten bars of iron, and the like, are fometimes
exprefled by the term dicier.
DICKINSON, Edmund, a celebrated Englilh phy-
lician and chemift, born in 1624. He ftudied and
took his degrees at Merton college, Oxford $ and in
161J5 publilhed there his Delphi Phcenicixantes &c. a
moft learned piece, in which he attempted to prove,
that the Greeks borrowed the ftory of the Pythian
Apollo, and all that rendered the oracle at Delphos
famous, from the Holy Scriptures, and the book of
Joftiua in particular : a work that procured him great
reputation both at home and abroad. Pie pra&ifed
phyfic firft at Oxford j but removing to London in
1684, his good fortune in recovering the earl of Ar¬
lington from a dangerous ficknefe, procured his promo¬
tion to be phyfician in ordinary to Charles II. and
to his houfehold. As that prince underftood and loved
chemiftry, DrDickinfongrew into great favour at court,
and was continued in his appointments under James
II. After the abdication of his unfortunate mafter,
being then in years, and afBi&ed with the ftone,
he retired from praftice, and died in I7°7* He
publilhed many other things, particularly Phyjica ve¬
ins et vera, &c. containing a fyftem of philofophy,
chiefly framed on principles collefled from the Mofaic
hi ftory.
DICTAMNUS, white dittany, or Fraxinella:
A genus of plants belonging to the decandria clafs ;
and in the natural method ranking under the 26th
order, Multifilique. See Botany Index.
DICTATOR, a magiftrate at Rome invefted with
regal authority. This officer was firft chofen during
the Roman wars againft the Latins. The confuls be¬
ing unable to raife forces for the defence of the ftate,
becaufe the plebeians refufed to inlift if they were not
difeharged of all the debts they had contracted with
the patricians, the fenate found it neceflary to eleCt a
new magiftrate with abfolute and uncontroulable power
to take care of the ftate. The dictator remained in
office for fix months, after which he was again eleCted
if the affairs of the ftate feemed to be defperate; but
if tranquillity was re-eftabliffied, he generally laid down
his power before the time was expired. He knew no
fuperior in the republic, and even the laws were fub-
jeCted to him. He was called dictator, becaufe diftus,
named by the conful, or quoniarn diElis ejus parehat po
pulus, becaufe the people implicitly obeyed his com¬
mand. He was named by the conful in the night
viva voce, unA his eleCtion was confirmed by the au¬
gurs. As his power was abfolute, he could proclaim
war, levy forces, conduCt them againft an enemy, and
dilband them at his pleafure. He punilhed as he pleafed,
and from his decifion there lay no appeal, at leaft till
latter times. He was preceded by 24 hCtors with the
fafeet ; during his adminiftration, all other officers, ex¬
cept the tribunes of the people, were fufpended, and
1
S ] DIG
he was the mafter of the republic. But amidfl all this Di<?non,’
independence, he was not permitted to go beyond ‘--°na‘ •
the borders of Italy •, he was always obliged to march
on foot in his expeditions ; he never could ride in
difficult and laborious marches without previoufly ob¬
taining a formal leave from the people. He was cho¬
fen only when the ftate was in imminent danger from
foreign enemies or inward feditions. In the time of
a peftilence a dictator was fometimes eleCted, as alfo
to hold the comitid, or to celebrate the public feftivals,
or drive a nail into the capitol, by which fuperftitious
ceremony the Romans believed that a plague could
be averted, or the progrefs of an enemy flopped. This
office fo refpeCtable and illuftrious in the firft ages of
the republic, became odious by the perpetual ufurpa-
tions of Sylla and Julius Caefar •, and after the death of
the latter, the Roman fenate paffed a decree which for
ever after forbade a diClator to exift in Rome. The
diClator, as foon as eleCted, chofe a fubordinate of¬
ficer called his mafter of horfe, Inagijler equitum. This
officer was refpe&able : but he was totally fubfervient
to the will of the diClator, and could do nothing with¬
out his exprefs order. This fubordination, horvever,
was fome time after removed ; and during the fecond
Punic war the mafter of the horfe was invefted with a
power equal to that of the diClator. A fecond diCla¬
tor was alfo chofen for the eledion of magiftrates at
Rome after the battle of Cannae. The diClatorfliip
was originally confined to the patricians; but the ple¬
beians were afterwards admitted to {hare it. Titus
Lartius Flavus was the firft diClator, in the year of
Rome, 253.
DICTION, the phrafe, elocution or ftyle, of a
writer or fpeaker. See Oratory, N° 99-—122.
DICTIONARY, in its original acceptation, is the
arranging all the words of a language according to the
order of the alphabet, and annexing a definition or ex¬
planation to each w ord. When arts and Iciences began
to be improved and extended, the multiplicity of tech¬
nical terms rendered it neceffary to compile dictionaries,
either of fcience in general, ot of particular fciences,
according to the views of the compiler.
DictioNAur of the Englijh Language. The defign
of every dictionary of language is to explain, in the
moft; accurate manner, the meaning of every word ;
and to ffiow the various ways in which it can be com¬
bined with others, in as far as this tends to alter its
meaning. The dictionary which does this in the moft
accurate manner is the moft complete. Therefore the
principal ftudy of a lexicographer ought to be, to dif-
cover a method which will be beft adapted for that
purpofe. Dr Johnfon, with great labour, has col¬
lected the various meanings of every word, and quoted
the authorities: but, would it not have been an im¬
provement if he had given an accurate^ definition of
the precife meaning of every wTord } pointed out the
way in which it ought to be employed with the
greateft propriety ; ffiowed the various deviations from
that original meaning, which cuftom had fo far efta-
hliffied as to render allowable $ and fixed the precifc
limits beyond which it could not be employed with¬
out becoming a vicious expreflion ? With this view, it
would have been neceffary to exhibit the nice di-
ftinClions that take place between words which are
nearly fynonymous. Without this, many words can
DIG [ 323
Piflionary. only be defined in fuch a manner, as that they rnuft
v ~ j36 confidered as exaftly fynonymous. We omit giv¬
ing any quotations from Johnfon, to point out thefe
defefts j and fhall content ourfelves with giving a
few examples, to fhow how, according to our idea, a
di&ionary of the Englifh language ought to be com¬
piled.
IMMEDIATELY, adv. of time.
I.Inftantly, without delay. Always employed to
denote future time, and never paft. Thus, we may
fay, 1 will come immediately ; but not, / am im¬
mediately come from fuch a place. See Presently.
2. Without the intervention of any caufe or event •
as oppofed to mediately.
PRESEN PLY. adv. of time.
1. Inftantly, without delay. Exa£lly fynonymous
with immediately ; being never with propriety em¬
ployed to denote any thing but future time.
2. Formerly it was employed to exprefs prefent time.
Thus, The houfe prefently poffeffed by fuch a one,
was often ufed : but this is now become a vicious
expreflion ; and we ought to fay, The houfepoffefe¬
ed at prefent. It differs from immediately in this,
that even in the moft corrupt phrafes it never can
denote paft time.
FORM.yaZy?. The external appearance of any ob-
je£t, when confidered only with refpeft to ftiape
or figure. This term therefore, in the literal
fenfe, can only be applied to the objefts of the
fight and touch; and is nearly fynonymous with
fgure: but they differ in fome refpeas. Form
may be employed to denote more rude and unfi-
nifiied fhapes; figure, thofe which are more per-
rea: and regular. Form can never be employed
without denoting matter ; whereas figure may be
employed in the abftraift : thus, we fay a fquare
or a \.viangu\&r figure ; but not a fquare or triangu-
Izr form. And in the fame manner we fay, the
figure o{ a houfe ; but we muft denote the fub-
ftance which forms that figure, if we ufe the
word form ; as, a cloud of the form of a houfe*
&c. See Figure. J
2. In contrail to irregularity or confufion. As
beauty cannot exift without order, it is by a fi¬
gure of fpeech employed to denote beauty, order
&c. ' >
3. As form refpe&s only the external appearance
of bodies, without regard to their internal qua¬
lities, it is, by a figure of fpeech, employed in
contrail to thefe qualities, to denote empty Ihow
without^ effential qualities. In this fenfe it is’
often taken when applied to religious ceremonies,
&c. ’
4. As form L employed to denote the external ap¬
pearance of bodies ; fo, in a figurative fenfe, it is
applied toreafoning, denoting the particular mode
or manner in which this is conduced j as, the
form of a fy/logifm, &c.
5. In the fame manner it is employed to denote the
particular mode of procedure eftablilhed in courts
of law j as, the forms of law, religion, &c.
6. Form is fometimes, although improperly, ufed to
denote the different circumftances of the fame
body as, water in a fluid or a folidform. But as
tms phrafe regards the internal qualities rather
J DIG
than the external figure, it is improper j and ought Didlionar?
to be, water in a fluid or a folidfate. L——v——
7- But when bodies of different kinds are compared
with one another, this term may be employed to
denote other circumftances than lhape or figure :
for we may fay, a juice exfuding from a tree in
toe form of wax or refin ; although, in this cafe,
the confiftence, colour, &c. and not the exter¬
nal arrangement of parts, conftitutes the refem-
blance.
8. From the regular appearance of a number of per-
ions arranged in one long feat, fuch perfons fo
arranged are fometimes called a/cm ; as, a form
offiudents, &c. And,
9. By an eafy tranfition, the feat itfelf has alfo ac¬
quired that name.
GREAT, adj. A relative word, denoting large-
nefs of quantity, number, &c. ferving to aug¬
ment the value of thofe terms with which it is
combined, and oppofed to fmall or little. The
principal circumftances in which this word can be
employed are the following :
I* When merely ^animate obje&s are confidered
with regard to quantity, great is with propriety
employed, to denote that the quantity is confi-
derable ; as, a great mountain, great houfe, and
it is here contrafted with fmall. When great is
thus employed, we have no other word that is
exaftly fynonymous.
2. When ^animate objeas are confidered with re¬
gard to their extent, this term is fometimes em¬
ployed, although with lefs propriety ; as, a great
plain, a great field, &c. And in this fenfe it is
nearly fynonymous with large ; and they were of¬
ten ufed indiferiminately, but with fome differ¬
ence of meaning; for, as large is a term chiefly'
employed to denote extent of fuperficies, and as
great more particularly regards the quantity o£
matter 5 therefore, when large is applied to any
object which is not merely fuperficial, it denotes
that it is the extent of furface that is there meant
to be confidered, without regard to the other di-
menfions: whereas when the term great is em¬
ployed, it has reference to the whole contents.
If, therefore, we fay, a large houfe, or a large
river, we exprefs that the houfe, the river, have
a furface of great extent, without having any ne-
ceffary connexion with the fize in other refpeas.
But if we lay, a great houfe, or a great river, it
at once denotes that they have not only a large
furface, but are alfo of great fize in every re-
fpeft. }
3. Great, when applied to the human fpecies, never
denotes the fize or largenefs of body, but is ap¬
plied folely to the qualities of the mind. Thus,
when we fay that Socrates was a great man, we
do not mean that he was a man of great fize, but
that he was a man who excelled in the endow¬
ments of the mind. The terms which denote
largenefs of fize in the human body, are big, bulh
huge, &c.
4. Great is fometimes applied to the human fpecies
as denoting high rank. In this cafe it is oftener
uled in the plural number than otherwife. Thus
we fay Amply the great, meaning the whole body
of
Dictionary.
/
DIC t 224
of men in high ftation, as oppofed to mMn. It
flioald feldom be employed in this fenie, as^ it
tends to confound dignity of rank with elevation
of mind.
c. As this is a general term of augmentation, it may
be joined with all nouns which denote quantity,
duality, number, excellence, or clefecls ; or fuch as
imply praife, blame, anger, contempt, or any other
affiaion of the mind. . r ,.
6. It is employed to denote every ftep of afcending
or defeending confanguinity j as great-grandfather,
vreat-grandfon, &c.
HIGH. adj. Exalted in a perpendicular diretbon
at a ditlance from the furface of the earth. p-
pofed to low. , .
I. High is a term altogether indefinite, and is em-
' ployed to exprefs the degree of elevation of any
inanimate body. Thus, we fay a high mountain,
a high houfe, Jleeple, tower, pillar, &c. Nor is
there any other word that can here be confidered
as fynonymous j lofty being employed only to de¬
note a very eminent degree of elevation.
2 To exprefs the perpendicular elevation ot vege-
tables either high or tall may be employed, as
being in this cafe nearly fynonymous. We may
therefore fay, a high or tall tree, * high ox tall
maH &c. but with this difference between theie
two’expreffions, that tall can be more properly
applied to thofe that are much elevated and of
fmall dimenfions; and high, to fuch as are more
bulky, and of greater fize.
o. The perpendicular height of man can never be
^ expreffed by the word high ; W/ being here the
proper expreflion. And although high jsfometimes
-ufed to exprefs the height of other animals, yet it
feems to be an improper expreffion. bee 1 all.
4. Hi?h, when applied to the human fpecies, al-
ways refers to the mind j and denotes haughtinejs,
flatelinefs, pride, &c. and, when combined with
the expreflions of any energy of the mind, it de¬
notes that in a higher degree. In this fenfe, it
is oppofed to meannefs, abjedlnefs, and humility.
As this is an indefinite term, tend.ng to denote
any thing that is elevated above us, it may be com¬
bined with almoft every noun which admits of this
elevation. And as objefts high above us are al¬
ways out of our reach, it is in a metaphonca
fenfe ufed to denote any thing that feems to be
above the ordinary condition of mankind j or thole
qualities or endowments of mind that are not ea-
fily acquired : ™,.dignity ox elevation offentiment;
dignity of rank ; acutenefs in reafomng on difficult
fubjeBs ; pride, haughtinefs, orx any other quality
which feems beyond the ordinary level of man¬
kind ; dearnefs of price, &c.
6 In the fame manner we apply this term to time *,
' which having a metaphorical refemblance to a ri¬
ver flowing on with an unceafing current through
all fucceflive ages, any thing of remote antiquity
is denoted by the term high,
n Likewife thofe degrees of latitudes far removed
from the line, where the pole becomes more ele-
8.'And to fome particular crimes, as being at-
1
D I C
tended with peculiar degrees of guilt; as, high Dictionary,
TALL. adj. Somethipg elevated to a confiderable
degree in a perpendicular direftion. Oppofed to
low. r ,
j This term is chiefly employed to exprels the
height of man and other animals •, and is applied
to denote the height of the body only, without
having any reference to the mind. When ap¬
plied to man, no other word can be fubftituted
in its dead : when applied to other animals, h'gh
is fometimes confidered as nearly fynonymous.
See High.
2. It is likewife employed to denote the perpendicu¬
lar height of vegetables ; and in this cafe, it is
nearly fynonymous with high. See High.
7. It can in no cafe be employed to exprefs the
height of merely inanimate objefts } as we can ne¬
ver fay a tall Jleeple, tower, or pillar, but a high
/leeple, &c. For the diflinaions in thefe cales,
fee High. . , ,.n
LONG, adj. A relative term, denoting the dittance
between the extremes of any body, which ex¬
tended more in one of its geometrical dimenfions
than-another. Oppofed toyZwV. _ #
X. This term may be applied to all inanimate ob-
jeds, of whatever kind, whofe dimenfions in one
way'exceed the other, and when not in an ered
pofture, whatever be the other circumflances at¬
tending them *, whether it relates to fuperficies
alone, or to folid bodies; whether thefe be bound¬
ed or open, ftraight or crooked, flexible or rigid,
or in any other circumflances whatever : thus we
fay, along or (hart line, a long ox Jhort ridge, freet,
ditch, rope, chain, faff, &c. _ But it to be ob-
ferved, that although long is m the 'enle
only oppofed to Jhort; yet as it express the ex-
tenfion of matter in one of its geometrical pro¬
portions, it is often contrafted by thofe words
which exprefs the other proportions when we
mean only to deferibe the feveral proportions:
as a table long and broad. And as thele feveral
dimenfions are expreffed by different words, ac¬
cording to the various forms, modifications, and
circumftances, in which bodies are found, there¬
fore it is in this fenfe contrafted by a great di-
verfity of terms : as, a long and broad or wide, nar¬
row or (lrait,freet or lane ; a long and thick, or
fmall rope, chain, faff. For the diftinflions m
thefe cafes, fee Broad, Wide, &c.
2. Obiefts neceffarily fixed in an ered pofition can _
never have this term applied to them ; and there¬
fore we cannot fay a long, but a high, tower or
ffeeple. And for the fame reafon, while trees are
growing and fixed in an ered pofition, we cannot
apply this term to them; but wdieii they are fell¬
ed and laid upon the ground, it is quite proper
and neceffary. Thus, we do not fay a long, but
a tall or high tree, while it is growing ; but we
fay a long, not a tall log of wood: and n> the lame
manner we fay « tall maf, when it is fixed in the
{Lip ; hot along maf, while it lies upon the beach.
See Tall and High. ..
3. Thofe vegetables which are of a tender phant^a-
2
Oiiftionary.
DIG f 225 ]
tare, or fo weak as not to be able to retain a fixt 2.
portion, being confidered as of a middle nature
between ereft and proftrate bodies, admit of ei¬
ther of the terms long^ tally or high ; as, a long
or tall rufh or willow wand, or a long, tall, or high
Jlalk of corn. See High and Tall.
4. The parts of vegetables, when confidered as di-
fHn£t from the whole, even when growing and
ereft, aflame the term long: for we do not fay a
tall, but a long, fhoot oj a tree ; and a tree with a
long Jlem, in preference to a tree with a high
Jlem.
5. For the fame reafon, a ftaff, and pole, even when
fixed in a perpendicular dire&ion, aflume the word
long, in preference to tall or high.
6. With regard to animals, the general rule is ap¬
plied, without any exceptions : tall, and not longy
being employed to denote the height of the hu¬
man body, when in an eredl pofture ; and long,
and not tall, to denote its length when in an in¬
cumbent fituation. Long, applied to all other
animals which do not walk ereft, always denotes
their greateft length in a horizontal pofition from
head to tail.
7. In a figurative fenfe, it denotes, with regard to
time, any thing at a great diftance from us.
8. As alfo, any thing that takes up much time be¬
fore it is finifhed ; as, a long difcourfe, aprotraid¬
ed note in mujic, &c.
BROAD, adj. The diftance between the two near-
eft Tides of any body, w'hofe geometrical dimen-
fions are larger in one diredtion than in another 5
and has a reference to fuperficies only, and never
to the folid contents. Oppofed to narrow.
1. Broad, in the ftrifteft acceptation, is applied to
denote thofe bodies only whofe fides are altoge¬
ther open and unconfined ; as, a broad table, a
broad wheel, &c. and in thefe cafes it is invaria¬
bly contrafted by the word narrow; nor is there
any other word which in thefe cafes can be con¬
fidered as fynonymous with it, or ufed in its
ftead.
2. When any objeft is in fome fort bounded on the
fides, although not quite clofed up, as a road,
ftreet, ditch, 8cc. either broad or wide may be
employed, but with fome difference of fignifica-
tion ; broad being moft properly ufed for thofe
that are more open, and wide for thofe which are
more confined : nor can this term be ever applied
to fuch objects as are clofe bounded all around, as
a houfe, a church, &c. wide being here employ¬
ed. for the more accurate diftin&ions in thefe
cafes, fee the article Wide.
WIDE. adj. A term employed to denote relative
extent in certain circumftances. Oppofed to nar¬
row and Jlrait.
t. This term is in its proper fenfe applied only to
denote the fpace contained wdthin any body clofed
all round on every fide 5 as a hotifo, gate, &c.t
and differs from broad in this, that it never re¬
lates to the fuperficies of folid objefts, but is em¬
ployed to exprefs the capacioufnefs of any body
which containeth vacant fpace ; nor can capaci¬
oufnefs in this fenfe be exprefled by any other
word but wide.
Vol. VII. Part I.
D I C
As many bodies may be confidered either with Didlionary.
refpeft to the capacioufnefs or fuperficial ex- ^ ^
tent j in all thefe cafes, either the term broad or
wide may be ufed j as, a broad or wideJlreet or
ditch, &c. but with a greater or lefs degree of
propriety, according to the circumftances of the
objeft, or the idea we wifli to convey. In a ftreet
where the houfes are low and the boundaries
open, or in a ditch of fmall depth and large fuper¬
ficies, as this largenefs of fuperficies bears the
principal proportion, broad would be more pro¬
per j but if the houfes are of great height, or the
ditch of great depth, and capacioufnefs is the prin¬
cipal property that aflFe<fts the mind, we would
naturally fay a wide Jlreet or ditch ; and the fame
may be faid of all fimilar cafes. But there are
fome cafes in which both thefe terms are applied,
with a greater difference of meaning; thus we
fay a broad or a wide gate : But as the gate is em¬
ployed to denote either the aperture in the wall,
or the matter which clofes that aperture, thefe
terms are each of them ufed to denote that parti¬
cular quality to which they are generally applied :
and as the opening itfelf can never be confidered
as a fuperficies, the term wide, in this cafe, de¬
notes the diftance between the fides of the aper¬
ture ; while, on the contrary, broad denotes the
extent of matter fitted to clofe that aperture ; nor
can thefe two terms in any cafe be fubftituted for
one another.
3. As a figurative expreflion, it is ufed as a cant
phrafe for a miftake : as, you are wide of the
mark; that is, not near the truth.
NARROW, adj. A relative term, denoting a pro¬
portional fmal'nefs of diftance between the fides
of the fupeificies of plain bodies. Oppofed to
broad.
1. As this is only applied to fuperficies, it is exact¬
ly contrafted by broad, and is applied in all cafes
where the term broad can be ufed, (fee Broad) ;
and in no other cafe but as a contraft to it, ex¬
cept the following.
2. It fometimes is employed to defcribe the fmall-
nefs of fpace circumfcribed between certain boun¬
daries, as oppofed to wide, and nearly fynony-
mous wvdafrait; as we fay a wide or a narrow
houfe, church, &c. For the neceflary diftinc-
tions here, fee the article Strait.
3. In a figurative fenfe it denotes parf many, poverty,
confinedfentimentt, &c.
STRAIT, adj. A relative term, denoting the ex¬
tent of fpace in certain circumftances. Oppofed
to wide ; fee Wide.
1. This term is employed, in its proper fenfe, to de¬
note only fpace, as contained between furround¬
ing bodies in fuch circumftances as to denote
fome degree of confinement 5 and is exaftly oppo¬
fed to wide ; as, a wide or a Jlrait gate, &c. See
Wide.
2. So neceflary is it that the idea of confinement
fhould be connected with this word, that in all
thofe cafes where the fpace contained is large, as
in a church, or houfe, we cannot exprefs a fmaller
proportional width by this term. And as we
have no other word to exprefs fpace in thefe cir-
F f cumftances,
DIG [226
cumftatices, we have been obliged to force the
word narrow from its natural fignification, and
make it exprefs this. See Narrow.
5. In fome particular cafes, narrow orjirait may be
applied to the fame object : as, a narrow or a
Jlralt line; but here Jlrait is never employed but
where an idea of confinement is fuggefted, and
where it is exactly contrafted to wide; nor can
narrow be employed but in fuch circumftances
where broad would be a perfe£t contrail to it.
Therefore thefe two terms may be always ufed
in the fame circumltances as thofe which contrail
them may be. For an accovtnt of wThich fee
Wide.
4. The term Jlrait is likewife in a peculiar manner
ufed to denote the fmallnefs of the internal dia¬
meter of thofe fmall bodies which are fitted to re¬
ceive or contain others, as any kind of bag, tube,
body clothes, mortoifes, and others of the fame
kind •, and in all thefe cafes this term may be em¬
ployed to denote the fmallnefs of their lefler dia¬
meter, and never the term narrow. But in cer¬
tain circumltances the word tight may be fublti-
tuted for it. See Tight.
5. Strait, in a figurative fenfe denotes any fort of
confinement of fentiment or difpofition.
TIGHT, adj. A term employed in certain circum¬
ltances to denote the internal capacity of particu¬
lar bodies. Nearly fynonymous with
This term is confined entirely to denote the fmall¬
nefs of the internal dimenfions of fuch objefts, as
are formed to cover or to receive or contain other
folid bodies, and can be employed in no other cafe.
And although it agrees with Jlrait, in always de¬
noting confinement, and by being applicable to
the fame fpecies of objefts, yet it differs in the
following refpefts : 1. If there be any difference
of the diameter of the objefts to which the term
Jlrait can be applied, it always has reference to
the fmallerj yet tight may be applied to any
fort of confinement, whether it regards the length
or breadth. 2. Strait can be applied to all bo¬
dies of capacity whew of fmall diameter, without
any fort of reference to the nature of the fub-
ftance which it may be capable of containing.
For wre can fay a ftrait bag, a Jlrait Jleeve, a
Jlrait mortoife, a Jlrait gate, &c. whereas tight
can only be. applied to any body w hen it is confi-
dered as having feference to another body which
is intended to be contained in it, and is pinched
for want of room. Fhus wTe fay, the Jleeve of a
coat is too tight for the arm, the mortoife is too tight
for the tenon, &c. : but we cannot fay, the bag or
the gate is too tight, becaufe thefe are fitted to re¬
ceive any fort of objedts. And hence it happens
that in many cafes the dimenfions of the fame
body may be expreffed by tight ox Jlrait when
confidered in different circumftances. Thus we
may fay, this Jleeve is too frait, when we look at
a coat when lying on the table, and confider its
proportions ^ but it is not till we have tried it up¬
on the arm that it is intended to cover, that we
call it tight. And we may fay, a gate is toojlrait
or too tight: but in the firft cafe we confider it as
being too confined for admitting objects to pafs
] DIG
through itand in the laft, as being too confined Pi<ftionary»
with refpedt to the leaves that are to fliut the a-
perture, not allowing them fpace to move with
freedom.
Thefe examples may ferve to give fome idea of the
plan of an Englilh DidVionary compofed upon philofo-
phical principles : But, befides the circumftances above
enumerated, there are many others which would re¬
quire particular attention in the execution of a work of
this kind. In the Englifh language, a great variety of
terms occur, which denote matter under certain gene¬
ral forms or circumftances, without regarding the mi¬
nute diverfities that may take place ; as the word cloth,
v hich denotes matter as manufactured into a particu¬
lar form, including under it all the variety of fluffs
manufactured in that particular way, of whatever mate¬
rials, colour, texture or finenefs, they may be. The
fame may be faid of wood, iron, yarn, and a great va¬
riety of terms of the fame nature, fome of which can¬
not affume any plural ; while others admit of it in
all cafes, and others admit or refufe it according to
the different circumftances in which they are confi¬
dered.
In a dictionary, therefore, all this variety of calcs
ought to be clearly and diftinaiy pointed out under
each particular article : this is the more neceffary, as
fome of thefe words have others formed from them
which might be readily miftaken for their plurals, al¬
though they have a very different fignification } as
clothes, which does not denote any number of pieces of
different kinds of cloth, but wearing apparel. The fol¬
lowing example will illuftrate this head.
WOOD./«^7. A folid fubftance of which the trunks
and branches of trees confift.
1. This term is employed to denote the folid parts
of vegetables of all kinds, in whatever form or cir¬
cumftances they are found. Nor does this term
admit of plural with propriety, unlefs in the cir¬
cumftances after mentioned: for we lay, many
different kinds of wood, in preference to many kinds
of woods ) or we fay, oak, afh, or elm wood, not
woods.
2. But where w>e want to contrail wood of one quali¬
ty or country with that of another, it admits of
a plural : for we fay, white woods are in general
fof ter than red; or Wejl Indian woods are in ge¬
neral of greater fpecific gravity than the European
woods : But unltfs where the colour, or tome
quality which diftinguilhes it from growing wood,
is mentioned, this plural ought as much as poffi-
ble to be avoided, as it always fuggefts an idea of
growing wood.
3. Wood likewife denotes a number of trees growing
near one another j being nearly fynonymous with
forejl: See Forest. In this fenfe it always ad¬
mits of a plural; as, Ee woods and wilds whofe
fohtary gloom, &c.
A dictionary cannot be reckoned complete without
explaining obfodete words j and if the terms of the le-
veral provincial dialeCts were likewife given, it would
be of great utility : nor would this take much time $
becaufe a number of thefe words needs no other expla¬
nation than to mark along with them the words which
had come in their place, when there happened to be
one perfedly fynonymous; and ip thofe cafes where
D I C
Diaionary. the fame Idea could not be expreffcd in modern lan-
guage without a periphrafis, it would be of ufe to ex¬
plain them diftindUy ; fo that, when a writer found
htmfelf at a lofs for a term, and obliged to fearch for
One beyond the bounds of out own language, he might
take one of thefe, when he found that it w’as expreffive
and energetic, in preference to another drawn from a
foreign language. This would at lead have one good
effeft : it would make our language more fixed' and
ftable 5 not to fay more accurate and precife, than by
borrowing from foreign languages. The following ex-
amples may ferve to give fortie idea of the manner of
treating this part of the work.
MOE, or Mo. adj. _ An obfolete term ftill employed
in the Scotch dialedf, and by them pronounced
mae ; denoting a greater number, and nearly fy-
nonymous with more : but it differs in this refpeft,
that in the Scotch dialed!, mae and mair (Eng-
lifh more), are each employed in their diftindl
fphere,. without encroaching upon one afiother j
tnae being employed to denote number, but never
quantity or quality j and mair, to denote quanti¬
ty and quality, but never number: thus they fay
rnae, not mair, apples, men, &c» and they fay mair,
not mae, cloth, earth, courage, &c. See Mair!
Both of thefe terms are (upplied by the word
yiore; which in the Englifh language is applied
indifcriminately to denote quantity, quality, and
number. See More.
TH/R. pron. Obfolete ; ftill employed in the Scotch
dialed!; the plural of this; and contradted to
thefe, in the fame manner as that is to this.
As there is no word In the Enghfh language equi¬
valent to this, we thus ihow the manner in which
it is employed. In the Englifh language we fay,
thatJlone or houfe, pointing at one at a diftance!
is larger or more commodious than this Jlone or this
houfe, which is fuppofed to be at hand. In the
fame manner, in the Scotch dialed!, they fay, thefe
(or, as it is pronounced, thae} ft ones are whiter
than thirflones; denoting, that the former are at
a drftance, and the latter at hand. And, in the
fame manner, it is invariably applied to denote
any prefent objed! in the plural manner, as op-
pofed to thefe: as thefe or thir apples, as at hand, or
at a diftance ; thefe, or thir trees, &c. ; but never
in the fingular number, as it is always this or that
tree, houfe, &c.
As the Englifti language is fo exceedingly irregular
in the pronunciation, the fame letter in the fame fitua-
tion often affuming founds totally different in different
words, it is impoffible to ellablifti any general rules, on
this fubjedt, w7hich do not admit of many exceptions ;
therefore, a didlionary is the beft means of afeertaining
and pointing out the proper pronunciations of words.
For, if the writer firft pointed out all the different
founds that the fame letter could ever be made to ex-
prefs, and aftigned to every particular found which
each letter could be made to affume, a particular mark,
Which w7as appropriated to denote that particular found
of the letter w henever it occurred j by placing thefe
particular marks above the letters in the didlionary,
the found of each letter would be pointed out in all
cafes with the utmoft certainty. It would be impof-
r 227 1
D I D
fible for Us to illuftrate this by examples, without firlt T)itftiotiary
afeertaining all the founds of each letter; wdiich would . il .
lead us into a dilcuffion too long for this place. Didadtic.^
We (hall only further obferve, That, befides having V ^
the accented fyllable of every w7ord properly diftlnguifli-
ed in a didlionary to affift in the pronunciation, the
Englilh language requires another effential improve¬
ment, Vi2. the ufe of accents to diftmguifli the mean¬
ing of words and phrafes : which, although, it is not
fo properly confined to a lexicographer, yet it is not
quite without his Iphere. Thus the woid as admits of
two very different founds, as well as different fignifica-
tions ; as in this example, “ Cicero was nearly as elo¬
quent as Demofthenesin which the firft as is pro¬
nounced afs, and the lall is pronounced az. Now7, it
often happens, that, in reading, the particular way in
which it ought to be underftood is not pointed out by
the. context, till after the w7ord itfelf is pronounced,
which has an equal chance at leaf! of being pronoun¬
ced wrong ; whereas, if it were always accented when
employed in the one fenfe, and not in the other, it
rvould free the reader from this perplexity. There are
other cafes in which the ufe of proper accents in writ¬
ing w7ould be of grfcat confequence ; as at the begin¬
ning of a fentence, when it w7as put as a queftion, or
ufed ironically, &cc. the want of which every one muft
have obferved. But as this does not fo properly be¬
long to the lexicographer as the grammarian, We {ball
here take no further notice of it.
The above examples, we hope, will be fufficient to
give the reader fome idea of the plan that we would
propofe ; and enable him to determine, whether or not
a didlionary, executed upon this plan, would convev
to his mind a more perfedl knowledge of the Englifti
language, than thofe didlionaries that have been hi¬
therto publiftied. I hefe examples were given rather
with a view to Ihow the manner in which a W'ork of
this kind might be conduaed, than as perfedl and
unexceptionable explanations of the feveral articles
there enumerated ; and therefore we did not think
it neceffary to produce any authorities, although
we are fenfible that they would be requifite in fuch
a work.
DICTYMNIA, or Dictynnia, in Mythology,
were feafts celebrated at Lacedaemon and in Crete, in
honour of Diana Didlymnia or Didlynnia, or of a
nymph taken for her, who, having plunged her-
felf into the fea, to efcape the paflion of Minos, was
caught in a fifherman’s net or £iktv6p, whence the
name,
DICTYS cretensis, a very ancient hiftorian, whb
ferving under Idomeneus king of Crete in the Trojan
war, wrote the hiftory of that expedition in nine books ;
and Fzetzes tells us, that Homer formed his Iliad up¬
on the plan of that hiftory. It is however maintained^
that the Latin hiftory of Didlys which we have at pre¬
fent is fpurious.
DIDACTIC, in the fchools, fignifies the manner
of fpeaking or writing, adapted to teach or explain
the nature of things. The word is formed from the
Greek eit^xn-xM, doceo, “ I teach.”
There are many words which are only ufed in the di-
dadlic and dogmatic way : and there are many works,
ancient and modern, both in profe and verfe, written
I1 f 2 after
Didapper
DID [ 32
after tills method : fuch are the Georgies jof Virgil,
Lucretius’s poem De Rerum Natura, and Pope’s F.f-
Diderot. pa s on Criticifm and on Man, &c. &c.
' DIDAPPER. See Colymbus, Ornithology
ItmIgx •
DIDELPHIS, or Opossum, a genus of quadrupeds
belonging to the order of ferae. See Mammalia Index.
DIDEROT, Denys, an eminent French writer,
was the fon of a cutler, and born at Langres in the
year 1713. He received his education among the
Tefuits, and being deftined for the church by pne of
his uncles who had a canonry to beftow upon him, he
had received the tonfure. But he difeovered fo little
inclination for the ecclefiaftical profeflion, that his fa¬
ther fent him to Paris to profecute his ftudies, and af¬
terwards placed him with an attorney. It foon appear¬
ed, however, that he was more attached to different de¬
partments of literature and fcience, than difpoied to
fubmit to the drudgeries of the profeffion to which his
father had deftined him and having thus neglected
his bufinefs, his allowance was withheld, which obliged
him to make provifion for himfelf. I he ftudies to
which Diderot devoted his attention were extremely
various. Phyfics, geometry, metaphyfics, moral
philofophy, and belles lettres, were at different times
the obi efts of his purfuit. He even indulged m poetry
and works of invention •, but attached himfelf cruel y
to more ferious ftudies. He poffeffed a ready flow^nd
great animation of language in converfation ; and theie
qualities, with a decifive tone and manner, procured for
him partizans and proteftors. .
One of the firft of his publications was a tranflation
of “ Stanyan’s Hiftory of Greece.” In the year 1745
he publifhed “ Principles of Moral Philofophy,” izmo,
a work by which he obtained fome reputation. But
the year following, when he publifhed a piece entitled
Pen fees Philofophiques, he acquired confiderable ce¬
lebrity. This work was highly commended by the
partizans of the new philofophy, among whom he had now
enlifted himfelf, and became one of its moft zealous du-
ciples. The fame work was afterwards reprinted un¬
der the title of Etrennes aux E/prits Forts. It was
greatly read, and it is fuppofed contributed much to
the diffufion of thofe free opinions which had now be¬
come fo prevalent in France. Soon after this period,
in conjunftion with his friend D’Alembert, the plan
of the vaft undertaking, thtDiaionnaire Encyclopedique>
was laid. The profeffed objeft of this work was to
become a magazine for every branch of human know¬
ledge •, but at the fame time, it has been alleged that
it was alfo intended by the authors and editors as^ the
oreat engine by means of which the eftablifhed opinions,
whether of a religious or political nature, which they
fuppofed had their origin in fraud and fuperftition,
Ihould be fubverted. The province of this work which
was entrufted to Diderot was the defeription of Arts and
Trades, {Arts et Metiers). But, befides, he contributed
many other articles in various departments of fcience.
His writings in the Diftionary have been confidered as
extremely verbofe and diffufe 5 and in all of them he is
too fond of metaphyfical fubtleties and the pompous
parade of fcientific language. The firft edition of the
Diftionary was completed between the years^ 175^
and 1767 ; and although Diderot was occupied in this
laborious undertaking for a period of nearly 20 years,
8 1 DID
the recompenfe which he obtained is faid to have been
extremely fmall.
During this time he compofed various other works.
Among thefe he publiftied “ A letter on the Blind, for
the ufe of thofe who fee.” This work made a good
deal of noife, and in confequence of fome of the lenti-
ments which it contained had given offence to the go¬
vernment, for which the author was kept^ in confine¬
ment for fix months at Vincennes. This piece was
foon followed by another, entitled 41 A letter on the
Deaf and Dumb, for the ufe of thofe who hear and
fpeak,” 2 vols. izmo, 1751. “ The Sixth Senfe,” pub¬
liftied in 1752 } “ Thoughts on the interpretation of
Nature,” 1754 “ The Code of Nature,” i755vare
milar works, and may be ranked in the fame clafs. His
moral charafter was confiderably affefted by the publi¬
cation of Bijoux Indifcrets, 2 vols izmo j which is
a colleftion of licentious tales 5 for this indeed he made
fome kind of compenfation, when he publiftied two
profe comedies, Le Fds Nature/, 1757 > and
Pere de Fanuile, 1758 » which are not only intereftmg
as dramatic pieces, but exhibit a pure and coireft mo¬
rality. The latter is confidered as one of the beft co¬
medies of the fentimental kind which has appeared on
the French ftage. It has indeed received univerfal
admiration. He publiftied afterwards a pamphlet, “ On
Public Education,” which contains undoubtedly fome
ufeful hints ; but at the fame time it propofes many
things which are imprafticable. Fo the lift of his
works now mentioned we may add, il An Eulogy on
Richardfon,” which is full of warmth and enthufiafm >
and “ An Effay on the Life and Writings of Seneca the
Philofopher.” This was his laft work, and was pub¬
liftied in 1779. Among fome obfervations on this
work by the Monthly Reviewers, the author of it is
thus charafterized : “ The works of M. Diderot, fajs
the writer, have long fince difgufted the modeft vota¬
ries of true philofophy, by the tone of arrogance and
felf-fufficiency, and the froth and fumes of a declama¬
tory eloquence, that form their effential and diftmftive
charafter.” “ It contains, it is farther added, like the
other writings of that author, a glaring mixture of good
and bad •, of biilliant thoughts and obfeure reafonmgs;
of fentences that dart from the imagination with the
energy of lightning, and cloudy periods of metaphy¬
fical rhetoric, that convey either no ideas, or falfe
Diderot.
one». , inf
The charafter of Diderot fuffered confiderably irom
fome defamatory attacks which he made on his former
friend Rouffeau, who had quarrelled with the French
philofophers and had feparated himfelf from their fchool.
From the “ Confeffions” of the Genevan philofopher, it
would appear that they expefted feme anecdotes which
would not have been much to their honour. In one
of his letters Rouffeau thus fpeaks of Diderot. His
words are remarkable, as they are equally applicable to
his own charafter. “ Although born with a good
heart and an open difpofition, he had an unfortunate
propenfity to mifinterpret the words and actions ot his
friends; and the moft ingenuous explanations only lup-
plied his fubtle imagination with new interpretations
againft them.” Diderot was married and had a family J
and although he poffeffed fome irritability of temper, he
was a kind hufband and a tender parent. At the con-
clufion of the Diftionary, the ftate of h1S
DID [2
Diderot, dered it neceflary for him to difpofe of his library. It was
Dld0, , purchafed by the emprefs of Ruffia, who, with the king
of Pruflia, was at that time the great encoiirager and pro¬
moter of literature and literary men. Thefe fovereigns
were alfo confidered as difciples of the French fchool.
The price which Diderot received for his library was
50,000 livres 5 and he was to have the ufe of it during his
life. Some of his biographers, with what truth we
pretend not to fay, have not hefitated to charge him
with difpofing of it a fecond time ; and when fome per-
fon commiffioned by the emprefs wifhed to fee it,/the
philofopher declined the vifit by excufes till he had
time to fill it with books borrowed from bookfellers.
The examination, it is obvious, mutt have been extreme¬
ly fuperficial, otherwdfe the truth w’ould have been at
once deteded. Diderot had been admitted a member
of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin. He died fud-
denly, as he rofe from table, on July 31ft, 1784. His
literary and philofophical works have been colle&ed
and publifhed in 6 vols, 8vo.
DIDO, called alfo Elisa, a daughter of Belus
king of Tyre, who marfied Sichaeus or Sicharbas her
uncle, who was prieft of Hercules. Pygmalion, who
fucceeded to the throne of Tyre after Belus, murdered
Sichaeus to get poffeflion of the immenfe riches which
he had •, and Dido, difconfolate for the lofs of her
hufband, whom (he tenderly loved, and by whom ttie
was equally efteemed, fet fail in queft of a fettlement
with a number of Tyrians, to whom the cruelty of the
tyrant became odious. According to fome accounts,
ihe threw7 into the fea the riches of her hulband which
Pygmalion fo greedily defired, and by that artifice
compelled the (hips to fly udth her that had come by
order of the tyrant to obtain the riches of Sichmus.
During her voyage, Dido vifited the coaft of Cyprus ;
where flie carried away 50 women who proftituted
themfelves on the fea-lhore, and gave them as wives to
her Tyrian followers. A ftorm drove her fleet on the
African coaft, and (he bought of the inhabitants as
much land as could be covered by a bull’s hide cut in¬
to thongs. Upon this piece of land Ihe built a cita¬
del called Byrfa ; and the increafe of population, and
the rifing commerce among her fubjefts, foon obliged
her to enlarge her city and the boundaries of her do¬
minions. Her beauty as wHl as the fame of her en-
terprife, gained her many admirers ; and her fubjefts
wilhed to compel her to marry larbas king of Maurita¬
nia, who threatened them with a dreadful war. Dido
begged three months to give her decifive anfwer : and
during that time Ihe eredled a funeral pile, as if wifh-
ing by a folemn facrifice to appeafe the manes of Si¬
chaeus, to whom ftie had promifed eternal fidelity.
When all was prepared, fhe ftabbed herfelf on the pile
in prefence of her people; and by this uncommon ac¬
tion obtained the name of Dido, “ valiant woman,”
inftead of Elifa. According to Virgil and Ovid, the
death of Dido w7as caufed by the fudden departure of
./Eneas; of whom flie was deeply enamoured, and
whom (lie could not obtain as a huiband. This poeti¬
cal fi&ion reprefents iEneas as living in the age of Di¬
do, and introduces an anachronifm of near 300 years.
Dido left Phoenicia 247 years after the Trojan war or
the age of ^Eneas, that is, about 953 years before Chrift.
I his chronological error proceeds not from the igno-
29 ] DIE
ranee of the poets, but it is fupported by the authority/ Didus
of Horace. |j
Diemen’s
jdut famam feqnere> aut Jibi convcnientia finge. land.
While Virgil deferibes, in a beautiful epifode, the def-
peratfe love of Dido, and the fubmiflion of iEneas to
the will of the gods, he at the fame time gives an ex-
' planation of the hatred wEich exifted between the re¬
publics of Rome and Carthage ; and informs his reader,
that their mutual enmity originated in their very firft
foundation, and was apparently kindled by a more re¬
mote caufe than the jealoufy and rivallhip of two flou-
riftiing empires. Dido after her death was honoured
as a deity by her fubjedfs.
DIDUS, or Dodo, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of gallinae. See Ornithology Index.
DIDYMUS of Alexandria, an ecclefiaftical writer
of the fourth century ; who, though he is faid to have
loft his eyes at five years of age, when he had fcarcely
learned to read, yet applied fo earneftly to ftudy, that
he attained all the philofophic arts in a high degree,
and was thought worthy to fill the chair in the famous
divinity fchool at Alexandria. He was the author of
a great number of works: but all we have now remain¬
ing are, a Latin tranflation of his book upon the Holy
Spirit, in the works of St Jerome, who was the tranf-
lator ; ftiort ftridlures on the Canonical Epiftles; and
a book againft the Manichees.
DIDYNAMIA, (from ^<5, twice, and dvvxpis,power),
the name of the 14th clafs in Linnaeus’s fexual method,
confifting of plants with hermaphrodite flowers, which
have four ftamina or male organs, two of which are
long and two ftiort. See Botany Index.
DIEMEN’S land, formerly fuppofed to be the
fouthern coaft or point of New Holland, but now
found to be an ifland, as it is feparated from New Hol¬
land by Bafs’s ftrait, which was difeovered by Mr Bafs
and Lieutenant Flinders in the end of the year 1798.
The northern coaft is in S. Lat. 40* 55", and between
146° 45' and 148° 15' E. Long. This coaft was dif¬
eovered in November 1642, by Tafman, who gave it
the name of Van Diemen's Land. Captain Furneaux
touched at it in March 1773, and the country has
fince been further explored by other navigators. Here J
is a very fafe road, named by Captain Cook Adven¬
ture Bay. Two other harbours or bays were difeo¬
vered or explored by Meffrs Bafs and Flinders, viz.
Port Dalrymple and Frederick Henry bay, and two con-
fiderable rivers, wEich have been called Port Dalrymple
and Derwent rivers. The parts adjoining to Adventure
bay are moftly hilly, and form an entire foreft of tall
trees, rendered almoft impaffable by brakes of fern,
ftirubs, &c. The foil on the flat land, and on the
lower part of the hills, is fandy, or confifts of a yellowilh
earth, and in fome parts of a reddifh clay; but further
up the hills it is of a gray rough caft. The foreft trees
are all of one kind, generally quite ftraight, and bearing
clufters of fmall white flowers. The principal plants
obferved were wood-forrel, milk-wort, cudweed, bell¬
flower, gladiolus, famphire, and feveral kinds of fern.
The only quadruped feen diftindly was a fpecies of
opoffum, about twice the fize of a large rat. The kanga¬
roo, found farther northward in New Holland, may alfo
be fuppofed to inhabit here, as fome of the inhabitants
had
‘Diemen’s
land,
Diemer-
broek.
D I E
had pieces of the Ikin of that animal. The principal
forts of birds in the woods are brown hawks or eagles,
crows, large pigeons, yelluwifh paroquets, and a fpe-
cies which was called motacilla cyanea^ from the beauti¬
ful azure colour of its head and neck. On the fliore
were feveral gules, black oyiler-catchers or fea-pies,
and plovers of a ftone colour. In the woods were feen
fome blackilh fnakes of a pretty large fize *, and a fpe-
cies of lizard fifteen inches long and fix round, beauti¬
fully clouded with yellow and black. Among a varie¬
ty of fifh caught, were fome large rays, nurfes, leather-
jackets, bream, foies, flounders, gurnards, and ele¬
phant fifh. Upon the rocks are mufcles and other
fhell-fifh, and upon the beach were found fome pretty
Medufa’s heads. The moft troublefome infers met
with wrere the mofchettoes ; and a large black ant, the
bite of which infli&s extreme pain.
The inhabitants feemed mild and cheerful, with little
of that wild appearance which favages in general have.
They are almofl totally devoid of perfonal adlivity or
genius, and are nearly upon a par with the wretched
natives of Terra del Fuego. They difplay, however,
fome contrivance in their method of cutting their
arms and bodies in lines of different diredlions, raifed
above the furface of the fkin. Their indifference for
prefents offered them, their general inattention and
want of curiofity, were very remarkable, and teftified
no acutenefs of underffanding. Their complexion is
a dull black, which they fometimes heighten by fmut-
ting their bodies, as was fuppofed from their leaving
a mark behind on any clean fubflance. 1 heir hair is
perfeftly woolly, and is clotted with greafe and red
ochre like that of the Hottentots. Their nofes are
broad and full, and the lowrer part of the face projedis
confiderably. Their eyes are of a moderate fize j and
though they are not very quick or piercing, they give
the countenance a frank, cheerful, and pleafing caft.
Their teeth are not very white nor w-ell fet, and their
mouths are wide ; they wear their beards long and
clotted with paint. They are upon the whole w^ell
proportioned, though their belly is rather protuberant.
Their favourite attitude is to Hand with one fide for¬
ward, and one hand grafping acrofs the back the op-
pofite arm, which on this occafion hangs down by the
fide that projecls.
Near the Ihore in the bay were obferved fome wretch¬
ed conftruftions of fticks covered with bark ; but thefe
feemed to have been only temporary, and they had
converted many of tbeir largeft trees into more com¬
fortable and commodious habitations. The trunks
of thefe were hollowed out to the height of fix or feven
feet by means of fire. That they fometimes dwell in
them was manifeft from their hearths in the middle
made of clay, round which four or five perfons might
fit. Thefe places of (belter are rendered durable by
their leaving one fide of the tree found, fo that it con¬
tinues growing wfith great luxuriance.
D1EMERBROEK, Isbrand, a learned profeffor
of phyfic and anatomy at Utrecht, was born at Mont-
fort, in Holland, in 1609, where he acquired great re¬
putation by his ledfures and his praftice } and died at
Utrecht in 1674. He wrote a treatife on the plague,
w'hich is efteemed } and feveral learned works in ana¬
tomy and medicine, which were printed at Utrecht in
.1685 in folio.
230 ] DIE
DIEPPE, a handfome fea-port town of France, in
Upper Normandy, in the territory of Caux j with a
good harbour, an old caftle, and two handfome moles.
The parifti church of St James is an elegant (Irudfure ;
and there is a tower from which, in fine wreather, the
coall of England may be feen. The principal trade
confifts in herrings, whitings, mackerel, ivory, toys,
and laces. It was bombarded by the Englifir in 1694,
and it is not now fo confiderable as it was formerly. It
is feated at the mouth of the river Argues, in E. Long.
1. 9. N. L. 49. 55. , j .
DIES marc Hi.*, was the day of congrels or meet¬
ing of the Englifh and Scots, annually appointed to be
held on the marches or borders, in order to adjuff all
differences between them.
DIESIS, in Mujic, is the divifion of a tone lefs than
a femitone j or an interval confiding of a lefs or im-
perfeft femitone.
Diefis is the fmalleft and fofted change or inflexion
of the voice imaginable ; it is called z faint, expreffed
thus X, by a St Andrew’s crofs or faltier.
DIESPITER, in antiquity, a name given to Ju¬
piter j and fignifying diet pater, “ father of the day.”
St Auguflin derives the name from dies, “ day,” and
partus, “ produflion, bringing forth it being Jupiter
that brings forth the day. Of which fentiment were
Servius and Macrobius; the former adding, that in
the language of the Ofci they called him Lucencius, as
Diefpiter in Latin.
DIET, in Medicine, according to fome, compre¬
hends the whole regimen or rule of life with regard to
the fix non-naturals ; air, meats, and drinks, deep and
watching, motion and red, padions of the mind, reten¬
tions and excretions. Others redrain the term of diet
to what regards eating and drinking, or folid aliments
and drinks. See Food.
The natural conditution of the body of man is fuch,
that it can eafily bear fome changes and irregularities
without much injury. Had it been otherwiie, we
diould be almod condantly put out of order by every
dight caufe. This advantage ariles from thole won¬
derful communications of the inward parts, whereby,
when one part is affe&ed, another comes immediately
to its relief.
Thus, when the body is too full, nature caufes eva¬
cuations through fome of the outletsand lor this rea-
fon it is, that difeafes from inanition are generally more
dangerous than from repletion ; becaufe we can more
expeditioufly diminidi than increafe the juices ot the
body. Upon the (ame account, alfo, though temperance
be beneficial to all men, the ancient phyficians advifed
perfons in good health, and their own mailers, Jo in¬
dulge a little now and then, by eating and drinking
more plentifully than ufual. But, of tne two, intem¬
perance in drinking is fafer than in eating \ and if a
per (bn has committed excels in the latter, cold water
drank upon a full domach will help digedion ; to which
it will be of fervice to add lemon jucice, or elixir of vi¬
triol. If he has eaten high-leaioned things, rich fauces,
&c. then let him fit up for fome little time, and after¬
wards (leep. But if a man happen to be obliged to
fad, he ought to avoid all laborious work, brom fa-
tiety it is not proper to pats direcfly to (harp hunger,
nor from hunger to fatiety j neither will it be fine to
indulge abfolute red immediately aiter exceflive labour.
D I E
Diet
. II
Dietr:?h
nor (uddenly to fall to hard work after long idlenefs.
In a word, therefore, all changes in the way of living
_ (hould be made by degrees.
The fofter and milder kinds of aliment are proper
for children, and for youth the ftronger. Old people
ought to leffen the quantity of their food, and increafe
that of their drink ; but yet fame allowance is to be
made for eullom, efpecially in the colder climates like
ours; for as in thefe the appetite is keener, fo is the
digeftion better performed. Mead’s Monita et Prce-
cepta.
Diet Drinks, a form in Pbyjic, including all the
medicated wines, ales, and wheys, ufed in chronic cafes.
They require a courfe or continuation to anfwer any
intention of moment.
Diet of Appearance, in Scots Law, the day to which
a defender is cited to appear in court; and every other
day to which the court (hall afterwards adjourn the
confideration of the queftion.
Diet, or Dyet, in matters of policy, is ufed for the
general affembly of the dates or circles of the empire
of Germany and of Poland, to deliberate and concert
meafures proper to be taken for the good of the
public.
The general diet of the empire is ufually held at
Ratilbon. It confifts of the emperor, the nine ele&ors,
and the ecclefiaftical princes ; viz. the archbilhops,
bilhops, abbots, and abbelfes j the fecular princes,
who are dukes, marquifes, counts, vifeounts, or ba¬
rons j and the reprefentatives of the imperial cities 
It meets on the emperor’s fummons, and any of the
princes may fend their deputies thither in their dead.
The diet makes laws, raifes taxes, determines diflfer-
ences between the feveral princes and dates, and can
relieve the fubje&s from the oppreflions of their fove-
reigns.
1 he diet of Poland, or the affembly of the dates,
confided of the fenate and deputies, or reprefentative of
every palatinate or county and city ; and ufually met
every two years, and oftener upon extraordinary occa-
fions, if fummoned by the king, or, in his abfence, by
tlie archbifhop of Gncfna. The general diet of Po¬
land fat but fix weeks, and often broke up in a tu¬
mult much fooner 5 for one diffenting voice prevented
their palling any law's, or coming to any refolutions, on
what was propofed to them from the throne. Switzer¬
land has alfo a general diet, w'hich is ufually held every
year at Baden, and reprefents the whole Helvetic bo¬
dy j it feldom lads longer than a month. Befides this
general diet, there are diets of the Protedant can¬
tons, and diets of the Catholic ones j the fird affemble
at Araw, and are convoked by the canton of Zurich ;
the fecond at Lucern, convoked by the canton of that
name.
DIETETIC, denotes fomething belonging to diet
but particularly that part of phyfic which treats of this’
fubjeft. See Diet, Food, and Drink.
DIETRICH, or Dietricy, Christian William
Ernest, a modern artid, who was born at Weimar
m 1712. He refided chiefly at Drefden, where he
was profeffor of the Academy of Arts. He was a
painter of very extenfive abilities, and fucceeded both
in hidory and landfcape. We have by him a great
number of fmall fubjefls, to the amount of 150 or
more, which he engraved from his own compofitions,
1 23* 1
D I F
in the dyle (fays Bafan) of Odade, of Laireffe, and of
Salvator Rofa. Sixty of thefe etchings are exceeding¬
ly rare. 6
DIETS, a town in the circle of the Upper Rhine
in Germany, fituated on the river Lohn, 20 miles north
of Mentz, and fubjeft to the houfe of Naffau-Orange.
E. Long. 7. 40. N. Lat. 50. 28.
DIEU ET MON droit, i. e. God and my right, the
motto of the royal arms of England, fird afl'umed by
King Richard I. to intimate that he did not hold his
empire in vaffalage of any mortal.
It was afterwards taken up by Edward III. and
was continued wdthout interruption to the time of the
late King William, who ufed the motto Je main tien-
dray, though the former was dill retained upon the
great feal. After him Queen Anne ufed the motto
Semper eadam, which had been before ufed by Queen
Elizabeth 5 but ever fince Queen Anne, Dieu et mon
droit continues to be the royal motto.
UIEF, is the name of an indrument of mufic among
the Arabs, ferving chiefly to beat time to the voice]
it is a hoop, fometimes with pieces of brafs fixed to it
to make a jinging, over which a piece of parchment is
didended. It is beat wdth the fingers, and is the true
tympanum of the ancients.
DIFFARRE AT ION, among the Romans, a ce¬
remony whereby the divorce of their priefls was
folemnized. The word comes from the prepolition
chs \ which is ufed, in compofition, for divijion or fe-
paration ; and farreatio, a ceremony wdth wheat, of far
“ wheat.” J *
Diffarreation was properly the diffolving of marriages
contracted by confarreation ; which were thofe of the
pontifices or prieds. Fedus fays, it was performed
with a wdieaten cake. Vigenere will have confarrea¬
tion and diffarreation to be the fame thing.
DIFFERENCE, in Mathematics, is the remainder,
when one number or quantity is fubtraCted from an¬
other.
Difference, in Logic, an effential attribute, be-
longing to fome Ipecies, and not found in the genus •
being the idea that defines the fpecies. Thus body and
fpirit are the two fpecies of fubdance, which in 'their
ideas include fomething more than is included in the
idea of fubdance. In body, for inltance, is found im¬
penetrability and extenfion j. in fpirit a powrer of think¬
ing and reafoning : fo that the difference of body is
impenetrable extenfion, and the difference of fpirit is
cogitation.
Difference, in Heraldry, a term given to a certain
figure added to coats of arms, ferving to didinguiflr
one family from another; and to fiiow how diftant
younger branches are from the elder or principal
branch. r
DIFFERENTIAL, {Diffcrentiale,) in the higher
geometry, an infinitely fmall quantity, or a particle of
quantity fo fmall as to be lefs than any aflignable one.
It is called a differential, ox differential quantity, becaufe
frequently confidered as the difference of two quanti¬
ties ; and, as fuch, is the foundation of the differential
calculus; Sir Ifaac Newton, and the Englilh, call it a
moment, as being confidered as the momentary increafe
of quantity. See Fluxions.
DirrzREKTiAL Equation, is an equation involving
or containing differential quantities; as the equation
* 3 Pdx
Diets
I!
Differential
Equation.
I
DIF [23
Differential (ixdx-\-aydx-\-axdy—Q. Some mathematici-
Method. ans> as Stuling, &c. have alfo applied the term dir-
V,^_v ' ferential equation in another fenfe, to certain equations
defining the nature of feries.
Differential Method, a method of finding quanti¬
ties by means of their lucceffive differences.
This method is of very general ufe and application,
but efpecially in the conftruftion of tables, and the
fummation of feries, &c. It was firft ufed, and the
rules of it laid down, by Briggs, in his Conflruaion
of Logarithms and other Numbers, much the fame as
they were afterwards taught by Cotes, in his ConJIruc-
tio Tabularum per Differential.
The method was next treated in another foim by
Newton in the 5th Lemma of the 3d book of his Tnn-
cipia, and in his Methodus Dtfferentwhs, publifhed by
Tones in 1711, with the other trafls of Newton. This
author here treats it as a method of deferibing a curve
of the parabolic kind, through any given number of
points. He diffinguilhes two cafes of this problem •,
the firft, when the ordinates drawn from the given
points to any line given in pofition, are at equal di-
ftances from one another ; and the fecond, when theie
ordinates are not at equal diftances. He has given a lo-
lution of both cafes, at firft without demonftration,
which was afterwards fupplied by himfelf and others .
fee his Methodus Diferentialis above mentioned *, and
Stirling’s Explanation of the Newtonian Differential
Method, in the Phil. Tranf. N° 362. ; Cotes, Z)e
thodo Differcntiali Newtoniana, publiftied with his har-
tnonia Menfurarutn Herman’s Phoronomia ; and Le
Seur and jacquier, in their Commentary on Newton s
Principiaf It may be obferved, that the methods there
demonftrated by fome of thefe authors extend to the
defeription of any algebraic curve through a given
number of points, which Newton, writing to Leibnitz,
mentions as a problem of the greateft ufe. .
By this method, fome terms of a feries being given,
and conceived as placed at given intervals, any inter¬
mediate term may be found nearly •,. which therefore
gives a method for interpolation. Briggs’s Anth. Log.
ubi fupra ; Newton, Method. Differ, 5. ; Stirling,
Methodus Dfferentialis.
Thus alfo may any curvilinear figure be Iquared
nearly, having fome few of its ordinates. Newton,
ibid. prop. 6.; Cotes De Method. Differ.; Simpfon s
Mathematical Differt. p. 115- And thus may mathe¬
matical tables be conUrufted by interpolation : Briggs,
ibid. Cotes Canonotechma.
The fucceffive differences of the ordinates of para¬
bolic curves, becoming ultimately equal, and the in^er‘
mediate ordinate required, being determined by theie
differences of the ordinates, is the reafon for the name
Differential Method. _ rr., n. r r
To be a little more particular.—The firft cafe ot
Newton’s problem amounts to this : A feries of num-
bers, placed at equal intervals, being given, to find
any intermediate number of that feries, when its inter¬
val or diftance from the firft term of the feries is given.
 Subtract each term of the feries from the next fol¬
lowing term, and call the remainders firft differences,
then fubtraft in like manner each of thefe differences
from the next following one, calling theff remainders
*d differences j again, fubtraft each 2d difference from
1
D I F
the next following, for the 3d differences j and fo on : D^r^ial
then if A be the tft term of the feries, , 1
d1 the firft of the ift differences,
d" the firft of the 2d differences,
d"' the firft of the 3d differences,
and if x be the interval or diftance between the firfl:
term ot the feries and any term fought, T, that is, let
the number of terms from A to T, both included, be
=*-{-1 ; then will the term fought, T, be=
d'", &c.
A-j- —d'-j- + -
‘ 1 ' 1 2 '12 j
Hence, if the differences of any order become equal*
that is, if any of the diffs. d", d"’, &c. become == o,
the above feries w7ill give a finite expreffion foi T the
term fought j it being evident, that the feries muft ter¬
minate when any of the differences </', r/'", &c. be¬
come rr o.
It is alfo evident that the co-efficients-, •p—j-.
&c. of the differences, are the fame as to the terms of
the binomial theorem. # r j i 1
For ex. Suppofe it were required to find the log.
tangent of 5' l" 12'" 24"", or 5' l" TVo> or 5' l" '2066
g£C. •
Take out the log. tangents to feveral minutes and
feconds, and take their firffi and fecond differences, as
below :
5' o"
5 1
5 2
5 3
Tang.
7'i626964
7.1641417
7-1655821
7-1670I78
d'
H453
14404
14357
Here A=7-i64i4i7 ; * = toVs # — ,4404; and
the mean 2d difference d” — — 48. Hence
A - - - - 7-1641417
xd' - - - » 2977
.x x I 4
-d"
is 7-i644398
Theref. the tang, of 5f i,; 12 24
Hence may be deduced a method of finding the fums
of the terms of fuch a feries, calling its terms A, B
C D &c For, conceive a new feries having its lit
term = o,‘its 2d = A, its 3d = A+B, its 4th =
A+B+C, its 5th = A 4- B + C -f- D, and -0 on ,
them it is plain that affigning one term of this
finding the fum of all the terms A, B, U H, 6cc.
Now fince thefe terms are the differences of the fums,
o A A+B, A + B+C, &c. ; and asfomeofthe mf-
ferences J A, bT C, &c. are = o by fuppofitu n ; it
follows that fome of the differences of the fums will be
= o
X x X 
and fince in the feries A-Py^-d--'”-^
&c by which a term w7as affigned, A reprefented the
ill term; d> the iff of the .ft differences, and ^ the
interval between the firft term and the laft ; we are jo
write o inftead of A, A mftead of d, d inilead of U
DIG [ 233 ] DIG
Bifferential d" Inftead of d"', &c. alfo inftead of.r; which
Method being done, the feries expreffing the Turns will be
0_) /i_j ^    d", &c. Or,
Digby.
.r -f-1 x-\-ix x-\-ixx —
 J- . — d 4- . 
I I 2 I 2 3
if the real number of terms of the lines be called %,
that is, if sr=A?-f-1, or x—%—I, the Turn of the feries
-i z—2
will
. . ,2; z—1 „ z z-
be A z -1—. -d 4—. 
12 1 1 2
-d", &c. See
De Moivre’s Do6f. of Chances, p. 59, 60 ; or his
Mifcel. Analyt. p. 153. *, or Simpfon’s ElTays, p. 95.
For ex. To find the fum of fix terms of the feries of
fquares 1-}-4-}-9-f-x 6-i-25-f-36, of the natural num¬
bers.
Terms, cj HJ' dw
4
9
16
25
Here A—I, t/'—3, d!'—2, d!", &c. = o, and z=r6 ;
therefore the fum is 6-|-x.4-3-f- r-T-T'2—^+45 + 40
“91 the fum required, viz. of t 16-4-25-1-36.
A variety of examples may be feen in the places
above cited, or in Stirling’s Methodus Differentialis,
&c.
As to the differential method, it may be obferved,
that though Newton and fome others have treated it as
a method of defcribing an algebraic, curve, at leaft of
the parabolic kind, through any number of given
points ; yet the confideration of curves is not at all ef-
fential to it, though it may help the imagination. The
defcription of a parabolic curve through given points,
is the fame problem as the finding of quantities from
their given differences, which may always be done by
algebra, by the refolution of Ample equations. Hut¬
ton's Math. Diff.
DIFFORM, Dfformis, (hom formay “ a fhape”),
is a wmrd ufed in oppofition to uniform ; and fignifies,
that there is no regularity in the form or appearance
of a thing. The botanifts ufe it as a diftinclion of the
flowers of feveral fpecies of plants.
DIFFUSE, an epithet applied to fuch writings as
are wrote in a prolix manner. Among hillorians, Sal-
luff is reckoned fententious, and Livy diffufe. - Thus
alfo among the orators, Demofthenes is clpfe and con-
cife •, Cicero, on the other hand, is diffufe.
DIFFUSION, the difperfion of the fubtile effluvia
of bodies into a kind of atraofphere all round them.
Thus the light d'ffufed by the rays of the fun, iffues
all round from that amazing body of fire.
DIGASTRICUS, in Anatomy, a mufcle of the
lower jaw, called alfo Biventer. See Anatomy, Ta¬
ble of the Mufcles.
DIGBY, Sir K enelm, an Engliffi philofopher,
was born at Gothurff in Buckinghamfhire in 1603, and
became very illuftrious for his virtue and learning.
He was defcended of an ancient family. His great¬
grandfather, accompanied by fix of his brothers, fought
valiantly at Bofworth field on the fide of Henry VII.
againrt the ufurper Richard III. His father, Sir
Everard Digby, was engaged in the gunpowder plot
againft King James I. and for that, crime was beheaded ;
but his fon was reftored to his eftate. King Charles I.
made him gentleman of the bedchamber, commiffioner
Vol. VII. Part I.
of the navy, and governor of the Trinity houfe. He Bigby,
granted him letters of reprifal againff the Venetians, bv D'geft-
virtue of which he took feveral prizes wnth a fmall flret
under his command. He fought the Venetians near ‘he
port of Scanderoon, and bravely made his way through
them with his booty. He was a great lover of learning,
and tranflated feveral authors into Englifh 5 and his
“ Treatife of the Nature of Bodies and the Immorta¬
lity of the Soul,” difcovers great penetration and ex-
tenfive knowledge. He applied to chemiftry ; and
found out feveral ufeful medicines, which he gave freely
away to people of all forts, efpecially to the poor. He
diffingrufhed himfelf particularly by his fvmpathetic
powder for the cure of wounds at a diltance ; his dif-
courfe concerning which made a great noife for a while.
He had conferences with Des Cartes about the nature
of the foul.
In the beginning of the civil wars, he exerted him¬
felf very vigoroufly in the king’s caufe ; but he was
afterwards imprifoned by the parliament’s order, in
Winchefter-houfe, and had leave to depart thence in
1643. He afterwards compounded for his eftate, but
was ordered to leave the nation ; when he went to
France, and was fent on two embaffies to Pope Inno¬
cent X. from the queen, widow to Charles I. whofe
chancellor he then was. On the reftoration of Charles
II. he returned to London j where he died in 1665,
aged 60.
This eminent perfon, on account of his early talents,
and great proficiency in learning, was compared to
the celebrated Picus de Mirandola, who was one of
the wonders of human nature. His knowdedge, though
various and extenfive, appeared to be greater than
it really was ; as he had all the powers of elocution
and addrefs to recommend it. He knew how to
fhine in a circle of ladies or philofophers ; and was as
much attended to when he fpoke on the moft trivial
fubjefls, as when he converfed on the moft important. It
is faid that one of the princes of Italy, who had no
child, wras defirous that his princefs Ihould bring him a
fon by Sw Kenelm, whom he efteemed a juft model of
perfeflion.
DIGEST, [D'gefum), a collerfh'on of the Roman
laws, ranged and digefted under proper titles, by order
of the emperor Jufliniah.
That prince gave his chancellor Tribonianus a com-
miffion for this purpofe ; who, in confequence thereof,
chole fixteen jurifconfulti, or lawyers, to work upon
the fame. Thefe, accordingly, took out the beft and
fim-ft decifions from the ttvo thoufand volumes of the
ancient jurifconfulti, and reduced them all into one
body ; which was publilhed in the year 533, under the
name of the Digejl. lo this the emperor gave the
force of a law, by a letter at the head of the work,
which ferves it as a preface.
The Digeft makes the firft part of the Roman law,
and the firft volume of the corpus or body of the civil
lawg contained in fifty books. It was tranflated into
Greek under the fame emperor, and called Pandetta.
See Pandects.
Cujas fays, that Digcf is a common name for all
books difpofed in a good order and economy ; and
hence it is that Tertullian calls the Gofpel of St Luke
a Digeft.
Hence alfo abridgments of the common law^ are
G g denominated
D I G
[ 234 1
D I G
J3igeftion denominated of the numerous cafes, aiguments
II readings, pleadings, &c. difperfed in the year books,
and other reports and books of law, reduced under
'~m' ^ proper heads or common places. The firft was that
of Statham, which comes as low as Henry VI. That
of Fitzherbert was publiihed in 1516; Brooks in
1573, of which Hughes’s publilhed in 1663, is a fe-
quel. Rolls, Danvers, and Nelfon, have alfo publiflied
Digefts or abridgments of this kind, including the
cafes of later days ; to which may be added the New
Abridgment, Viner’s Abridgment, &c. #
DIGESTION, in the animal economy, is the dil-
folution of the aliments into fuch minute parts .as are
fit to enter the ladfeal velfels, and circulate with the
mafs of blood. See Anatomy Index.
Digestion, in Chemifiry, is an operation which con-
fids in expofing bodies to a gentle heat, in proper vef-
fels, and during a certain time. This operation is very
ufeful to favour the aftion of certain fubdances upon
each other; as, for example, of well calcined, dry,
fixed alkali upon reftified fpirit of wine. When theie
two fubdances are digeded together in a matrafs, with
a gentle fand-bath heat, the fpirit of wine acquires a
vellow-reddifh colour, and an alkaline quality. The
fpirit would not fo well acquire thefe qualities by a
ftronger and (hotter heat.
DIGESTIVE, in Medicine, fuch remedies as
flrengthen and increafe the tone of the.domach, and
adid in the digedion of foods. To this clafs belong
all domachics and drengtheners or corroborants.
Digestive, in Surgery, denotes a fort of unguent,
plader, or the like, that ripens and prepares the matter
of wounds, &c. for fuppuration.
DIGGES, Leonard, an eminent mathematician
in the 16th century, was defcended from an an¬
cient family, and born at Digges-court. in the paridi
of Barham in Kent ; but in what year is not known.
He was educated for fome time at Oxford, where he
laid a good foundation of learning. Retiring from thence,
he profecuted his dudies, and became an excellent ma¬
thematician, a (kilful architea, and an expert furveyor
of land, &c. He compofed feveral books: as, 1. TecTo-
nicum : briefly diewing the exaa Meafuring, and fpeedy\
Reckoning of all manner of Lands, Squares, I imber,
Stones, Steeples, &c. I 556, qto. Augmented and pub-
1 idled again by his fon Thomas Digges, m 1592 ; and
alfo reprinted in 1647—2. A Geometrical Praaical
Treatife, named Pantometna, in three books. 1 his he
left in manufcript ; but after his death, his fon fupplied
fuch parts of it as were obfcure and. imperfea, and pub-
]idled it in 1591, folio; fubjoimng, “ A Difcourfe
Geometrical of the five regular and Platonic bodies,
containing fundry theoretical and practical .propofitions,
arifing by mutual conference of thefe folids, Inlcrip-
tion, Circumfcription, and Fransformation.” 3. Prog-
nodication Everlading of right good effea : or Choice
Rules to fudge the Weather by the Sun, Moon, and
Stars, &c. in 4to. 1555, >556. ar'd I5<>4 : correaed
and augmented by his fon, with divers general tables,
and many compendious rules, in qto, 1592. He died a-
bout the year 1574.
Digges, Thomas, only fon of Leonard Digges,
after a liberal education from his tendered years went
and dudied for fome time at Oxford ; and by the im¬
provements he made there, and the fubfequent mdruc-
tions of his learned father, became one of the bed ma¬
thematicians of his age. When Queen Elizabeth fent
fome forces to adid the opprefftd inhabitants of the
Netherlands, Mr Digges was appointed muder-mader
general of them ; by which he became well {killed in
military affairs ; as his writings afterward diewed. He
died in 1595.
Mr Digges, befide revifing, corre&ing, and enlarg¬
ing fome pieces of his father’s already mentioned, wrote
and publidied the following learned works himfelf: viz.
1. Alee five Scale Mathematics; or Mathematical Wings
or Ladders, 1573, 410 : A book which contains feve¬
ral demondrations for finding the parallaxes of any co¬
met, or other celedial body, with a correftion of the
errors in the ufe of the ladius adronomicus.—2. An
Arithmetical Military Treatife, containing fo much of
Arithmetic as is neceffaiy towards military difciplinp,
1579, 410.—3. A Geometrical Treatife, named Stratio-
ticos, requifite for the perfeaion of Soldiers, 1579, qto.
This was begun by his father, but finidied by himfelf.
They were both reprinted together in 1590, with feve¬
ral additions and amendments, under this title : ‘ An
Arithmetical Warlike Treatife, named Stratioticos, com-
pendioudy teaching the fcience of Numbers, as well in
Fra&ions as Integers, and fo much of the Rules and
Equations Algebraical, and art of Numbers. Codical,
as are requifite for the profedion of a fouldier. To¬
gether with the Moderne militaire difeipline, offices,
lawes, and orders in every well-governed campe and
armie, inviolably to be obferved.” At the end of this
work there are two pieces ; the fird, “ A briefe and true
report of the proceedings of the earle of Leyceder,
for the reliefe of the town of Sluce, from his arrival at
Vlidiing, about the end of June 1587, untill the furren-
drie thereof 26 Julii next enfuing. Whereby it (hall
plainlie appear, his excellencie was not in any fault for
the Ioffe of that towne the fecond, “ A briefe dif¬
courfe what orders were bed for repulfing of foraine
forces, if at any time they fhould invade us by fea in
Kent or elfewhere.”—4. A perfeft Defcription of the
Celedial Orbs, according to the mod ancient do&rine
of the Pythagoreans, &c. This was placed at the end
of his father’s “ Prognodication Everlading, &c.”
printed in 1592, 4t0,—5* humble Motive for Affo-
ciation to maintain the religion edablidied, 1601, 8vo.
To which is added, his Letter to the fame purpofe to
the archbidiops and biffiops of England. 6. England.s
Defence : or, A Treatife concerning Invafion. This
is a traft of the fame nature with that printed at the
end of his Stratioticos, and called, A briefe Difcourfe,
&c. It was written in 1399’ n0^ Puhhdied till
X686 —7. A Letter printed before Dr John Dee’s
Parallaticer Commentationis praxcofque nucleus quidem,
1573, 410.—Befide thefe, and his AW* Corpora, he
left feveral mathematical treatifes ready for the prefs ;
which, by reafon of lawfuits and other avocations, he
was hindered from publifiiing.
DIGGING, among miners, is appropriated to the
operation of freeing any kind of ore from the bed or
dr a turn in which it lies, where every droke of their
tools turns to account : in contradidindlion to °'
penings made in fearch of fuch ore, which are called
hatches, oxefay-hatches; and the operation itfelf, tracing
of mines, or hatching. , , , , r
When a bed of ore is difeovered, the beele-men, io
called
Digges,
Digging.
  "v 
D I G
caUed from the inftrument they ufe, which is a kind of
pickaxe, free the ore from the foflils around it; and the
(hovel-men throw it up from one fhamble to another,
till it reaches the mouth of the hatch.
In fome mines, to lave the expence as well as fatigue
of the (hovel-men, they raife the ore by means of a
winder and two buckets, one of which goes up as the
other comes down.
DIGIT, in AJIronomy^ the twelfth part of the dia¬
meter of the fun or moon, ufed to exprefs the quan¬
tity of an eclipfe. Thus an eclipfe is faid to be of fix
digits, when fix of thefe parts are hid.
Digits, or Monades*, in Arithmetic, fignify any in¬
teger under _ io ; as i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and by
means of which all numbers are exprefied.
Digit is alfo a meafure taken from the breadth of
the finger. It is properly three fourths of an inch, and
contains the meafure of four barley corns laid breadth-
wile.
DIGITALIS, fox-glove : A genus of plants, be-
longing to the didynamia clafs; and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 28th order, Luridce. See Bo¬
tany Index. 4
Fox-glove has been employed in cafes of ha;moptyfis,
of phthifis, and of mania, with apparent good effedls:
but its ufe in thefe difeafes is much lefs common than
in dropfy. It (hould be adminiftered with great cau¬
tion. See Medicine, and Materia Medica Index.
^ DIGITATED, among botaniils. See Botany
Index.
DIGLYPH, in ArchiteRure, a kind of imperfect
triglyph, confole, or the like ; wuth two channels or
engravings, either circular or angular.
DIGNE, an epifcopal town in the department of
the Lower Alps, formerly Provence, in France, famous
for the baths that are near it. It is feated on a river
called Bleone, 30 miles S. by W. of Embrun, in E.
Long. 6. 12. N. Lat. 44. 10.
DIGNITARY, in the canon law, a perfon who
holds a dignity, that is, a benefice which gives him
fome pre-eminence over mere pnefts and canons. Such
is a bhnop, dean, archdeacon, prebendary, &c.
DIGNITY, as applied to the titles of noblemen,
fignifies honour and authority. And dignity may be
divided into fuperior and inferior; as the titles of duke,
earl, baron, &c. are the higheft names of dignity ; and
thofe of baronet, knight, ferjeant at law, &c. the low-
eft. Nobility only can give fo high a name of dignity
as to fupply the want of a furname in legal proceed¬
ings ; and as the omifiion of a name of dignity may be
pleaded in abatement of a writ, &c. fo it may be where
a peer who has more than one name of dignity, is not
named by the moft noble. No temporal dignity of
any foreign nation can give a man a higher title here
than that of esquire.
Dignity, in the human charaaer, the oppofite of
Meannefs.
Man is endued with a sense of the worth and ex¬
cellence of his nature : he deems it more perfea than
that of the other beings around him ; and he perceives
that the perfeaion of his nature confifts in virtue, par-
ticukriy in virtues of the higheft rank. To exprefs
that (enfe, the term dignity is appropriated. Further,
to behave with dignity, and to refrain from all mean
actions, is felt to be, not a virtue only, but a duty:
t 235 1
D I G
it is a duty every man owes to himfelf. By a£Iing in Dignity,
that manner, he attrails love and efteem : by afting
meanly, or below himfelf, he is difapproved and con¬
temned.
This fenfe of the dignity of human nature reaches
even our pleafures and amufements. If they enlarge
the mind by railing grand or elevated emotions, or if
they humanize the mind by exercifing our fympathy,
they are approved as fuited to the dignity of our na¬
ture: if they contraft the mind by fixing it on trivial ob-
jedts, they are contemned as not fuited to the dignity
of our nature. Hence, in general, every occupation,
whether of ufe or amufement, that correfponds to the
dignity of man, is termed tnanly; and every occupa¬
tion below his nature, is termed childijh.
To thofe who ftudy human nature, there is a point
which has always appeared intricate; How comes it
that generofity and courage are more efteemed, and
beftow more dignity, than good nature, or even juf*
tice ; though the latter contribute more than the for¬
mer to private as well as to public happinefs ? This
queftion, bluntly propofed, might puzzle even a phi-
lofopher; but, by means of the foregoing obferva-
tions, will eafily be folved. Human virtues, like o-
ther objedls, obtain a rank in our eftimation, not
from their utility, which is a fubjecl of refledlion, but
from the direft impreflion they make on us. Juftice
and good nature are a fort of negative virtues, that
fcarce make any impreflion but when they are tranf-
grelied : courage and generofity, on the contrary, pro¬
ducing elevated emotions, enliven the great fen(e of
a man’s dignity, both in himfelf and in others ; and
for that reafon, courage and generofity are in higher
regard than the other virtues mentioned : w^e deferibe
them as grand and elevated, as of greater dignity, and
more praifeworthy.
This leads us to examine more dire&ly emotions and
paflions with refpeft to the prefent fubjeft : and it will
not be difficult to form a fcale of them, beginning with
the meaneft, and afeending gradually to thofe of the
higheft rank and dignity. Pleafure felt as at the or¬
gan of fenfe, named corporeal pleafure, is perceived to
be low ; and when indulged to excefs, is perceived al¬
fo to be mean ; for that reafon, perfonsof any delicacy
diflemble the pleafure they take in eating and drink-
ing. 1 he pleafures of the eye and ear, having no or¬
ganic feeling, and being free from any fenfe of mean¬
nefs, are indulged without any ffiame : they even rife
to a certain degree of dignity when their objefts are
grand or elevated. The fame is the cafe of the fym~
pathetic paflions : a virtuous perfon behaving with for¬
titude and dignity under cruel misfortunes, makes a
capital figure; and the fympathizing fpeclator feels in
himfelf the fame dignity. Sympathetic diftrefs at the
fame time never is mean : on the contrary, it is agree¬
able to the nature of a focial being, and has general
approbation. The rank that love pofl'effes in the fcale
depends in a great meafure on its obje&s : it poffeffes a
low1' place when founded on external properties mere¬
ly ; and is mean when beftcw'ed on a perfon of inferior
rank without any extraordinary qualification: but
when founded on the more elevated internal properties,
it aflumes a confiderable degree of di-gnity. The fame
is the cafe of friendffiip. When gratitude is warm,
it animates the mind ; but it (carce rifes to dignity.
G g 2 Joy
DIG [ 236
Dignity. Joy beftows dignity when it proceeds from an elevated
u"—^ caufe. ^ ^
If we can depend upon induftion, dignity is not a
property of any difagreeable paffion : one is llight, an¬
other fevete j one depreffes the mind, another animates
it: but there is no elevation, far lefs dignity, in any
of them. Revenge, in particular, though it indame
and fwell the mind, is not accompanied with dignity,
not even with elevation : it is not however felt as mean
or grovelling, unlefs when it takes indireft meafures
for^gratification. Shame and remorfe, though they
fink the fpirits, are not mean. Pride, a difagreeable
paffion, bellows no dignity in the eye of a fpeftator.
Vanity always appears mean ; and extremely fo where
founded, as commonly happens, on trivial qualifica¬
tions. .
We proceed to the pleafures of the underftandmg,
which poffefs a high rank in point of dignity. Of this
every one will be fenfible, when he confiders the im¬
portant truths that have been laid open by fcience ;
filch as general theorems, and the general laws that
govern the material and moral worlds. The pleafures
of the underlfanding are fuited to man as a rational and
contemplative being, and they tend not a little to en¬
noble bis nature ; even to the Deity he ftretchetb his
contemplations, which, in the diicovery of infinite
power, wifdom, and benevolence, afford delight or toe
moft exalted kind. Hence it appears, that the fine
arts, ftudied as a rational fcience, afford entertainment
of great dignity ) fuperior far to what they afford as a
fubjeft of tafte merely. .
But contemplation, however in itfe.r valuable, is
chiefly refpeaed as fubfervient to aftion ; for man is
intended to be more an abfive than a contemplative
being. Pie accordingly {bows more dignity in adtion
than in contemplation: generofity, magnanimity, he-
roifin, raife his charafter to the higheft pitch : thefe
bed exprefs the dignity of his nature, and advance
him nearer to divinity than any other of his attri¬
butes. t . re
Having endeavoured to affign the efficient caule ot
dignity and meannefs, by unfolding the principle on
which they are founded, we proceed to explain the fi¬
nal caufe of the dignity or meannefs beflow'ed upon the
leveral particulars above mentioned, beginning with
corporeal pleafures. Thefe, as far as ufeful, are, like
iuflice, fenced with fufficient fandfions to prevent their
being negledted : hunger and thirft are painful fenfa-
tions ; and we are incited to animal love by a vigorous
propenfity : were’corporeal pleafures dignified over and
above with a place in a high clafs, they would infal¬
libly overturn the balance of the mind, by outweigh¬
ing the focial affedlions. This is a fatisfadlory final
caufe for refufing to thefe pleafures any degree of dig¬
nity : and the final caufe is not lefs evident of their
meannefs when they are indulged to excefs. The
more refined pleafures of external fenfe, conveyed by
the eye and the ear from natural objedts and from the
fine arts, deferve a high place in our efteem, becaufe
of their lingular and extenfive utility : in fome cales
they rife to a confiderable dignity ; and the veiy low-
eft pleafures of the kind are never efteemed mean or
grovelling. The pleafure arifing from wit, humour,
ridicule, or from wffiat is {imply ludicrous, is ufeful,
by relaxing the mind after the fatigue of more manly
] D I I
occupations : but the mind, when it furrenders itfelf Dignity
to pleafure of that kind, lofes its vigour, and finks D').
gradually into iloth, 1 he place this pleafure occupies     ^ m
in point of dignity is adjufted to thefe vierts : to make
it ufeful as a relaxation, it is not branded with mean¬
nefs ; to prevent its ufurpation, it is removed from
that place but a fingle degree : no man values himfelf
for that pleafure, even during gratification 5 and _ if
it have engroffed more of his time than is requmte
for relaxation, he looks back with iome degree of
fhame. .
In point of dignity, the focial emotions rile above
the felfifh, and much above thofe of the eje and ear j
man is by his nature a focial being ; and to qualify him
for fociety, it is wifely contrived that he ftiould value
himlelf more for being focial than {elfifh.
The excellency of man is chiefly difcernihle in the
great improvements he is fufceptible ol in fociety .
thefe, by perfeverance, may be carried on progrefhve-
ly, above any affignable limits } and even ab ft ratting
from revelation, "there is great probability that the
progrefs begun here will be completed in fome future
ftate. Now, as all valuable improvements proceed
from the exercife of our rational faculties, the Author
of our nature, in order to excite us to a due ufe of
thefe faculties, bath affigned a high rank to the plea¬
fures of the underftanding : their utility, with retpett
to this life as well as a future, entitles them to that
rank.
But as aflion is the aim of all our improvements,
virtuous aftions juftly poffefs the higheft of all the
ranks. Thele, we find, are by nature diftnbuted in¬
to different claffes, and the firft in point of dignity al-
figned to aftions that appear not the firft in point of
ufe : generofity, for example, in the fenfe of mankind
is more refpedied than iuftice, though the latter is un¬
doubtedly more effential to fociety 5 and magnanimity,
heroifm, undaunted courage, rife ftiU higher in our
efteem 5 the reafon of w’hich is explained above.
Dignity, in Oratory, is one of the three parts of
general elocution } and confifts in the right ufe of tropes
and figures. See Oratory, N° 48. .
DIGRESSION, in Oratory, is defined by Oumti-
lian, agreeably to the etymology of the word, to be
a going off from the fubjeft we are upon to fome dif¬
ferent thing, which, however, may be of fervice to it.
See Oratory, N° 37* . . x
DIGYN1A, (from twice, and a woman),
the name of an order or fecondary dmfion in each of
the firft 13 claffes, except the 9th, in Linnaeus siexual
method ; confifting of plants,, which to the claffic cha-
rafter, whatever it is, add the circumftance of having
two ftyles or female organs. .
DH, the divinities of the ancient inhabitants of the
earth, were very numerous. Every objea which caut-
ed terror, infpired gratitude, or beftowed affluence,
received the tribute of veneration. Man faw a lupe-
rior agent in the liars, the elements, or the trees ; and
fuppofed that the waters which communicated fertility
to his fields and poffeffions, were under the influence
and direftion of fome invifible power inclined to favour
and to benefit mankind. Thus arofe a tram of divini¬
ties which imagination arrayed m different forms, and
armed with different powers. 1 hey were endowed
with undeiHanding,, and were, aftuated by the
D I J [ 237 ] D I L
paffions which daily afflift the human race ; and thofe
children of fuperftition were appealed or provoked as
the imperfedt being which gave them birth. Their
wrath was mitigated by facrifices and incenfe, and
fometimes human vidlims bled to expiate a crime
which fuperliition alone fuppofed to exilf. The fun,
from his powerful influence and animating nature, firfl:
attradled the notice and claimed the adoration of the
uncivilized inhabitants of the earth. The moon alfo
was honoured with facrifices and addrefi'ed in prayers j
and after immortality had been liberally beftowed on
all the heavenly bodies, mankind clafled among their
deities the brute creation, and the cat and the fow
fhared equally with Jupiter himfelf, the father of gods
and men, the devout veneration of their votaries. This
immenfe number of deities has been divided into dif¬
ferent claffes according to the will and pleafure of the
mythologifls. The Romans, generally fpeaking, rec¬
koned two clafles of the gods, the dti majorum gen¬
tium, or dit coifente?, and the dii minorum gentium.
The fo rmer were 12 in number, fix males and fix fe¬
males. \Vid. Consentes.J In the clafs of the latter
were ranked all the gods which were wTorflupped in
different parts of the earth. Befides thefe there were
lome called dii feledli, fometimes clafled with the 12
greater gods ; thefe were Janus, Saturn, the Genius,
the Moon, Pluto, and Bacchus. There were alio fome
called demigods, that is, who deferved immortality
by the greatnefs of their exploits, and for their uncom¬
mon fervices to mankind. Among thefe were Priapus,
Vert umnus, Hercules, and thofe whofe parents were
fome of the immortal gods. Befides thefe, all the paf-
fions and the moral virtues were reckoned as powerful
deities, and temples were raifed to a goddefs of con¬
cord, peace, &c. According to the authority of He-
fiod, there were no lefs than 30,000 gods that inhabit¬
ed the earth, and were guardians of men, all lubfer-
vient to the power of Jupiter. To thefe, fucceeding
ages have added an almofl equal number ; and indeed
they were fo numerous, and their funftions fo various,
that we find temples eredled, and f?crifices offered, to
unknown gods. It is obfervable, that all the gods of
the ancients have lived upon earth as mere mortals ;
and even Jupiter, who was the ruler of heaven, is re-
prefented by the mythologifts as a helplefs child ; and
we are acquainted with all the particulars that attend¬
ed the birth and education of Juno. In procefs of
time, not only good and virtuous men, who had been
the patrons of learning and the fupporters of liberty,
but alio thieves and pirates, were admitted among the
gods, and the Roman fenate courteoufly granted im¬
mortality to the moft cruel and abandoned of their em¬
perors.
DIJAMBUS, in Poetry, the foot of a Latin verfe
of four fyllables ; it is compounded of two iambics, as
fevent as.
DI JON, an ancient, and very confiderable town of
France; formerly capital of Burgundy, and of the Di-
jonois ; now the epifcopal town of the department of
Cote d’Or. Before the revolution it had a parliament,
a mint, an univerfity, academy of fciences, an abbey,
and a citadel. Moft part of the churches and public
ftruclures are very beautiful, and in one of the fquares
there was an equeftrian ftatue of Louis XIV. It is
feated in a very pleafant plaitij between two fmall ri¬
vers, which produces excellent wine. It contains Dike
20,000 inhabitants. E. Long. j. 7. N. Lat. 47. 19. II .
DIKE, a ditch or drain, made for the paffage of
waters.— I he word feems formed from the verb to dii?;
though others choofe to derive it from the Dutch, diik,
a dam, fea-bank, or wall.
Dike, or Dyke, alio denotes a work of ftone, tim¬
ber or falcines, raifed to oppofe the entrance or paf¬
fage of the waters of the fea, a river, lake, or the like.
— I he word comes from the Flemifh dyk, or ditk, a
heap of earth to bound or ftem the water. Junius
and Menage take the Ilemifh to have borrowed their
word from the Greek wall. Guichard derives
it from the Hebrew dflghah. Thefe dikes are ufually
elevations of earth, with hurdles of flakes, Hones, and
other matters.
I he dike of Rochelle is made with veffels faftened
to the bottom. I he dikes of Holland are frequently
broke through, and drown large trails of land.
DILAPIDATION, in Law, a wafteful deft roving
or letting buildings, efpecially parfonage houses, &c.
run to decay, for want of neceflary reparation. If the
clergy negleft to repair the houfes belonging to their
benefices, the bifliop may fequefter the profits thereof
for that purpofe. And in thefe cafes, a profecutiou
may be brought, either in the ipiritual court or at com¬
mon law, againlt the incumbent himitlf, or againft his
executor or adminiftrator.
DILA1 A LION, in Phyjics, a motion of the parts
of any body, by which it is fo expanded as to occupy
a greater Ipace. his expanfive motion depends upon
the elaftic power of the body; whence it appears that
dilatation is different from rarefaction, this laft being
produced by means of heat.
DILAI A ! ORES, in Anatomy, a name given to
feveral mulcles in the human body. See Anatomy,
Table of the Mufcles.
DILATOR A7- pleas, in Law, are fuch as are put
in merely for delay ; and there may be a demurrer to
a dilatory plea, or the defendant {hall be ordered to
plead better, &c. The truth of dilatory pleas is to
be made out by affidavit of the fad, &c. by flat. 4 and
5 Anne. See Plea.
DILATRIS, a genus of plants, belonging to the tri-
andria clafs. See Botany Index.
DILEMMA, in Logie, an argument equally con-
clufive by contrary fuppofitions. See Logic.
DILIGENCE, in Scots Law, lignifies either that
care and attention which parties are bound to give, in
implementing certain contracls or trufts, and which va¬
ries according to the nature of the contraCI ; or it
fignifies certain forms of law, whereby the creditor
endeavours to operate his payment, either by affeCIing
the perfon or eftate of the debior. See Law Index.
DILL. See Anethum, Botany /We.*.
DILLEMBURG, a town of Germany, in Wet-
teravia, and capital of a county of the fame name.
It is fubjeCI to a prince of the houfe of Naffau, and is
fituated in E. Long. 8. 24. N. Lat. 50. 45.
DILLENGLN, a town of Germany, in the circle
of Suabia, with a univerfity, and where the bifhop of
Augfburg refides. It is feated near the Danube, in
E. Long. 10. 20. N. Lat. 48. 30.
DILLEN1A, a genus of plants belonging to the
polyandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DILUTE,
Dilute
II ,
Dimldale.
DIM [2
To dilute a body is to render it li-
* See Ar-
cbiteBure,
N038.
DILUTE.  
quid *, or, if it were liquid before, to render it more 10
by the addition of a thinner thereto. Thefe things
thus added are called diluents, or dilators.
DIM ACHE, (from ^5, double, and paw, I
in antiquity, a kind of horfemen firft initituted by A-
lexander. Their armour was lighter than that of the
infantry, and at the fame time heavier than that ufed
by horfemen, fo that they could a£t as horfe or foot
as occafion required.
DIMENSION, in Geometry, is either length,
breadth, or thicknefs; hence, a line hath one dimen-
fion, Viz. length a fuperficies twTo, viz. length and
bre idth j and a body, or folid, has three, viz. length,
breadth, and thicknefs.
DIMINUTION, in ArchiteBure, a contra&ion of
the upper part of a column, by which its diameter is
made lefs than that of the lower part *.
Diminution, in Mafic, is the abating lomething or
the full value or quantity of any note.
DIMINUTIVE, in Grammar, a word formed from
fome other, to foften or diminifh the force of it, or to
fignify a thing is little in its kind. Ehus, cellule is a
diminutive of cell, globule of globe, hillock of hill.
DIMISSORY letters, (liter & DimiJJbria'), in the
canon law, a letter given by a bilhop to a candidate for
holy orders, having a title in his diocefe, diretfed to
fome other bilhop, and giving leave for the bearer to
be ordained by him.
When a perfon produces letters of ordination or
tonfure, conferred bv any other than his otvn diocefan,
he mud at the fame time produce the letters dimiflbry
given by his own bilhop, on pain of nullity.
Letters dimiffory cannot be given by the chapter,
fede vacante; this being deemed an aft of voluntary
jurifdiftion which ought to be referved to the fuc-
ceffor.
DIMCERITiE, a name given to the Apolhnanlts,
who at firft held, that the Word only affumed a human
body, without taking a reafonable foul like ours ; but
being at length convinced by formal texts of Scripture,
they allowed, that he did affume a foul, but without
underftanding ; the Word fupplying the want of that
faculty. From this way of feparating the underftand¬
ing from the foul, they became denominated dimeentes,
q. d. dividers, feparators, of 'bict, and I divide..
DIMSDALE, Thomas, Baron, greatly diftinguilh-
cd for his praftice of inoculation for the fmall-pox,
was the fon of a furgeon and apothecary at Theydon
Gernon in Effex, and was born in the year 1712. His
family belonged to the lociety of Quakers ; and. his
grandfather accompanied William Penn to America ;
but foon after returned and fettled in his native village.
Thomas wras brought up to his profeffion firft under his
father, and afterwards he became a pupil in St 1 homas
Hofpital, London. He commenced his praftice at
Hertford about 1734. and married the only daughter
of Nathanael Brafi'ey, ofRoxford, near that town, an
eminent banker in London, and reprefentative of Hert¬
ford in four fucceflive parliaments. She.died in 1744,
and left no children. To relieve his mind under this
lofs, he voluntarily offered his afliftance to the phyfi-
cians and furgeons in the army under the duke of
Cumberland, and continued with it till after the fur-
render of Carlifle to the king’s forces, when he recei-
38 ] DIN
ved the duke’s thanks, and returned to Hertford. Lv Dimfrlale,
1746 he married Anne lies, a relation of his firft wife, Jma",
and by her fortune, and that which he acquired by the
death of the widow of Sir John Dimfdale of Hertford,
he retired from praftice j but, his family becoming
numerous, and feven of his ten children being living,
he refumed it, and took the degree of doftor of me¬
dicine, in 1761* Having fully fatisfied himielf about
the new method of treating perfons under inoculation
for the fmall-pox, he publiftied his treatife on it in 1776,
which was foon circulated all over the continent, and
tranflated into all its languages, not omitting the
Ruffian. He concludes with faying that, “although
the whole procefs may have fome ffiare in the fuccefs,
it, in my opinion, confifts chiefly in the method of in¬
oculating with recent fluid matter, and the manage¬
ment of the patients at the time of eruption.” This
proof of his profeffional knowledge occafioned his be¬
ing invited to inoculate the emprefs Catherine and her
fon, in 1768, of which he gives a particular account in
hisTrafts on Inoculation, 1781. His reward for this
was an appointment of aftual counfellor of ftate 3i*d
phyfician to her imperial majefty, with an annuity ot
500I. the rank of a baron of the Ruffian empire, to be
borne by his eldeft lawful defeendant in fucceffion, and
a black wing of the Ruffian eagle in a gold ihield in
the middle of his arms, with the cuftomary helmet,
adorned with the baron’s coronet, over the ffiield ; to
receive immediately io,oool. and 2000I. for travelling
charges, miniature piftures of the emprefs and her fon,
and the fame title to his fon, to whom the grand duke
gave a gold fnuff-box, richly fet with diamonds. The
baron inoculated numbers of people at Mofcow; and,
refifting the emprefs’s invitation to refide. as her phyfi¬
cian in Ruffia, he and his fon were admitted to a pri¬
vate audience of Frederic II. king of Pruflia, at Sans
Souci, and thence returned to England. In 1779*
loft his fecond wife, who left him feven children.. He
afterwards married Elizabeth daughter of \\ illi.am
Dimfdale, of Biffiops-Stortford, who furvived him.
He was elefted reprefentative of the bc»ough of Hert¬
ford in 1780; and declined all praftice, except for the
relief of the poor. He went to Ruffia once more, in
1781, to inoculate the late emperor and his brother
Conftantine, fons of the grand duke •, and, as he paf-
fed through Bruffels, the late emperor, Jofeph, recei¬
ved him in private, and wrote in his prefence a letter,
which he was to convey to the emprefs of Ruffia. In
1700, his fon, Baron Nathanael, w’as elefted lor the
borough of Hertford, on his refignation and retirement
to Bath, for feveral winters; but at laft he fixed alto¬
gether at Hertford, and died, aged 89, Dec. 30, 1800,
after an illnefs of about three weeks. About 17 years
before his death he felt the fight of one eye declining,
having before loft that of the other, but recovered
both by the operation of the cataraft, by Wenzel. .
DINDYMA, -orum, (Virgil,) from Dindymus, -1;
a mountain allotted by many to Phrygia. Strabo has
twro mountains of this name ; one in Myfia near Cy-
zicus; the other in Gallograecia near Peffinus ; and
none in Phrygia. Ptolemy extends this ridge from
the borders of Troas, through Phrygia, to Gallogrye-
cia : though therefore there were two mountains called
Dindymus in particular, both facred to the mother ot
the gods, and none of them in Phrygia Major ;^yet
Diocefe.
DIO [ 239
Dingwal there might be feveral hills and eminences in it, on
which this goddefs was worfhipped, and therefore
1 called Dmdyma in general. Hence Cybele is furnamed
Dindymane, (Horace).
DINGWAL, a royal borough of Scotland in the
(hire of Rofs, feated on the frith of Cromarty, 15 miles
weft of the town of Cromarty. Near it runs the river
Conel, famous for producing pearls. W. Long. 4. iy.
N. Lat. 57. 45. Dingwal was a Scotch barony in
the petfon of the duke of Ormond in right of his lady,
but forfeited in 1715.
DINNER, the meal taken about the middle of the
day.—The word is derived from the French difrter,
which Du Cange derives from the barbarous Latin
difnare. Henry Stephens derives it from the Greek
StiTntHV; and will have it wrote dipner. Menage dedu¬
ces it from the Italian deftnare, “ to dine” 5 and that
from the Latin dejinere, “ to leave off work.”
It is generally agreed to be the moft falutary to
make a plentiful dinner, and to eat fparingly at fupper.
This is the general praftice among us. The French,
however, in imitation of the ancient Romans, defer
their good cheer to the evening; and Bernardinus Pa-
ternus, an eminent Italian phyfician, maintains it to
be the moft wholefome method, in a treatife exprefsly
on the fubjeft.
_ The grand Tartar emperor of China, after he has
dined, makes publication by his heralds, that he gives
leave for all the other kings and potentates of the
earth to go to dinner; as if they waited for his leave.
DINOCRATES, a celebrated architeft of Mace¬
donia who rebuilt the temple of Ephefus, when burnt
by Eroftratus, with much more magnificence than be¬
fore. Vitruvius informs us that Dinocrates propofed
to Alexander the Great to convert Mount Athos into
the figure of a man, whofe left hand Ihould contain a
walled city, and all the rivers of the mount flow into
his right, and from thence into the fea ! He alfo con¬
ceived a fcheme for building the dome of the temple of
Arfinoe at Alexandria, of loadftone ; that fhould by
its attraction uphold her iron image in the centre, fuf-
pended in the air ! ProjeCts which at leaft (bowed a
vaft extent of imagination.
DIO CHRYSOSTOM, that is, Golden Mouth, a cele¬
brated orator and philofopher of Greece, in the firft
century, was born at Prufa in Bithynia. He attempted
to perfuade Vefpafian to quit the empire ; was hated
by Domitian.; but acquired the efteem of Trajan.
This laft prince took pleafure in converfing with him,
and made him ride with him in his triumphal chariot.
There are (till extant 80 of Dio’s orations, and fome
other of his works ; the beft edition of which is that
of Hermand Samuel Raimarus, in J750, in folio.
DIOCESE, or Diocess, the circuit or extent of
the jurifdiftion of a Bishop. The word is formed
from the Greek ^toiKna-tf, government, adminijlration ;
formed of which the ancient gloffaries render
admini/lro, moderor, ordino: hence 'bioix-wa; tyk voteas,
the adminijlration or government of a city.
Diocese is alfo ufed in ancient authors, &c. for the
province of a metropolitan.
Diocxfis, (dieiKqcn;), was originally a civil govern¬
ment, or prefecture, compofed of divers provinces.
The firft divifion of the empire into diocefes is ordi¬
narily afcribed to Conftantjne; who diftributed the
DIO
■whole Roman date into four, viz. the diocefe of Italy, Diocleia-,
the diocefe of Illyria, that of the Eaft, and that of D^clefia-
Africa. And yet long before Conllantine, Strabo, , n”s‘ .
who wrote under Tiberius, takes notice, lib. xiii. p. v~"
432. that the Romans had divided Afia into diocefes ;
and complains of the confufion fuch a divifion occafion-
ed in geography, Afia being no longer divided by peo¬
ple, but by diocefes, each whereof had a tribunal or
court, where juftice was adminiftered. Conftantine
then was only the inftitutor of thofe large diocefes,
which comprehended feveral inetropoles and govern-
ments ; the former diocefes only comprehending one
jurifdiCfion or diftriCt, or the country that had refort
to one judge, as appears from this paffage in Strabo,
and (before Strabo) from Cicero himfelf, lib. iii. epf.
adfamil. 9. and lib. xiii. ep. 67.
I hus, at firft a province included divers diocefes :
and afterwards a diocefe came to comprife divers pro¬
vinces.^ In after times the Roman empire became di¬
vided into 13 diocefes or prefectures; though, in¬
cluding Rome, and the fuburbicary regions, there
W’ere 14. Thefe 14 diocefes comprehended 120 pro¬
vinces each province had a proconful, who redded in
the capital or metropolis ; and each diocefe of the em¬
pire had a conful, who refided in the principal city of
the diftriCL
On this civil conftitution the ecclefiaftical one was
afterwards regulated: each diocefe had an ecclefiafti¬
cal vicar or primate, vrho judged finally of all the
concerns of the church within his territory.
At prefent there is fome further alteration: for dio¬
cefe does not now fignify an affemblage of divers pro¬
vinces; but is limited to a fingle province under a me¬
tropolitan, or more commonly to the fingle jurifdic-
tion of a bifliop.
Gul. Brito affirms diocefe to be properly the terri¬
tory and extent of a baptifmal or parochial church ;
whence divers authors ufe the word to fignify a Ample
parifli. See Parish.
DIOCLEIA, (AioxAs/ss), in antiquity, a folemnity
kept in the fpring at Megara, in memory of the Athe¬
nian hero, who died in the defence of the youth he
loved.
DIOCLESIANUS, Caius Valerius Juvivs, a
celebrated Roman emperor, born of an obfcure family
in Dalmatia in 245. He was firft a common foldier,
and by merit and iuccefs he gradually role to the office
of a general; and at the death of Numerian in 284 he
was invefted with imperial power. In this high ftation
he rewarded the virtues and fidelity of Maximian, who
had (hared with him all the fubordinate offices in the
army, by making him his colleague on the throne. He
created two fubordinate emperors, Conftantius and Ga-
lerius, whom he called Caefars, whilft he claimed for
himfelf and his colleague the fuperior title of Auguftus.
Dioclefian has been celebrated for his military virtues;
and though he w’as naturally unpoliffied by education
mid ftudy, yet he was the friend and patron of learn-
ing and true genius. He was bold and relolute, adive
and diligent, and w'ell acquainted with the arts, which
will endear ffovereign to his people, and make him re-
fpedable even in the eyes of his enemies. His cruelty
however, againft the followers of Chriftianity, has been
defervedly branded with infamy. After he had reign¬
ed 22 years in the greateft profperity, he publicly ab¬
dicated
D I O
[ 24® ]
D I O
Dicdati
II _
"Dioecia.
dicatcd the crown at Nicomedia in 305, and retired to
a private ftation at Salona. Maximian his colleague
followed his example, but not from voluntary choice ;
and when he feme time after endeavoured to rouie the
ambition of Dioclefian, and perfuade him to reaffume
the imperial purple, he received for anfwer, that Uio-
clefian took now more delight in cultivating bis little
garden than he formerly enjoyed in a palace, when his
power was extended over allthe earth. He lived nine
years after bis abdication in the greateft fecunty and
enjoyment at Salona, and died in 314, m the 68th
year of his age. Dioclefian is the firft fovereign who
voluntarily refigned his power. His bloody pei ecu-
tion of the Chriftians forms a chronological era, called
the era of Dioclefan, or of the martyrs. It was *0* a
long time in ufe in theological writings, and is Hill fol¬
lowed by the Copts and Abyflinians. It commenced
Auguft 29. 284. , , r r
DIODATI, John, a famous miniiler, and protei-
for of theology at Geneva, was born at Lucca in 1579,
and died at Geneva in 1652. He is diftinguilhed by
tranflations, I. Of the Bible into Italian, with notes,
Geneva, 1607, 410. The belt edition at Geneva in
1641, folio. This is faid to be more a paraphrale than
a tranflation, and the notes rather divine_ meditations
than critical refleftions. 2. Of the Bible into Trench,
Geneva, 1644. 3. Of Father Paul’s Hitlory of the
Council of Trent into Trench.
DIODIA, a genus of plants belonging to the te-
trandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 47th order, Stellatce. See Botany //^r.
DIODON, or sun-fish, a genus ot filhes belong¬
ing to the order of amphibia nantes. See Ichthyo¬
logy Index. j o- 7
DIODORUS, an hiftorian, furnamed Siculus be-
caufe he was born at Argyra in Sicily. He wrote a
hiftory of Egypt, Perfia, Syria, Media, Greece, Rome,
and Carthage and it is faid that he vifited all the
places of which he has made mention in his hiltoiy.
It was the labour of 30 years. He is, however, too
credulous in fome of his narrations-, and often wanders
far from the truth. He often dwells Urn long upon
fabulous reports and trilling incidents-, while events ot
the greateft importance to hiftory are treated with bre¬
vity, and fometimes paffed over in filence. He ive
in the age of Julius Caefar and Auguftus.; and fpent
much time at Rome to procure information, and au¬
thenticate his hiftorical narrations. This important
work, which he compofed in Greek, contained 40
books, of which there are only 15 remaining. 1 he
flyle is clear and neat, and very fuitable to hiftory.
The belt edition is that of Amfterdam, 1743, m 2 vols
folio. . , 1 r
DICECIA, (from $<s, twice, and a houje or
habitation) two houfes. The name of the 22d clafs in
Linnseus’s fexual method, confiftmg of plants, which
having no hermaphrodite flowers, produce male and
female flowers on feparate roots. Thefe latter only
ripen feeds y but require for that purpofe, according to
the fexualifts, the vicinity of a male P^nt i 0l' ^ '
perfion, that is, fprinkling of the male duft. From
the feeds of the female flowers are raifed both male and
female plants. The plants then in the clafs dicecia are
all male and female -, not hermaphrodite, as in the
greater number of claffes-, nor with male and female
flowers upon one root, as in the clafs monoecia of the Diogcnf-s-
fame author. See Botany Index.
DIOGENES of Apollonia, in the ifland ot Crete,
held a confiderable rank among the philofophers who
taught in Ionia before Socrates appeared at Athens.
He was the fcholar and fucceffor of Anaximenes, and
in fome meafure reaified his mailer’s opinion concern¬
ing air being the caufe of all things. It is faid, that he
was the firft who obferved that air was capable of con-
denfation and rarefaftion. He paffed for an excellent
philofopher, and died about the 450th year before the
Chriftian era.
Diogenes the Cynic, a famous philolopher, was
the fon of a banker of Sinope in Pontus. Being ba-
nifhed with his father for coining falie moneys, he retired
to Athens, where he ftudied philofophy under Antif-
thenes. He added new degiees of aufterity to the fecT
of the Cynics, and never did any philofopher carry fo
far a contempt for the conveniences of life. He was
one of thofe extraordinary men who run every thing to
extremity, without excepting even reafon itfeif j and
who confirm the faying, that “ there is no great ge¬
nius without a tinflure of madnefs.” He lodged m a
tub ; and had no other moveables btfideshis ftalt, wal¬
let and wooden bowl, which laft he threw away on
feeing a boy drink out of the hollow of his hand. He
ufed to call himfelf a vagabond, who had neither houie
nor country -, was obliged to beg, was ill clothed, and
lived from hand to mouth : and yet, fays /Than, he took
as much pride in thefe things as Alexander could in the
conqueft of the world. He was not indeed a jot more
humble than thofe who are clothed in rich apparel, and
. fare fumptuoufly every day. He looked down on all
the world with fcorn ; he magifterially cenfured all
mankind, and thought himfelf unqueftionably fuperior
to all other philofophers. Alexander one day paid him
a vifit, and made him an offer of riches or any thing
elfe; but all that the philofopher requefted oi him
was, to ftand from betwixt the fun and him. As it
he had faid, “ Do not deprive me of the benefits ot
nature, and I leave to you thofe of fortune. The con¬
queror was fo affefted with the vigour and elevation ot
his foul, as to declare, that “ if he was not Alexander,
he would choofe to be Diogenes that is, if he was
not in poffeflion of all that was pompous and fplendid
in life, he would, like Diogenes, heroically del pile it.
Diogenes had great prefence of mind, as appears from
his fmart fayings and quick repartees 5 and Plato feems
to have hit off his true chara&er when he called him a
Socrates run mad. He fpent a great part of his life at
Corinth, and the reafon of his living there was as fol¬
lows : as he was going over to the ifiand of /Egma, he
was taken by pirates, who carried him into Crete, and
there expofed him to fale. He anfwered the crier
who afked him what he could do, that “he knew how
to command men and perceiving a Corinthian who
was going by, he (bowed him to the crier, and (aid
“ Sell me to that gentleman, for be wants a niafter.
Xeniades, for that was the Corinthian’s name, bought
Diogenes, and carried him with him to Corinth. He
appointed him tutor to his children, and intruded him
alfo with the management of his houfe. Diogenes s
friends being defirous to redeem him, ‘ ^ ou are
fools (faid he) ; the lions are not the flaves of thofe wTo
feed them, but they are the fervants of the
DIO [ 241 ] DIO
B'ogenes. tfceiefore plainly told Xeniades, that he might to obey
him, as people obey their governors and phyficians.
Some fay, that Diogenes fpent the remainder oi his
life in Xeniades’s family •, but Dion Chryfoftom afferts
that he pafl’ed the winter at Athens, and the fummer
at Corinth. He died at Corinth when he was about
90 years old : but authors are not agreed either as to
the time or manner of his death. I he following ac¬
count, Jerome fays, is the true one. As he was going
to the Olympic games, a fever feized him in the way ;
upon which he lay down under a tree, and refuied the
affiftance of thofe who accompanied him, and who of¬
fered him either a horfe or a chariot. “ Go you to
the games { fays he ), and leave me to contend with my
illnefs. If I conquer, I will follow you ; if I am con¬
quered, I lhall go to the fhades below.” He defpatch-
ed himfelf that very night •, faying, that “ he did not
fo properly die, as get rid of his fever.” He had for
his di lei pies Oneficritus, Phocion, Stilpo of Megara,
and feveral other great men. His works are lolf.
Diogenes Laertius, fo called from Laerta in Cili¬
cia w’here he was born, an ancient Greek author, who
wrote ten books of the Lives of the Philofophers, ffill
extant. In what age he Houriflied, is not eafy to de¬
termine. The oldeft writers who mention him are So-
pater Alexandrinus, who lived in the time of Conftan-
tine the Great, and Hefycliius Milefius, who lived un¬
der Juffinian. Diogenes often fpeaks in terms of ap¬
probation of Plutarch and Phavorinus ; and therefore,
as Plutarch lived undet Trajan, and Phavorinus under
Hadrian, it is certain that he could not flourifh before
the reigns of thofe emperors. Menage has fixed him
to the time of Severus ; that is, about the year of
Chrift 200. From certain expreffions in him fome
have fancied him to have been a Chriftian ; but, as
Menage obferves, the immoderate praifes he beflows
upon Epicurus will not fuffer us to believe this, but
incline us rather to iuppofe that he was an Epicurean.
He divided his Lives into books, and inferibed them to
a learned lady of the Platonic fchool, as he himfelf in¬
timates in his life of Plato. Montaigne was fo fond of
this author, that initead of one Laertius he wifhes we
had a dozen ; and Vofiius fays, that his work is as pre¬
cious as gold. Without doubt we are greatly obli¬
ged to him for what w'e know of the ancient philofo¬
phers : and if he had been as exaft in the writing part
as he w’as judicious in the choice of his fubjedl, we had
been more obliged to him (till. Bifhop Burnet, in the
preface to his Life of Sir Matthew Hale, fpeaks of
him in the followung proper manner : “ There is no
book the ancients have left us (fays he), which might
have informed us more than Diogenes Laertius’s Lives
of the Pbilofopheis if he had had the art of writing
equal to that great fubjedf w'hich he undertook : for if
he had given the world fuch an account of them as
Gafiendus has done of Peirefc, how great a dock of
knowledge might we have had, wLich by his unlkilful-
nefs is in a great meafure loft ! fince we muft now de¬
pend only on him, becaufe we have no other and better
author w'ho has written on that argument.” T here
have been feveral editions of his Lives of the Philofo¬
phers ; but the beft is that printed in two volumes 410,
at Amfterdam, 1693. This contains the advantages
of all the former, befides fome peculiar to itfelf: the
Vot. VII. Part I.
Greek text and the Latin verfion corre£led and amend- Diomedia
ed by Meibomius •, the entire notes of Henry Stephens,
both the Cafaubons and of Menage ; 24 copperplates , T,,
of philofophers elegantly engraved : to w hich is added
The hiftory of the Female Philofophers, written by
Menage, and dedicated to Madame Dacier. Befides
this, Laertius wrote a book ot Epigrams upon illuftri-
ous Men, called Pammetrus, from its various kinds of
metre ; but this is not extant.
DIOMEDIA, a genus of birds belonging to the
order oi anleres. See Ornithology Index.
DIOMEDES, fon of Tydcus and Deiphyle, rvas
king of Aitolia, and one of the braveft ot the Grecian
chiefs in the Trojan war. He often engaged He ft or
and ALieas, and obtained much military glory. He
went with Ulyffes to fteal the Palladium from the temple
of Minerva in Troy •, and aflifted in murdering Rhefus
king of Thrace, and carrying away his horfes. At his
return from the liege of Troy, he loft his way in the
darknefs of night, and landed in Attica, where his
companions plundered the country, and loft the Trojan
Palladium. During his long abfence, his wufe Aigiale
forgot her marriage vows, and proftituted herfelf to
Cometes one of her fervants. This lafeivioufnefs of
the queen was attributed by fome to the refentment
of Venus, whom Diomedes had feverely wounded in
a battle before Troy. The infidelity of Algiale was
highly difpleafing to Diomedes. He refolved to aban¬
don his native country which was the feat of his dif-
grace 5 and the attempts of his wife to take away his
life, according to feme accounts, did not a little con¬
tribute to haften his departure. He came to that part
of Italy, which has been called Magna Greecia, where
he built a city, which he called xirgyrippa, and married
the daughter of Daunus the king of the country. He
died there in extreme old age j or according to a cer¬
tain tradition, he perilhed by the hand of his father-
in-law. His death was greatly lamented by his com¬
panions, who in the excefsof their grief were changed
into birds refembling fwans. Tlwfe birds took flight
into a neighbouring ifland in the Adriatic, and be¬
came remarkable for the tamenefs with which they ap¬
proached the Greeks, and for the horror with w hich
they fliunned all other nations. They are called the
birds of Diomedes. Altars were raifed to Diome¬
des as to a god, one of which Strabo mentions at Ti-
mavus.
DION, a Syracufan, fon of Hipparinus, famous
for his power and abilities. He was related to Dio-
nyfius, and often advifed him, together with the philo-
fopher Plato, who at his requeft had come to refide at
the tyrant’s court, to lay afide the fupreme power.
His great popularity rendered him odious in the eyes
of the tyrant, who baniftied him to Greece. T here
he collefted a numerous force, and refolved to free his
country from tyranny. This he eafily effefted on ac¬
count of his uncommon popularity. He entered the
port of Syracufe only in two (hips j and in three days
reduced under his power an empire which had already
fubfifted for 50 years, and which wTas guarded by jeo
lhips of war, and above 100,000 troops. The tyrant
fled to Corinth, and Dion kept the power in his own
hands, fearful of the afpiring ambition of fome of the
friends of Dionyfius 5 but he was Ihamefully betrayed
H h and
Dionyfiaca.
D 1 O
Dion and murdered by one of his familiar
Callicrates or Callipus, 354 years before the Chriftian
era.
Dion CaJ/ius, a native of Nicaea in Bithynia.
His father’s name was Apronianus. He was railed to
the greateft offices of ftate in the Roman empire by
Pertinax, and his three fucceffors. He was naturally
fond of fiudy, and he improved himfelf by unwearied
application. He was ten years in colle&ing materials
for a hiftory of Rome, which he made public in 80
books, after a laborious employment of 12 years in
compofmg it. This valuable hiftory began with the
arrival of ALneas in Italy, down to the reign of the
emperor Alexander Severus. The 34 firft books are
totallv loft, the 20 following, that is, from the 35th to
the 54th, remain entire, the fix following are mutilat¬
ed, and fragments is all that we poffefs of the laft 20.
In the compilation of this extenfive hiftory, Dion pro-
pofed to himfelf Thucydides for a model, but he is not
perfeftly happy in his imitation. His ftyle is pure and
elegant, and his narrations are judicioufiy managed,
and his refleftions learned •, but upon the whole, he is
credulous, and the bigotted flave of partiality, fatire,
and flattery. He inveighs againft the republican prin¬
ciples of Brutus and Cicero, and extols the caufe of
Ccefar. Seneca is the objeft of his fatire, and he re-
prefents him as debauched and licentious in his mo¬
rals.
DIONIS, Peter, adiftinguifhedFrench furgeon,was
born in Paris. In the time of Louis XIV. he was ap¬
pointed anatomical and chirurgical demonftrator in the
royal garden, and he was the firft ivho held that place.
He was furgeon in ordinary to Maria Therefa of Auf-
tria, queen of France, and to two dauphineffes and the
royal children. He was the author of feveral works,
both on anatomical and furgical lubjefts. One of the
firft of his publications, is entitled de l'Homme,
fuivant la Circulation du Sang, 8vo, which appeared
in 1690, and has been frequently reprinted, and tranf-
lated into different languages. It was tranflated into
the Tartarian dialed! by a Jefuit for the ufe of the em¬
peror of China. This work has been confidered as a
ufeful compendium of anatomy. In another work
which he publilhed in 1698, entitled, Differtation
Hijlorique et Phyftque fur la Generation de /'Homme,
he fupports the ovarian hypothefis. In 1707 he pu-
blifhed a work on furgeiy, entitled Cours d'0{)erations
de Chirurgerie, 8vo, which was feveral times reprint¬
ed 5 and latterly it was edited with notes by La Faye
in 2 vols. This treatife was long received as a ftand-
ard book on the fubjedt. It contains many ufeful and
pertinent obfervations detailed in plain, unaffedled
language. Dionis is the author of two other wmrks ;
the firft, Sur la Mart fubite, et fur la Catalepfte, pw-
blilhed in 1709, and the other Traite gcnerale des Ac¬
couchement*, in 1718. But the laft is little elfe than
an abridgement of Mauriijeau’s work on the fame fub-
jedL Dionis died at Paris in 1718.
DIONTEA, venus’s fly-trap, a genus of plants
belonging to the decandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DIONYSIA, in Grecian antiquity, folemnities in
honour of Bacchus, fometimes called by the general
name of Orgia ; and by the Romans Bacchanalia, and
Lihera/ia. See Bacchanalia and Bacchus.
DIONYSIACA, in antiquity, was a defignation
[ 242 ] DIO
friends called given to plays and all manner of fports adled on the Dionyfiari
ftage j becaufe playhoufes were dedicated to Diony- jjjo^an
fius, i. e. Bacchus, and Venus, as being the deities of tine>
fports and pleafure.
DIONYSIAN period. See Chronology, N°3i.
DIONYSIUS I. from a private lecretary became
general and tyrant of Syracufe and all Sicily. He was
likewife a poet ; and having, by bribes, gained the
tragedy prize at Athens, he indulged himfelf fo im¬
moderately at table from excefs of joy, that he died of
the debauch, 386 B. C. but fome authors relate that
he wTas poifoned by his phyficians.
Dionysius II. (his fon and fucceffor) was a great¬
er tyrant than his father j his fubjefts were obliged to
apply to the Corinthians for fuccour *, and Timoleon
their general having conquered the tyrant, he fled to
Athens, where he was obliged to keep a fchool for
fubfiftence. He died 343 B. C.
Dionysius Hahcarnaffenjis, a celebrated hiftori-
an, and one of the moft judicious critics of antiquity,
was born at Halicarnaffus ; and went to Rome after
the battle of Adlium, where he ftaid 22 years under
the reign of Auguftus. He there compofed in Greek
his Hiftory of the Roman Antiquities, in 20 books,
of which the firft 11 only are now remaining. There
are alfo ftill extant feveral of his critical works. The
beft edition of the works of this author is that of
Oxford, in 1704, in Greek and Latin, by Dr Hud-
fon.
Dionysius, a learned geographer, to whom is at¬
tributed a Periegefis, or Survey of the Earth, in Greek -
verfe. Some fuppofe that he lived in the time of Au¬
guftus } but Scaliger and Saumafius place him under
the reign of Severus, or Marcus Aurelius. He wrote
many other works, but his Periegefis is the only one
we have remaining j the beft and moft ufeful edition
of which is that improved with notes and illuftrations
by Hill.
Dionysius Areopagita, was born at Athens, and
educated there. He went afterwards to Heliopolis in
Egypt ; where, if we may believe fome writers of his
life, he faw that wonderful eclipfe which happened at
our Saviour’s paffion, and was urged by fome extraor¬
dinary impulfe to cry out, Aut Deus patitur, out cunt
patiente dolet ; “ either God himfelf luffers, or condoles
with him who does.” At his return to Athens he
was eletted into the court of Areopagus, from whence
he derived his name of Areopagite. About the year 50
he embraced Chriftianity •, and, as fome fay, was ap¬
pointed firft bifhop ot Athens by St Paul. Of his
converfion we have an account in the 17th chapter of
the Ads of the Apoftles.—He is fuppofed to have fuf-
fered martydom ; but whether under Domitian, Tra¬
jan, or Adrian, is not certain. We have nothing re¬
maining under his name, but what there is the greateft
reafon to believe fpurious.
Dionysius the Lefjer, a Scythian, became abbot
of a monaftery at Rome *, he was the firft who com¬
puted time from the birth of Dionyfius to Chrift, and
fixed that great event, according to' the vulgar era.
He was alfo a learned canon law writer, and died about
the year 540.
DIOPHANTINE problems, in Mathematics, cer¬
tain queftions relating to fquare and cube numbers,
and right-angled triangles, &c. the nature of which
was
#
D I O
Bloplran-
t;ne.
[ 243 1
D I O
was determined by Diophantus, a mathematician of
Alexandria, who is believed to have lived about the
third century. We have his works, which were pub-
lilhed with notes at Paris, in 1621, by Bachet de Me-
ziriac ; and another edition in 1670, with obfervations
on every queflion by M. Fermat.
In thefe queftions it is endeavoured to find commen-
furable numbers to anfwer indeterminate problems;
which bring out an infinite number of incommenfur-
able quantities. For examples, it is propofed to find
a right-angled triangle, whofe fides, x, y, ss, are ex-
preffed by commenlurable numbers ; it is knowm that
x*z being the fuppofed hypothenufe. But
it is poffible to afiume x and fo, that z will be in-
commenfurable $ for if xm, and y—2,
The art of refolving fuch problems confifts in fo
managing .he unknown quantity or quantities in fuch
a manner, that the fquare or higher power may vanilh
out of the equation, and then by means of the unknown
quantity in its firft dimenfion, the equation may be re-
folved without having recourfe to incomtnenfurables j
e. gr. let it be fuppofed to find x,y, 2;, the fides of a
right-angled triangle, fuch as will give .v*-f-y1—2s1.
Suppofe then x*-\-yx—xlixu-^-n1out of
then af*
which equation a;* vanifhes, and x — ^ U—
2U
fuming and u equal to any numbers at pleafure, the
fides of the triangle will bej,--—-—, and the hypothe-
nufe x-j-u =- : ify=3, and u~i, then*^ — 4,
and .Y-f-tt—5. It is evident that this problem admits Dioplian-
of an infinite number of folutions. tuS’
For the refolution of fuch kind of problems, fee
Saunderfon’s Algebra, vol. ii. book 6.
DIOPHANTUS, a celebrated mathematician of
Alexandria, has been reputed to be the inventor of
algebra •, at leaft his is the earlieft work extant on
that fcience. It is not certain when Diophantus lived.
Some have placed him before Chrift, and fome after,
in the reigns of Nero and the Antonines: but all with
equal uncertainty. It feems he is the fame Diophan¬
tus who wrote the Canon Aftronomicus, which Suidas
fays was commented on by the celebrated Hypatia,
daughter of Theon of Alexandria. His reputation
mufl: have been very high among the ancients, fince
they ranked him with Pythagoras and Euclid in ma¬
thematical learning. Bachet, in his notes upon the 5th
book De Arithmeticis, has collected, from Diophantus’s
epitaph in the Anthologia, the following circumltances
of his life ; namely, that he was married when he was
33 years old, and had a ion born five years after ; that
this fon died when he was 42 years of age, and that his
father did not furvive him above four years ; from which
it appears, that Diophantus was 84 years old when he
died.
DIOPTER, or Dioptra, the fame with the index
or alhidade of an aftrolabe, or other fuch inftrument,
Dioptra was an inftrument invented by Hipparchus,
which ferved for feveralufes *, as, to level water-coUrfesj
to take the height of towers, or places at a diftance 5 to
determine the places, magnitudes, and diftances of the
planets, See.
Dioptra.
DIOPTRICS,
^PHAT part of Optics which treats of the laws of
refra&ion, and the effefts which the refra&ion
of light has in vifion. The word is originally Greek,
formed of 'but, per, “ through,” and a/Popxi, I fee.
As this and the other branches of Optics are fully
treated under the colleftive name, we {hall here, 1. Juft
give a fummary of the general principles of the branch,
in a few plain aphorifms, with fome preliminary defi¬
nitions ; and, 2. Prefent our readers with a fet of en¬
tertaining experiments illuftrative of, or dependent up¬
on, thofe principles.
DEFINITIONS.
f.^latev 1 • When a ray of light pafling out of one medium
(XXXV. jnto another Gf a different denfity, is turned from that
ftraight line in which it would otherwife proceed into
one of a different diredlion, it is faid to be refrafted.
Thus the rays AB, AC, &c. (fig. 1.) by paffing out
of air into the glafs BGC, are turned from their na¬
tural courfe into that of BF, CF, &.c. and are there¬
fore faid to be refrafted by the lens BGC.
2.. Any fpherical transparent glafs, that converges
or diverges the rays of light as they pafs through it, is
called a lens.
3. Of lenfes there are five forts: 1. A plane or
Angle convex lens, which is plane on one fide and^con-
vex on the other 5 as AZ, fig. 3. 2. A double convex
lens, as B. 3. A plano-concave lens, that is, plane on
one fide and concave on the other, as C. 4. A double
concave, as D. And, 5. A menifeus, w7hich is convex
on one fide and concave on the other, as E.
4. The point C, (fig. 2.) round which the fpheriral
furface of a lens, as AZ, is deferibed, is called its cen¬
tre ; the line XY, drawn from that centre perpendicu¬
lar to its two furfaces, is the axis ; and the point V, to
which the axis is drawn, is the vertex of that lens.
5. When the rays of light that pafs through a finale
or double convex lens are brought into their fmalleft
compafs, that point is the focus of the lens.
6. In optical inftruments, that lens which is next
the objeft is called the objeSl glafs ; and that next the
eye, the eye glafs.
7. The diftance between the line AB, (fig. 3.) and
the perpendicular EF, is called the angle of incidence ;
and the diftance between the line BD and the perpen¬
dicular EF, is called the ang/e of refraBion.
APHORISMS.
t. A ray of light paffing obliquely out of one me¬
dium into another that is denfer, will be refra&cd to¬
ward the perpendicular 5 as the ray AB, by paffmg
out of air into glafs, is refra&ed into BF, inclined
H h 2 to
244
DIOPTRICS.
to the perpendicular AF. On the contrary, a ray
pa<Ting out of a denfer into a rarer medium ; will be
refrafted from the perpendicular •, as the ray 'BC, pal-
fing out of the glafs GH into air, is refra&ed into
2. The fines of the angles of incidence and refrac¬
tion, when the lines that contain them are all ecpial,
will have a determinate proportion to each other, in
the fame mediums ; which between air and water
will be as 4 to 3 •, between air and glafs, as 3 to 2,
nearly ; and in other mediums in proportion to their
denfities.
3. Any objeft viewed through a glafs, whofe two
furfaces are parallel, will appear of its natural fiiape and
dimenfions, provided it be only of the fize of the pupil
of the eye, and the light proceeding from it be receiv¬
ed direftly through the glafs by one eye only. In all
other fituations an alteration will be perceived not only
in its apparent fituation, but its dimenfions alfo.^ I his
alteration will be greater in proportion to the thicknefs
of the glafs, and the obliquity of the rays 5 in general,
it is fo final! as to be overlooked.
4. All the rays of light which fall upon a convex
lens, whether parallel, converging, or diverging to a
certain degree, will be made to meet in a focus on the
other fide ^ but if they diverge exceffively, they will
not do fo. Thus if rays diverge from a point placed
before the glafs, at the focal diftance from it, they
will become parallel after paffing through it •, and if
the point from which they proceed be nearer the glafs
than its focal diftance, they will ftill continue to di¬
verge, though in a lefs degree than before.
f. When parallel rays fall upon a concave lens, they
will be made to diverge after palling through it. If
they are diverging already before they fall upon the
glafs, they will diverge more after pafting through it ;
or even if they are converging to a certain degree, they
will diverge upon palling through a concave lens ; but
if the convergence is very great, they will converge af¬
ter palling through the glafs, though to a more diftant
point than that at which they would otherwife have
met.
6. When an obje& is viewed through two convex
lenfes, its apparent diameter ought to be to its real
one as the diftance of the focus of the objeT glafs is
to that of the eye glafs ; but by the reafon of the aber¬
ration of the rays of light, the magnifying power will
be fomewhat greater or lefs in proportion to the dia¬
meter of the objeft.
By thefe aphorifms we are enabled to account for
the various effefts of dioptric machines, as refrafhng
telefcopes, microfcopes, the camera obfeura, See. See
Optics.
ENTERTAINING EXPERIMENTS.
I. Optical Ulujioiii.
On the bottom of the veffel ABCD, (fig.4-) P1ace
three pieces of money, as a Hulling, a half crown, and
crown ; the firft at E, the fecond at F, and the laft at
G. Then place a perfon at H, where he pan fee no
further into the vefiel than I : and te;l him, that by
pouring water into the veffel you, will make him lee
three different pieces of money •, bidding him obferve
carefully whether any money goes in with the water.
Here you mull obferve to pour in the water very
gently, or contrive to fix the pieces, that they may not
move out of their places by its agitation._
When the water comes up to K, the piece at E will
become vifible j when it comes up to L, the pieces at
E and F will appear •, and when it rifes to M, all the
three pieces will be vifible.
From what has been Paid of the refraaion of light,
the caufe of this phenomenon will be evident : for while
the veffel rs empty, the ray HI will naturally proceed
in a ftrkight line : but in proportion as it becomes im-
merfed in water, it will be neceffmly refraaed into
the feveral direaions NE, OF, PG, and conlequently
the feveral pices mull become vifible.
11. Optical Augmentation.
Take a large drinking glafs of a conical figure, that
is fmall at bottom and wide at top } m which put a
Hulling, and fill the glafs about half full with water .
then place a plate on the top of it, and turn it quick¬
ly over, that the water may not get out. You will
then fee on the plate, a piece ot the fize of a half
crown 5 and fomewhat higher up, another pieefc of the
fize of a Hulling.
This phenomenon arifes from feeing the piece
through the conical furface of the water at the fide of
the glafs, and through the flat furface at the top of the
water, at the fame time ? for the conical fuiface dilate.s
the rays, and makes the piece appear larger •, but by
the flat furface the rays are only refrafted, by which
the piece is feen higher up in the glafs, but ftill of its
natural fize. That this is the caufe will be further evi¬
dent by filling the glafs with water •, for as the {hilling
cannot be then feen from the top, the large piece only
will be vifible.
III. Optical SubtraBian.
Againft the wainfeot of a room fix three fmall pieces
of paper, as A, B, C, (fig.5.) at the height of your eye;
and placing yourlelf direflly befoie them, Ihut your
right tye and look at them wdth the left ; when you
will fee only two of thofe papers, fuppofe A and B ;
but altering the pofition of your eye, you will then fee
the third and one of the firft, fuppofe A ; and by al¬
tering your pofition a fecond time, you will lee B and
C ; but never all three of them together.
The caufe of this phenomenon is, that one of the
three pencils of rays that come from thefe objects, falls
conftantly on the optic nerve at D ; whereas to pro¬
duce diftina vifion, it is neceffary that the rays of
light fall on feme part of the retina E, F, G, H. We
fee by this experiment, one of the ufes of having two
eyes ; for he that has one only, can never fee three
objeas placed in this pofition, nor all the parts of one
objea of the fame extent, without altering the fitua¬
tion of his eye.
IV. Alternate lllujion.
With a convex lens of about an inch focus,^ look
attentively at a filver feal, on which a cipher is en-
& 9
HS
D I O P '
graved. It will at firft appear cut in, as to the naked
eye ; but if you continue to obferveit fome time, with¬
out changing your fituation, it will feem to be in re¬
lief, and the lights and fhades will appear the fame as
they did before. If you regard it with the fame atten¬
tion Hill longer, it will again appear to be engraved :
and fo on alternately.
If you look off the feal for a few moments, when
you view it again, inftead of feeing it, as at firft, en¬
graved, it will appear in relief. If, while you are turn¬
ed toward the light, you fuddenly incline the feal,
while you continue to regard it, thofe parts that feem-
ed to be engraved will immediately appear in relief j
and if, when you are regarding thefe feeming promi¬
nent parts, you turn yourfelf fo that the light may fall
on the right hand, you will fee the ftiadows on the
fame fide from whence the light comes, which will ap¬
pear not a little extraordinary. In like manner the
fhadows will appear on the left, if the light fall on that
fide. If, inftead of a feal, you look at a piece of money
thefe alterations will no? be vilible, in whatever fitua¬
tion you place yourfelf.
It has been fufpefted that this allufion arifes from
the fituation of the light : and in fa£t, “ I have ob-
ferved (fays M. Guyot, from whom this article is
taken), that when I have viewed it with a candle on
the right, it has appeared engraved ; but by changing
the light to the left fide, it has immediately appeared
in relief.” It ftiil, however, lemains to be explained,
why we fee it alternately hollow' and prominent, with¬
out either changing the fituation or the light. Per¬
haps it is in the fight itfelf that we muft look for the
caufe of this phenomenon ; and this feems the more
probable, as all thefe appearances are not difcernible
by all perfons.
Mr William Jones of Holborn, has remarked to us,
that this illufion is ftiil more extraordinary and perma¬
nent, when you look at a cavity in a feal or other ob-
je<5! through the three eye glaffes of a common four
glafs refratfting telefcope : all cavities viewed through
thefe glaffes appear conftantly reliefs, in almoft all fi-
tuations of the light you fee them with.
V. T/je Dioptrical Paradox.
A new and curious optical, or what may be called
properly a dioptrical, deception, has been made by Mr
W. Jones. Its effc£f is, that a print, or an ornamented
drawing, with any objecf, fuch as an ace of diamonds,&.c.
in the centre F, (fig. 6.) will be feen as the ace of clubs
when it is placed in the machine ABDC, and viewed
through a fingle glafs only contained in the tube E.
The conftruftion of this machine is truly Ample.
r R I G s.
The glafs in the tube F, which brings about this fur-
prifing change, is foraewhat on the principle of the
common multiplying glafs, as reprefented at G, which
by the number of its inclined furfaces, and from the
refractive power of the rays proceeding from the ob¬
jects placed before it, {hows it in a multiplied ftate or
quantity. Its only difference is, that the fides of this
glafs are flat, and diverge upwards from the bafe to a
point in the axis of the glafs like a cone : the number
of the ftdes is fix ; and each fide, from its angular po-
fition to the .eye, has the property of refracting'
from the border of the print F Inch a portion of it
(defignedly thefe placed), as will make a part in the
corrlpofition ot the figure to be reprefented : for the
hexagonal and conical figure of this glafs prevents any
fight of the ace of diamonds in the centre being feen j
confequently the ace of clubs being previoufly and me¬
chanically drawn in the circle of refraction in fix dif¬
ferent parts of the border, at 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and art¬
fully ditguifed in the ornamental border by blending
th cm with it, the glafs in the tube at E will change
the appearance of the ace of diamonds F into the ace
of clubs G. In the fame manner many other prints
undergo fimilar changes, according to the will of an
ingenious draughtfman who may defign them. The
figure of the glafs is clearly ftrown at PI.
VI. The Camera Obfcura, or Dark Chamber.
Make a circular hole in the (butter of a window,
from whence there is a profpeft of the fields, or any
other objeCl not too near; and in this hole place a con¬
vex glafs, either double or fingle, wftiofe focus is at the
diftance of five or fix feet (a). Take care that no
light enter the room but by this glafs : at a diftance
from it, equal to that of its focus, place a pafteboard,
covered with the whiteft paper ; which fhould have a
black border, to prevent any of the fide rays from di-
fturbing the pidfture. Let it be twm feet and a half
long, and 18 or 20 inches high : bend the length of it
inw'ards, to the form of part of a circle, w'hofe diame¬
ter is equal to double the focal diftance of the glafs.
Then fix it on a frame of the fame figure, and put it
on a moveable foot, that it may be eafily fixed at that
exa6t diftance from the glafs where the objeffs paint
themfelves to the greateft perfedlion. When it is thus
placed, all the obje£ls that are in the front of the w in¬
dow will be painted on the paper, in an inverted pofi-
tion (b), with the greateft regularity and in the moff
natural colours.
If you place a moveable mirror without the win¬
dow ; by turning it more or lefs, you will have on the
paper
(a) The dif^ance ftiould not be lefs than three feet ; for if it be, the images will be too fmall, and there will
not oe fufficient room for the fpeTators to Hand conveniently. On the other hand, the focus fhould never be
more than x 5 or 20 leet, for then the images will be obfcure, and the colouring faint. Tire beft diftance is from
6 to 1 2 feet.
■ b) i his inverted pofition of the images may be deemed an imperfection, but is eafily remedied : for if you
ftand above the board on which they are received, and look down on it, they will appear in their natural pofition:
or if you (land before it, and, placing a common mirror againft your bread in an oblique dire&ion, look down in
it, you wall there fee the images ereCt, and they will receive an additional luftre from the reflection.of the glais 5
or place trvo lenfes, in a tube that draws out; or, laftly, if you place a large concave mirror at a proper diftance
before the picture, it will appear before the mirror, in the air, and in an ereCt pofition.
a+6
D I O P 1
paper all the objefls that are on each fide of the win¬
dow (c). . , . . ,
If inftead of placing the mirror without the window
you place it in the room, and above the hole (which
muft then be made near the top of the (butter), you
may receive the reprefentation on a paper placed ho¬
rizontally on a table j and draw, at your leifure, all the
obje£fs that are there painted.
Nothing can be more pleafing than this experiment,
efpecially when the objefts are ftrongly enlightened by
the fun : and not only land profpedts, but a fea-port,
when the water is fomewhat agitated, or at the fetting
of the fun, prefents a very delightful appearance.
This reprefentation affords the moll perfect model
for painters, as well for the tone of colours, as that de¬
gradation of (hades, occafioned by the interpofition of
the air, which has been fo juftly expreffed by fome
modern painters. .
It is neceffary that the paper have a circular form;
for, otherwife, when the centre of it was in the focus
of the glafs, the two fides would be beyond it, and
confequently the images would be confuled. If the
frame were contrived of a fpherical figure, and the
glafs were in its centre, the reprefentation would be
flill more accurate. If the objedf: without be at the di-
flance of twice the focal length of the glafs, the image
in the room will be of the fame magnitude with the
objeft. . .
The lights, (hades, and colours, in the camera ob-
fcura, appear not only juft, but, by the images being re¬
duced to a fmaller compafs, much ftronger than in na¬
ture. Add to this, that thefe pi&ures exceed all others,
by reprefenting the motion of the feveial objefts 5 thus
we fee the animals walk, run, or fly ; the clouds float
in the air; the leaves quiver ; the waves roll, &c.; and
all in drift conformity to the laws of nature. The beft
fituation for a dark chamber is direftly north, and the
beft time of the day is noon.
VII. To /how the Spots on the Sun’s Diji, by Us image
in the Camera Obfcura.
Put the objeft glafs of a 10 or 12 feet telefcope
into the fcioptric ball, and turn it about till it be di-
reftly oppofite to the fun (d). Then place the pafte-
board, mentioned in the laft experiment, in the focus
of the lens ; and you will fee a clear bright image of
the fun, of about an inch in diameter, in which the fpots
on the fun’s furface will be exadly defcribed.
As this image is too bright to be feen with pleafure
by the naked eye, you may view it through a lens whofe
focus is at fix or eight inches diftance ; which at the
fame time that it prevents the light from being offen-
five, will, by magnifying both the image and the fpots,
make them appear to greater advantage.
RIGS.
VIII. To magnify /mail Objecls by means of the Sun's
Rays let into a Dark Chamber.
Let the rays of light that pafs through the lens in
the (butter be thrown on a large concave mirror, pro¬
perly fixed in a frame. Then take a flip or thin plate
of glafs ; and flicking any fmall objedb on it, hold it
in the incident rays, at a little more than the focal di¬
ftance from the mirror ; and you will fee, on the op¬
pofite wall, amidft the refle£led rays, the image of that
objeft, very large, and extremely clear and blight.
This experiment never fails to give the ipedlator the
higheft fatisfaftion.
IX. The Portable Camera Obfcura.
The great pleafure produced by the camera obfcura
in the common form, has excited feveral to render it
more univerfally ufeful by making it portable, ealily
fixed on any fpot, and adapted to every profpeft. We
(hall not here examine the merits of the various forts
that have been invented ; but content ourfelves witn
defcribing two of late improved conftru£tions, as made
and fold by the opticians of the prefent time, and that
appear in their conftruftion the mod convenient and
advantageous of any yet contrived.
The pocket or portable camera obfcura, with a draw¬
er to draw out in the front, is reprelented in fig. y«
The images of the objefts before the inftrument are re-
flefted upon a glafs ground rough on its upper fide,
and that is placed at top of the hinder part of the
box, under the moveable cover reprelented in the figure.
The images reprefented thereon will afford a mod beau¬
tiful and perfeft piece of peifpedive or landfcape of
whatever is before the camera, and more particularly
fo if the fun (hines upon the objeas. The outlines of
them may eafily be traced on the glafs by a black lead
pencil. There is fometimes a fcale of proportions pla¬
ced in the upper furface of the drawer, by which any
particular building or other objedl may be drawn in a
given proportion or magnitude, and according to the
figures inferted on the fcale, which are adapted to the
focus or foci of the lenfes made ufe of in the camera.
The glaffes that are made ufe of in this camera are on¬
ly three, and are reprefented in fig. 8. The convex
glafs A is placed in the front of the drawer of the
camera, and is of a focus agreeable^ to the length ot
the box. The mirror CE reclines in the box in an
anode of 45 degrees from a perpendicular fituation.
The rays flowing from the objeft F through the con¬
vex glafs A to the plane mirror CE will be reflected
from it, and meet in points on the glafs placed hori¬
zontally in the direftion CD, and will form thereon
the afore-mentioned images. If on this glafs an oiled
paper or any other tranfparent fubftance be placed, tie
r r images
(c) There is another method of making the dark baCoolen frame', t
iTh a raount ‘Vp ^"is'Led0,: ^jlole in the drntter > and^the ball,
oblea I'be reprefented 'without^ny lens, though by no means fo «'«, or with
fuCM''WhenT’fun is direftly oppofite to the hole, the lens will itfelf be fufficient: or by means of the mir-
ror on the outfide of the window, as in Experiment VI. the lens will anfwer the purpo e a any 1
images will be clearly reprefented, and fufficicntly fo
to delineate them by a black lead pencil or crayon. In-
llead of the glafs CD, or fometimes underneath it, is
often placed a double convex lens of a focus fomewhat
Ihorter than the length of the box: this alteration con-
fiderably brightens the appearance of the images, and
renders them as vivid as the objefts themfelves, though
not quite fo accurate in their contours or outlines as
by the preceding method.
Another kind of portable camera obfcura is, where
the images are formed upon white paper, and the fe-
yeral parts of the camera fold up out of a box Ihaped
like a book or cheft. 1 his way of the images being
formed on paper is a much preferable one to the pre¬
ceding method, and admits of their being traced on
the paper with the utmoft readinefs. This°inftrument,
as open out of its cafe and ready for ufe, is reprefent¬
ed in fig. 9. The front and fides fold up to the height
of about two feet from the cafe EFG, by means of
hinges placed at PH, &c. The head of A BCD, about
five inches fquare and high, containing the mirror L
and the convex lens beneath it, fits on at CD, and the
inner fquare tube of it is moved up and down by rack-
work and a pinion NM. This motion ferves to adjuft
the convex lens d to its proper focal diftance from
the white paper placed within fide at the bottom of
the box EFG, fo that the images may be formed with
the greateft pofiible diftindtnefs. In tracing thefe ima¬
ges the face is applied clofe to the hole in the front at
K, and the hand in the fleeve in the front at the bot-
bom of FG. When the fides and front are unhooked
and folded down, they all lie clofe in the box EFG,
and the lid O folds down as a top on them clofe, and’
the box remains then the fize of a common folio book,
and is covered with calf leather and lettered on the
back in perfect imitation of one.
. diagonal pofition of a plane mirror the cu¬
rious opera glafs is conftru&ed, by which any perfon
may be viewed in a theatre or oublic company, and vet
know nothing of it. It confifts only in placing a con¬
cave glafs near the plane mirror, in the end of a Ihort
round tube, and a convex glafs in a hole in the fide of
the tube. Then holding the end of the tube with the
glafs to the eye, all obje&s next to the hole in the fide
wiU be refleaed fo as to appear in a diiecft line forward,
or m a pofition at right angles to the perfon’s fituation
who is looked at. Plane glaffes inftead of a concave
and convex may be ufed 3 but in this cafe there will be
no magnitude of the objed, but it will appear brighter.
*t is called by opticians the diagonal opera glafs.
X. The Mag ic Lantern.
This very remarkable machine, which is now known
over all the world, caufed great afloniihment at its ori-
gin. It is ftill beheld with pleafing admiration ; and
the fpe&ator very frequently contents himfelf with
wondering at its effeds, without endeavouring to in-
veibgate their caufe. The invention of this ingenious
illufion is attributed to the celebrated P. Kircher, who
has pubhfiled on various fciences, works equally learn¬
ed, curious, and entertaining. Its defign is to repre-
-ent at large, on a cloth or board, placed in the dark
the images of fmall objeds, painted with tranfoarent
colours on plates of glafs.
DIOPTRICS.
The conftrudion is as follows : Let ABCD (fig. 10.)
be the fide of a tin box, eight inches high, eight inches
long, and ten broad (or any other fimilar dimenfions),
the top of which mull have a funnel, with a cover as
reprefented in fig. 11.; which at the fame time it gives a
pafiage to the fmoke, prevents the light from coming
out of the box. In the middle of the bottom of the
box muft be placed a low tin lamp E, which is to be
moveable. It fiiould have three or four lights, that muft
be at the height of the centre of the glalfes in the
tubes N and O. In the largeft of thefe tubes muft be
placed a glafs femiglobular lens N, about four inches
diameter; and in the fmaller one a double convex lens
o, about 2^ inches diameter, and fix inches focus, the
length of the tubes holding them about 44- inches each •
the.inner tube containing the fmall lens o muft be a
Aiding one, in order to adjuft it at a proper diftance
from the painted Aiders, fo that the objeds thereon
may be diftindly reprefented on the cloth or white
vyall. A Ait or opening between the glafs N and
the front fide BGDH of the box rouft be made large
enough to admit the Aiders to be paffed through 'fas
in fig II.) The clearnefs of the light, and the’ob¬
jeds upon the cloth will depend much upon the light
of the lamp 3 it will therefore be proved belt, to place
inftead of the common lamp E, a kind of the new or
Argand’s patent lamp, which will be found confider-
ably to improve the effed of the lantern by its fuperior
ftrength of light.
From the conftrudion of this lantern it is evident
that when the glafs Aiders, with the painted figures
are placed in the groove or Ait in the lantern fo^
that purpofe, and the room darkened, a quantity of
light from the lamp at E will be colleded by the lens
N, and refraded upon the cloth placed oppofite, and
that by moving the Aiding tube containing the {mail
lens o gradually in or out as occafion may require
this lens will form images of the figures on the Aiders*
in their diftind colours and proportions, with the ap
pearance of life itfelf, and of any fize from fix inches
to feven feet, according to the diftance of the lantern
from the cloth. The lantern, with one of the Iliders
icady for ufe, is clearly xeprefented in fig. 11. JBy the
aid of the new patent lamp aforementioned, confider-
able ufetul improvements are made to the lantern. Mr
Jones, optician, of Holborn, has contrived an apparatus
to be applied to it, that converts it into a microfcope
by night 3 and it fhows all the variety of tranfparent
and many of the opaque objeds magnified upon a
cloth or fkreen oppofite, fimilar to the figures above
mentioned, but not in fo large a degree 5 about one or
obtained d'aiJ>Cter IS the Utm°ft that can at Pre^nt be
Method of painting the Glaffes for the Lantern. Draw
on a paper the fubjed you defire to paint, and fix
it at each end to the glafs. Provide a varnifh with
Which you have mixed feme black paint 3 and with a
fine pencil draw on the other fide of the glafs, with
very light touches, the defign drawn on the paper. If
you are defirous of making the painting as perfed as
poflible, you fhould draw feme of the outlines in their
proper colours provided they are the ftrongeft tints of
ie e co ours t at are ufed. When the outlines are
}> you colour the figures with their proper tints or
1 degradations.
.248
D I O P T
degradations. Tranfparent colours are mod proper for
this purpofe, fuch as carmine, lake, Pruffian blue, ver-
digrife, &c. and thefe mult be tempered with a ftrong
white varnifh, to prevent their peeling off. ^ollare
then to (hade them with black mixed with the lame
varnilh, or with biffre, as you find convenient.
may alfo leave ftrong lights in fome parts without
any colours, in order to produce a more linking ef-
feft. Ohferve, in particular, not to ule more than
four or five colours, luch as blue, red, green, am
•yellow. You Ihould employ, however, a great va¬
riety of tints, to give your painting a more natura
air • without which they will reprefent vulgar ob-
jefts, which are by no means the more pleafing be-
^'when"the lamp in this lantern is lighted and, by
drawing out the tube to a proper length, figures
painted on the glafs appear bright and well define
the fpe&ator cannot fail of being highly entertained
by the fucctflion of natural or grotelque figures that
are painted on the glaffes. This piece of optics may
vbc rendered much more amufing, and at the fame ime
more marvellous, by preparing figures to ^ ^
ent natural motions may be given (e), _ >
one mav perform according to his own tafte, either
by movements in the figures themfelves or by paint¬
ing the fubjea on two glaffes, and palling them a
the fame time through the groove, as will be ken in
the next experiment.
XI. To reprefent a Tempefi by the Magic Lantern.
Provide two plates of glafs, whofe frames are fo
thin that they may both pafs freely through the flit
or groove of the common magre lanterns at the fame
^On one of thefe glaffes you are to paint the ap¬
pearance of the ka, from the Ihghteft agitation to
{he moll violent commotion. Reprekntmg from A
to B (fig. 12.') a calm-, from B to C a fmall ac¬
tion, with fome clouds ; and fo on to F G, which
ihould exhibit a furious ftotm. Obkrve, that thek
reprekntations are not to be dillina, but run into each
other, that they may form a natural gradation ; rernem-
ber alfo, that great part of the efka depends on .
perfe&ion of the painting, and the p,aurefque appear--
anC0„1hehot&6 you are .0 pain, veffels of differ-
cnt forms and dimenfions, and in different direftrons;,
together with the appearance of clouds in the tempe
^You^e then to pafs the glafs flowly through the
groove ; and when you come to that part where the
dorm begins, you are to move the glafs gently up and
down, which will give it the appearance of a ka that
begins to be agitated 5 and fo increak the motton ull
you come to the height of the ftorm At ^ lame
[ime vou are to introduce the other plafs with the Hups,
and moving that in like manner, you will have a natu¬
ral representation of the ka, and of flops m a calm
and in a ftorm. As you draw the glafles llowly back,
RIGS.
the tempell will kem to fubfide, the fk> grow clcui,
and the Ihips glide gently over the waves.—By means
of two glaffes difpofed in this manner you llke-
wife reprefent a battle, or lea fight, and numberlefs
other fubiefb, that every one wil contrive according
to his own tafte. They may alfo be made to reprefent
fome remarkable or ludicrous aftion between different
perfons, and many other amukments that a lively ima¬
gination will eafily fuggeft.
XII. The Nebulous Magic Lantern.
The light of the magic lantern, and the colour ot
images, may not only be painted on a cloth, but alfo
refle&ed by a cloud of fmoke.
Provide a box of wood or pafteboard (fig. H-) 0
about four feet high, and of feven or eight >nches Iquare
at bottom, but diminiftung as it alcends fo that 1 s a-
perture at top is but fix inches long, and haU an ' c
vvide At the bottom of this box there mull be a door
that {huts quite clofe, by which you are to place m
the box a chafing-dilh with hot coals, on which s to
be thrown incenfe, whok fmoke goes out in a cloud
at the top of the box. It is on this cloud that you are
to throw the light that comes out of the lantern, and
which you bring into a fmaller compafs by drawing
out the'moveable tube. The common figures w,11 here
f-rve It is remarkable in this reprekntation, that the
motion of the fmoke does not at all change the figures ;
which appear fo confpicuous, that the Ipeftator thmks
he can grafp them with his hand.
m,el In this experiment feme of the rays faffing
through the fmoke, the reprekntation will be much lets
vivid §than on the cloth and if care be not taken to
reduce the light to its fmalleft focus, it will be ftill
more imperfeft.
XIII. To produce the Appearance of a Phantom upon a
Pedefal placed on the middle of a Laile.
Enclok a common fmall magic lantern in a box
A BCD (fie. !?•) '1S krge enough to contain alio
an he«ned mirlor M, which muff be moveable that ,t
may refleft the cone of light thrown on it by the lan¬
tern in fuch a manner that it may pafs out at the aper-
ture’made in the top of the box. There ffould be a flap
with hinges to cover the opening, that the infide of t ie
C rn^not be feen when the experiment rs malemg
This aperture Ihould Hkewife be oval, and of a fee
adapted to the cone of light that is to pafs through
it. ' There muft be holes made in that par t of the bo
which is over the lantern, to let out the fmoke : and
over that part muft be placed a chafing diftr “f an ob-
W figure and large enough to hold feveral lighted
coafs This chafing difh may be enebfed in a painted
Z box of about a foot high, and with an aperture at
top fomething like fig. It fhoold ftand f°ur (hor(?
feet to give room for the Imoke of the lamp to pals
T,gere muft alfo be a glafs that will afeeud and
defeend at pleafure In a vertical groove u/>. I o
glafs let ,bePre be fixed a cord, that, going over a puU
ley c, paffes out of the box at the fide CD, by which
   • C m,M r V Fffavsof MM^thenbroek, different methods of performing all thefe
(e) There arc in the Phtlofophical Effays ot & . t di®cuit to execute,
various movements, by fome mechanical contrivances that are not d.tbc
DIOPTRICS.
t’ne glafs maybe dfawn up, and will defeend by its own
weight. On this glafs may be painted a fpeftre, or
any other more pleafing figure. Obferve, that the fi¬
gures mud be contrafted in drawing, as the cloud of
fmoke does not cut the cone of light at right angles,
and therefore the figures will appear longer than they
do on the glafs.
After you have lighted the lamp in the lantern, and
put the mirror in a proper direction, you place the box
or pedeftal ABCD on a table 5 and putting the cha¬
fing dilh in it, throw fome incenfe in powder on the
coals. You then open a trap door, and let down the
glafs flowly; and, .when you perceive the fmoke dimi-
nifli, you draw up the glafs, that the figure may dif-
appear, and fhut the trap-door. This appearance will
occafion no Imall furprife, as the fpedlre will feem to
rife gradually out of the pededal, and on drawing up
the glafs will difappear in an inftant. Obferve, that
when you exhibit this experiment, you muft put out
all the lights in the room } and the box (hould be pla¬
ced on a high table, that the fpe61ators may not perceive
the aperture by which the light comes out. Though
we have mentioned a fmall magic lantern, yet the
whole apparatus may be fo enlarged, that the phantom
may appear of a formidable fize.
XIV. The Magic Theatre.
By making fome few additions to the magic lantern
with the fquare tube, ufed in Experiment X. various
fcenes, characters, and decorations of a theatre, may
be reprefented in a lively manner. In this experiment
it is quite neceffary to make the lantern much larger
than common, that the objeCts painted on the glaffes,
being of a larger fize, may be reprefented with greater
precifion, and confequently their feveral characters
more ftrongly marked.
Let there be made a wooden box ABCD, a foot
and a half long, 15 inches high, and 10 wide. Let
it be placed on a Hand EF, that muft go round it, and
by which it may be fixed with two fcrews to a table.
Place over it a tin cover, as in the common lantern.
Make an opening in its ;w:> narroweft fides ; in one of
which place the tube H, and in the other the tube I :
let each of them be fix inches wide, and five inches
high : in each of thefe tubes place another that is
moveable, in order to bring the glaffes, or concave
mirror, that are contained in them, to a proper di-
ftance. In the middle of the bottom of this box place
a tin lamp M; which muft be moveable in a groove,
that it may be placed at a proper diftance with regard
to the glaffes and mirror : this lamp {hould have five
or fix lights, each of them about an inch long. At
the beginning of the tube H, toward the part N, make
an opening of an inch wide, which muft crofs it late¬
rally : another of three quarters of an inch, that muft
crofs it vertically, and be nearer the box than the firftj
and a third of half an inch, that muft be before the
firft. The opening made laterally muft have three or
four grooves, the fecond two, and the third one : that
different fubjefls of figures and decorations may be
Vol. VII. Part I.
palled, either fidewife, afcending or defcendt’ng, fo
that the fcenes of a theatre may be the more exaftly
imitated (f). Enclofe thefe grooves between two con¬
vex re&angular glaffes, of fix inches long, and five
inches high, and of about 20 inches focus ; one of
which muft be placed at O, and the other toward P.
Have another tube Q^of about a foot long, which
muft enter that marked H ; and at its outward extre¬
mity place a lens of about 15 inches focus. There
murt alfo be a third tube R, four inches long, into
which that marked I is to enter : to the exterior end of
this adjuft a concave mirror, whofe focus muft be at
feven or eight inches from its refiedling furface.
The magic lantern being thus adjufted, nothing
more is neceffary than to provide glaffes, painted with
fuch fubjefls as you would reprefent, according to the
grooves they are to enter. The lamp is then to be
lighted j and placing a glafs in one of the grooves,
you draw out the moveable tubes till the obje<5l paints
itfelf on a cloth to the moft advantage : by which you
determine the diftance of the lantern and the fize of
the image. You then make a hole in the partition of
that fize, and fix in it a plate of clear glafs, over which
you pafte a very thin paper, which muft be varnilhed,
that it may be as tranfparent as poffible.
On this paper are to be exhibited the images of
all thofe objefts, that by paffing fucceflively through
the grooves, are to reprefent a theatric entertain¬
ment. The exhibition will be very agreeable ; becaufe
the magic lantern being concealed behind the parti¬
tion, the caufe of the illufion cannot by any means be
difeovered.
In order to {how more clearly in what manner a, fub-
je£t of this fort {hould be painted, and the glaffes dif-
pofed, we will here make choice of the fiege of Troy
for a theatric fubjecl ; in which will be found all the
incidents neceffary to the exhibition of any other fub*
je£t whatever.—In the firft ad the theatre may repre¬
fent, on one fide, the ramparts of Troy ; toward the
back part, the Grecian camp ; and at a farther diftance,
the fea, and the ifie of Tenedos. We will fuppofe the
time to be that when the Greeks feigned to raife the
fiege j and embarked, leaving behind them the wood¬
en horfe, in which were contained the Grecian foldiers.
—On a glafs, therefore, of the fame width with the
aperture made in the fide AC of the box, you are
to paint a deep blue curtain, lightly charged with or¬
naments, quite tranfparent. This glafs is to be pla¬
ced in the firft vertical groove ; fo that by letting it
gently down, its image may appear to rife in the fame
manner as the curtain of a theatre. All the glaffes
that are to afeend or defeend muft be bordered with
thin pieces of wood, and fo exaftly fill the grooves,
that they may not Hide down of themfelves.—You
muft have feveral glaffes of a proper fize to pafs through
the horizontal grooves, and of different lengths ac¬
cording to the extent of the fubjeft. You may paint
on the firft, the walls of Troy. On the fecond, the
Grecian camp. On the third, the fea, the ifie of Te¬
nedos, and a ferene fky. On the fourth, the Grecian
I i troops
249
^ ^ecor3tions, the clouds and the palaces of the gods fiiould defeend ; caves and infernal palaces
should atcend j earthly palaces, gardens, &.c, enter at the fides.
dioptrics.
troops by detached figures. On the fifth, other troops,
difpofed in battalions, and placed at a diftance. On
the fixth, divers veffels, which as the glafs advances in
the groove diminilh in fize. On the feventh, the
wooden horfe and Sinon. On the eighth, Trojan men
and women.
Thefe glaffes being properly painted, you place in
the horizontal grooves the firft, fecond, third, and
fourth. Then draw up the curtain, by letting down
the glafs on which it is painted, and draw away gently
the fourth glafs, and after that the fecond ; then ad¬
vance very gently the fifth that reprefents the em-
barkment, and pafs it quite through. Next pafs, the
oppofite way, the fixth, which reprefents the Giecian
fleet. The obje&s painted bn the fourth, fifth, and
fixth, quite difappearing, you are to advance the ieventh,
on which is painted the wooden horfe ; and at the fame
time the eighth, where the Trojans will appear to draw
the horfe into the city. The curtain is then to be let
down, that you may withdraw the fcenes of the firft
aft, and place in the grooves thofe that are to compofe
the fecond.—In the fecond aft may be reprefented the
interior part of the city of Troy : on one fide may be
feen the wooden horfe, and in the back part the temple
of Pallas. The glaffes for this aft may be painted in
the following manner. On the firft may be palaces and
houfes, reprefenting the infide of a city. On the fe¬
cond, the temple of Pallas in the centre,-with a clear
night and the moon. In the front may be feen the
wooden horfe, that the I rojans have placed near the
temple of Pallas. On the third, a troop of Greeks,
with Sinon at their head, who are going to open the
gates of the city to the Grecians. On the fourth, dif-
ferent troops of armed Greeks; painted on a long glafs,
to afford variety. On the fifth, feveral troops of Tro¬
jans. On the fixth, various appearances of fire and
fmoke, fo difpofed, that this glafs being drawn up
above the others, the objedls painted on the firft glafs
may appear in a conflagration.
Before you draw up the curtain, you ftiould place
the firft and fecond glaffes. You then pafs the whole
third glafs flowly ; a little after, the fourth, on which
are painted the different bodies of armed Greeks ; and
at the fame time, from the oppofite fide, the fixth glafs,
that reprefents the Trojan troops; obferving to move
them flowly both in advancing and retreating, to imi¬
tate a combat (g). 1 hen draw up, by degrees, the
fixth, on which are painted the fire, flame, and fmoke,
fo that the palaces and houfes painted on the firft glafs
may appear to take fire gradually, and at laft; prefent
a general conflagration. After having reprefented thefe
incidents with the greateft attention, you let fall the
curtain to prepare for the third aft. In this may be
reprefented the infide of Priam’s palace ; where is feen
an altar, round which feveral Trojan princeffes appear,
who have fled thither for fafety. On the firft glafs
may be painted the palace. On the fecond, a view of
the back part of the palace, with the altar. On the
third, Priam with feveral Trojan men and women. On
the fourth, Pyrrhus and a troop of Greeks. On the
fifth, the fame aftors, with the palace in flames. On
the fixth, a conflagration.—The two firft glaffes which
are to be drawn up, ftiould be placed before you raife
the curtain. Then pafs the third ; next advance the
fourth ; which being drawn up, difcovers on the fifth
the palace in flames ; then drawing up the fixth, let
down the firft, that the palace may appear entirely de-
ftroyed by the conflagration.
The fourth aft may reprefent the environs of Troy,
with a diftant profpeft of the fea. The firft and third
glaffes of the firft aft may be here ufed ; to which may
be added a third, reprefenting iEneas bearing his fa¬
ther Anchifes, followed by his fon lulus and fome
Trojans. With this glafs may be reprefented the flight
of the Trojans and the embarkment of iEneas ; with
another glafs, on which are painted certain veflels.—
To this aft the following fcenes may be added : The
cave of iEolus ; the back part of the cave ; iEolus ;
the winds ; Juno in her chariot.
The fifth aft fhould reprefent the open fea, with the
fleet of iEneas lailing for Italy. On the firft glafs
muft be painted the fea, as in the eleventh experiment,
or elfe the waves ftiould be imitated by another glafs
under the firft. On the fecond, the Trojan fleet. On
the third, Neptune in his car. On the fourth, the pa¬
lace of Jupiter. On the fifth, the infide of the palace ;
the gods affembled in council, with Venus obtaining
leave of Jupiter for iEneas to land in Italy.—After
having placed the firft glafs, that reprefents a calm fea,
the curtain is raifed, and the fecond feene is advanced,
which contains the Trojan fleet. The firft is then
brought forward, to reprefent a violent tempeft : then
raifing the third glafs, Neptune appears, who com¬
mands the waves to be ftill, which is done by making
the tempeft fubfide by degrees. The fleet then ad¬
vances, and paffes over the whole theatre: prefently
after the fourth and fifth fcenes defeend, that repre¬
fent Olympus, and finifti the exhibition.
Note, We muft here repeat, that if you would re¬
prefent a fubjeft of this fort to advantage, it is quite
neceffary that the glaffes be well painted ; and thofe
that are to be in front ftiould be in ftronger and more
opaque colours, that the images of thofe behind may
not appear mixed with them, which will be the cafe
if they are all equally tranfparent. The glaffes ftiould
alfo be of different lengths ; that fome being placed be¬
fore the others are drawn away, their extremities may
not be perceived.
The larger thefe fubjefts are reprefented, the better
effeft they will have : the front of the theatre ftiould
appear to be about three feet wide ; and if fome parts
of the figures were moveable, it would ftill add to the
variety of the entertainment.
' DIOSCOREA,
(g) He that moves the glaffes, feeing the effeft they produce, is the better able to render the reprefentation
as natural as poflible.
^ ^ o [25
Diofcorea DIOSCOREA, a genus of plants belonging to the
Diofpolites. flafsj an^ ln the natural method ranking under
 y^1 order, Sarmcntacece* See Botany Index.
1 he only remarkable and ufeful fpecies is the bulbi-
fera or yam. I he roots of it are eaten by the inhabi¬
tants of both the Indies 5 and are particularly ferviceable
jn the Weft India illands, where they make the greateft
part of the negroes food. The plant is fuppofed to have
been brought from the Eaft to the Weft Indies j for it
has never been obferved to grow wild in any part of A-
merica j but in the ifland of Ceylon, and on the coaft of
Malabar, it grows in the woods, and there are in thofe
places a great variety of forts. It is propagated by
cutting the root in pieces, oblerving to preferve an eye
in each, as is pra&ifed in planting potatoes. One
plant will produce three or four large roots. The fkin
of thefe roots is pretty thick, rough, unequal, covered
with many ftringy fibres or filaments, and of a violet
colour approaching to black. The infide is white, and
ol the confiftence of red beet. It refembles the pota¬
to in its meahnefs, but is of a clofer texture. When
lavv, the yams are vifcous and clammy ; rvhen roafted
or boiled, they afford very nourifhing food; and are of¬
ten preferred to bread by the inhabitants of the Weft
Indies, on account of their lightnefs and facility of di-
geftion. When firft dug out of the ground, the roots
are placed m the fun to dry ; afterwhich they are ei¬
ther put into fand, dry garrets, or calks; where, if kept
trom moifture, they may be preferved whole years,
without being fpoiled or diminilhed in their goodnefs.
1 he root commonly weighs two or three pounds :
though fome yams have been found upwards of 20
pounds weight.
DIOSCORIDES, a phyfician of Cilicia, who lived
as fome fuppofe, in the age of Nero. He was origi¬
nal y a foloier ; but afterwards he applied himfelf to
ftudy, and wrote a book upon medicinal herbs.
DIOSCURIA ; from Aioj, Jupiter, and
infants), in antiquity, a feftival in honour ofthe
AiorKovtc or Caftor and Pollux, who were reputed to
be the Ions of Jupiter. It was obferved by the Cyre-
neans, but more efpecinlly by the Spartans, whofe
country was honoured by the birth of thefe heroes.
1 he lolemnity was full of mirth, being a time wherein
they lhared plentifully of the gifts of Bacchus, and
diverted themfelves with fports, of which wreftling
matches always made a part. &
DIOSMA, African spirjea, a genus of plants be-
longing to the pentandria clafs ; and in the natural me¬
thod ranking with thofe of which the order is doubtful.
See Botany Index.
DIOSPOLIS, in Ancient Geography, a city of the
Delta, or Lower Egypt ; to the fouth of the Bufiri-
tic branch, before it divides into two.—Another of
Bithyma, in the territory of Heraclea A third
called Magna, denoting Thebae of the Higher Egypt!
T~A fourth, Diofpolu Parva, the metropolis of the
Aomos Diofpolites of the Higher Egypt A fifth
Dtofpolis, of Samaria, the fame with Lydda. A fixth
Diofpolis, the ancient name of Laodicea of Phrygia
on the Lycus. 6 ’
,rlD1IOSPOLIrES nomos, (Ptolemy,) a divifion of
i hebais or the Higher Egypt, to diftinguifii it from
another of the Lower Egypt or the Delta ; to the
I 3 DIP
fouth of the Nomos Thinites, on the weft fide of Diofpyro*
the Nile. jj
DIOSPYROS, the Indian date plum : A genus P E"sma“
of plants belonging to the polygamia clafs ; and in the - 
natural method ranking under the 18th order, Bicor-
nes. See Botany Index.
DIPHTHONG, in Grammar, a double vowel, or
the mixture of two vowels pronounced together, fo as
to make one fyllable.
The Latins pronounced the two vowels in their diph-
thongs ae or ae, oe or ce, much as we do ; only that
the one was heard much weaker than the other, though
the divifion was made with all the delicacy imaginable.
Diphthongs, with regard to the eyes, are diftinguiftied
from thofe with regard to the ears : in the former ei¬
ther the particular found of each vowel is heard in the
pronunciation ; or the found of one of them is drown¬
ed ; or laftly, a new found, different from either, re-
fults from both : the firft of thefe only are real diph¬
thongs, as being fuch both to the eye and ear. Diph¬
thongs with regard to the ear are either formed of
two vowels meeting in the fame fyllable, or whofe
founds are feverally heard ; or of three vowels in the
fame fyllable, which only afford two founds in the pro
nunciation.
Englifh diphthongs, with regard to the eye and ear,
are ai, ait, ea, ee, ei, 00, ou. Improper Englifh diph!
thongs, with regard to the eye only, are aa, ea, eo, eu,
ie, ei, oe, ue, m.
DIPLOE, in Anatomy, the foft meditullium, or
medullary fubftance which lies between the two la¬
minae of the bones of the cranium. See Anatomy
Index.
DIPLOMA. See Diplomatics.
In a peculiar fenfe, it is ufed for an inftrument or li-
cenfe given by colleges, focieties, &c. to a clergyman
to exercife the minifterial funaion, or to a phyfician to
pracftife the profeflion, &c. after paffing examination,
or admitting him to a degree.
DIPLOMA I ICS, the fcience of diplomas, or of Blefjleld's
ancient literary monuments, public documents, &c. It £lements'
does not however, nor can it, abfolutely extend its re-
fearches to antiquity ; but is chiefly confined to the
middle age, and the firft centuries of modern times.
For though the ancients were accuftomed to reduce
their contrafts and treaties into writing ; yet they cra¬
ved them on tables, or covered them over with wax, or
brafs, copper, ftone, or wood, &c. And all that’ in
the firft ages were not traced on brafs or marble, has
perifhed by the length of time, and the number of de-
ftruftive events.
1. The word diploma lignifies properly a letter or
epiftle, that is folded in the middle, and that is not
open. But, in more modern times, the title has been
given to all ancient epiftles, letters, literary monu¬
ments, and public documents, and to all thofe pieces of
writing which the ancients called Syngraphia Chirogra-
pha, Codtcilh, &c. In the middle age, and in the di¬
plomas themfelyes, thefe writings are called Litters
Pracepla, Placita CharU indicuht, Sagilla, and BulU •
as alfo Panchart a, Pantochartce, Trattoria, Defcriptiones,
&c._ The originals of thefe pieces are named Exam-
plana, or Autographa, Charta authentica, Originalia. &c.
and the copies, Apographa, Copta, Particula, and fo
^ * 2 forth.
DIP [ 2J
Diploma- forth. The colUSions that have been made of them,
tics- are called Chartaria and Chartuha. 1 he place where
thefe papers and documents were kept, the ancients
named Scrinia, Tabulanum, or JEranum, words that
were derived from the tables of brals, and, according
to the Greek idiom, Archeium or Archkum.
2. In order to underftand the nature of theie ancient
papers, diplomas, and manufcripts, and to diftinguiflr
The authentic from the counterfeit, it is neceffary to
know that the paper of the ancients came from Egypt,
and was formed of thin leaves or membranes, taken
from the branches of a tree named Papyrus, or Bib/um
JEgyptiacum, and which were pafted one over the other
with the dime of the Nile, and were preffed and po-
lilhed with a pumice done. This paper was very Icarce •,
and it was of various qualities, forms, and prices, which
they diftinguifhed by the names of charta bieratica, lu-
ria, augujla, atnphitheatrica, faitica, tanirica, emporetica.
They cut this paper into fquare leaves, which
they pafted one to the other, in order to make rolls of
them : from whence an entire book was called volumen,
from volvendo \ and the leaves of which it confided,
pagirue. Sometimes, alfo, they pafted the leaves all
together bv one of their extremities, as is now prac-
tifed in binding *, by this method they formed the back
of a book, and thefe the learned called, codices. 1 hey
rolled the volume round a flick, which they n^med
Umbilicus ; and the two ends that came out beyond the
paper, cornua. The title, wrote on parchment, in
purple charafters, was joined to the laft Iheet, and
ferved it as a cover. They made ufe of all forts of
ftrinas or ribbands, and even fometimes of locks, to
clofe3the book ; and fometimes alfo it was put into a
cafe But there is not now to be found, in any library
or cabinet whatever, any one of thefe volumes. We
have been affured, however, by a traveller, that he had
feen feveral of them in the ruins of Herculaneum j but
fo damaged, the paper fo ftiff and brittle, by the length
of time, that it was impoflible to unrol them, and con-
fequently to make any ufe of them \ for on the firft
touch they fell into fhatters. . _
2. Wc are ignorant of the precife time when our
modern paper was invented *, and when they began to
make ufe of pens in writing, inftead of the ftalks of
reeds. The ink that the ancients ufed, was not made
of vitriol and galls, like the modern, but of foot. Some-
times alfo they wrote with red ink made of vermilion j
or in letters of gold, on purple or violet parchment. It
is not difficult for thole who apply themfelves to. this
ftudy, to diftinguilh the parchment of. the ancients
from that of the moderns, as well as their ^kand va¬
rious exterior charadlers : but that which beft diftm-
guilhes the original from the counterfeit is, the writing
or charafter itfelf; which is fo diftinaiy different from
one century to another, that we may tell with certain¬
ty, within about 40 or 50 years, when any diploma
was written. There are two works which furnilh the
cleareft lights on this matter, and which may ferve as
fure guides in the judgments we may have occafion to
make on what are called ancient diplomas. . I he one
is the celebrated treatife on the Diplomatic, by .
Mabillon ; and the other, the firft volume-of the Chro-
nicon Gotvicenfe. We there find fpecimens of all the
chara&ers, the flourifhes!, and different methods of writ¬
ing, of every age. For thefe matters, there foie, we
2 1 DIP
muft refer our readers to thofe authors; and fhall here Diploma,
only add, that, . _ . , r i—-y——
4. All the diplomas are wrote in Latin, and conle-
quently the letters and charafters have a refemblance
to each other : but there are certain ftrokes of the pen
which diftinguilh not only the ages, but alfo the differ¬
ent nations-, as the writings of the Lombards, French,
Saxons &c. The letters in the diplomas are alfo ufually
longer,’ and not .fo ftrong as thofe of manufcripts.
There has been alfo introduced a kind of court hand,
of a very difproportionate length, and the letters of
which are called Exiles litters crifps, ac protraBiones.
The firft line of the diploma, the fignature of the lo-
vereign, that of the chancellor, notary, &.c. are umally
wrote in this chara&er. f *
c. The fignature of a diploma confifts either oi the
fign of the crofs, or of a monogram or cipher, com-
pofed of the letters of the names of thofe who lub-
feribed it. The initial letters of the name, and fome¬
times alfo the titles, were placed about this crofs. By
degrees the cuftom changed, and they invented other
marks j as, for example, the fign of Charlemagne was
thus :
K-
V
L
They fometimes added alfo the dates and epoch of
the fignature, the feafts of the church, the days of the
kalendar, and other like matters. The fucceffive cor¬
ruption of the Latin language, the ftyle and ortho¬
graphy of each age, as well as their different titles and
forms j the abbreviations, accentuation,, and punctua¬
tion, and the various methods of writing the dipn-
thongs -, all thefe matters united, form fo many cha-
rafters and marks by which the authenticity ol a di¬
ploma is to be known. . c
6. The feal annexed to a diplorfia was anciently ol
white wax, and artfully imprinted on the parchment
itfelf. It was afterwards pendant from the paper, and
enclofed in a box or cafe, which they called bulla.
There are fome alfo that are ftamped on metal, and
even on pure gold. When a diploma bears all the
charafters that are requifite to the time and. place
where it is fuppofed to be written, its authenticity is
not to be doubted : but at the lame time we cannot
examine them too fcrupuloufly, feeing that the monks
and priefts of former ages have been very adroit in
making of counterfeits ; and the more, as they en-
ioved the confidence of princes and ftatelmen, and
were even fometimes in poffeffion of their rings or
icciis
7.’ With regard to manuferipts that were wrote be¬
fore the invention of printing, it is neceflary (1.) to
know their nature, their effential qualities,, and matter j
(2. j to be able to read them freely, and without error ;
(2 ) to judge of their antiquity by thofe characters
which we have juft mentioned with regard to the di¬
plomas -, and (4.) to render them of ufe m the fcien-
ces As there are fcarce any of the ancient codes now-
remaining (fee par. 2.), wrote on the Egyptian paper
or on wood, ivory, &c. we have only to confider thofe
that are written on parchment or vellum {membraneoP),
and fuch as are wrote on our paper {chartaceos). iht
i
DIP [ 253 I DIP
Diploma- former of tliefe are in moil efteem. With regard to
tlcs the character, thefe codes are written either in fquare
Dipping anc^ capital letters, or in half fquare, or round and fmall
- t ^ ‘ letters. Thofe of the firft kind are the mod ancient.
There are no intervals between the words, no letters
different from the others at the beginning of any word,
no points, nor any other diftinfHon. The codes which
are wrote in letters that are half fquare, refemble thofe
we have in Gothic chara&ers, as well for the age as the
form of the letters. Such as are wrote in round let¬
ters are not fo ancient as the former, and do not go
higher than the ninth or tenth century. Thefe have
fpaces between the words, and fome punffuation. They
are likewife not fo well wrote as the preceding, and
are frequently disfigured with comments. The codes
are divided, according to the country, into Lombard,
Italian, Gaulic, Franco-Gaulic, Saxon, Anglo-Saxon,
&c.
8. In the ancient Greek books, they frequently ter¬
minated the periods of a difcourfe, inflead of all other
divifion, by lines •, and thefe divifions were called, in
Latin, verfus, from vertcndo : for which reafon thefe
lines are Hill more properly named verfus than linece.
At the end of a work, they put down the number of
verfes of which it confided, that the copies might be
more eafily collated : and it is in this fenfe we are to
underftand Trebonius, w'hen he fays, that the Pandedls
contain 150,000 pane verfuum. Thefe codes were like-
wife vel probce vel deterioris not a, more or lefs perfedf,
not only with regard to the calligraphy or beauty of
the character, but to the corredlion of the text alfo.
9. It is likewife neceflary to obferve, in ancient
codes, the abbreviations, as they have been ufed in dif¬
ferent centuries. Thus, for example, A. C. D. figni-
fies Aulus Caius Decimus ; Ap. Cn. Appius Cneius j
Aug. Imp. Auguftus Imperator. The charafters that
are called notce, are fuch as are not to be found in the
alphabet ; but which, notwithftanding, fignify certain
words. All thefe matters are explained in a copious
manner by Voflius, and in the Chronicon Gotvicenfe.
Laftly, The learned divide all the ancient codes into
codices minus raros, rariores, edit os, et anecdotos. The
critical art is here indifpenfably neceffary : its re-
fearches, moreover, have no bounds ; and the more, as
the ufe of it augments every day, by the difcoveries
that are made in languages, and by the increafe of
erudition.
DIPONDIUS, in the fcripture language, is ufed
by St Luke to fignify a certain coin which was of very
little value. Our tranflation of the palfage is, “ Are
not two fparrows fold for two farthings ?” In St Mat¬
thew, who relates the fame thing, we read, “ Are not
two fparrows fold for a farthing ?” The Greek reads
ajfanon inftead of as. Now ajfarion, as fome fay, was
worth half an as, that is to fay, four French deniers
and |-th ; and, according to others, two deniers and
xVths. Dipondws leems rather to fignify half an as.
Calmet, Diftion. Bibl. Luke xii. 6. Matt. x. 29.
Dr Arbuthnot differs in opinion from the author
laft quoted. He fays, that this coin was at firft libra-
lis, or of a pound weight j and even when diminifhed,
it retained the name of libella. So that dipondius de¬
notes two alfes.
DIPPING, among miners, fignifies the interrup¬
tion or breaking oft the veins of ore $ an accident that
gives them a great deal of trouble before they can dif- Dipping
cover the ore again. A great deal of the (kill of the ,
miners confifts in the underftanding this dipping of the
veins, and knowing how to manage in it. In Corn¬
wall they have this general rule to guide them in this
refpeft : moft of their tin-loads, which run from call
to weft, conftantly dip towards the north. Sometimes
they underlie ; that is, they flope down towards the
north three feet in height perpendicular. This muft
carefully be obferved by the miners, that they may
exadtly know where to make their air-fliafts w'hen oc-
cafion requires 5 yet, in the higher mountains of Dart-
maer, there are fome confiderable loads, which run
north and fouth 5 thefe always underlie toward the eafL
Four or five loads may run nearly parallel to each
other in the fame hill ; and yet, which is rare, they
may meet all together in one hatch, as it were a knot,
which well tins the place, and fo feparate again, and
keep their former diftances.
Dipping Needle, an inftrument ufed for obferving
the quantity of inclination towards the earth, affumed
by any needle or other body after it has acquired the
magnetic virtue. This was firft obferved by one Ro¬
bert Norman, an Englifhman, and maker of compafles
for mariners, in the end of the 16th century 5 who
finding that he was always obliged to counterbalance
that end which turns to the north by a bit of wTax or
fuch other fubftance, though the balance had been
ever fo exadl before, publiftied an account of his dif- >
covery as a matter of importance. The fubjeft was
inftantly attended to j and inftruments w^ere not only
contrived for afcertaining the quantity of the dip, but
various fpeculations formed concerning the caufe of
fuch a furprifing phenomenon.
The general phenomena of the dipping needle are :
that about the equatorial parts of the earth it remains
in a horizontal pofition, but deprefles one end as we
recede from thefe 5 the north end if we go towards
the north, and the fouth end if we proceed towards
the fouth pole. The farther north or fouth that we
go, the inclination becomes the greater 3 but there is
no place of the globe hitherto difcovered where it
points diredftly downwards, though it is fuppofed that
it would do fo in fome part very near the pole. Its
inclination is likewife found to vary very confiderably
at different times in different places of the earth, and
by fome changes of fituation, in fuch a manner as muft
appear at firft fight very unaccountable. Of all thofe
who have attempted the inveftigation of this obfcure
fubjeft, none have been more fuccefsful than M. Ca-
vallo, who in his Treatife on Magnetifm has given
particular attention to all the phenomena, and ac¬
counted for them upon plain and rational principles,,
in the following manner :
The dip of the magnetical needle in general may be
underftood from the following eafy experiment :—
Lay an oblong magnet horizontally upon a table, and
over it fufpend another fmaller magnet (a fewing needle
to which the magnetic virtue has been communicated
will anfwer the purpofe), in fuch a manner as to re¬
main in a horizontal pofition when not difturbed by
another magnet. Now, if this laft fmall magnet or
fewing needle, fufpended by the middle, be brought
juft over the middle of the large one, it will turn itfelf
in fuch a manner that the fouth pole of the fmall mag-
l net
Dipping
Needle.
DIP [ 254 ] DIP
net will point towards the north pole of the large one;
and if at an equal diftance from both, will remain in
a horizontal pofition. But if we move it nearer to
one of the poles than the other, it will readily be un-
derftood that the correfponding end of the needle will
be attra&ed by the pole to which it approaches, and
of confequence inclined downwards; the contrary end
being proportionably elevated. It is likewife evident,
that this inclination will be greater or lefs according
to the diftance at which the fmall magnet is placed from
the pole of the large one ; the attraftion of the neareft
pole having always the greateft effeft upon it. And
it is equally plain, that when brought direftly over one
of the poles of the large magnet, it will turn its own
contrary one direftly towards it, and thus lie exa£Hy
in the axis of the large one.
The application of this experiment to the pheno¬
mena of the dipping needle is obvious, as nothing
more is requifite for folving the whole myftery than to
fuppofe the earth itfelf to be the large magnet, and the
magnetic needle or any other magnetic body the fmall
magnet in the experiment: for admitting that the north
pole’ of the earth poffeffes a fouth magnetifm, and that
the oppofite pole is poffeffed of a north magnetical
polarity ; it appears, and the theory is confirmed by
experiment, that when a magnet is fufpended properly
in the equatorial parts of the wTorld, it mult remain in
a horizontal pofition ; but when removed nearer to
one of the poles, it muft incline one of its extremities,
viz. that which is poffeffed of the contrary magnetic
polarity ; and that this inclination muft increafe in
proportion as the magnet or magnetic needle recedes
from the equator of the earth; and, laftly, when brought
exaftly upon either of the poles of the earth, it muft
Hand perpendicular to the ground, or in the fame di-
reftion with the axis of the earth.
The only difficulty in this explanation arifes from
the attributing a fouth magnetifm to the north pole
of the earth : but by this our author means only that
its magnetifm is contrary to that end of the magnetic
needle wThich turns towfards it ; and in the fame man¬
ner it muft be underftood, that the fouth pole of the
earth has a north magnetic polarity.
If the extremities of the axis of the earth, or the
poles about which it performs its diurnal revolution,
coincided with its magnetic poles, or even if the mag¬
netic poles were always at a certain diftance from them,
the inclination of the needle would be always the fame
at equal diftances from the equator, and might be very
ufeful for determining the latitudes. But it would
feem, that thefe poles are perpetually fhifting their
place, fince both the inclination and horizontal direc¬
tion of the needle are continually varying even in the
fame place ; fo that its quantity of inclination cannot
be exaftly calculated. Two general remarks may be
made upon this fubjeft. 1. That the inclination of
the needle does not alter regularly in going from north
to fouth, or from fouth to north, in any meridian.—
2. That its alteration in the fame place, and at differ¬
ent times, is but fmall. Thus, in London, about the
year 1 576, the dip was 710 50' below the horizon, and
in 1775 it flood at 72° 3' j the alteration in near 200
vears fcarce amounting to three quarters of a degree,
which may be attributed to the errors of the inftru-
roents ; as thefe were at firft exceedingly erroneous,
I
and even yet are far from being arrived at
tion.
The general method of conftru&ing dipping needles j};ptyCha
is, to pafs an axis quite through the needle itfelf, and 1 ^ ■ f
to let the extremities of the axis reft upon two fupports,
like the beam of a pair of feales, that the needle may
move vertically round ; and hence, when placed in the
magnetic meridian, it will naturally affume that poli-
tion which is called the magnetic line, viz. the two ends
nearly north and fouth, and one of them inclined con-
fiderably to the horizon. The degrees of the inclina¬
tion are ftiown upon a graduated circle ; and when the
inftrument is made ufe of at land it has a ftand, but
at fea a ring is neceftary to fufpend it. When furnifh-
ed with a ftand, it has alfo a fpirit-level; and the ftand
ha? three ferews, by which the whole is adjufted in
fuch a manner as to let the centre of motion in the
needle, and the mark of 90° on the lower part of the
divided circle, be exaflly in the fame line perpendicu¬
lar to the horizon.
The greateft imperfe&ions attending this inftrument
are the balancing of the needle itfelf, and the difficul¬
ty of knowing whether, after being made magnetic, it
be properly balanced or not. The inaccuracy here in¬
deed can be but very fmall, as arifing only from duft
or moifture. The method recommended by Mr Ca-
vallo to obviate thefe inconveniences, is firft to obferve
the dip of the needle ; then to reverfe its magnetifm
by the application of magnets, fo that the end of it
which before was elevated above the horizon may now
be below it; and, laftly, to obferve its dip again ; for
a mean of the two obfervations will be pretty near the
truth, though the needle may not be perfefUy balan¬
ced. See Magnetism and Mjgneticjl Needle.
DIPSACUS, teazel : A genus of plants belong¬
ing to the tetrandria clafs ; and in the natural method
ranking under the 48th order, Jggregata. See Bo¬
tany Index.
DIPSAS, a fort of ferpent, the bite of which pro¬
duces fuch a thirft as proves mortal : whence its name
dipfas, which fignifies thirfty. In Latin it is called
Jitu/a, “ a pail.” Mofes fpeaks of it in Deut. viii. 15.
DIPTERA (from ^<?, and wwg'), in Zoolo¬
gy, an order of infefts, which have only two wings,
and under each wing a ftyle, or oblong body, termi¬
nated by a protuberance or head, and called a balan¬
cer. See Entomology Index.
DIPTOTES, in Grammar, are fuch nouns as have
only two cafes, as fuppetice, fuppetias, &c.
DIPTYCHA,in antiquity, a public regifter, where¬
in were wrritten the names of the confuls, and other
rnagiftrates, among the heathens ; and of biftiops, and
defunft as well as furviving brethren, among the
Chriftians.
The word is formed from the Greek 'biH'rvgm, or
'bwiwgz, and that from a mafeuline noun de¬
rived trom crrve'ff'w, I fold or plait. Irom its future
is formed a fold or plait, to which add¬
ing 'bis. twice, we have bi7TTv%, in the genitive oititvws,
whence the nominative neuter bnrTvgM, q. d. a book
-folded in two leaves ; though there were fame in three,
and others in four or five leaves. An ingenious au¬
thor imagines this name to have been firft given them
to diftinguiffi them from the books that were rolled,
called volurnina.
perfec- Dipping
Needle
D I R
Diptycha It is certain there were profane diptycha in the
Direclu-n ^ree^ empjre, as well as facred ones in the Greek
» church. The former were the matrieula, or regifter,
wherein the names of the magiftrates were enter¬
ed : in which fenfe diptycha is a term in the Greek
chancery.
Sacred Diptycha. The word is plural •, diptycha
being a double catalogue, in one whereof were writ¬
ten the names of the living, and in the other thofe of
the dead, w’hich were to be rehearfed during the office.
We meet with fomething not unlike the facred dip-
tychs of the Greeks, in the canon of the mafs accord-
ing to the Latin ufage ; where the people are enjoin¬
ed to pray once for the living, and once for the dead j
feveral faints are invoked in different times, &c. In
thefe diptycha were entered the names of biffiops, who
had governed their flock aright; and thefe were never
expunged out of the fame, unlefs they were convi&ed
of herefy, or fome other grofs crime. In the diptycha
were likewife entered the names of fuch as had done
any fignal fervice to the church, whether they were
living or dead, and mention was made of them in the
celebration of the liturgy.
Cafaubon, in his obfervations on Athenaeus, lib. vi.
cap. 14. fuppofes the Chriflians to have borrowed the
cuftom of writing names in a book, and rehearfing
them at mafs, from the heathens, who entered the
names of perfons they would do any fignal honour to,
in the verfes of the Salii j as was done to Germanicus
and Verus, fons of the emperor Marcus Aurelius, and
a long time before, during the age of the republic, to
Mamercus Veturius, and Lucia Volumnia, as wTe are
told by Tacitus, lib. ii. Spartian, Ovid, Feftus, Plu¬
tarch, &c. But Fa. Rofweyd does not approve this
notion of Cafaubon. The pretended St Dionyfius, a
very ancient author, fays the contrary, and alferts the
firft eftabliffiment of this ufage to have been founded
on Scripture, 2 Tim. ii. 19. Pfal. cxvi. 15. Rofweyd
adds Ecclefiaftic. xliv. r. and takes thefe to have been
the pafiages the ancient church had a view to, rather
than the Salian verfes.
The profane diptycha were frequently fent as pre-
fents to princes, &c. on which occafion they were fine-
!y gjjL and embelliffied ; as appears from Symmachus,
lib. ii. ep. 81. Thofe prefented were ufually of ivory.
The firft law, De Expenf. Ludor. C. Theod. forbids
all magiftrates below confuls to make prefents of dip¬
tycha of ivory in the public ceremonies.
DIRCA, a genus of plants belonging to the o&an-
dria clafs •, and in the natural method ranking under
the 31ft order, Vepreculce. See Botany Index.
DIRy£, the general name of the three Furies in the
Pagan fyftem of theology. They were fo called, as
being quaji Deorum tree, the minifters of divine ven¬
geance in puniftiing guilty fouls after death. They
were the daughters of Night and Acheron. See Fu-
RJES.
DIRECT, in Arithmetic, is when the proportion of
any terms, or quantities, is in the natural or diredt or¬
der in which they ftand, being the oppofite to inverfe,
which confiders the proportion in the inverted order of
the terms. So, 3 : 4 : : 6 : 8 diredlly $ or 3 : 4 : : 8 : 6
inverfely.
DIRECTION, in Mechanics, fignifies the line or
path of a body’s motion, along which it endeavours to
[ ]
D I S
proceed according to the force impreffed upon it. See Diredtion
Mechanics. II
Direction, in AJironomy, the motion and other
phenomena of a planet when diredf.
Direction, in AJirology, is a kind of calculus, by
which it is pretended to find the time in which any not¬
able accident {hall befal the perfon whofe horofeope is
drawn.
DIRECTOR, in commercial polity, a perfon who
has the management of the affairs of a trading compa¬
ny : thus we lay, the diredtors of the India Company,
South Sea Company, &c. See Comfany.
T he diredlors are confiderable proprietors in the
flocks of their refpedtive companies, being chofen by
plurality of votes from among the body of proprietors.
The Dutch Eaft India Company had formerly 60 fuch di-
redtors; that of France, 21: the Btitiffi Eaft India Com¬
pany has 24, including the chairman, who may be re-
eledled for four years fucceffively. The laft have fa-
laries of 150I. a-year each, and the chairman 200I.
They meet at leaf! once a-week, and commonly oftener,
being fummoned as occafion requires. The diredtors
of the Bank of England are 24 in number, including
the governor and deputy-governor.
Director, in Surgery, a grooved probe, to diredl
the edge of the knife or feiffars in opening finufes or
fiftulae, that by this means the adjacent veffels, nerves
and tendons, may remain unhurt. See Surgery>
Index.
DIRIBITORES, among the Romans, officers ap¬
pointed to diftribute tablets to the people at the co-
mitia. See Comitia.
DIRIGENT, or Directrix, a term in geometry,
fignifying the line of motion, along which the deferib-
ent line or furface is carried in the genefis of any plane
or folid figure.
DIS, an infeparable article prefixed to divers words;
the effedl whereof is either to give them a fignification
contrary to what the fimple words have, as difoblige,
difobey, &c. ; or to fignify a feparation, detachment^
&c. as difpojing, dijiribulitig.
Dis, a town of Norfolk, feated on the river Wave-
nay, on the fide of a hill. It is a neat flourifliing town,
with one large church, a Prefbyterian and a Quaker
meeting. It has about 600 good houfes ; the ftreets
are well paved, pretty wide, and always clean. At
the weft end of the town is a large meer or lake ; but
fo muddy, that the inhabitants can make no other ufe
cf it but in catching of eels. In the towTn are carried
on manufaftories of failcloth, hofe, and the making of
flays. E. Long. 1. 16. N. Lat. 52. 25.
Dis, a god of the Gauls, the lame as Pluto the god
of hell. The inhabitants of Gaul fuppofed themfelves
defeended from that deity.
DISA, a genus of plants belonging to the gynan-
dria clafs. See Botany Index.
DISABILITY, in Law, is wffien a man is difabled,
or made incapable to inherit any lands, or take that
benefit which otherwife he might have done : and this
may happen four ways ; by the ad of an anceftor, or
of the party himfelf, by the a& of God, or of the
law. x. Difability by the a<ft of the anceftor, is where
the anceftor is attainted of high treafon, &c. which
corrupts the blood of his children, fo that they may
not inherit his eftate. 2. Difability by the aft of the
party.
D I S . f 25
DHandria party, is where a man binds himfelf by obligation, that,
|| udon furrender of a leafe, he will grant anew eitate
Discipline.. a jeflree . an(j afterwards he grants over the rever-
v fion to another, which puts it out of his power to per¬
form it. 3. Difability by the aft of God, is where a
man is non fance memorix, whereby he is incapable to
make any grant, &c. So that, if he paffeth an eitate
out of him, it may after his death be made void j but
it is a maxim in law, “ That a man of full age thall
never be received to difable his own perfon.” 4. Thi-
ability by the aft of the law, is where a man by the
law, without any thing by him done, is rendered in¬
capable of the benefit of the law ; as an alien born,
&c. , ,
DISANDRIA, a genus of plants, belonging to
the heptandria clafs. See Botany Index.
Islands of DISAPPOINTMENT, a clufter of
fmall iflands, lying in S. Lat. 14. IO. W. Long. 141.
16. They w'ere difcovered by Commodore Byron in
176c, wrho gave them their name from the fhores af¬
fording no anchorage for his fhips •, for which reafon
he wras obliged to quit them without landing, or pro¬
curing any refrelhments for his crew, who were then
languishing with ficknefs. They are inhabited by In¬
dians, who appeared on the beach with fpears in their
hands, that were at leaft 16 feet long. They every¬
where difcovered hoftile intentions, and ieemed by 1Sns
to threaten the people in the boat with death if they
came afhore. There are cocoa trees in great abund¬
ance, and the fhore abounds with turtle.
DISC, in antiquity, a quoit made of ftone, iron,
or copper, five or fix fingers broad, and more than a
foot long, inclining to an oval figure, which t ey
hurled in form of a bowl, to a vaft diftance, by the
help of a leathern thong tied round the. perfon s hand
who threw it, and put through a hole in the middle.
Homer has made Ajax and Ulyffes great artifts at this
^ Disc, in Agronomy, the body and face of the fun
and moon, fuch as they appear to us on the earth 5 or
the body and face of the earth, fuch as it appears to a
fpeflator in the moon.
Disc, in Optics, is the width of the aperture of te-
lefcope glaffes, whatever their form be, whether plane,
convex, concave, &c.
DISCERNING, or Discernment, a faculty ot
the mind whereby it dillinguifiies between ideas. See
Metaphysics. .
DISCIPLE, one who learns any thing from ano¬
ther : thus, the followers of any teacher, philofopher,
&.c. are called difciples. In the Chrillian fenfe, they
were followers of Jefus Chrift, in general; but m a
more reftrained fenfe, the difciples denote thofe alone
who wrere the immediate followers and attendants on is
perfon, of which there were 70 or 72. The names
difciples and apojHes are often fynonymoufly ufed in the
gofpel hiftory ; but fometimes the apoftles are diftin-
auiihed from difciples, as perfons felefted out of the
number of difciples, to be the principal mimfters of his
religion: of thefe there were only 12. The Latins
kept the fefiival of the 70 or 72 difciples on July 15th,
and the Greeks on January 4th.
DISCIPLINE, in a general fenfe, denotes initruc-
tion and government, as military difcipline, ecclefiafti-
cal difcipline, &c.
6 ] D I S
Ecclefiaftical difcipline confifts in putting thofe laws Ddaplme
in execution by which the church is governed, and in-
flicting the penalties enjoined by them againft the le- — 1
veral forts of offenders that profefs the religion of Je¬
fus. The primitive church never pretended to exercife
difcipline upon any but fuch as were within her pale,
in the large!! fenfe, by fome aft of their own profei-
fion ; and even upon thefe fhe never pretended to exer¬
cife her difcipline fo far as to cancel or diiannul their
baptifm : all jhat Ihe pretended to was to deprive men
of the benefits of external communion, fuch as public
prayer, receiving the eucharift, and other a£ls of divine
worftiip. The church dilcipline was only confined to
the admonition of the party, and to the lefler and great¬
er excommunication. _
As to the objects of ecclefiaftical difcipline, they
were all fuch delinquents as fell into great and fcanda-
lous crimes after baptifm. _ .
Difcipline, in a more peculiar fenfe, is uied tor the
chaftifements or bodily puniftiments infiidled on a reli¬
gious of the Romiftr church who has been found a de¬
linquent ; or even for that which the religious volun¬
tarily undergo or inflift on themfelves, by way of mor¬
tification. # f
Book of Discipline, in the hiftory of the church ot
Scotland, is a common order, drawn up by the afiem-
bly of minifteis in 1650, for the reformation and uni¬
formity to be obferved in the dilciphne and policy ot the
church. In this book the government of the church
by prelates is let afide, church feflions are eftabliihed,
the fuperftitious obfervation of fall days and taints days
is condemned, and other regulations for the govern¬
ment of the church are determined. . 1 his book was
approved by the privy council, and is called the birjt
Book of Difcipline.
DISCORD, in general, fignifies dilagreement, or
oppofition between different perfons or things. _
Discofd, in Mufic, every found which, joined with
another, forms an affemblage difagreeable to the ear ; or
rather, every interval whofe extremes do not coalelce.
Now, as there are no other concords or confonances,
except thofe which form amongft themfelves, and with
their fundamental found, perfeft chords, it follows, that
every interval muft be a real diffonance or difcord :
even the third and fixth were reckoned fuch among the
ancients, who excluded them from the number of con-
fonant chords. 1 . . ,.r
The term diffonance, which is fynonymous with dit-
cord, is compounded of two words, the inleparable pre-
pofition dis and the vtxbfonare ; which, boU m a lite¬
ral and metaphorical fenfe, fignities difagreement or difu-
nion. In reality, that which renders diffonances grat¬
ing, is, that the founds which form them, far from unit¬
ing in the ear, feem to repel each other, and are heard
each by itfelf as two diftina founds, though produced
at the fame time. „ . r. r , -
This repulfion or violent ofcillation of founds is
heard more or lefs as the vibrations which produce it
are more or lefs frequently coincident. When two vo¬
cal firings are gradually tuned, till they approach a
confonant interval, the pulfations become flower a*
the chord grows more juft, till at laft they are fcarcely
heard, if heard at all > from whence it appears certain,
that the pleafure produced in us by harmony refults
from the more or lefs exad and frequent coincidence
D I S [ 257 1 D I S
DifconJ. or vibration ; though the reafon why this coincidence
Hiould give pleafure, more than any other modifica¬
tion or combination of founds, appears to us infcru-
table. The agreeable effedts of diilbnance in harmony,
are no objedlion to this theory ; finpe it is allowed,
that the fenfations excited by difcord are not in them-
felves immediately and neceflarily pleafing, but only
pleafe by auricular deception. The ear is furprifed
with the (hock it receives, without being able to ima¬
gine how it (hould have happened $ and in proportion
as it is har(h and grating, we feel the pleafure of re¬
turning harmony enhanced, and the difappointment
of being artfully and infenfibly extricated more agree¬
able.
The name of diffonance is given fometimes to the in¬
terval, and fometimes to each of the two founds which
form it. But though two founds equally form a dif¬
fonance between themfelves, the name is mod frequent¬
ly given to that found in particular which is mod ex¬
traneous to the chord.
The number of poflible difibnances is indefinite ;
but as in mufic we exclude all intervals which are not
found in the fydem received, the number of diflbnances
is reduced to a very few : befides, in praftice, we can
only feledl from thofe few fuch as are agreeable to the
fpecies, and the mode in which we compofe ; and from
this lad number wTe mud exclude fuch as cannot be ufed
confidently with the rules prefcribed. But what are
thefe rules ? Have they any foundation in nature, or
are they merely arbitrary ? This is what Roufleau,
whom in this article we have followed or abandoned as
his obfervations appeared ufeful or frivolous, propofes
to invedigate as its principal obje£h
But where does his fcrutiny terminate ? Not in the
abolition of the rules prefcribed. Thefe have dill fub-
fided, and will dill fubfid, while the frame of man,
and the nature of mufic, remain what they are. If then
the rules be permanent and univerfal, the principle
upon which they are founded may be latent or ambi¬
guous ; but the rules themfelves can never be purely
arbitrary. How elfe could it happen, that Rameau,
D’Alembert, and Rouffeau, (hould admit the force and
effedf of thefe rules, whild each of thofe maders exerts
his whole genius to give a diderent account of their
caufe and origin ? Roufleau himfelf, as we have feen in
a former article, inculcates the necedity of diflbnances
for the completion of harmony ; (fee Chord). Now,
if this be true, the eafied methods of introducing and
difiniding thefe difcords mud be the mod eligible, and
of confequence the rules for ufing them mud be eda-
blilhed. It is not then upon the fubfidence or demo¬
lition of any particular theory that they depend. Should
we attend to the particular objeddions which may be
urged againd any fydem whatever •, wdaere is the theory
which will be found proof againd the efforts of fcep-
ticifm ? After all, the objeftions of Rouffeau againd
Rameau’s theory, as applied by D’Alembert to the
origin of confonances, (fee Music, art. 94, 95, 69,
"97* 98, 99-)» appear to be much more frivolous than
the analogies from which he pretends this origin to be
■deduced. It appears from D’Alembert’s expofition of
this theory, that, if not for all, it affords a folution
tor the mod material and effential phenomena in har¬
mony 5 which is fufficient for its edablifnment, till an¬
other can be found, which gives a rational and confid-
Vol, VII. Part I.
ent account of the whole : a difcovery which has not Difcoui
yet been made. But, whild we acknowledge the fu- M .
tility of Rouffeau’s objections againd D’Alembert’s .
explication of diffonances, w’e mud at the fame time
admire the ingenuity with which he has deduced them
from principles purely mechanical, without departing
from the fydem of M. Rameau. This mechanical ex¬
plication will be found in his Mufical Didtionary, un¬
der the article Diffbnance.
Di scord (the goddefs of), in Pagan theology. She
is repreiented by Aridides with fiery eyes, a pale
countenance, livid lips, and wearing a dagger in her
bofom. It was (he who at the marriage of Peleus and
Thetis threw in the golden apple, whereon was written
“ To the faired which occafioned a contention be¬
tween the goddeffes Juno, Minerva, and Venus ; each
pretending a title to the apple. She was likewife call¬
ed Ate and Eris.
DISCOVERY, in dramatic poetry, a manner of
unravelling a plot or fable in tragedies, comedies, and
romances ; wherein, by fome unforefeen accident, a
difcovery is made of the name, fortune, quality, &c-
of a principal perfon, which were before unknown.
See Catastrophe.
DISCOUNT, in commerce, a term among traders,
merchants and bankers. It is ufed by the two former
on occafion of their buying commodities on the ufual
time of credit, with a condition that the feller (hall al¬
low the buyer a certain difcount at the rate of fo much
per cent, per annum, for the time for which the credit
is generally given, upon condition that the buyer pays
ready money for fuch commodities, indead of taking
the time of credit. Traders and merchants alfo fre¬
quently taking promiffory notes for moneys due payable
to them or order at a certain time, and fometimes ha¬
ving occafion for money before the time is elapfed,
procure thefe notes to be difcounted by bankers before
the time of payment. Bills of exchange are alfo dif¬
counted by bankers j and in this confids one article of
the profits of banking. See Bank.
DISCRETE, or disjunct, PROPORTION, is when
the ratio of twm or more pairs of numbers or quantities
is the fame, but there is not the fame proportion be¬
tween all the four numbers. Thus, if the numbers
3 : 6 :: 8 : 16 be confidered, the ratio between 3 : 6
is the fame as that between 8 : 16, and therefore the
numbers are proportional: bmt it is only difcretely or
disjun£tly, for 3 is not to 6 as 6 to 8 j that is, the
proportion is broken off between 8 and 3, and is not
continued as in the following continual proportionals,
3 t 6 :: 12 : 24.
Discrete Quantity, is fuch as is not continued and
joined together. Such, for indance, is any number.
DISCRETION j prudence, or knowledge to govern
one’s felf.
There are many more (billing qualities in the mind
of man, but there is none fo ufeful as difcretion 5 it is
this indeed that gives a value to all the red, which fets
them at work in their proper times and places ; and
turns them to the advantage of the perfon who is pof-
feffed of them. Without it learning is pedantry, and
wit impertinence ; virtue itfelf looks like weaknefs j
the bed parts only qualify a man to be more fprightly
in errors, and aftive to his own prejudice.
Nor does difcretion only make a man mader of his
XC k own
DifiHaclaf
tic cryftal
D 1 S [
Difcreiion oU’n parts, but of other men’s. The difcreet man finds
" out the talents of thofe he converles with, and knows
how to apply them to proper ufes. Accordingly, it
we look into particular communities and divifions of
men, we may obferve that it is the difcreet man, not the
witty, nor the learned, nor the brave, who guides the
converfation, and gives meafures to the fociety. A man
with great talents, but void of dilcretion, is like Poly¬
phemus in the fable, ftrong and blind, endued with an
irrefiltible force, which for want of fight is ot no ufe to
him. Though a man has all other perfe&ions, and
w ants difcretion, he will be of no great confeqoence in
the world ; but if he has this fingle talent in perfe&ion,
and but a common ihare of others, he may do what
he pleafes in his particular ftation of life.
It is proper, however, to dilfinguilh between d[fcre-
tion and cunning, the latter being the accoroplilhment
only of little, mean, ungenerous minds. Ddcretion
points out the nobleit ends to us, and purfues the moft
proper and laudable methods of attaining them } cun¬
ning has only private felfifii aims, and flicks at nothing
which mav make them fucceed. Difcretion has large
and extended views, and, like a well-formed eye, com¬
mands a whole horizon : cunning is a kind of fhort-
fightednels, that difcovers the minuteil objefts which
are near at hand, but is not able to dilcern things at a
diftance. Difcretion, the more it is difcovereri, gives
the greater authority to the perfon who poffeffeS it :
cunning, when it is once detefled, loles its force, and
makes a man incapable of bringing about even thofe
events which he might have done, had he paffed only
for a plain man. Difcretion is the perfection of rea-
fon, and a guide to us in all the duties of life j cun¬
ning is a kind of intiina, that only looks cut after our
immediate intereft and welfare. Dilcretion is only
found in men of ftrong fenfe and good underftanding .
cunning is often to be met with in brutes themfelves,
and in perfons who are but the feweft removes from
them. In Ihort, cunning is only the mimic of difcre¬
tion, and may pafs upon weak men, in the fame man¬
ner as vivacity is often miitaken for wit, and gra\ity
for wifdom.
DISCUS, in antiquity. See Disc.
Discus, in Botany, the middle part of a radiated
compound flower, generally confifting of fmall florets,
with a hollow regular petal. It is commonly fur-
rounded by large, plain, or flat, tongue-fitaped petals,
in the circumference or margin ; as in daily, ground¬
sel, and leopards-bane *, fometimes the circumference
is naked, as in cotton-weed and feme fpecies of coltl-
foot.
Discus Fotii, the furface of the leaf.
DISCUSSION, in matters of literature, figmfies
the clear treating or handling of any particular point,
or problem, fo as to fbake off the difficulties with
which it is embarrafled : thus we {?uj, fuch a point was
. well difcujjed, when it was well treated of and cleared
UP*DISCUTIENTS, in Medicine, are fuch remedies,
as, by their fubtility, diffolve a ffagnating or coagu¬
lated fluid, and diffipate the fame without an external
folution of continuity.
DISDIACLASTIC crystal, m hatural Hiflory,
a name given, by Bartbolire and fome others, to a
mineral fubflance, more ufually called, from the place
See Ml- Difdiapa-
fon,
Difeafe.
258 1 D I S
whence it was firft brought, Iceland cryjlai.
NERALOGY Index.
DISDIAPASON, or Bisdiapason, in Mufic, a 
compound concord, deferibed by F. Parran, in the
quadruple ratio of 4 : 1» or ^ • 2- _
Disdiapason Diapente, a concord in a fextuple ratio
°f 1 : 6. j j
Disdiapason Semi-Diapente, a compound concord
in the proportion of 16 : 3. ' .
Disdiapason Ditone, a compound confonance m the
proportion of 10 : 2.
Disdiapason Semi-Ditone, a compound concord in
the proportion of 24: 5. .
DISEASE, has been varioufly defined by phyli-
cians, almoft every founder of a new fyifem having
given a definition of difeafe, differing in fome refpeas
from his predeceffors. For a particular account of
thefe definitions, fee Medicine.
Of all animals, man is iubjta to the moft difeafes ;
and of men, the fludious and fpeculatiye are moft ex-
poied thereto. Other animals have their difeafes ; but
they are in fmaller number: nor are plants without them}
though their maladies fcarce exceed half a fcore. The
ancients deified their difeafes. Some difeafes only im¬
pair the ufe of the part immediately sfreaed } as the
ophthalmia, gout, &c. Others detfroy it entirely ; as
the gutta ferena, palfy, &c. Some aftea the whole
body } as the fever, apoplexy, epilepfy, 6cc. Others
onlv impair a part } as the afthma, colic, dropfy, 6tc.
Some only affea the body } as the gout : others dt-
fturb the mind } as melancholy, delirium, &C. Daft¬
ly, others affea both the body and mind } as the mama,
phrenfy, &c. . , . r ,
The colder the country, in general, the fewer ard
the lefs violent are the dileafes. Scheffer tells us th,.t
the Laplanders know' no iuch thing as the plague, or
fevers of the burning kind, nor are fubjea to half the
diftempers we are. They are rebuff and ftrong, and
live to 80, 90, and many of them to more than loo
years} and at this great age they are not feeble and
decrepid as with us } but a man of 90 is able to work
or travel as well as a man of 60 with us. I hey are
fubieft, however, to fome difeaies more than other na¬
tions } thus they have often diftempers of the eyes,,
which is owfing to their living in fmoke, 01 being blind¬
ed by the fnow. Pleurifies and inflammations ot the
lungs are alto very frequent among them ; and the
fmall-pox often rages with great violence. I hey have
one general remedy againft thefe and all other internal
difeaies : this is the root of that fort of mofs, as Schef¬
fer expreffes it, which they call jertb. They make a
decoftion of this root in the whey of rem-oeer milk,
and dunk very large dofes of it warm, to keep up a
breathing fweat ; if they cannot get this, they ule the
flalks of angelica boiled in the fame manner : they have
not lo great an opinion of this as of the other remedy :
but the keeping in a fweat, and drinking plentifully of
diluting liquors, may go a great way in the cure of
their difeafes, whether either the one or the other of
the drugs have any virtue or not. They cute pleun-
fies by this method in a very few days} and get to
well through the fmallpox with it, that very few die Dt
lt’ It has been always obfervtd, that people of particu¬
lar places were peculiarly fubjea to particular difeafes.
D I S
Difeafe.
wliicli are owing to their manner of living, or to the
"7 sir and effluvia of the earth and waters. Huffman has
made fome curious obfervations on difeafes of this kind.
He obferves, that fwellings of the throat have always
been common to the inhabitants of mountainous coun¬
tries : and the old Roman authors fay, Who wonders
at a fwelled throat in the Alps ? The people of Swiffer-
land, Carimhia, Stitia, the Hartz foreft, Tranfylvania,
and the inhabitants of Cronftadt, he obferves, are all
lubjeft to this difeafe from the fame caufe.
The French are peculiarly troubled with fevers, with
worms, and with hydroceles and farcoceles; and all
thefe diforders feem to be owing originally to their eat¬
ing very large quantities of chefnuts. The people of
our own nation are peculiarly affiifted with hoarfeneffes,
catarrhs, coughs, dyfenteries, confumptions, and the
fcurvy ; and the women with the fluor albus or whites ;
and children with a difeafe Icarce known elfewhere,
which we call the rickets. In different parts of Italy
different difeafes reign. At Naples the venereal difeafe
is more common than in any other part of the world.
At Venice, people are peculiarly fubjedl to the bleeding
piles. At Rome, tertian agues and lethargic diftem-
pers are mod common. In Tufcany the epilepfy or
falling dcknefs. And in Apulia they are molt fubjeft
to burning fevers, pleurifies, and to that fort of mad-
nefs which is attributed to the bite of the tarantula,
and which, it is faid, is only to be cured by mufic.
In Spain apoplexies are common, as alfo melancholy,
hypochondriacal complaints, and bleeding piles. The
Dutch are peculiarly fubjedl to the fcurvy, and to the
done in the kidneys. Denmark, Norway, Sweden,
Pomerania, and Livonia, are all terribly aifflifled with
the fcurvy : and it is remarkable, that in Denmark,
Sweden, and Norway, fevers are very common ; but
hi Iceland, Lapland, and Finland, there is fcarce ever
inch a difeafe met with } though peripneumonies are
very common in -thefe places, as alfo difeafes of the
eyes and violent pains of the head. The Ruffians and
Tartars are afflidfed with ulcers, made by the cold, of
the nature of wfflat we call chilblains, but greatly worfe ;
and in Poland and Lithuania there reigns a peculiar
difeafe called the plua polonica, fo terribly painful and
offenfive, that fcarce any thing can be thought of
worfe. The people of Hungary are very fubjeft to
the gout and rheumatifm : they are more infefted alfo
with lice and fleas than any other people in the rvorld,
and they have a peculiar difeafe which they call cremor.
The Germans, in different parts of the empire, are
fubjeft to different reigning difeafes. In Weflpbalia,
they .are peculiarly troubled with peripneumonies and
the itch. In Silefia, Franconia, Auflria, and other
places thereabout, they are very liable to fevers of the
burning kind, to bleedings at the nofe, and other hie-
raorrhages ; and to the gout, inflammations, and con¬
fumptions. In Mifnia they have purple fevers j and
the children are peculiarly infefted with worms. In
Greece, Pvlacedonia, and I brace, there are very few
dueafes; but what they have are principally burning
fevers and frenzies. At Conftantinople the plague
always rages •, and in the Weft Indian ifiands, malig¬
nant fevers, and the moft terrible colics. Thefe dif¬
eafes are called endemic.
IdisRASRs of Horfes. See Farriery.
-Dj&sases of Dogs. See Dogs.
[ 259 1
D i s
Diseases of Plants. See Agriculture Difeafesof
DISEMBOGUE. When a ihip paffes out of the Plants
mouth of fume great gulf or bay, they call it difem- n-f 11 .
boguing. They fay alfo of a river,'that at fuch a place, ‘‘"l ■
or after it has run fo many leagues, it difembogues it-
felf into the fea.
DISFRANCHIZING, umong civilians, fignifies
the depriving a perfon of the rights and privileges of a
free citizen or fubje£L
DISGUISE, a counterfeit*habit. Perfons doing
unlawful afts in difguife are by our ftatutes fometimes
fubjefted to great penalties, and even declared felons.
Thus, by an aft commonly called the black aEl, per¬
fons appearing difguifed and armed in a foreft or
grounds enclofed, or hunting deer, or robbing a war¬
ren or a fifti-pond, are declared felons.
DISH, in mining, is a trough made of wood, about
28 inches long, four inches deep, and fixjnches wide \
by which all miners meafure their ore. If any be ta¬
ken felling their ore, not firft meafuring it by the bar-
mafter’s difh, and paying the king’s duty, the feller
forfeits his ore, and the buyer forfeits for every fuch
offence ^.os. to the lord of the field or farmer.
DISJUNCTIVE, fomething that feparates or dif-
joms. Thus, or, neither, &c. which in connefting a
difeourfe, yet feparate the parts of it, are called dif-
junfflve cotjuntlions.
DISK. See Disc.
DISLOCA7 ION, the putting a bone out of joint
by fome violence, ufually called by the phyficians luxa¬
tion.
DISMISSION of a Bill, in Chancery. If the plain-
tiff does not attend on the day fixed for the hearing,
his bill is difmiffed with cofts. It may be'alfo difmifs-
ed for .want of profecution, which is in the nature of a
non fuit at law, if he fuffers three terms to elapfe with¬
out moving forward in the caufe.
DISMOUNTING, in the military art, the aft of
unhorfing. Thus, to difmount the cavalry, the dra¬
goons, or the like, is to make them alight. To dif¬
mount the cannon, is to break their carriages, wheels,
and axletiees, fo as render them unfit for fervice.
Horfes are alfo difmounted when they are rendered un¬
fit for fervice.
DISPARAGEMENT, in Law, is ufed for the
matching an heir, &c. in marriage, below his or her de¬
gree or condition, or againft the rules of decency. The
word is a compound of the privative particle dis, and
por, “equal.”
DISPART, in Gunnery, is the fetting a mark upon
the muzzle ring, or thereabouts, of a piece of ordnance,
fo that a fight line taken upon the top of the bafe rin^
againft the touch-hole, by the mark let on or near the
muzzle, may be parallel to the axis of the concave cy¬
linder, The common way of doing this, is to take the
two diameters of the bafe ring, and of the place where
the diipart is to (land, and divide the difference be¬
tween them into two equal parts, one of which will be
the length of the difpart which is fet on the gun with
wax or pitch, or faftened there with a piece of twine
or marlin. By means of an inftrument .it may be done
with all poffible nicety.
DISPATCH, a letter on fome affair of ftate, or
other bufinefs of importance, fent with care and expe¬
dition, by a courier exprefs. The bufinefs of dif.
-K k 2 patches
D I S
[ 260 ]
D I S
nifpanper patches lies on the fecretaries of Hate and their clerks.
11 The king gives dire&ions to his minifters abroad y
Difperfion jifpatches. The word is alfo ufed for the packet or
of Mankind. ^ containlng fucll letters. The French during the
“ reign of Louis XIV. had a confeil des depeches, coun¬
cil of difpatches,” held in the king’s prefence, at which
the dauphin, the duke of Orleans, the chancellor, and
four fecretaries of ftate, affifted. .
DISPAUPER. Aperfon fuiting in forma pauperis,
is faid to be difpaupered, if, before the fmt is ei)de »
he has any lands or other eftate fallen to him, or it he
has any thing to make him lofe his privilege. See the
article Formj Pauperis.
DISPENSARY, or Dispensatory, denotes a
book containing the method of preparing the var'olJ.s
kinds of medicines ufed in pharmacy. Such are thofe
of Bauderon, Quercetan, Zwelfer, Charas, Bates, 1 e-
fue, Salmon, Lemery, Quincy, &c‘ ^ pu"
moft efteemed, befide the London and Edinburgh Phar¬
macopoeias, is the Edinburgh New Difpenfatory, being
an improvement upon that of Dr Lewis s.
Dispensary, or Difpenfatory, is likewife a maga¬
zine or office for felling medicines at pnme coft to the
poor. The College of Phyficians maintain three ot
Ihefe in London-, one at the college itfel in Warw.ck-
lane j another in St Peter’s alley, Cornh.l ; and a third
in St Martin’s lane. Difpenfanes have alfo been efta-
bliffied in feveral of the principal towns in Scotland
and England j particularly in Edinburgh, Dundee,
and Kelfo as alfo at Newcaftle upon I yne.
DISPENSATION, in Law, the granting a licenle
of doing feme certain aaion that otherwife is not per-
m DISPERSION, in general, fignffies the fcattenng
or diffipating femething. Hence
Dispersion, in Optics, the fame with the divergen¬
cy of the rays of light. . . . f
J Point of Dispersion, in Dioptrics, the point from
which refradled rays begin to diverge, where their re¬
fraction renders them divergent. , , „
of Inflammation, in Malum' ^i Sur-
(try, is the removing the inflammation, and retloring
the inflamed part to its natural ftate. ' . ,
Dispersion of Mankind, in the hiftory of the world,
was occafioned by the confufion of tongues, and took
place in confequence of the overthrow of Babel at the
birth of Peleg 5 whence he derived his name . and
appears by the account given of Ins anceftors, Gen.
chap. xi. fo—16. to have happened m the 101ft year
after the flood according to the Hebrew chronology,
and by the Samaritan computation m the 401ft. H -
ever, various difficulties have been feggefted by chro-
nologers concerning the true era of this event S r
John Marfham and others, in order to reconcile t
Hebrew and Egyptian chronologies ™,n^m *
perfion of mankind before the birth of Peleg. Others
unable to find numbers fufficient for the plantation of
colonies in the fpace of 101 years, according to the
Hebrew computation, fix the difperfion towards the
end of Peleg’s life, thus following the computation of
the Jews. Petavius affigns the 153d year after the
flood-, Cumberland the 180th-, and Ufher though he
generally refers it to the time of Peleg s birth, m one
place affigns the 131ft afor flood for tblS eVent'
sj I   
Mr Shuckford feppofes the difperfion to hJVC b^ofMankinl
gradual, and to have commenced with the feparation
of feme companies at the birth of Peleg, and to have
been completed 31 years after. According to the cal¬
culation of Petavius, the number of inhabitants on the
earth at the birth of Peleg amounted to 32,768: Cum¬
berland makes them 30,000-, Mr Mede ftates them at
7000 men, befides women and children: and Mr Whif-
ton, who fuppofes that mankind now double them-
felves in 400 years, and that they doubled themfelves
between the deluge and the time of David m 60 years
at a medium, when their lives were fix or feven times
as long as they have been fince, by his computation
produces about 2389 -, a number much too inconfider-
able for the purpofes of feparating and feyming diftintt
nations. This difficulty induced Mr Whifton to rejeft
the Hebrew and to adopt the Samaritan chronology,
as many others have done; which, by allowing an in¬
terval of 401 years between the flood and the birth of
Peleg, furniffies, by the laft-mentioned mode of com¬
putation, more than 240,000 perfons. A .
F As to the manner of the difperfion of the poftenty
of Noah from the plain of Shinar, it was undoubtedly
condufted with the utmoft regularity and orde.r* * V®
facred hiftorian informs us, that they were divided in
their lands; every one according to his tongue, ac¬
cording to his family, and according to his nation,
Gen x. c, 20, 31.; and thus, as Mr Mede obferves,
they were ranged according to their nations, and every
nation was ranged by their families; fe that each na
tion had a feparate lot, and each family in every na¬
tion The following abftraft will ferve to give a ge¬
neral idea of their refpeftive fettlements : Japhet
Noah’s eldeft fen, had feven fens; viz. ^omer’.’t!h°li®
defcendants inhabited thole parts of Afia which lie
upon the TEgean fea and Hellefpont northward, con-
taming Phrygia, Pontus, Bithyma, and a great part
of Gratia.’gThe Galatians, according to Jofephus,
were called Comercei; and the Cimmeru, according to
Herodotus, occupied this traft of country , an rom
thefe Gomerians, Cimmerii, or Celts, Mr Camden de¬
rives our ancient Britons, who ftiH retain the name
Cvmro or Cymru. Magog, the fecond fen of Japhet
wis probably the father of the Scythians on the eaft
and north-eaft of the Euxine fea. Madai_ planted
Media, though Mr Mede affigns Macedonia to his
ftiare Javan was the father of the Grecians about.
Ionia, wffiofe country lies along upon the Bdedlterr^*
nean fea; the radicals of Javan and Ionia being the
fame dv. To Tubal and Meffiech belonged Cappadocia
and the country which lies on the borders of the Eux¬
ine fea; and from them, migrating over Caucafus,
it is fuppofed the Ruffians and Mufeovites are de-
feendedf1 And Tiras occupied Thrace. The fens of
Shem were five: Elam, whofe country lay between
the Medes and WaSrau l^E a-
Gentile writers Eiymats ; and Jofephus calls the E a
mites the founders of the Perfians : Afliur who was
driven out of Shinar by Nimrod, afterwards fettled in
Aflyria, and there built Nineveh, and other cities
Arnhaxad who gave name to the country which Pto¬
lemy calls'Arraphacitis, a province of Affyria, thoug
Jofephus makes him the father of the Chaldees Lod
who inhabited and gave name to the country of Lydia
D I S [ 261 ] D I S
Difperlion about tbe river Maeander, remarkable for its windings,
ot Mankind jn ^fia Minor: and Aram, the father of the Syrians.
Difpondee. Ham’ tlie youngeft fon of Noah, had four fons ; viz.
. Cufh, whofe pofterity fpread into the feveral parts of A-
rabia over the borders of the land of Edom, into Arabia
Felix, up to Midian and Egypt-, Mizraim, the father
of them who inhabited Egypt and other parts of A-
frici Phut, to whom Bochart affigns the remaining
part of Africa, from the lake of I'ritonides to the At¬
lantic ocean, called Libya : and Canaan, to whom be¬
longed the land of Canaan, whence the Phenicians de¬
rived their origin.
Dr Bryant has advanced a new hypothefis on this
fubjedt, and fupported it with his ufual acutenefs and
learning. He maintains, that the difperfion as well
as the confufion of tongues was local, and limited to
the inhabitants of the province of Babel; that the fe-
paration and diftribution recorded to have taken place
in the days of Pcleg, Gen. x. 25, 31, 32, which was the
refult of divine appointment, occafioned a general mi¬
gration ; and that all the families among the fons of men
were concerned in it. The houfe of Shem, from which
the Mefliah was to fpring, was particularly regarded in
this diftribution : the portion of his children was near
the place of feparation ; they in general had Afia to
their lot $ as Japhet had Europe, and Ham the large
continent of Africa. But the ions of Chus would not
fubmit to the divine difpenfation : they went off under
the conduit of Nimrod, and feem to have been for a
long time in a roving ftate. However, at laft they ar¬
rived at the plains of Shinar-, and having ejedted Alhur
and his fons, who were placed there by divine appoint¬
ment, feized his dominions, and laid there the foun¬
dation of a great monarchy. But afterwards fearing
left they ihould be divided and fcattered abroad, they
built the tower of Babel as a land-mark to which they
might repair ; and probably to anfwer the purpofes of
an idolatrous temple, or high altar, dedicated to the
hoft of heaven, from which they were never long to
be abient. They only, viz. the fons of Chus or the
Cuthites, and their affociates from other families, who
had been guilty of rebellion againft divine authority,
and of wicked ambition and tyranny, were puniftied
with the judgment of confounded fpeech through a
failure in labial utterance, and of the difperfion record-
* ed in Gen. x. 8, 9. : in confequence of which they
were fcattered abroad from this city and tower, with¬
out any certain place of deftination. The Cuthites
invaded Egypt or the land of Mizraim in its infant
ttate, feized the whole country, and held it for fome
ages in fubje&ion 5 and they extended likewife to the
Indies and Ganges, and ftill farther into China and
Japan. From them the province of Cuftiam or Goftien
in Egypt derived its name. Here they obtained the
appellation of roya/fhepherds; and when they were by
force driven out of the country, after having been in pof-
feflion of it for 260 or 280 years, the land which they
had been obliged to rput was given to the Ifraelites,
who were alfo denominated JJjepherds, but ftiould not
be confounded with the former or the antecedent inha¬
bitants of Goftien.
DISPLAYED, in Heraldry, is underftood of the
pofition of an eagle, or any other bird, when it is ere<ft,
with its wings expanded or fpread forth.
DISPONDEE, in the Greek and Latin poetry, a
double fpondee or foot, confifting of four long fylla- Difpofition
bles as maecenates, concludentes. H
DISPOSITION, in Scots Law, is that deed or wri-
ting which contains the fcale or grant of any fubjeft :
when applied to heritable fubjects, it in fome cafes gets
the name of charter, which differs from a difpofition in
nothing elfe than a few immaterial forms.
Disfosition, in ArchiteBure, the juft placing the
feveral parts of an edifice according to their nature and
office. See Architecture, N°3l, &c.
Disposition, in Oratory. See Oratory, Part I.
Disposition, in Paintmg. See Painting.
1-)isposition, in human nature.—In every man there
is fomething original, that ferves to diftinguiffi him
from others, that tends to form a charadler, and to
make him meek or fiery, candid or deceitful, refolute
or timorous, cheerful or morofe. This original bent,
termed difpofititn, muft be diftinguiffied from a principle:
the latter, fignifying a law of human nature, makes
part of the common nature of man ; the former makes
part of the nature of this or that man. Propenfity is
a name common to both j for it fignifies a principle as
well as a difpofition.
DISQUISII ION (from dis, and quccro, (l I in¬
quire”), an inquiry into the nature, kinds, and cir-
cumftances of any problem, quertion, or topic ; in or¬
der to gain a right notion of it, and to difeourfe clearly
about it.
DISSECTION, in Anatomy, the cutting up a
body with a view of examining the ftrudlure and ufe
of the parts. See Anatomy.
Le Gendre obferves, that the diffe&ion of a human
body, even dead, was held a factilege till the time of
Francis I. A.nd the fame author affures us, he has feen
a confultation held by the divines of Salamanca, at the
requeft of Charles V. to fettle the queftion whether or
no it were lawful in point of confcience to difleft a hu¬
man body in order to learn the ftru&ure thereof.
DISSEISIN, in Law, an unlawful difpoffeffing a
perfon of his lands or tenements.
DISSEPIMENTUM, in Botany, the name by
which Linnaeus denominates the partitions which in
dry feed-veffels, as capfules and pods (Jiliqud), divide
the fruit internally into cells.
DISSENTERS, feparatifts from the fervice and
worlhip of any eftabliftred church.
DISSIDENTS, a denomination applied in Poland
to thofe of the Lutheran, Calviniftic, and Greek pro-
feflion. I he king of Poland engages by the pada
conyenta to tolerate them in the free exercife of their
religion,, but they have often had reafon to complain
of the violation of thefe promifes. See {Hijlory of')
Poland.
DISSIMILITUDE, unlikenefs or want of fimili-
tude. - See the article Resemblance and DiJJimilitude.
.DISSIMULATION, in morals, the ail of diffem-
bling, by fallacious appearances, or falfe pretenfions.
Good princes regard diffimulation as a neceffary
vice ; but tyrants confider it as a virtue.
It is apparent that fecrecy is often neceffary, to
oppofe thofe who may be willing to circumvent our
lawful intentions. But the neceffity of precaution
would become very rare, were no enterprifes to be
formed, but fuch as could be avowed openly. The
franknefs with which wTe could then a<51, would
engage
Bulipatioti
tl _
THiTolution.
D I S [ 262 ]
engage people in our interests. Marftial Biron would
have faved his life, by dealing ingenuoully with Hen¬
ry IV.
With refpeft to diflimulation, three things are to be
obferved : 1. That the charadters of thofe are not to
be adeemed, who are referved and cautious without
diilindlion. 2. Not to make (ecrets of unimportant
matters. 3* To conduft ourfelves in fuch manner, as
to have as few fecrets as poflible.
DISSIPATION, in Phyfics, an infenfible lofs or
confumptioti of the minute parts of the body ; or that
flux whereby they fly off, and. are loft.
Circle of Dissipation, in Optics, is ufed for that
circular fpace upon the retina, which is taken up by
one of the extreme pencils of rays iffuing from an
DISSOLVENT, in general, whatever diffolves or
reduces a folid body into luch minute parts as to be lut-
feained in a fluid.
Univerfal Dissolvent. See the article Alkahest.
DISSOLUTION, in Phyfws: a difcontinuation, or
analyfis, of the ftrudlure of a mixed body-, whereby,
what was one, and contiguous, is divided into little
parts, either homogenous or heterogeneous.
Diffolution, then, is a general name for all redudhons
ef concrete bodies into their fmalleft parts, without any
regard either to folidity or fluidity : though in the ufual
acceptation of the word among authors, it is reftrained
to the redudtion of folid bodies into a ftate of fluidity ;
which is more properly expreffed by folution, as a branch
of diffolution.
According to the opinion of Fr. Tertius de Lams,
Boerhaave, and fome other learned men, the power or
faculty of diffolving is lodged in fire alone.
According to this hypothefis, other fluids common¬
ly fuppofed diffolvents, only produce their effedt by
means of the fiery fpicula they abound with : and even
air, which is judged a powerful menftruum, owes all its
force to the rays of light diftufed therein.
Sir Ifaac Newton accounts for all diffolutions, and
the feveral phenomena thereof, from the great prin¬
ciple of attradlion \ and, in effedl, the phenomena of
diffolution furniftr a great part of the arguments and
confiderations whereby he proves the reality of that
principle. The following is a fpecimen of that great
author’s way of philofophizing on the fubjedl of diffo- .
lution. .
When fait of tartar diffolves by lying in a moitt
place, is not this done by an attraftion between the
particles of the fait of tartar and thofe of the water
which float in the air in form of vapours ? and why
does not common fait, or faltpetre, or vitriol, do the
like, but for wrant of fuch an attradlion ? And when
aquafortis, or fpirit of vitriol, poured on fteel filings,
diffolves the filings with a great heat and ebullition ;
is not this heat and ebullition effefted by a violent mo¬
tion of the parts? and does not that motion argue, that
the acid parts of the liquor rufti towards the parts of
the metal with violence, and run forcibly into its pores;
till, getting between the utmoft particles and the main
ma’fs of metal, they loofen them therefrom, and fet them
at liberty to float off into the w-ater ? When a (olution
of iron in aquafortis diffolves lapis calaminaris, and lets
go the iron ; or a folution of copper diffolves iron im-
merfcd in it, and lets go the copper ; or a folution of
2
D I S
mercury in aquafortis poured on iron, copper, tin, or DhTolntion*
lead, diffolves the metal, and lets go the mercury ; ''“■'""v ’
does not this argue, that the acid particles of the aqua¬
fortis are attracted more ftrongly by the lapis calami¬
naris than by iron ; by iron than by copper ; by cop¬
per than by filver ; and by iron, tin, copper, and lead,
than by mercury ? And is it not for the fame reafon,
that iron requires more aquafortis to diffblve it tnan
copper, and copper more than the other metals ; and
that of all metals iron is diffolved moft eafily, and is
moft apt to ruft ; and next after iron, copper ? When
aquafortis difiblves filver, and not gold ; and aqua-
regia diffolves gold, and not filver ; may it not be laid,
that aquafortis is fubtile enough to penetrate the pores
of gold as well as of filver, but wants the attradlive
force to give it entrance -, and the fame of aqua regia
and filver ? And wTen metals are diffolved in acid men-
ftruums, and the acids in conjunction with the metal
aft after a different manner, fo as that the tafte of the
compound is milder than that of the fimples, and fome-
times a Iweet one; is it not becaufe the acids adhere to
the metallic particles, and thereby lofe much of their
aftivity ? And if the acid be in too fmall a proportion
to make the compound diffoluble in water ; will it not,
by adhering ftrongly to the metal, become inaftive, and
lofe its tafte, and the compound become a taftelefs
earth ? for fuch things as are not diffoluble by the moif-
ture of the tongue are infipid.” .
Dr Treind gives us a mechanical account of diffolu¬
tion, in the inftance of fait diffolved in water, which is
the moft fimple operation that falls under this head.
This motion he afcribes to that attraftive force, which
is fo very extenfive in natural philolophy, that there is
no kind of matter but what is under its influence. It
may be obferved, fays he, that the corpufcles of falls,
which are the moft fimple of any, are withal very mi¬
nute, and for their bulk very folid ; _ and therefore
exert a very ftrong attraftive force, which, ccettns pa¬
ribus, is proportional to the quantity of matter. Hence
it comes to pafs, that the particles of water are more
ftronglv attrafted by the faline particles than they are
by one another : the particles of water, therefore,
cohering but loofely, and being eafily moveable, ap¬
proach the corpufcles of falts, and run, as it were, in¬
to their embraces: and the motion of them is quicker
or flower, according to their lefs or greater diftances ;
the attraftive force in all bodies being ftrongeft at the
point of contaft. Therefore, if fait be thrown into
the middle of a dilh full of water, we lhall find the
aqueous particles which are in the middle of the diflr
(harp and pungent to the tafte, but the wTater upon
thefides of the veffel almoft infipid; fo that, when fuch
a motion once arifes, the aqueous particles are carried
with an equal force towards the falts, and the moment
of them is to be eftimated from the ratio of their
weight and celerity conjunftly. By the force of this
impulfe, they open to themfelves a paffage into the
pores of the falts, which are wry numerous; and at
length fo break and divide their texture, that all co-
hefion of their parts is deftroyed : hereupon, being fe-
parated, and removed to a convenient diftance from one
another, they are difperfed, and float here and there
about the water.
The fimple diffolution of faline fubftances of every
kind in water, may indeed be plaufibly enough ex¬
plained
D I S [ 263 ] D I S
DifTolution. plained on the hypothecs of attraftion ; but where the
"V—diflblution is attended with heat, the emitfion of va¬
pour, &c. it feems neceffary to feek for iome other
principle than mere attraction to folve thefe phenome¬
na. When diluted oil of vitriol, for inftance, is pour¬
ed upon iron filings, a great quantity of vapour arifes,
which, if it was attempted to be confined, would cer¬
tainly break the containing veflel. It is impoffible to
imagine any connexion between attraction and the emif-
Iron of a vapour; and what is dill more unaccount¬
able, this vapour is inflammable, though neither the
oil of vitriol nor the iron are fo by themfelves. Ano¬
ther very ftrong objection againft the hypothefis of at¬
traction may be derived from the phenomena of me¬
tallic diflblutions in general ; for they do not dilTolve
completely in acids, as falls do in water. By dillblu-
tion they are always decompofed, and cannot be reco¬
vered in their proper form without a good deal of
trouble. One metal, indeed, will very often preci¬
pitate another from an acid in its metalline form ; but
this is attended with the decompofition of the fecond
metal ; fo that this can by no means be reckoned a
fair experiment. But, whatever other method is ufed,
the diffolved metal is always recovered in form of an
earthy powder, that we could fcarcely imagine capable
of ever becoming malleable, and affuming the fplendid
appearance of a metal. Now, if there was a ftrong
attraction between this and the acid, we might very
*, conjeCfure, that the difiblution happened by
means of that attraction ; but fo far from this, after a
metal has been diftblved by any acid, and the calx has
been feparated from it, it is always difficult, and very
often impoffible, to procure a diffolution of the calx
in the fame acid. The aCtion of the acid in this cafe
feems not unlike that of fire upon wood or any other
inflammable fubftance. Dry wood, thrown into the
fire, burns and flames with great violence ; but the
fame wood, reduced to affies, inflead of burning, extin-
guiffies fire already kindled. In like manner, a piece
of clear metal thrown into an acid, dilfolves with great
violence : but the fame nwtal, deprived of its phlo-
giftic principle, and reduced to a calx, cannot be aCted
upon by acids, in whatever manner they are applied :
at leaft, not without the greateft difficulty ; and the
more perfeft the calx is, i. e. the more completely
it is deprived of its inflammable principle, the greater
the difficulty is of combining it afterwards with an
acid.
Another thing in which the diffolution of metals by
an acid refembles the burning of combuftibles by fire,
is, that in both cafes there is a feparation of the prin¬
ciple of inflammability. In the cafe of oil of vitriol
and iron filings, this is exceedingly obvious ; for there
the vapour which arifes from the mixture takes fire,
and explodes with great vehemence. In all other cafes,
it is very eafity proved ; for the calx is always capable
of being revived into metal by the addition of any
fubftance containing phlogifton. The calces prepared
by fire, and by precipitation from acids, alfo referable
one another fo much, that in many cafes they are DifTonanee
fcarce to be diftinguilhed. DHtention
Thefe confiderations feem to favour the hypothefis > ^
of Dr Boerhaave ; and much more does the following,
namely, that almoft all metallic folutions produce fome
degree of fenfible heat. In fome metals this is very
confiderable; but the greateft heat producible by an
aqueous folution of any fubftance is by diflolving quick¬
lime in the nitrous acid. The heat here greatly ex¬
ceeds that of boiling water. In fome diflblutions of
inflammable matters by a mixture of the vitriolic and
nitrous acids, the heat is fo great, that the whole mix¬
ture takes fire almoft inrtantaneoufly- Hence the Boer-
haavians think they have fufficient grounds to conclude,
that fire alone is the agent by which all diflblutions are
performed.
Thefe appearances have alfo been explained on the
principles of attraction ; and it has been faid, that the
heat, &c. were owing to nothing but the violent aCHon
of the particles of the acid and metal upon each o-
ther (a).
DISSONANCE, in Mujic. See Discord.
DISSYLLABLE, among grammarians, a word
confifting only of two fyllables : fuch are nature, fcience,
&c.
DISTAFF, an inftrument about which flax is tied
in order to be fpun.
DISTANCE, in general, an interval between two
things, either with regard to time or place. See Me¬
taphysics.
ytccejjibh Distances, in Geometry, are fuch as may
be mealured by the chain. See Geometry.
InacceJJible Distances, are fuch as cannot be mea-
fured by the chain, &.c. by reafon of fome river, or the
like, &c. which obftru£Is our paffing from one obje£h
to another. See Geometry.
Distance, in AJlronomy. The diftance of the fun,
planets, and comets, is found only from their parallax,
as it cannot be found either by eclipfes or their differ¬
ent phafes : for from the theory of the motions of the
earth and planets we know', at any time, the propor¬
tion of the diftances of the fun and planets from us j
and the horizontal parallaxes are in a reciprocal pro¬
portion to thefe diftances. See Astronomy.
DISTAS I E properly fignifies an averfion or dif-
like to certain foods; and may be either conftitutional,
or owung to fome diforder of the ftomach.
DISTEMPER, among Pbyjicians, the fame with
Disease.
Distemper, in Paintbig, a term ufed for the work¬
ing up of colours with fomething befides writer or oil.
If the colours are prepared with water, that kind of
painting is called limning ; and if with oil, it is called
painting in oil, and Amply painting. If the colours are
mixed with fize, whites of eggs, or any fuch proper
glutinous or unfluous matter, and not with oil, then
they fay it is done in dijlemper.
DISTENSION, in general, fignifies the ftretching
or extending a thing to its full length or breadth.
DISTICH,
(a) We have retained thefe obfervations, as an inftance of the fpeculations and opinions concerning thefe fub-
je<5Is before the difeovery of the prefent theory of Chemiftry with regard to the oxidation of metals and the de¬
compofition of water.
Diftich
D I S [ 264 1
DISTICH, a couplet of verfes making a complete foundation for adopt
D I S
ig fuch theories.
{tillers and
redlifiers.
Spirits per¬
fectly fla-
vourlefs,
how ob •
tained.
11 fenfe. Thus hexameter and pentameter verfes are
Diftillation di<-po{ed jn diftichs. There are excellent morals in
v Cato’s diftichs.
DISTICHIASIS, in Surgery, a difeafe of the eye¬
lids, when under the ordinary eyelalhes there grows
another extraordinary row of hair, which frequently
eradicates the former, and, pricking the membrane of
the eye, excites pain, and brings on a defluxion. It is
cured by pulling out the fecond row of hairs with nip¬
pers, and cauterizing the pores out of which they
iffued.
DISTILLATION. For the principles of this pro-
cefs, fee Chemistry Index,
The objects of diftillation, confidered as a trade di-
ftinft from the other branches of chemiftry, are chiefly
fpirituous liquors, and thofe waters impregnated with
the effential oil of plants, commonly called/m//* di-
Difference Jhlkd waters. The diftilling compoond [pints and wa-
between di-ters is reckoned a different branch of bufinefs, and they
who deal in that way are commonly called reftifiers.
This difference, however, though it exifts among com¬
mercial people, is not at all founded in the nature of
the thing *, compound fpirits being made, and fimple
fpirits being re&ified, by the very fame operations by
which they are at firft diftilled, or with at leaft very
trifling operations.
The great objeft with every diftiller ought to be, to
procure a fpirit perfe&ly flavourlefs, or at leaf! as well
freed from any particular flavour as may be ^ and in
this country the procuring of fuch a fpirit is no eafy
matter. The only materials for diftillation that have
been ufed in large quantity, are malt and molaffes or
treacle. Both of thefe, efpecially the firft, abound with
an oily matter, which, rifing along with the (pint, com¬
municates a difagreeable flavour to it, and from which
it can fcarce be freed afterwards by any means what¬
ever. Some experiments have been made upon carrots,
as a fubjeft for the diftillers; but thefe are not as yet
Sufficiently decifive; nor is it probable, that a fpirit
drawn from carrots would be at all devoid of flavour,
more than one drawn from malt.— To diflipate the ef¬
fential oil which gives the difagreeable flavour to malt
Spirits, it has been propofed to infpifiate the wort into
a rob, or thin extraft like a fyrup *, afterw’ards to thin
it with water, and ferment it in the ufual manner. This
certainly promifes great luccefs •, there is no fubjeft wre
know of that is poffeffed of any kind of effential oil, but
•what will pait with it by diftillation or by long boil¬
ing. The infpiflating of the wort, however, does not
feem to be either neceffary or fafe to be attempted ;
for, in this cafe, there is great danger of its contrafting
an empyreuma, which could never be remedied. The
quantity left by evaporation, therefore, might be occa¬
sionally added, with an equal certainty of diflipating
the obnoxious oil. Whether the yield of fpirit would
be as great in this cafe as in the other, is a queftion
that can bv no means be difeuffed wnthout further^ ex-
3 periments. According to a theory adopted by fome
Effential diftiller<; namely, that effential oils are convertible into
ardent fpirits; and that the more oily any fubjea is,
ISvMtibl. the greater quantity of fpmt is obtainable f.om it; the
intofpint. praftice of diffipating the oil before rermentation mult
certainly be a lofs. But we are too little acquainted
with the compofition of vinous Spirits, to have any juft
1 ‘ I
Befides, it is Diffillation.
certain, that the quantity of ardent fpirit producible v ’
from any fubftance, malt for inftance, very greatly ex¬
ceeds the quantity of effential oil which can by any
means be obtained from the fame •, nor do we find that
thofe fubftances, which abound moft in effential oil,
yield the greateft quantity of fpirits. So far from this,
fine fugar, which contains little or no effential oil,
yields a great deal of ardent fpirit. 4
Previous to the operation of diftilling, thofe of Directions
brewing and fermentation are neceffary 5 but as trefe ^rrinenta<f’
are fully treated of under the article Brewing, we ffiad,ion<
here only obferve, that unlefs the boiling ot the wort,
before fermentation, is found to diffipate the effential
oil, fo as to take away the flavour of the malt, there is
no neceflity for being at the trouble of that operation.
The wort may be immediately cooled and fermented,
 The fermentation ought always to be carried on as
flowly as poflible, and performed in veffels clofely flop¬
ped •, only having at the bung a valve preffed down by
a fpring, wThich will yield with lefs force than is Suffi¬
cient to burft the veffel. It ftrould even be fuftered to
remain till it has become perfeftly fine and tranfparent $
as by this means the fpirit will not only be Superior in
quantity, but alfo in fragrance, pungency, and vinofity,
to that commonly produced. # s,n.-n
With regard to performing the operation of diftilling,For dilUlIa-
there is only one general rule that can be given, name-t
ly, to let the heat, in all cafes, be as gentle as poffible.
Accidents will be effeftually prevented by having the
worm of a proper widenefs, and by reftifying tne fpi¬
rits in a water bath 5 which, if fufliciently large, will
perform the operation with all the defpatch requifite
for the moft extenfive bufinefs. The veffel in which
the reftification is performed, ought to be coyeied with
water up to the neck, and to be loaded with lead at
the bottom, fo that it may fink in the water. Thus
the operation will go on as quickly as if it was on an
open fire, and without the leaft danger of a mifearriage,
nor will it ever be neceffary to make the water in the
bath come to a boiling heat. 6
As the end of reftification is to make the Spirit For reitifi-
as well as Jlrong, or to deprive it of the effential oil ascatlon*
well as the aqueous part, it will be_ proper to have re¬
gard to this event in the firft diftillation. For this pur-
pofe, the fpirit, as it firft comes over, fhould be re¬
ceived into a quantity of cold water *, as by this means
the connexibn betwixt it and the oily matter will be
confiderably leffened. For the fame reafon, aftei it
has been once reftified in the water bath, it Ihoula be
again mixed with an equal quantity of water, and di¬
ftilled a fecond time. Thus the fpirit will be freed iiom
moft of the oily matter, even though it hath been veiy
much impregnated wTith it at firft. It is neceffaiy to
obferve, however, that by ufing fuch a quantity of wai¬
ter, a considerable part of the water will be left in the
refiduum of each reftification. All thefe refiduums,
therefore, muft be mixed together, and diftiiled on an
open fire, with a brifk heat, that the remainder of the
fpirit may be got out.
After the fpirit has been diftilled once or twice in
this manner from water, it may be diftilled in a water
bath without any addition ; and this laft reftification
will free it from moft of the water it contains. But it
it is required to be highly dephlegmated, a quantity ot
1 pure
\
7
Ol imita¬
ting foreign
fpirits.
D I S [ *65
Dirtilladon. pure and dry fait of tartar rauft be added. The at-
traftion betwixt this fait and water is greater than that
betwixt water and fpirit of wine. The fait therefore
imbibes the water contained in the fpirit, and finks
with it to the bottom. The fpirit, by a fingle diftil-
lation, may then be rendered perfeddly free from water ;
but there is great danger of fome of the alkaline fait
fifing along with it, and impregnating it with what is
called an urinous flavour. When this once happens, it is
impofiible to be remedied *, and the oidy way to pi event
it is, to make the heat with which the fpirit is diililled
as gentle as poflible. It hath been propofed, indeed,
to prevent the riling of any thing alkaline, by the ad¬
mixture of fome calcined vitriol, fid catharticus amarus,
or other imperfeft neutral fait ; but this can fcarce be
fuppofed to anfwer any good purpofe, as the alkali
unites itfelf with the oily matter of the fpirit, and
foims a kind of faponaceous compound, w'hich is not
fo eafily affefted by the acid of the vitriol or other fait,
cfpecially as thefe falts will not dilTolve in the fpirit
itfelf.
One very great defideratum among the diftillers of
this country is, a method of imitating the foreign fpi-
rits, brandy, rum, gin, &c. to a toleiable degree of
perfeftion ; and notwbthftanding the many attempts
that are daily made for this purpofe, the fuccefs in ge¬
neral hath been but very indifferent. On this fubjeft,
Mr Cooper has the following obfervations, in his
Complete Syltem of Ditlillation : which, as they are
applicable to all other fpirits as well as brandy, we
ihall here tranfcribe.—“ The general method of cliftil-
ling brandies in France need not be formally defcribed,
as it differs in nothing from that praftifed here in
working from malt wafti or molaffes ; nor are they in
the leaft more cleanly or exaft in the operation. Thev
only obferve more particularly to throw in a little of
the natural ley into the ffill along with the wine, as
finding this gives their fpirit thrflavour for which it is
generally admired abroad.—But, though brandy is ex¬
tracted from wine, experience tells us, that there is a
great difference in the grapes from which the wine is
made. Every foil, every climate, every kind of grapes,
varies wdth regard to the quantity and quality of the
fpirits extracted from them. There are fome grapes
which are only fit for eating; others for drying, as
thole of Damafcus, Corinth, Provence, and Avignon,
but not fit to make wine.—Some wines are very pro¬
per for diftillation, and others much lefs fo. * The
wines of Languedoc and Provence afford a great deal
of brandy by diflillation, when the operation is per¬
formed on therp in their full ftrength. The Orleans
wnnes, and thofe of Blois, afford yet more ; but the
bell are thofe of the territories of Cogniac and An-
daye ; which are, however, in the number of thofe the
leal! drunk in France. Whereas thofe of Burgundy
and Champagne, though of a very fine flavour, are im¬
proper, becaufe they yield but very little in diftilla¬
tion.
“ It muft alfo be farther obferved, that all the wines
for diftillation, as thofe of Spain, the Canaries, of Ali-
cant, of Cyprus, of St Peies, of Toquet, of Grave, of
Hungary, and others of the fame kind, yield very little
brandy by diftillation ; and confequently would colt
the oilfiller confiderably more than he could fell it
for. \A hat is drawn front them is indeed very good.
VouVIL Parti. ’
8
Method of
making
brandies in
France.
] D I S
always retaining the faccharine quality and rich flavour D'ftHlation
of the wine from whence it is drawn ; but as it glows
old, this flavour often becomes aromatic, and is not
agreeable to all palates.
“ Hence w7e fee that brandies always differ according
as they are extra&rd from different fpecies of grapes.
Nor would there be fo great a fimilarity as there is be¬
tween the different kinds ot French brandies, were the
ftrongeft wines ufed for this purpofe ; but this is raiely
the cafe ; the weakeft and loweft flavoured wines only
are diftilled for their fpirit, or fuch as prove abfoluteiy
unfit for any other ufe.
“ A large quantity of brandy is diflilled in France
during the time of the vintage ; for all thofe poor
grapes that prove unfit for wine, are ufually firft ga¬
thered, preffed, their juice fermented, and direttly di¬
flilled. This rids their hands of their poor wines at
once, and leaves their calks empty for the reception of
better. It is a general rule with them not to dillil
wine that will fetch any price as wine ; for, in this ftate^
the profits upon them are vaftly greater than when re¬
duced to brandies. This large flock of fmall wines,
W'ith which they are almoft overrun in France, fuffi-
ciently accounts for their making fuch vaft quantities
of brandy in that country, more than in others which
lie in warmer climates, and are much better adapted to
the produftion of grapes.—Nor is this the only fund
of their brandies; for all the wine that turns eager, is
alfo condemned to the ftill; and, in Ihort, all that they
can neither export nor confume at home, w hich amounts
to a large quantity ; fince much of the wine laid in for
their family provifion is fo poor as not to keep during
the time of fpending. ^
“ Hence many of our Englifh fpirits, with proper How bran-
management, are convertible into brandies that Ihall .cly.may be
hardly be diftinguilhed from the foreign in many refpedls. Jl7'.itatcd ia
provided the operation be neatly performed.
“ The common method of reftifying fipirits from
alkaline falts, deftroys their vinofity, and in its ftead
introduces an urinous or lixivious tafte. But as it is
abfolutely neceffary to reftore, or at leaft to fubftitute
in its room, fome degree of vinofity, feveral methods
have been propofed, and a multitude of experiments
performed, in order to difeover this great defideratum.
But none has fucceeded equal to the fpiiit of nitre ;
and accordingly this fpirit, cither ftrong or dulcified,
has been ufed by moft diftillers to give an agreeable-
vinofity to their fpirits. Several difficulties, however,
occur in the method of ufing it; the principal of which
is, its being apt to quit the liquor in a fliort time, and
confequently depriving the liquor of that vinofity it
was intended to give. In order to remove this diffi¬
culty, and prevent the vinofity from quitting the goods,
the dulcified fpirit of nitre, which is much better than
the ftrong fpirit, ftiould be prepared by a previous di-
geftion, continued for fome time, with alcohol ; the
longer the digeftion is continued, the more intimately
will they be blended, and the compound rendered the
milder and fofter.
After a proper digeftion, the dulcified fpirit ffiould
be mixed with the brandy, by which the vinofity will
be intimately blended with the goods, and not difpofed
to fly oft for a very confiderable time.—No general
rule can be given for the quantity of this mineral acid
requilite to be employed ; becaufe different proportions
LI 0f
D 1 S [
Diftillation. of it are neceffary in different fpirits. It fliould, how-
l"' "» ever, be carefully attended to, that though a fmall
quantity of it will undoubtedly give an agreeable vi-
nolity, refembling that naturally found in the fine fub-
tile fpirits drawn from wines, yet an over large dofe
of it will not only caufe a difagreeable flavour, but alfo
render the whole defign abortive, by difcovering the
impofition. Thofe, therefore, who endeavour to coyer
a foul tafte in goods by large dofes of dulcified fpirit
of nitre, will find themfelves deceived.
“ But the belt, and indeed the only method of imi¬
tating French brandies to perfedtion, is by an effential
oil of wine •, this being the very thing that gives the
French brandies their flavour. It muff, however, be
remembered, that, in order to ufe even this ingredient
to advantage, a pure taftelefs fpirit muff firff be pro¬
cured for it is ridiculous to expert that this effential
oil fhould be able to give the agreeable flavour of
French brandies to our fulfome malt fpirit, alxeady
loaded with its own naufeous oil, or ftrongly impreg¬
nated with a iixivious taffe from the alkaline falts uled
in rertihcation. Flow a pure infipid fpirit may be ob¬
tained, has already been confidered j it only, therefore
remains to fhow the method of procuring this effential
oil of wine, which is this :
*« Take fome cakes of dry wine lees, fuch as are
ufed by our hatters-, diffolve them in fix or eight times
their weight of water j diflil the liquor with a flow fire,
and feparate the oil with a feparating glafs} referving
for the niceft ufes only that which comes over firff, the
fucceeding oil being coarfer and more refinous.—Hav¬
ing procured this fine oil of wine, it may .be mixed
into a quinteffence with pure alcohol j by which means
it may be preferved a long time fully poffefled of all its
flavour and virtues} but, without fuch management,
it will foon grow refinous and rancid. .
“ When a fine effential oil of wine is thus procured,
and alfo a pure and infipid fpirit, French brandies may
be imitated to perfertion, with regard to the flavour.
It mu ft, however, be remembered, and carefuLy ad¬
verted to, that the effential oil be drawn from the fame
266 ] D I S
bered, that it is time alone that gives this property toDiftillatioa,
French brandies j they being at firft acrid, foul, and i——v—'
fiery. But, with regard to the colour, a particular
method is required to imitate it to perfertion. IO
“ The art of colouring fpirits owes its rife to obfer-Spirits how
vations on foreign brandies. A piece of French brandy c0*011^
that has acquired by age a great degree of foftnefs and
ripenefs, is obferved at the fame time to have acquired
a yellowifh brown colour ; and hence our diftillers have
endeavoured to imitate this colour in fuch fpirits as are
intended to pals for French brandy. And in order to
this, a great variety of experiments have been made on
different fubftances. But in order to know a dirert and
fure method of imitating this colour to peifertion, it
is neceffary wTe fhould be informed whence the French
brandies themfelves acquire their colour. 1 his difco-
very is very eafily made. The common experiment of
trying whether brandy will turn blackifh with a folu-
tion of iron, fhows that the colour is owing to fome of
the refinous matter of the oak calk diffolved in the fpi«
rit. There can be no difficulty, therefore, in imitating
this colour to perfertion. A fmall quantity of the ex-
trart of oak, or the ffiavings of that wood, properly
digefted, will furnifh us with a tinrture capable of giv¬
ing the fpirit any degree of colour required. But it
muft be remembered, that as the tinrture is extrarted
from the calk by brandy, that is, alcohol and water,
it is neceffary to ufe botn in extracting the tinrture $
for each of thefe diffolves different parts of the. wood.
Let, therefore, a fufficient quantity of oak ffiavings be
digefted in ftrong fpirit of wine, and alfo at the lame
time other oak ffiavings be digefted in water; and when
the liquors hve acquired a ftrong tinrture from the oak,
let both be poured off from the ihavings into different
veffels, and both placed over a gentle fire till reduced
to the confiftence of treacle. In this condition let the
two extrarts be intimately mixed together; which may
be effertually done by adding a fmall quantity of loaf-
fugar, in fine powder, and rubbing the whole well to¬
gether. By this means a liquid effential extraft of oak
will be procured, and always ready to be ufed as occa-
kind of lees as the brandy to be imitated was procured
from j we mean, in order to imitate Cogniac brandy, it
will be neceffary to diftil the effential oil from Cogniac
lees ; and the fame for any other kind of brandy. For,
as different brandies have different flavours,, and as
thefe flavours are entirely owing to the eflential oil of
the grape, it would be prepofterous to. endeavour to
imitate the flavour of Cogniac brandy with an effential
oil procured from the lees of Bourdeaux wine.—When
the flavour of the brandy is well imitated by a. proper
dofe of the effential oil, and the whole reduced into one
Ample and homogeneous fluid, other difficulties are lull
behind : The flavour, though the effential part, is not,
however, the only one j the colour, the proof, and the
foftnefs, muft alfo be regarded, before a fpirit that per-
fertly refembles brandy can be procured. With re¬
gard to the proof it may be eafily hit, by ufing a fpi¬
rit rertified above proof : which, after being intimately
mixed with the effential oil of wine, may be let down
to a proper ftandard with fair water.. And lott-
nefs may, in a great meafure, be obtained by diftilling
and rertifying the fpirit with a gentle fire : and what
is wanting of this criterion in the liquor when hrit
made, will be fupplied by time } for it muft be rememr
fion fhall require. . . . .
“ There are other methods in me ror colouring
brandies; but the beft, befides the extrart of oak a-
bove mentioned, are treacle and burnt fugar. The
treacle gives the fpirit a fine colour, nearly refem¬
bling that of French brandy ; but as its colour is di¬
lute, a large quantity muft be ufed ; this is not, how¬
ever, attended with any bad confequences ; for not-
withftanding the fpirit is really weakened, by this ad¬
dition, yet the bubble proof, the general criterion of
fpirits, is greatly mended by the tenacity imparted to
the liquor by the treacle. The.fpirit alfo acquires from
the mixture a fweetiih or lufcious tafte, and a fulneis
in the mouth ; both which properties render it very a-
preeable to the palates of the common people, who are
in fart the principal confirmers of thefe fpirits. A
much fmaller quantity of burnt fugar than of treacle
will be fufficient for colouring the fame quantity ot Ipi-
the tafte is alfo very different ; for mft.ead ot the
ntS i tut tn.vv. —    -—J ■ .
fweetnefs imparted by the treacle, the fpirit acquires
from the burnt fugar an agreeable bitternefs, and by
that means recommends itielf to nicer palates, which
are offended with a lufcious fpirit. The burnt fugar
is prepared by diffolving a proper quantity of fugar m
D I S
©iftillation
it
Rum, how
imitated.
12
Raifins the
beft mate¬
rial for pro¬
curing pyjfe
/pint.
.a little water, and fcorching it over the fire till it ac
quires a black colour. Either treacle or burnt fugar
will nearly imitate the genuine colour of old French
brandy ; but neither of them will fucceed when put to
the tell of the vitriolic folution.
“ The Ipirit diftilled from molaffes or treacle is very
clean or pure. It is made from common treacle dif-
folved in water, and fermented in the fame manner as
the wafh for the common malt fpirit. But if fome par¬
ticular art is not ufed in diftilling this fpirit, it will not
prove fo vinous as malt fpirit, but more flat and lefs
pungent and acid, though otherwife much cleaner
tailed, as its effential oil is of a much lefs offenfive fla¬
vour. Therefore, if good frefh wine lees, abounding
in tartar, be added and duly fermented with the mo¬
laffes, the fpirit will acquire a much greater vinofity
and brilknefs, and approach much nearer to the nature
of foreign fpirits. Where the molaffes fpirit is brought
to the common proof flrength, if it is found not to have
a fufficient vinofity, it will be very proper to add fomc
good dulcified fpirit of nitre ; and if the fpirit be clean
worked, it may, by this addition only, be made to pafs
on ordinary judges for French brandy. Great quanti¬
ties of this fpirit are ufed in adulterating foreign bran¬
dy, rum, and arrack. Much of it is alfo ufed alone in
making cherry brandy and other drams by infufion j
in all which many, and perhaps with juflice, prefer it
to foreign brandies. Molaffes, like all other fpirits, is
entirely cclourlefs when firft extracted ; but diftillers
always give it as nearly as poflible the colour of foreign
fpirits.”
.If thefe principles hold good, the imitation of fo¬
reign fpirits of all kinds muff be an eafy matter. It
will only coft the procuring of fome of thofe fubflances
from which the fpirit is drawn ; and diftilling this with
water, the effential oil will always give the flavour de-
fired. Thus, to imitate Jamaica rum, it will only be
neceffary to procure fome of the tops, or other ufelefs
parts, of the fugar canes ; from which an effential oil
being drawn, and mixed with clean molaffes fpirit, will
give it the true flavour. The principal difficulty mull
lie in procuring a fpirit totally, or nearly free of all
flavour of its own. The fpirit drawn from the refufe
of a fugar-houfe is by our author commended as fupe-
rior to that drawn from molaffes : though even this is
not entirely devoid of fome kind of flavour of its own 5
nor indeed is that drawn from the beft refined fugar
entirely flavourlefs. It is very probable, therefore, that
to procure an abfolutely flavourlefs fpirit is impofiible.
The. only method, therefore, of imitating foreign fpi¬
rits is, by choofing fuch materials as will yield a fpirit
flavoured as much like them as poffible. The materials
moll recommended by our author in this cafe, and pro¬
bably the beft that can be ufed, are railins. Concern¬
ing thefe he gives the following dire£lions: “ In order
to extradl this fpirit, the raifms mull be infufed in a
proper quantity of water, and fermented in the manner
already dire£led. When the fermentation is completed,
the whole is to be thrown into the Hill, and the fpirit
extracted by a ftrong fire. The resfon why we here
dire£t.a Ibong fire, is, becaufe by that means a greater
quantity of the effential oil wull come over the helm
with the fpirit, which will render it fitter for the di-
ftiller’s purpofe : for this fpirit is commonly ufed to
[ 267 ]
D I S
mix with common malt goods: and it is furprifing^hlillation.
how far it will go in this refpeft, ten gallons of it be-   
ing often fufficient to give a determining flavour and
agreeable vinofity to a whole piece of malt fpirits. It
is therefore well worth the diftiller’s while to endea¬
vour at improving the common method of extrafling
fpirits from raifms ; and perhaps the following hint
may merit attention. When the fermentation is com¬
pleted, and the ftill charged with fermented liquor as
above direfled, let the whole be drawn off with as
brifk a fire as poflible ; but, inftead of the calk or can
generally ufed by diflillers for a receiver, let a large
glafs, called by chemifts a feparating glqfs, be placed
under the nofe of the worm, and a common receiver
applied to the fpout of the feparating glafs; by this
means the effential oil will fwim upon the top of the
fpirit, or rather low wine, in the feparating glafs, and
may be eafily preferved at the end of the operation.-—
The ufe of this limpid effential oil is well known to di¬
ftillers ; for in this refides the whole flavour, and con-
fequently may be ufed to the greateft advantage in giv¬
ing that diftinguifhing tafte and true vinofity to the
common malt fpirits. After the oil is feparated from
the low wine, the liquor may be reftified in balneo
mariae into a pure and almoft taftelefs fpirit, and there¬
fore w’ell adapted to make the fineft compound cor¬
dials, or to imitate or mix with the fineft French bran-
dies, arracks, &c. In the fame manner a fpirit may
be obtained from cyder. But as its particular flavour
is not fo defirable as that obtained from raifins, it fhould
be diftilled in a more gentle manner, and carefully rec¬
tified according to the direflions we have already
given.”
Thefe direflions may.fuffice for the diftillation ofDireflions
any kind of fimple fpirits. The diftillation of com-fordiftilling
pound ones depends or. the obfervation of the follow-C0.IT;lJ0und
ing general rules, which are very eafy to be learnedfpintS*
and praflifed.
1. 1 he artift muft always be careful to ufe a well
cleanfed fpirit, or one freed from its own effential oil.
For, as a compound water is nothing more than a fpi-
rit.impregnated with the effential oil of the ingredients,
it is neceffary that the fpirit ffiould have depofited its
owm.
2. Let the time of previous digeftion be proportion¬
ed to the tenacity of the ingredients, or the pondero-
fity of their oil.
3. Let the ftrength of the fire alfo he proportioned
to the. ponderofity of the oil intended to be railed with
the fpirit.
4. Let only a due proportion of the fineft parts of
the effential oil be united with the fpirit j the groffer
and lefs fragrant parts of the oil not giving the fpirit
fo agreeable a flavour, and at the fame time rendering
it unfightly. This may in a great meafure be effefled
by leaving out the faints, and making up to proof with
fine foft water in their ftead.
A careful obfervation of thefe four rules will render
this part of diftillation much more perfeft than it is at
prefent. Nor will there he any occafion for the ufe of
burnt alum, white of eggs, ifinglafs, &c. to fine down
cordial waters j for they will prefently be fine, fweet,
and pleafant tafted, without any further trouble. We
fhall now fubjoin particular receipts for making fome
L1 2 * of
D I S [
Diftillation. 0£ thofe compound waters, or fpints, that are mod
* v   commonly to be met with, and are in the mod general
14 ellimation. . , r
Receipts for Strong Cinnamon Water. Take eight pounds or fine
a number of cjnriamon- bruifed, 17 gallons of clean rectified ipmt,
compound
fpirits.
and two gallons of water. Put them into your dill,
and diged them 24 hours with a gentle heat ; alter
which draw off 16 gallons with a pretty drong heat.—
A cheaper fpirit, but of an inferior quality, may be
obtained by ufing caffia lignea indead oi cinnamon.
If you would dulcify your cinnamon water, take double-
refined fugar in what quantity you pleafe j the general
proportion is about two pounds to a gallon } and dil-
folve it in the fpirit, after you have made it up proot
with clean water. One general caution is here necei-
fary to be addednamely, that near the end of the
operation, you carefully watch the fpirit as it runs into
the receiver, in order to prevent the faints from mix¬
ing with the goods. This you may difcover by olten
catching fome of it as it runs from the worm in,a glais,
and obferving whether it is fine and transparent ; tol¬
as foon as ever the faints begin to rile, the fpirit will
have an azure or bluidr cad. As foon as tms altera¬
tion in colour is perceived, the receiver mud be imme¬
diately changed ; for if the faints are differed to mix
thcmfelves with the red, the value of the goods will be
greatly Irffened. Here we may obferve, that the di-
dillers call fuch goods as are made up proof, double
voods ; and thofe below proof, ftngle. ^
Clove water. Take of cloves bruifed, four pounds ;
pimento, or all-fpice, half a pound j proof fpirit i0
gallons. Diged the mixture f 2 hours in a gentle heat,
and then draw off X 5 gallons with a pretty brilk fire.
The water may be coloured red, either by a drong
tinaure of cochineal, alkanet, or corn poppy flowers.
It may be dulcified at pleafure with double-rehned iu-
^ Lemon water. Take of dried lemon peel, four pounds;
clean proof fpirit, TO gallons and a half, and one gal¬
lon of water. Draw off ten gallons by a gentle hre,
and dulcify with fine fugar.
Citron water. Take of dry yellow rinds of citrons,
three pounds ; of orange peel, two pounds ; nutmegs,
bruifed, three quarters of a pound ; clean proof! pint,
ten gallons and a half; water, one gallon. Diged with
a gentle heat; then draw off ten gallons in baineo ma-
riae, and dulcify with fine fugar.
Anifeed water. Take anifeed bruifed, two pounds ;
proof fpirit, 12 gallons and a half; water, one gallon.
Draw off ten gallons with a moderate fire— . his wa¬
ter Ihould never be reduced below proof; becaufe the
large quantity of oil with which it is impregnated,
will render the goods milky and foul when brought
down below proof. But if there is a neceffity for do¬
ing this, their tranfparency may be reftored by filtra-
^Orange water. Take of the yellow part of frefh
orange peel, five pounds ; clean proof (pint ten gal¬
lons and a half; water, two gallons. Draw off ten gal¬
lons with a gentle fire. . .
Cedi'at water. The- cedrat is a fpecies of citron,
and very highly efteemed in Italy, where it grows na¬
turally. The fruit is difficult to be procured in this
country ; but as the effential oil is often imported from
Italy, it may be made with, it according to the. iol*
268 ] D I S
lowing receipt—Take of the fineft loaf fugar reduced Diftilhtion.
to powder, a quarter of a pound ; put it into a glafs ' ’ “*
mortar, with I 20 drops of the effence of cedrat ; rub
them together with a glafs peftle ; and put them into
a glafs alembic, with a gallon of fine proot (pints and
a quart of water. Place the alembic in baineo mariae,
and draw off one gallon, or till the faints begin to rife,
and dulcify with fine fugar. This is reckoned the fineft
cordial yet known ; it will therefore be neceffary to be
particularly careful that the fpirit is perfectly clean
and, as much as poffible, freed from any flavour of its
own. . .
Orange Cordial water, or Eau de Bigarade. lake
the outer or yellow part of the peels of J4 bigarades,
(a kind of orange) ; half an ounce of nutmegs, a
quarter of an ounce of mace, a gallon of fine proof
fpirit, and two quarts of water. Digeft all thele to¬
gether two days in a dole vtffel , after which draw oft
a gallon with a gentk fire, and dulcify with fine fugar.
This cordial is greatly eifeemed abroad, but is not fo
well known in this country.
Roi Solis. Take of the herb called Rot Solis, picked
clean, four pounds ; cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs,
of each three ounces and a half; marigold flowers, one
pound; caraway feeds, ten ounces; proof fpiiit, ten
gallons ; water, three gallons. Diftil with a pretty
ftrong fire, till the faints begin to rife. Then take of
liquorice root fliced, half a pound ; raifins ftoned, two
pounds ; red faunders, half a pound : digeft thefe three
days in two quarts of water; then ftrain out the clear
liquor, in which diffolve three pounds.of fine (ugar,
and mix it with the fpirit drawn by diftillation.
Ufquebaugh. Take nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon,
of each two ounces ; the feeds of anife, cat away, and
coriander, of each four ounces ; of liquorice root diced,
half a pound. Bruife the feeds and Ipices ; and put
them, together with the liquorice, into the Hill with
11 gallons of proof fpirits, and two gallons of water.
Diftil with a pretty brifk fire till the, faints begin to
rife. But, as foon as the ftill begins to work, fatten
to the nofe of the worm two ounces of Bnglifli faffron
tied up in a cloth, that the liquor may run through it,
and extraft all its tin&ure ; and in oider to this, you
ffiould frequently prefs the faffron with your fingers.
When the operation is finilhed, dulcify your goods
with fine fugar. . ,
Ratajia—Is a liquor prepared from different kinds
of fruits, and is of different colours according to the
fruits made ufe of. Of red ratafia there are three kinds,
the fine, the dry or (harp, and the common. I he
fruits moil proper for making red ratafia, are the black
heart cherry, the common red cherry, the black cheny,
the mery or honey cherry, the ftrawberry, the vafpber-
ry, the red goofeberiy, and the mulberry. Tbefe fruits
fhould be gathered when in their greateft perfection,
and the largeft and moft beautiful of them chofen for
the purpofe—The following is a receipt for making
red ratafia, fine and foft. Take of the black heart
cherries, 24 pounds; black cherries, four pounds^
rafpbemes and ftrawberries, of each three pounds.
Pick the fruits from their ftalks, and bruile them ; in
which (late let them continue 1 2 hours : piefs out the
iuice ; and to every pint of it add a quarter of a pound
of fugar. When the fugar is diffolved, run the whole,
through the filtrating bag, and add to it three quarts
D I S [2
piftiilation.of clean proof fpirits. Then take of cinnamon, four
ounces j of' mace, one ounce } and of cloves, two
drachms. Bruife tkefe fpices ; put them into an alem¬
bic with a gallon of clean proof fpirits and two quarts
of water, and draw'off a gallon with a brifk. fire. Add
as much of this fpicy fpirit to your ratafia as will ren¬
der it agreeable to your palate ; about one fourth is
the ufual proportion.
Ratafia made according to the above receipt will be
ol a very rich flavour and elegant colour. It may be
rendered more or lefs of a fpicy flavour, by adding or
dimmifhing the quantity ©f fpirit diftilled from the
fpices. Some, in making ratafia, fuffer the exprefled
juices of their fruits to ferment feveral days : by this
means the vinofity of the ratafia is increaled j but, at
■ the lame time, the elegant flavour of the fruits is
greatly diminilhed. Therefore, if the ratafia is defi¬
led Itronger or more vinous, it may be done by adding
more fpirits to the exprefled juice ; by which means
the flavour of the fruits may be preferved, as well as
the ratafia rendered itronger. It is alfo a method with
fome to tie the fpices in a linen bag, and fufpend them
in the ratafia. But if this method is taken, it will be
neceffary to augment the quantity of fpirit firft added
to the expreffed juice. There is no great difference in
the two methods of adding the fpices, except that by
fufpending them in the ratafia the liquor is rendered
lefs tranfparent.
Dry or Jlmrp Ratafia. Take cherries and goofe-
berries, of each 30 pounds j mulberries, feven pounds ;
rafpberries, ten pounds. Pick all thefe fruits clean from
their ftalks, &c. bruife them, and let them Hand 12
hours ; but do not fuffer them to ferment. Prefs out
the juice, and to every pint add three ounces of fugar.
When the fugar is diffolved, run it through the filtrat-
ing bag, and to every five pints of liquor add four
pints of clean proof, fpirit ; together with the fame
proportiou of fpirit drawn from the fpices in the fore¬
going compofition.
Common Ratafia. Take of nutmegs, eight ounces ;
bitter almonds, ten pounds j Lifbon fugar, eight
pounds •, ambergrife, ten grains : infufe thefe ingredi¬
ents three days in ten gallons of clean proof fpirit, and
filter through a flannel bag for ufe. The nutmegs and
bitter almonds muff oe bruifed, and the ambergrife rub¬
bed with the Lifbon fugar in a marble mortar, before
thev are infuffd in the fpirit.
Gold Cordial. Take of the roots of angelica, four
pounds ; raifins ffoned, two pounds ; coriander feeds,
half a pound ; caraway feeds and cinnamon, of each
half a pound ; cloves, two ounces ; figs and liquorice
root, of each one pound ; proof fpirit, eleven gallons ;
water, two gallons. The angelica, liquorice, and fi^s,
muff be fliced before they are added. Digeft two
days ; and draw off by a gentle heat till the faints be¬
gin to rife ; hanging in a piece of linen, faftened to
the mouth of the worm, an ounce of Englifli faffron.
I hen diffowe eight pounds of fugar in three quarts of
rofe water, and add to it the diflilled liquor.—This li¬
quor derives its name of gold cordial from a quantity
of leaf gold being formerly added to it ; but this is
now generally difufed, as it cannot pofiibly add any
virtue.
Cardamum, or All-fours. Take of pimento, cara-
w.ay, and coriander feeds, and lemon peel, each three
59 ]
D I S
pounds •, of malt fpirits, eleven gallons ; water, three Diftiflery
gallons. Draw off with a gentle fire, dulcify with l!
common fugar, and make up to the ftrength defired Diftoniom
with clear water. This is a dram greatly ufed by the
poorer fort of people in fome countries.
Geneva. There was formerly fold in the apotheca¬
ries drops a diltilled fpirituous water of juniper ; but
the vulgar being fond of it as a dram, the diltillers fup-
planted the apothecaries, and fold it under the name of
Geneva. The common kind, however, is not made
from juniper berries, but from oil of turpentine ; and
indeed it is furprifing that people Ihould accuftom
themfelves to drink fuch liquors for pleafure.— The
receipt for making this kind of fpirit, fold in the gin
fliops at London, is as follows : Take of the ordinary
malt fpirits, ten gallons ; oil of turpentine, two ounces-,
bay fait, th ree handfuls. Draw off by a gentle fire
till the faints begin to rile ; and make up your goods
to the ftrength required with clear water.
The belt kind is made by the following recipe.—
Take of juniper berries, three pounds-, proof ipirit,
ten gallons j water, four gallons. Draw off by a gen¬
tle fire till the faints begin to rife, and make up your
goods to the ftrength required with clean water.
There is a fort of this liquor c alled Hollandt Geneva,
from its being imported from Holland, which is greatly
efteemed. 'The ingredients ufed by the Dutch are the
fame with thofe given in the laft recipe ; only, inftead
of malt fpirits, they ufe French brandy. But from
what has been already obferved concerning the nature
of thefe kinds of fpirits, it is eafy to fee, that by the
help of a well rectified fpirit, geneva may be made in
this country at leaft nearly equal to the Dutch, pro¬
vided it is kept to a proper age ; for all fpirituous li¬
quors contradt a foftnefs and mellownefs by age, im-
poffible to be imitated any other way.
DIS1 ILLERY, the art of diftilling brandy and
other fpirits. This art was firft brought into Europe
by the Moors of Spain, about the year 1150 : they
learned it of the African Moors, who had it from the
Egyptians ; and the Egyptians are faid to have prac-
tiled it in the reign of the emperor Diocltfian, though
it was unknown to the ancient Greeks and Romans.
See Distillation and Fermentation.
DISTINCTION, in Logic, is an affemblage of two
or more words, whereby dilparate things, or their con¬
ceptions, are denoted.
DISTORTION, in Medicine, is when any part of
the human body remarkably deviates from its natural
flrape or pofition. Diftortions of different parts may
arile either from a convulfion or palfy ; though fome-
times a terrible diftortion in the drape of the whole
body hath arifen merely from carelefthefs and ill ha¬
bits. Mr Window-, in the Memoirs of the Academy
of Sciences at Pans, gives a very remarkable account
of a lady of quality, whom he had knowm to be per¬
fectly ftraight for feveral years ; but who taking after¬
wards to a fedentary com fe of life, got a cuftom of
drefling herf. If very carelefslv, and of leaning as (he
fat, either forwards or to a fide. It w-as not many
months before (he found it painful and troublefome to
(land or fit upright j and foon afterwards (lie found an
inequality in the lower part of the back bone. Alarm¬
ed at this, (he confulted the gentleman who gave the.
account. To prevent the increale of the malady, he>
ordered
V
IS [ 270 ] D I S
a particular fort of jumps inftead fcription often become beautiful and agreeable^ Thus, IMrrf*.
D
Diftrefs. ordered her to wear _ r 
* ■" 'v " 1 0f {fays, and had a pad of a proper fize applied : but
this was foon negle£led ; and the confequence was, that
in a little time the back bone became more and more
crooked, and at length bent itfelf fldewife in two con¬
trary direaions, fo as to reprefent the figure of the
Roman S ; and the lady, ftill refufing to take the pro¬
per meafures, loft a fourth part of her height j and
continued for the remainder of her life, not only
crooked from right to left and from left to right, but
fo oddly folded together, that the firft of the falfe ribs
on one fide approached very near the creft of the os
ilium on that fide, and the vifcera of the lower belly
became ftrangely puflied out of theft regular places to
the oppofite fide } and the ftomach itfelf was fo ftrong-
ly compreffed, that whatever flie fwallowed feemed to
her to fall into two feparate cavities.
DISTRESS, in its ordinary acceptation, denotes
calamity, mifery, or painful fuffering.
The Contemplation of Distress, a fource of pleafure.
On this fubje& we have a very pleafing and ingenious
effay by Dr Barnes, in the Memoirs of the Literary
# Vol. i. and Philofophical Society of Manchefter *, It is in-
p. 144. Sc-c. troduced with the follow ing motto :
Suave mari magno, turbantibus cequoi a ventiSy
E terra altenus magnum fpeBare penclum.
Non quia vexan quenquam cjl jucunda voluptas ;
Sed quibus ipfe mails care as, quia cernere fuave efi.
Lucretius.
«( The pleafure here deferibed by the poet, and of
which he has mentioned fo ftriking and appofite an in-
ftance, may perhaps at firft feem of fo Angular and a-
ftoniftiing a nature, that fome may be difpoied to doubt
of its exiftence. But that it does exift, in the cale
here referred to, and in many others of a fimilar kind,
is an undoubted faft ; and it may not appear an ufe-
lefs or difagreeable entertainment, to trace its lource
in the human bread, together with the final caufe
for which it was implanted there by our benevolent
Creator. . ,
“ Shall I, it may be faid, feel complacency in be¬
holding a feene in wdrich many of my fellow-creatures
are agonizing with terror, whilft I can neither dimi-
niftr their danger, nor, by my fympathy, divide their
anguifti ? At the fight of another’s woe, does not my
bofom naturally feel pain ? Do I not fhai-e in his fenfa-
tions. ? And is not this ftrong and exqmfite ienhbihty
intended by my Maker to urge me on to aftive and
immediate affiftance ? Thefe fenfations are indeed at¬
tended wfith a noble pleafure, when I can, by friendly
attention, or by benevolent communication, foothe the
iorrows of the poor mourner, fnatch him from impend¬
ing danger, or fupplv his preffing wants. But in ge¬
neral, where my fympathy is of no avail to the wretch¬
ed fufferer, I fly from the fpedacle of his mifery, un¬
able or unwilling to endure a pain which is not allayed
by the fweet fatisfaftion of doing good.’’
It will be neceffary, in anfwer to thefe objections, m
the firft place to prove the reality _ of the feeling, the
caufe of which, in the human conftitution, we here at¬
tempt to explore. . r
Mr Addifon, in his beautiful papers on the Pleaiures
of the Imagination, has obferved, “ that objeCts or
feenes, which, when real, give difguft or pain, in de¬
even a dunghill may, by the charms of poetic imagery,
excite plealure and entertainment. Scenes of this na¬
ture, dignified by apt and ftriking defeription, we re¬
gard with fomething of the fame feelings with which
we look upon a dead monfter.
  - Informe cadaver
Protrahitur : ncqueunt explen corda tuendo
1 erribilcs oculos, vultum, villofaque fetis
PeBora femiferiy atque extinBos faucibus ignes.
Virgil.
“ This (he obferves) is more particularly the cafe,
where the defeription raifes a ferment in the mind and
works with violence upon the paftions. One would
wonder (adds he) how it comes to pafs, that paflions,
which are very unpleafant at all other times, are very
agreeable when excited by proper defeription j fuch as
terror, dejeftion, grief, &c. This pleafure arifes from
the refleftion we make upon ouxfelves, whilft reading
it, that we are not in danger from them. When ne
read of wounds, death, Sec. our plealure does not rife
fo properly from the grief which thefe melancholy de-
feriptions give us, as from the fecret comparifon we
make of ourfelves with thofe who fuffer. We ftiould
not feel the fame kind of pleafure, if we aaually faw
a perfon lying under the tortures that we meet with in
a defeription.” _
And yet, upon the principle afligned by this amiable
writer, we might feel the fame, or even higher plea¬
fure, from the aftual view of diftrefs, than from any
defeription ; becaufe the comparifon of ourfelves with
the fufferer would be more vivid, and confequently the
feeling more intenfe. We would onlyobferve, that the
caufe which he aftigns for this pleafure is the very lame
with that afligned by Lucretius in our motto. Mr
Addifon applies it to the defeription ; the poet, to the
adual contemplation of affeaing feenes. In both the
pleafure is fuppofed to originate in felfifhnefs. But
wherever the focial paflions are deeply interefted, as
they are here fuppofed to be, from the pathetic de¬
feription, or the ftill more pathetic furvey, of the fuf-
ferings of another, the fympathetic feelings will of
themfelves, at once, and previoufly to all refle£!ion,
become a fource of agreeable and tender emotions.
They will thus dignify and enhance the fatisfadhon, if
any fuch be felt, arifing merely from the confideration
of our own perfonal fecurity. And the more entirely
we enter into the feene, by lofing all ideas of its being
either paft or fabulous, the more perfedlly v.e forget
ourfelves, and are ablorbed in the feeling, the more
exquifite is the fenfation. _
But as our fubfequent fpeculations will chiefly turn
upon the pleafure derived from real feenes. of calamity,
and not from thofe which are imaginary, it may be ex-
pedted that we produce inftances in proof that Inch
pleafure is felt by perfons very different in their tafte
and mental cultivation. < ,
We (hall net mention the horrid Joy with wmich the
favage feafts his eye upon the agonies and contortions
of his expiring prifoner—expiring in all the pains which
artificial cruelty can inflia ! Nor will we recur to the
almoft equally favage fons of ancient Rome, when the
maiefty of the Roman people could rufh, with eager-
nefs and tranfport, to behold hundreds of gladiators
r contending
D I S
Diftrefs. contending in fatal conflift, and probably more than
'"V—half the number extended, weltering in blood and writh¬
ing in agony, upon the plain. Nor will we mention
the Spanifli bull featts ; nor the fervent acclamations
of an Englilh mob around their fellow creatures, w-hen
engaged in furious battle, in which it is poflible that
fome of the combatants may receive a mortal blow',
and be hurried in this awful flate to the bar of his
Judge. Let us furvey the multitudes which, in every
part of the kingdom, always attend an execution. It
may perhaps be faid, that in all places the vulgar have
little of the fenlibility and tendernefs of more poliflied
bofoms. But, in the laft mentioned inflance, an exe¬
cution, there is no exultation in the bufferings of the
poor criminal. He is regarded by every eye with the
moft melting compaffion. The whole affembly fym-
pathizes with him in his unhappy fituation. An awful
ftillnefs prevails at the dreadful moment. Many are
w:rung wTith unutterable fenfations 3 and prayer and
fxlence declare, more loudly than any language could,
the intereft they feel in his diftrefs. Should a reprieve
come to refcue him from death, how great is the ge¬
neral triumph and congratulation ! And probably in
in this multitude you wall find not the mere vulgar
herd alone, but the man of fuperior knowledge and of
more refined fenfibility ; W'ho, led by fome ftrong prin¬
ciple, which we wifh to explain, feels a pleafure great¬
er than all the pain, great and exquifite as one ftiould
imagine it to be, from fuch a fpeftacle.
The man who condemns many of the fcenes w'e have
already mentioned as barbarous and (hocking, wmuld
probably run with the greateft eagernefs to fome high
cliff, overhanging the ocean, to fee it fwelled into a
tempeft, though a poor veffel, or even a fieet of veffels,
W'ere to appear as one part of the dreadful fcenery,
now lifted to the heavens on the foaming furge, now
plunged deep into the fathomlefs abyfs, and now daftv-
ed upon the rocks, where they are in a moment ftii-
vered into fragments, and, with all their mariners, en¬
tombed in the wave. Or, to vary the queftion a lit¬
tle 3 Who would not be forward to (land fafe, on the
top of fome mountain, or towrer, adjoining to a field of
battle, in which twm armies meet in defperate conflict,
though probably thoufands may foon lie before him
proftrate on the ground, and the whole field prefent
the moft horrid fcenes of carnage and defolation ?
That in all thefe cafes pleafure predominates in the
compounded feeling,- is plain from hence, becaufe you
continue to furvey the fcene 3 whereas w’hen pain be¬
came the ftronger fenfation, you would certainly re¬
tire.
Cultivation may indeed have produced fome minuter
differences in the tafte and feelings of different minds.
Thofe whofe fenfibilities have not been refined by edu¬
cation or fcience, may feel the pleafure in a more grofs
and brutal form. But do not the moft poliflied natures
feel a fimilar, a kindred pleafure, in the deep wrought
diftreffes of the well imagined fcene ? Here the endea¬
vour is, to introduce whatever is dreadful or pathetic,
whatever can harrow up the feelings or extort the tear.
And the deeper and more tragical the fcene becomes,
the more it agitates the feveral pafiions of terror, grief,
or pity—the more intenfely it delights, even the moft
poliflied minds. They feem to enjoy the various and
vivid emotions of contending paflions. They love to
D r s
have the tear trembling in the eye, and to feel the Diftrefs.
whole foul wrapt in thrilling fenfations. For that mo- '
ment they feem to forget the fiftion ; and afterwards
commend that exhibition moft, in which they mod en¬
tirely loft fight of the author, and of their own fitua¬
tion, and nere alive to all the unutterable vibrations of
ftrong or melting fenfibility.
Taking it then for granted, that in the contempla¬
tion of many icenes of diftrefs, both imaginary and
real, a gratification is felt, let us endeavour to account
for it, by mentioning fome of thofe principles^ woven /
into the web of human nature, by its benevolent Crea¬
tor, on which that gratification depends.
Dr Akenfide, with his accuftomed ftrength and bril¬
liancy of colouring, deferibes and accounts for it in
the following manner :
 Behold the ways
Of heaven’s eternal deftiny to man !
For ever juft, benevolent, and wife !
That Virtue’s awful fteps, howe’er purfued’
By vexing fortune, and intrufive pain,
Should never be divided from her chafte,
Her fair attendant, Pleafure. Need I urge
Thy tardy thought through all the various round
Of this exiftence, that thy foftening foul
At length may learn, what energy the hand
Of Virtue mingles in the bitter tide
Of Paflion, fwelling with diftrefs and pain.
To mitigate the (harp, with gracious drops
Of cordial Pleafure. Afk the faithful youth
Why the cold urn of her, whom long he lov’d,
So often fills his arm ? So often draws
His lonely footfteps, at the filent hour,
To pay the mournful tribute of his tears ?
O ! he will tell thee, that the wealth of worlds
Should ne’er feduce his bofom to forego
That facred hour, when dealing from the noife
Of care and envy, fweet remembrance foothes,
With Virtue’s kindeft looks, his aching bread,
And turns his tears to rapture. Aik the crowd,
Which flies impatient from the village-walk
To climb the neighb’ring cliffs, when far below
The cruel winds have hurl’d upon the coaft
Some helplefs bark : whilft facred Pity melts
The general eye, or Terror’s icy hand
Smites their diftorted limbs, or horrent hair.
While every mother clofer to her bread
Catches her child 3 and, pointing where the waves
Foam through the (battered veffel, fhrieks aloudj
As one poor wretch, that fpreads his piteous arms
For fuccour, fwallowed by the roaring furge,
As now another, dafti’d againft the rock,
Drops lifelefs dowm. O deemed thou indeed
No kind endearment here, by nature given,
To mutual terror, and compaflion’s tears ?
No fweetly melting foftnefs, which attrafts
O’er all that edge of pain, the facial powers,
To this their proper aftion and their end ?”
The poet purfues the fentiment in the fame animated
imagery, deferibing the ftrong, but pleafurable, fen¬
fations which the foul feels, in reading the fufferings
of heroes who nobly died in the caufe of liberty and"
their country ;
  “ When
( 271 ]
Dill refs.
D I S [ :
   “ When the pious band
Of youths, who fought for freedom, and their fires,
Lie fide by fide in gore.”
Or, in the ftrong movements of indignation and re¬
venge againfi the tyrant, who invades that libertv,
and enflaves their country.
    —“ When the patriot’s tear
Starts from thine eye, and thy extended arm
In fancy hurls the thunderbolt of Jove,
To fire the impious wreath on Philip’s brow,
Or dalh O&avius from his trophied car •,
Say Does the facred foul repine to tafte
Thy big diftrefs ? Or, would’ft thou then exchange
Thofe heart-ennobling forrows for the lot
Of him, who fits amid the gaudy herd
Of mute barbarians, bending to his nod,
And bears aloft his gold-invefted front,
And fays within himfelf, “ I am a king,
And wherefore fhould the clamorous voice of woe
Intrude upon mine ear ?”
The fentiment of this charming and moral poet is,
that fympathetic feelings are virtuous, and therefore
pleafant. And from the whole, he deduces this im¬
portant conclufion •, that every virtuous emotion mull
be agreeable, and that this is the fanaion and the re¬
ward of virtue. The thought is amiable *, the con¬
clufion noble : but Hill the folution appears to us to be
imperfea. .
We have already faid, that the pleafure anfing from
the contemplation of diftrefsful feenes is a compound¬
ed feeling, arifing from feveral diftina fources in the
human bread. The kind and degree of the fenfation
mud depend upon the various blendings of the feveral
ingredients which enter into the compofition. The
caufe adigned by Mr Addifon, the fenfe of our own
fecurity, may be fuppofed to have fome diare in the
mafs of feelings. That of Dr Akenfide may be allow¬
ed to have a dill larger proportion. Let us attempt to
trace fome of the red. .
There are few principles in human nature or more
general and important infiuence than that of fympa-
thy A late ingenious writer, led by the faduonable
idea of fimplifying all the fprings of human nature
into one fource, has in his beautiful Theory of Moral
Sentiments, endeavoured to analyze a very large num¬
ber of the feelings of the heart into fympathetic vibra¬
tion. Though it appears to us mod probable, that
the human mind, like the human body, pofieffes vari¬
ous, and didirnd fprings of a£hon and of happinefs, yet
he has diown, in an amazing diverfity of indances, the
operation and importance of this principle of human
nature. Let us apply it to our prefent lubjeft.
We naturally fympathizc with the padions or others.
But if the padions they appear to feel be not thofe
of mere didrefs alone-, if, amidd the feenes of calamity,
they difplay fortitude, generofity, and forgivenefs ;
if “ rifing fuperior to the cloud of ills which covers
them,” they nobly dand firm, colLdled, and patient 5
here a dill higher fouvee of pleafure opens upon us,
from complacence, admiration, and that unutterable
fympathy which the heart feels with virtuous and heroic
minds. By the operation of this principle, we place our-
ftlves in their fituation; we feel, as it were, fome diare of
72 ] D I S
that confcious integrity and peace which they mud en- Dittrefs;
py. Hence, as before obferved, the pleafure will vary,
both as to its nature and degree, according to the
feene and charafters before us. I he diock ot con¬
tending armies in the field,—the ocean wrought to
temped, and covered with the wreck of (battered vei-
fels,—and a worthy family filently, yet nobly, bearing
up againd a multitude of furrounding miiows, will ex¬
cite very different emotions, becaufe the component
parts of the pleafurable fenfation confid of very dil-
ferent materials. They all excite admiration } but ad¬
miration, how diverfified, both as to its degree and
its caufe ! Thefe feveral ingredients may doubtlefs be
fo blended together^ that the pleafure diall make but
a very finall part of the mixed fenfation. T he more
agreeable tints may bear little proportion to the terri-
fying red or the gloomy black.
In many of the indances which have been mention¬
ed, the pleafure mud arife chiedy, if not folely, from
the circumdances or accompanyments of the feene.
The fublime feelings excited by the view of an agi¬
tated ocean, relieve and foften thofe occafioned by the
diipwreck. And the awe excited by the prefence of
thoufands of men, afling as if with one foul, and dif-
playing magnanimity and firmnefs in the mod fo-
lemn trial, tempers thofe fenfationS of horror and of
pain which would arife from the field of battle.
The gratification we are attempting to account for
depends alfo, in a very confiderable degree, upon a
principle of human nature, implanted in it for the
wifed ends; the exercife which it gives to the mind,
by roufing it to energy and feeling. Nothing is fo
infupportable, as that languor and ennui, for the full
exprefiion of which our language does not afford a
term. How agreeable it is, to have the foul called
forth to exertion and fenfibility, let the gameder wit-
nefs, who, unable to endure the laditude and fame-
nefs of unanimated luxury, runs with eagernefs^ to the
place where probably await him all the irritation and
agony of tumultuous padions.
Again ; it is a law of our nature, that oppofite paf-
fions, when felt in fuccedion, and, above all, when
felt at the fame moment, heighten and increafe each
other. Eafe fucceeding pain, certainty after fufpenfe,
frienddiip after averfion, are unfpeakably (Longer than
if they had not been thus contraded. In this confinfl
of feelings, the mind rifes from padive to aftive energy.
It is roufed to intenfe fenfation 5 and it enjoys that pe¬
culiar, exquifite, and complex feeling, m which, as
in many articles of our table, the acid and the fweet,
the pleafurable and painful, pungencies are fo happily
mixed together, as to render the united fenfation
amazingly more drong and delightful.
We have not yet mentioned the principle of cuno-
fity, that bufy and active power, which appears fo
early, continues almod unimpaired fo long, and to
which, for the wifed ends, is annexed fo great a fenle
of enjoyment. To this principle, rather than to a
love of cruelty, would we aferibe that pleafure which
children fometimes feem to feel from torturing flies
and leffer animals. They have not yet formed an idea
of the pain they inflia. It is, indeed, of unfpeakable
confequence, that this praaice be checked as foon and
as effeaually as pofiible, becaufe it is fo important,
that they learn to conned the ideas of pleafure and
pa^
D I S [ 273 ] D I T
Biftrefs, pain with the motions and a&ions of the animal crea-
Diftnbu- tion> And to this principle may we alfo refer no
tlon' fmall (hare of that pleafure in the contemplation of
dillrefsful fcenes, the fprings of which, in the human
heart, we are now endeavouring to open.
To curiofity, then—to fympathy—to mental exer¬
tion—-to the idea of our own fecurity—and to the
ftrong feelings occafioned by viewing the adlions and
paffions of mankind in interefting fituations, do we
afcribe that gratification which the mind feels from
the furvey of many fcenes of forrow. We have called
it a pleafure ; but it will approach towards, or recede
from, pleafure, according to the nature and proportion
of the ingredients of which the fenfation is compof-
ed. In fome cafes, pain will predominate. In others,
there will be exquifite enjoyment.
The final caufe of this conftitution of the human
mind is probably, that by means of this ftrong fenfa¬
tion, the foul may be preferved in continual and vigo¬
rous motion—that its feelings may be kept lively and
tender—that it may learn to praflife the virtues it ad¬
mires—and to aftift thofe to w'hom its fympathy can
reach—and that it may thus be led, by thefe focial
exercifes of the heart, to foften with compaflion—to
expand with benevolence—and generoufly to aflift in
every cafe in wdiich afliftance can be given. An end
this fufficient,
 “ To affert eternal Providence,
And juftify the ways of God to man.”
Distress, in Law, the feizing or diftraining any
thing for rent in arrear, or other duty unperformed.
The effe£l of this diftrefs is to compel the party ei¬
ther to replevy the things diftrained, and conteft the
taking, in an a£tion of trefpafs againft the diftrainer j
or rather to oblige him to compound and pay the debt
or duty for which he was fo diftrained.
There are likewufe compulfory dillreffes in a&ions,
to caufe a perfon appear in court; of which kind there
is a diftrefs perfonal of one’s moveable goods, and the
profits of his lands, for contempt in not appearing after
fummons : there is likewife diftrefs real, of a perfon’s
immoveable goods. In thefe cafes none (hall be di¬
ftrained to anfwer for any thing touching their free¬
holds, but by the king’s writ.
Diftrefs may be either finite or infinite. Finite di¬
ftrefs is that which is limited by law, in regard to the
number of times it lhall be made, in order to bring the
party to a trial of the a&ion. Infinite diftrefs is that
which is without any limitation, being made till the
perfon appears: it is farther applied to jurors that do
not appear ; as, upon a certificate of aflize, the procefs
is venire facias, habeas corpora, and diftrefs infinite.
It is alfo divided into grand diftrefs and ordinary
diftrefs ; of thefe the former extends to all the goods
and chattels that the party has within the county. A
perfon, of common right, may diftrain for rents and all
manner of fervices; and where a rent is referved on a
gift in tail, leafe for life, or years, &c. though there
be no claufe of diftrefs in the grant or leafe, lb as that
he has the reverfion ; but on a feoffment made in fee,
a diftrefs may not be taken, unlefs it be exprefsly re¬
ferved in the deed.
DIS IRIBUTION, ina general fenfe, the aft of
VII. Part I.
dividing a thing into feveral parts, in order to the dif- Diftribu-
pofing each in its proper place. tl°n
Distribution, in ArchileElure, the dividing and pitch-
difpofing the feveral parts and pieces which compofe a Water,
building, as the plan direfts. See Architecture. ——y—
Distribution, in Rhetoric, a kind of defcription,
whereby an orderly divifion and enumeration is made
of the principal qualities of the fubjeft. David fup-
plies us with an example of this kind, when in the heat
of his indignation againft finners, he gives a defcription
of their iniquity: “ Their throat is an open fepulchre ;
they flatter with their tongues ; the poifon of afps is
under their lips ; their mouth is full of curfing and
lies; and their feet are fwift to flied blood.”
Distribution, in Printing, the taking a form
afunder, leparating the letters, and difpofing them in
the cafes again, each in its proper cell. See Print¬
ing.
DISTRICT, in Geography, a part of a province,
diftinguiftied by peculiar magiftrates, or certain privi¬
leges ; in which fenfe it is fynonymous with hundred.
See Hundred.
DISTRINGAS, in Law, a writ commanding the
ftieriff, or other officer, that he diftrain a perfon for
debt to the king, &c. or for his appearance at a cer¬
tain day.
DistrinGjSS Juratores, a writ direftedto the ftieriff,
whereby he is commanded to diftrain upon a jury to
appear, and to return iffues on their lands, &c. for non-
appearance. This writ of diftringas juratores iffues for
the ftieriff to have their bodies in court, &c. at the re¬
turn of the writ.
DITCH, a common fence or enclofure in marfhes, or
other wet land where there are no hedges. They al¬
low thefe ditches fix feet wide againft highways that
are broad ; and againft commons, five feet. But the
common ditches about enclofures, dug at the bottom
of the bank on which the quick is raifed, are three feet
wide at the top, one at the bottom, and two feet deep.
By this means each fide has a flope, which is of great
advantage ; for where this is neglefted, and the ditches
dug perpendicular, the fides are always waftiing down :
befides, in a narrow-bottomed ditch, if cattle get down
into it, they cannot ftand to turn themfelves to crop
the quick : but where the ditch is four feet wide, it
ftiould be two and a half deep : and where it is five
wide, it ffi mid be three deep ; and fo in proportion.
Dncii-Water is often ufed as an objeft for the mi-
crolcope, and feldom fails to afford a great variety of
animalcules. This water very often appears of a yel-
lowifti, greeniffi, or reddifti colour; and this is wholly
owing to the multitudes of animals of thofe colours
wffiich inhabit it. Thefe animals are ufually of the
ffirimp kind : and Swammerdam, who very accurately
examined them, has called them, from the figure of
their horns, pulex aquaticus arborefcens. They copu¬
late in May or June; and are often fo numerous at that
feafon, that the whole body of the water they are found
in, is feen to be of a red, green, or yellowifli colour,
according to the colours of their bodies. The green
thin feum alfo, fo frequently feen on the furface of
Handing waters in fummer, is no other than a multi¬
tude of fmall animalcules of this or fome of the other
kinds. Dunghill water is not lefs full of animals than
M m that
Ditcli
I!
Ditton.
D I T [ 274 ] . D I
tliat of ditches; and is often found fo thronged with the new mathematical fchool
animalcules, that it feems altogether alive: it is then fo
, very much crowded with the!e creatures, that it muit
be diluted with clear water before they can be dihindtly
viewed. There are ufually in this fluid a fort of eels
which are extremely a£live; and befldes thele and many
other of the common inhabitants of fluids, there is one
fpecies found 111 this which feems peculiar to it . the
middle part of them is dark and befet with hairs, but
the ends are tranfparent; their tails are tapering, with
a long fprig at the-extremity, and their motion is flow
and waddling. See Animalcule.
Ditch, in Fortification, called fofs and moat, a
trench dug round the rampart or wall of a foitified
place, between the fcarp and counterfcarp. See For¬
tification.
DITHYRAMBUS, in ancient poetry, a hymn m
honour of Bacchus, full of tranfport and poetical rage.
This poetry owes its birth to Greece, and to the
tr'anfports of wine ; and yet art is not quite exploded,
but delicately applied to guide and reftrain the dithy-
rambic impetuofity, which is indulged only in pleafing
flights. Horace and Ariftotle tell us, that the an¬
cients gave the name of dithyirambus to thofe verfes
wherein none of the common rules or meafures were
obferved. As we have now no remains of the dithy-
rambus of the ancients, we cannot fay exaflly what
their meafure was.
DITONE, in Mufic, an interval comprehending two
tones. The proportion of the founds that form the
ditone is 4 : 5, and that of the femitone is 5 : 6. _
DITRIHEDRIA, in Mineralogy, fpars with twice
three Tides, or fix planes; being formed of two trigonal
pyramids joined bafe to bafe, without any intermediate
column. . ,
The fpecies of ditrihedria are diflinguiflied by the
different figures of thefe pyramids.
DITTANDER. See Lepidium, Botany Index.
DITTANY. See Dictamnus, Botany Index.
DITTO, in books of accounts, ufually written D°,
fignifies the afore-mentioned. The word is corrupted
from the Italian detto, “ the faid as in our law-phrafe,
“ the faid premifes,” meaning the fame as W’ere afore¬
mentioned.
DITTON, Humphry, an eminent mathematician,
v was born at Salifbury, May 29. 1675. Being an on¬
ly fon, and his father obferving in him an extraordi¬
nary good capacity, determined to cultivate it with a
good education. For this purpofe he placed him m a
reputable private academy; upon quitting of which he,
at the defire of his father, though agajnft Ms own incli¬
nation, engaged in the profefiion of divinity, and began
to exercife his funftion at Tunbridge in the county of
Kent, where he continued to preach fome years ; during
wnich time he married a lady of that place. .
But a weak conftitution, and tne death of his father,
induced Mr Ditton to quit that profeffion. And at
the perfuafion of Dr Harris and Mr Whifton, both
eminent mathematicians, he engaged in the ftudy of
mathematics ; a fcience to which he had always a ftrong
inclination. In the profecution of this fcience, be was
much encouraged by the fuccefs and applaufe ie“
ceived : being gixatly efteemed by the chief proftnors
of it, and particularly by Sir Ifaac Newton, by whofe
intereft and recommendation he was clefted mafler of
     in Chrift’s Hofpital •, < Pitton.
where he continued till his death, which happened in ',r~"
1715, in the 40th year of his age, much regretted by
the philofophical world, who expedled many ufeful and
ingenious difeoveries from his afliduity, learning, and
penetrating genius.
Mr Ditton publifhed feveral mathematical and other
trafts, as below.—1. Of the Tangents of Curves, &c.
Phil. Tranf. vol. xxiii. .
2. A Treatife on Spherical Catoptrics, pubhflied m
the Philof. Tranf. for 1705 ; from whence it was co¬
pied and reprinted in the ABa Fruditorum t?0?* al,c^
alfo in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at
Paris. .
3. General Laws of Nature and Motion ; 8yo, 1705.
Wolfius mentions this work, and fays that it illufirates
and renders eafy the writings of Galileo, Huygens,
and the Principia of Newton. a^° no1;‘ce° ..X
La Roche, in the Metnoires de Literature, vol. vm.
page 46. . . i £ n.
4. An Inftitution of Fluxions, containing the hilt
Principles, Operations, and Applications, of that admi¬
rable Method, as invented by Sir Ifaac Newton, 8vo,
1706. This work, with additions and alterations, was
again publilhed by Mr John Clarke, in the year 1726.
r Xn 1709 he publifhed the Synopjis Algehraica of
John Alexander, with many additions and corre&ions.
6. His Treatife on Perfpedlive was publifhed in 1712.
In this work he explained the principles of that art
mathematically; and befides teaching the methods
then generally praftifed, gave the firft hints of the new
method afterwards enlarged upon and improved by
Dr Brook Taylor ; and which was publifhed m the
yea7r. I^f-jH, Mr Ditton publifhed feveral pieces both
theological and mathematical ; particularly his Dif-
courfe on the Refurreflion of Jefus Chrift ; and The
New Law of Fluids, or a Difcourfe concerning the
Afcent of Liquids, in exa£l Geometrical Figures, be¬
tween two nearly contiguous Surfaces. To this was
annexed a traa, to demonftrate the impoffibihty ot
thinking or perception being the refult of any combi¬
nation of the parts of matter and motion : a iubjett
much agitated about that time. To this work aiio
was added an advertifement from him and Mr Whifton,
concerning a method for difeovering the longitude, *
which it feems they had publifhed about half a year
before. This attempt probably coft our author his
life ; for although it w^as approved and countenanced
by Sir Ifaae Newton, before it was prefented to the
Board of Longitude, and the method has been lucceis-
fully put in praftice, in finding the longitude between
Paris and Vienna ; yet that board then determined
againft it : fo that the difappointment, together with
fome public ridicule (particularly in a poem written
by Dean Swift), affe&ed his health fo that he died the
enfuing year, 1715. .
In an account of Mr Ditton, prefixed to the German
tranflation of his Difcourfe on the Refurreftion, it is
Lid that he had publifhed, in his own name only, ano¬
ther method for finding the longitude ; but which Mr
Whifton denied. However, Raphael Levi, a learned
Jew, who had ftudied under Leibnitz, informed the
German editor, that he well knew that Ditton and
Leibnitz had correfponded upon the fubjeft; and that
Dival
II .
Diverli
fying.
D I V [2
Ditton had fent to Leibnitz a delineation of a machine
he had invented for that purpofe ; which rvas a piece of
mechanifm conftrudled with many wheels like a clock,
and which Leibnitz highly approved of for land ufe j
but doubted whether it would anfv/er on (hip-board, on
account of the motion of the (hip.
DIVAL, in Heraldry, the herb nightfhade, ufed by
fuch as blazon by flowers and herbs, inftead of colours
and metals, for fable or black.
DIVALIA, in antiquity, a feaft held among the
ancient Romans, on the 2ifl day of December, in ho¬
nour of the goddefs Angerona 5 whence it is alfo call¬
ed Angeronalia.—On the day of this feaft, the pontifi-
ces performed facnfice in the temple of Voluptia, or
the goddefs of joy and pleafure ; who, fome fay, wTas
the fame with Angerona, and fuppofed to drive away
all the forrovvs and chagrins of life.
DIVAN, a council chamber or court of juflice
among the eaftern nations, particularly the Turks.—
The word is Arabic, and llgnifies the fame with sofa
in the Turkifli dialed:.
There are two forts of divans ; that of the grand
fignior, called the council of /late, which confifts of (even
of the principal officers of the empire j and that of the
grand vizir, compofed of fix other vizirs or counfellors
of date, the chancellor, and fecretaries of date, for the
didribution ofjudice.
The Word is alfo ufed for a hall in the private houfes
of the orientals. The cudom of China does not allow
the receiving of vifits in the inner parts of the houfe,
but only at the entry, in a divan contrived on purpofe
for ceremonies.
Travellers relate winders of the filence and expedi¬
tion of the divans of the ead.
DirAN-Beghi, the fuperintendant of judice in Perfia,
whofe place is the lad of the fix miniders of the fecond
rank, who are all under the athemadauler or fird mi-
nider. To this tribunal of the divan-beghi lie appeals
from fentences palled by the governors. He has a
fixed dipend of 50,000 crowns for adminidering judice.
All the ferjeants, ufliprs, &c. of the court are in his
fervice. He takes cognizance of the criminal caufes
of the chams, governors, and other great lords of Per¬
fia, when accufed of any fault. There are divan-beghis
not only at court and in the capital, but alfo in the
provinces and other cities of the empire. The Alcoran
is the foie rule of his adminidration of judice, which
alfo he interprets at pleafure. He takes no cognizance
of civil caufes ; but all differences arifing between the
officers of the king’s houfehold and between foreign
miniders are determined by him.
DIVANDUROW, the name of feven iflands which
lie a league north of the( Maldives, and 24 from the
coad of Malabar, almofl oppofite to Cananor.
DIVER. See Colymbus, Ornithology Index.
DIVERGENT, or Diverging Lincs, in Geome¬
try, are thofe which condantly recede from each other.
Divergent Rays, in Optics, are thofe which, going
from a point of the vifible objedl, are difperfed, and
continually depart one from another, in proportion as
they are removed from the objedl: in which fenfe it is
oppofed to convergent. See Optics.
DIVERSIFYING, in Rhetoric, is of infinite fer¬
vice to the orator j it is an accomplifliment effential to
his charadler, and may fitly be called the fubjedt of all
0 I v
Voflius lays down fix w‘ays of Diverficn
75 1
his tropes and figures.
diverfifying a fubjedl. 1. By enlarging on what was . .
briefly mentioned before. 2. By a concife ennmern- j:>!vni^tlon’i
tion of what had been infided on at length. 5. By
adding fomething new to w’hat is repeated. 4. By re¬
peating only the principal heads of what had been faid.
5. By tranfpofing the words and periods. 6. By imi¬
tating them.
DIVERSION, in military affairs, is wffien an ene¬
my is attacked in one place where they are weak and
unprovided, in order to draw off their forces from ano¬
ther place where they have made or intend to make an
irruption. Thus the Romans had no other way in
their power of driving Hannibal out of Italy, but by
making a diverfion in attacking Carthage.
DIVESTING, properly fignifies undrefiing, or
dripping off one’s garment; in contradiflin&ion from
inveding.
In law, it is ufed for the aft of furrendering or re-
linquiflnng one’s effects. By a contract of donation
or fale, the donor or feller is faid to be diffeifed and
diveded of his property in fuch a commodity, and
the donee or purchafer becomes inveffed therewith.
See Investiture.
A demife is a general divediture which the fathers
and mothers make of all their effects in favour of their
children.
DIVIDEND, in Arithemctic, the number propofed
to be divided into equal parts. See Arithmetic,
N° 14.
Dividend of Stocks, is a (hare or proportion of the
intered of docks ere&ed on the public funds, as the
South fea, &c. divided among and paid to the adven¬
turers half yearly.
DIVINATION, the knowledge of things obfcure
or future, which cannot be attained by any natural
means.
It rvas a received opinion among the heathens, that
the gods w'ere wont to converfe familiarly with fome
men, whom they endowed with extraordinary powers,
and admitted to the knowledge of their councils and
defigns. Plato, Aridotle, Plutarch, Cicero, and others,
divide divination into two forts or fpccies, viz. natural
and artificial.
The former was fo called, becaufe not attained by
any rules or precepts of art, but infufed or infpired in¬
to the diviner, without his taking any further care
about it than to purify and prepare himfelf for the re¬
ception of the divine afflatus. Of this kind were all
thofe who delivered oracles, and foretold future events
by infpiration, without obferving external figns or ac¬
cidents.
The fecond fpecies of divination was called artificial,
becaufe it was not obtained by immediate infpiration,
but proceeded upon certain experiments and obferva-
tions arbitrarily inftituted, and moftly fuperftitious. Of
this fort there were various kinds, as by facrifices, en¬
trails, flame, cakes, flour, wine, water, birds, lots, ver-
fes, omens, &c.
In holy Scripture We find mention madd"of nine dif¬
ferent kinds of divination. The firft performed by the
infpeflion of planets, ftars, and clouds: it is fuppofed
to be the praflifers of this whom Mofes calls iTiim meo-
nen, of pH anan, “ cloud,” Deuter. chap, xviii. ver. 10.
2. Thofe tvhom the prophet calls in the fame place
Mm2 s/nso
D I V
[ 276 ] D I V
/ r U V V, Vulgate and generality of The cabala fignifies, in like manner the knowledge of Dn^nat^
Divination. menachefeh, which the Vulgate and g y e the moon as the celeftlal boaies v
' "v interpreters render 3- ^ and their influences; and in this fenfe it is the fame
place are called mecafcbeph, which the Septuagrn c ""^oWy, or makes a part of it.
and Vulgate tranflate “ a man given to ill praftrces.” with judicial altrology, or ^
^ , v __ T\/r^r^o the* lamp rnanter
4. Such '"authors whom Moles in the fame chapter,
ver. 1 I. calls *iinrr hhober. 5. Thofe who confult the
fpirits called Python ; or, as Mofes, expreffes it in the
fame book, W “ thofe who afk queftions ot Py-
then ” 6. Witches or magicians, whom Moles calls
'Din' 'judeoni. 7. Thofe who confult the dead, necro¬
mancers. 8. The prophet Hofea, chap. iv. yer. 12.
mentions fuch as confult Haves, sbpn bi^ j which kind
of divination may be called rhabdomancy. 9. The lalt
kind of divination mentioned in Scripture is hepataj-
copy, or the confideration of the liver. .
Divination of all kinds was neceffanly made an oc¬
cult fcience, which naturally remained m the hands ot
the priefts and priefteffes, the magi, the loothfayers,
the augurs, the vifionaries, the priefts of the oracles,
the falfe prophets, and other like profellors till the
time of the coming of Jefus Chnft. fhe light of the
pofpel, it is true, has diflipated much of this darknefs;
but it is more difficult, than is commonly conceived,
to eradicate from the human mind a deep-rooted u-
perftition, even though the truth be fet in the ftrongeft
light, efpecially when the error has been believed al-
moft from the origin of the world : fo we ftill find ex-
ifting among us the remains of this Pagan fuperftition,
in the following chimeras, which enthufiaftic and de-
figning men have formed into arts and fciences ; thoug
it muft be owned, to the honour of the 18th century,
that the pure doftrines of Chriftiamty, and the ipint
of philofophy, which become every day^more dit-
fufed, equally concur in bamflung thefe vnionary opi¬
nions The vogue for thefe pretended fciences and
arts, moreover, is paft, and they can no longer be
named without exciting ridicule in all fenfible people.
By relating them here, therefore, and drawing them
from their obfeurity, we only mean to ftiow their
futility, and to mark thofe rocks agamft which the
human mind, without the affiftance of a pilot, might
^Fo/the attaining of thefe fupernatural qualifications,
there are ftill exifting in the world the remains ot,
I. Adrolovy : a conjeftural fcience which teaches to
iudge of the eftefts and influences of the ftars j and to
predict future events by the fituation of the planets
and their different afpefts. It is divided into natu¬
ral ajlrohgy, ox meteorology ; which is confined to t e
foretelling of natural effeas, as the winds, ram hail,
and fnow, frofts and tempefts. In this confifts one
branch of the art of almanack-makers; and by merely
confronting thefe predations in the kalendar with the
weather each day produces, every man of fenfe will
fee what regard is to be paid to this part of aftrology.
The other part, which is called ajlrology, is ftill
far more illufive and ralh than the former: and having
been at firft the wonderful art of vifionanes, it after¬
wards became that of impoftors •, a very common fate
with all thofe chimerical fciences, of which we Ihai
here fpeak. This art pretends to teach the method ot
predicting all forts of events that ftiall happen upon
The earth, as well fuch as relate to the public as to pri¬
vate perfons •, and that by the fame mfpeaion of the
ftars and planets and their different conffellations.
2. Horofcopy, which may alfo be confidered as a part
of aftrology, is the art by which they draw a figure,
or celeftial fcheme, containing the 12 houfes, wherein
they mark the difpofition of the heavens at a certain
moment; for example, that at which a man is born, m
order to foretel his fortune, or the incidents of his life.
In a word, it is the difpofition of the ftars and planets
at the moment of any perfon’s birth. But as there
cannot be any probable or poflible relation between
the conftellations and the human race, all the principles
they lay down, and the prophecies they draw from
them, are chimerical, falfe, abfurd, and a criminal im-
pofition on mankind.
3 The art of augury confifted, among the ancient
Romans, in obferving the flight, the finging and eat¬
ing of birds, efpecially fuch as were held facred. bee
A^Tfle equally deceitful art of harufpicy confifted,
on the contrary, in the infpeaion of the bowels of ani¬
mals, but principally of viftims j and from thence pre¬
dicting grand incidents relative to the republic, and
the good or bad events of its enterprifes. .
5. Aeromancy was the art of divining by the air.
This vain fcience has alfo come to us from the Pagans*,
but is rejeded by reafon as well as Chriftiamty, as talle
and abfurd. . , , , . r
6 Pyromancy is a divination made by the inipec-
tion of *a flame, either by obferving to which fide it
turns, or by throwing into it fome combuftible matter,
or a bladder filled with wane, or any thing elfe from
which they imagined they were able to prediCt.^
7. Hydromancy is the fuppofed art of divining by
water. The Perfians, according to Varro, invented itj
Pythagoras and Numa Pompilius made ufe of it ; and
we ftill admire the like wonderful prognofticators.
8. Geomancy was a divination made by obferving of
cracks or clefts in the earth. It was alfo performeu
by points made on paper, or any other fubftance, at a
venture ; and they judged of future events from the
figures that refulted from thence. 1 his was certain¬
ly very ridiculous j but it is nothing lefs lo to pre¬
tend to predift future events by the infpeChon of the
grounds of a difli of tea or coffee, or by cards, and
many other like matters.—Thus have defigning men
made ufe of the four elements to deceive their credu¬
lous brethren.
q. Chiromancy is the art which teaches to know,
by infpeCting the hand, not only the inclinations of
a man, but his future deftiny alfo. The fo°ls °r
importors who praftife this art pretend that the dif¬
ferent parts or the lines of the hand have a 1 elation
to the internal parts of the body, as fome to the heart,
others to the liver, fpleen, &c. On this falfe fup-
pofition, and on many others equally extravagant,
the principles of chiromancy are founded : and o*
which, however, feveral authors, as ^obert Flu^ ^
Englilhman, Artemidorus, M. de la Chambre, John
of Indagina, and many others, have written large trea-
tlfTo. PhyfjQgnomy, or phyfiognomancy, is a fcience that
pretends to teach the nature, the '^"dbg.
/
D I V [ 277 ] D I V
Divine, underftandlng, and the inclinations of men, by the In-
^lving* fpeftion of their countenances, and is therefore very
little lefs frivolous than chiromancy ; though Ariftotle,
and a number of learned men after him, have written
exprefs treatifes concerning it.
DIVINE, fomething relating to God. The word
is alfo ufed, figuratively, for any thing that is excellent,
extraordinary, and that feems to go beyond the power
of nature and the capacity of mankind. In which
fenfe, the compafs, telefcope, clocks, &c. are faid to
be divine inventions : Plato is called the divine author,
the divine Plato ; and the fame appellation is given to
Seneca : Hippocrates is called, “ the divine old man,”
divinus fenex, &c.
DIVING, the art or afl; of defcending under water
to cdnfiderable depths, and abiding there a competent
time.
The ufes of diving are very confiderable, particular¬
ly in the fifiling for pearls, corals, Iponges, &c. See
PEARL-Fij'lnng, See.
There have been various methods propofed, and ma¬
chines contrived, to render the bufinefs of diving more
fafe and eafy. The great point is to furnifh the diver
with frefh air 5 without which, he mull either make a
Ihort flay or perifli.
Thofe who dive for fponges in the Mediterranean,
help themfefves by carrying down fponges dipt in oil
in their mouths. But confidering the fmall quantity
of air that can be contained in the pores of a fponge,
and how much that little will be contrafted by the
preflure of the incumbent watter, fuch a fupply cannot
long fubfill the diver. For it is found by experiment,
that a gallon of air included in a bladder, and by a pipe
reciprocally infpired and expired by the lungs, becomes
unfit for refpiration in little more than one minute of
time. For though its elafticity be but little altered in
palling the lungs, yet it lofes its vivifying fpirit, and is
rendered effete.
In effeft, a naked diver, Dr Halley affures us, with¬
out a fponge, cannot remain above a couple of mi¬
nutes enclofed in water, nor much longer with one,
without fulfocating; nor, without long praftice, near
fo long j ordinary perfons beginning to ftifle in about
half a minute. Befides, if the depth be confider¬
able, the preffure of the water on the veffels makes the
eyes blood-fhotten, and frequently occafions a (pitting
of blood.
Hence, where there has been occafion to continue
long at the bottom, fome have contrived double flexible
pipes, to circulate air down into a cavity, enclofing
the diver as with armour, both to furnifh air and
to bear off the preffure of the water, and give leave
to his breaft to dilate upon infpiration j the frefh air
being forced down one of the pipes with bellows, and
returning by the other of them, not unlike to an arte¬
ry and vein.
But this method is impracticable when the depth
furpaffes three fathoms j the rvater embracing the bare
limbs fo clofely as to obftruft the circulation of the
blood in them ; and withal prefling fo ftrongly on all
the junftures where the armour is made tight with lea¬
ther, that, if there be the leaf! defedt in any of them,
the water rufhes in, and inftantly fills the whole engine,
to the great danger of the diver’s life.
It is certain, however, that people, by being accu-
ftomed to the wrater from their infancy, will at length Diving,
be enabled, not only to flay much longer under water v~‘"“
than the time above mentioned, but put on a kind of
amphibious nature, fo that they feem to have the ufe
of all their faculties as well when their bodies are im-
merfed in water as when they are on dry land. Moll
favage nations are remarkable for this. According to
the accounts of our late voyagers, the inhabitants of
the South fea iflands are fuch expert divers, that when
a nail or any piece of iron was thrown overboard, they
would inftantly jump into the fea after it, and never
failed to recover it, notwithftanding the quick defeent
of the metal. Even among civilized nations, many per¬
fons have been found capable of continuing an incre¬
dible length of time below w'ater. The moft remark¬
able inftance of this kind is the famous Sicilian diver
Nicolo Pefce. The authenticity of the account, in¬
deed, depends entirely on the authority of F. Kircher.
He aflures us, that he had it from the archives of the
kings of Sicily : but, notwithftanding this aiTertion,
the whole hath fo much of the marvellous in it, that
we believe there are few who will not look upon it to
have been exaggerated. “ In the times of Frederic
king of Sicily (fays Kircher), there lived a celebrated
diver, w'hofe name was Nicholas, and who, from his
amazing fldll in fwimming, and his perfeverance under
water, wras furnamed the JiJh. This man had from his
infancy been ufed to the fea } and earned his fcanty
fubfiftence by diving for corals and oyfters, which he
fold to the villagers on Ihore. His long acquaintance
with the fea, at laft, brought it to be almoft his natu¬
ral element. He was frequently known to fpend five
days in the midft of the waves, without any other pro-
vifions than the fiftr which he caught there and ate
rawT. He often fwam over from Sicily into Calabria,
a tempeftuous and dangerous pafiage, carrying letters
from the king. He was frequently known to fwim
among the ^gulfs of the Lipari iflands, noway appre-
henfive of danger.
“ Some mariners out at fea, one day obferved fome¬
thing at fome diftance from them, which they regard¬
ed as a fea monfter ; but upon its approach it was
knowm to be Nicholas, whom they took into their fiiip.
When they afked him whither he was going in fo ftor-
my and rough a fea, and at fuch a diftance from land,
he Ihow'ed them a packet of letters, which he was car¬
rying to one of the towms of Italy, exaftly done up
in a leather bag, in fuch a manner as that they could
not be wetted by the fea. He kept them thus com¬
pany for fome time in their voyage, converfing, and
alking queftious j and after eating a hearty-meal with
them, he took his leave, and, jumping into the fea, pur-
fued his voyage alone.
“ In order to aid thefe powers of enduring in the
deep, nature feemed to have aflifted him in a very ex¬
traordinary manner: for the fpaces between his fingers
and toes were webbed, as in a goofej and his cheft be¬
came fo very capacious, that he could take in, at one
infpiration, as much breath as would ferve him for a
whole day.
“ The account of fo extraordinary a perfon did not
fail to reach the king himfelf ; who commanded Ni¬
cholas to be brought before him. It was no eafy mat¬
ter to find Nicholas, who generally fpent his time in
the folitudes of the deep ; but, at laft, after much
1- fearching,
D I V
[ 278 ]
D I V
T)ivmg. fearching, lie was found, and brought before his ma-
' jefty. The curiofity of this monarch had been long ex¬
cited by the accounts he had heard of the bottom of
the gulf of Charybdis •, he now therefore conceived,
that it would be a proper opportunity to have more
certain information. Pie therefore commanded our
poor diver to examine the bottom of this dreadful
whirlpool ; and as an incitement to his obedience, he
ordered a golden cup to be Hung into it. Nicholas was
not infenfible of the danger to which he was expoled •,
dangers bed known only to himfelf; and therefore he
prefumed to remonflrate: but the hopes ot the revrard,
the defire of plealing the king, and the pleafure of
{bowing his {kill, at laft prevailed. He inftantly jump¬
ed into the gulf, and was as inftantly fwallowed up
in its bofom. He continued for three quarters of an
hour below ; during which time the king and his at¬
tendants remained on ftiore, anxious for his fate j but
he at laft appeared, holding the cup in triumph in one
hand, and making his way good among the waves with
the other. It may be fuppofed he was received with
applaufe when he came on Chore : the cup was made
the reward of his adventure ; the king ordered him to
be taken proper care of; and, as he was fomewhat fa¬
tigued and debilitated by his labour, after a hearty
meal he was put to bed, and permitted to relrelh him¬
felf by deeping.
“ When his fpirits were thus reftored, he was again
brought to fatisfy the king’s curiofity with a narrative
of the wonders he had feen ; and his account was to
the following effeft. He would never, he faid, have
obeyed the king’s commands, had he been apprifed of
half the dangers that were before him. There were
four things, he faid, which rendered the gulf dread¬
ful, not only to men, but to fifties theml'elves. I. The
force of the water burfting up from the bottom, which
required great ftrength to refift. 2. The abruptnefs
of the rocks that on every fide threatened deftruc-
tion. 3. The force of the whirlpool daftiing againft
thofe rocks. And, 4. The number and magnitude
of the polypous fifti, fome of which appeared as large
as a man j and which everywhere flicking againft
the rocks, ptojefled their fibrous arms to_ entangle
him. Being afked how he was able fo readily to find
the cup that had been thrown in, he replied, that it
happened to be flung by the waves into the. cavity of
a rock againft which he himfelf was urged in . his de-
feent. This account, however, did not fatisfy the
king’s curiofity. Being requefted to venture once
more into the gulf for further difeoveries, he at firft
refufed: but the king, defirous of having the moft
exaft information poffible of all things to be found
in the gulf, repeated his folicitations) and, to give
them ftill greater weight, produced a larger cup than
the former, and added alfo a purfe of gold. Upon
thefe confiderations the unfortunate diver once again
plunged into the whirlpool, and was never heard of
more.” . , r
To obviate the inconvemencies of diving to thole
who have not the extraordinary powers of the diver
above mentioned, different inftruments have been con¬
trived. The chief of thefe is the diving-bell; which
is moft conveniently made in form of a truncated cone,
the fmaller bafe being clofed, and the larger open.
It is to be poifed with lead 5 and fo fufpended, that
1
the veffel may fink full of air, with its open bafis down- Diving. ^
ward, and as near as may be in a fituation parallel to' v—'
the horizon, fo as to clofe with the furface of the wa¬
ter all at once.
Under this covercle the diver fitting, finks down
with the included air to the depth defired : and if the
cavity of the veffel contain a tun of water, a Angle
man may remain a full hour, without much inconve¬
nience, at five or fix fathoms deep. But the lower
you go, ftill the included air contrafis itfelf accord¬
ing to the weight of the water which comprefles it: fo
that at 33 feet deep the bell becomes hall full of wa¬
ter, the preffure of the incumbent water being then
equal to that of the atmofphere j and at all other
depths the fpace occupied by the compreffed air in the
upper part of the bell will be to the under part of its
capacity filled with water, as 33 ':0
of the water in the bell below the common.furfa.ee
thereof. And this condenfed air being taken in with
the breath foon infinuates itfelf into all the cavities of
the body, and has no ill effea, provided the bell be
permitted to delcend lo {lowly as to allow time for
that purpofe. One inconvenience that attends it, is
found in the ears, within which there are cavities which
open only outwards, and that by pores fo fmall as not
to give admiflion even to the air itfelf, unlels they be
dilated and diftended by a confiderable force. Hence,
on the firft defeent of the bell, a preffure begins to be
felt on the ear-, which, by degrees, grows painful,
till the force overcoming the obftacle, what conftrin-
ges thefe pores yields to the preflure, and letting fome
condenfed air (lip in, prefently eafe enfues. The bell
defeending lower, the pain is renewed, and again ealed
in the fame manner. But the greateft inconvenience
of this engine is, that the water entering it, contra&s
the bulk of air into a fmall compafs, it foon heats and
becomes unfit for refpirationj io that there is a neceili-
ty for its being drawn up and renewed.
“ The invention of this bell, (fays Profeffor Beck-Hijl. of
mann), is generally affigned to the 16th century;-fo™*-
and 1 am of opinion that it was little known before
that period. We read, however, that in the time of
Ariftotle divers ufed a kind of kettle, to enable thepi
to continue longer under the water ; but the man¬
ner in which it was employed is not clearly deferi-
bed. The oldeft information which we have of the
ufe of the diving-bell in Europe, is that of John
Taifnier, who was born in Hainault in 1509, had a
place at court under Charles V. whom he attended
on his voyage to Africa. He relates in what man¬
ner he faw at Toledo, in the prefence of the emperor
and feveral thouland fpeftators, tw?o Greeks let them-
felves down under water, in a large inverted kettle,
with a burning light, and rife up again without being
wet. It appears that this art w-ns then new to the
emperor and the Spaniards, and that the Greeks were
caufed to make the experiment in order to prove the
poffibility of it.” . , , ^
“ When the Englifh, in 1588, difperfed the Spanrih
fleet, called the Invincible Armada, part of the Ihips
went to the bottom, near the Ifle o{ Mull, on the. weft-
ern coaft of Scotland and feme of thefc, according to
the account of the Spanifti prifoners, contained great
riches. This information excited, from time to time,
the avarice of fpeculators, and gave rile to feveral at¬
tempts
D I V { s
tempts to procure part of the loft treafure. In the
“ year 1665, a perfon was fo fortunate as to bring up
fome cannon, which, however, were not fufficient to
defray the expences. Of thefe attempts, and the kind
of diving-bell ufed in them, the reader will find an ac¬
count in a work printed at Rotterdam in 1669, and
entitled G. Sinclan Ars nova et mngna gravitatis ct le-
vitatis. In the year 1680, William Phipps, a native
of America, formed a projeft for fearching and unload¬
ing a rich Spanifli flop funk on the coaft of Hifpaniola ;
and reprefented his plan in fuch a plaufible manner, that
King Charles II. gave him a fliip, and furniflied him
with every thing neceffary for the undertaking. He
fet fail in the year 1683; but being unfuccefsful, re¬
turned again in great poverty, though with a firm con-
vj&ion of the poffibility of his fcheme. By a fubfcrip-
tion promoted chiefly by the duke of Albemarle, the
fon of the celebrated Monk, Phipps was enabled, in
1687, to try his fortune once more, having previoufly
engaged to divide the profit according to the twenty
flrares of which the fubfeription confifted. At firft all
his labour proved fruitlefs; but at laft, when his pa-
tience was almoft entirely exhaufted, he was fo lucky as
to bring up, from the depth of fix or feven fathoms, fo
much treafure that he returned to England with the
value of two hundred thoufand pounds fterling. Of
this fum he himfelf got about fixteen, others fay twen¬
ty thoufand, and the duke ninety thoufand pounds.
After he came back, fome perfons endeavoured to per-
fuade the king to feize both the fliip and the cargo,
under a pretence that Phipps, when he folicited for his
majefty’s permiflion, had not given accurate information
refpeifting the bufinefs. But the king anfwered, with
much greatnefs of mind, that he knew Phipps to be an
honeft man, and that he and his friends fliould fliare the
whole among them had he returned with double the
Value. His majefty even conferred upon him the ho¬
nour of knighthood, to fhow how much he was fatisfied
with his conduff. We know not the conftrudlion of
Phipps’s apparatus: but of the old figures of a diving-
machine, that which approaches neareft to the diving-
bell is in a book on fortification by Lorini; who de-
feribes a fquare box bound round with iron, which is
furnithed with windows, and has a ftool affixed to it for
the diver. This ingenious contrivance appears, how¬
ever, to be older than that Italian; at leait he does not
pretend to be the inventor of it.
“ In the year 1617, Francis Kefsler gave a defeription
of his water-arraour, intended alfo for diving, but which
cannot really be ufed for that purpofe. In the year
1671, W itfen taught, in a better manner than any of
his predecefibrs, the conftrudftion end ufe of the di¬
ving-bell ; but he is much miftaken when he fays that
it was invented at Amfterdam. In 1679 appeared,
lor the firft time, Borelli’s well known work de motu
animal turn', in which he not only deferibed the diving-
bell, but alfb propofed another, the impra&icability
of which was ffewn by James Bernouilli. When
oturm publiflied his Collegium curiofurn in 1678, he
propofed fome hints for the improvement of this ma¬
chine, on which remarks were made in the Journal
des Sgavans.”
To obviate the difficulties of the diving-bell, Dr Hal¬
ley, contrived fome further apparatus, W'hereby not on¬
ly to recruit and rcfrelh the air from time to time, but
79 1 - d 1 v
alfo to keep the water wholly out of it at any depth. Diving,
The manner in which this was effe&ed, he relates in ' ^—
the following w'ords ;
“ The bell I made ufe of was of wood, containing
about 60 cubic feet in its concavity ; and was of the
form of a truncated cone, whofe diameter at the top was
three feet, and at the bottom five. This I coated with
lead fo heavy that it would fink empty; and I diftri-
buted the weight fo about its bottom, that it would go
down in a perpendicular dire&ion, and no other. In
the top I fixed a ftrong but clear glafs, as a window,
to let in the light from above ; and likewife a cock to
let out the hot air that had been breathed : and below,
about a yard under the bell, I placed a ftage which
hung by three ropes, each of which was charged with
about one hundred weight to keep it Ready. This
machine I fufpended from the mail of a fliip by a fprit,
which was fufficient]y fecured by flays to the mart head*
and was direbted by braces to carry it overboard clear
of the fliip’s fide, and to bring it again within board
as occafion required.
“ I o fupply air to this bell when under water, I
caufed a couple of barrels of about 36 gallons each to
be cafed with lead, fo as to fink empty ; each of them
having a bung-hole in its loweft parts to let in the wa¬
ter, as the air in them condenfed on their defeent; and
to let it out again when they were drawn up full from
below. And to a hole in the uppermoft part of thefe
barrels, I fixed a leathern trunk or hofe well liquored
with bees wax and oil, and long enough to fall below
the bung-hole, being kept down by a weight append¬
ed : fo that the air in the upper part of the barrels
could not efcape, unlefs the lower ends of thefe hofe
were firft lifted up.
The air-barrels being thus prepared, I fitted them
with tackle proper to make them rife and fall alternate¬
ly, after the manner of two buckets in a well; which
\Vtts done with fo much eafe, that two men, with lefs
than half their ftrength, could perform all the labour re¬
quired ; and in their defeent they were direfled by lines
faftened to the under edge of the bell, the which palled
through rings on both fides the leathern hofe in each
barrel ; lo that, Hiding down by thefe lines, they came
readily to the hand of a man who flood on the ftage on
purpofe to receive them, and to take up the ends of
the hofe into the bell. Through thefe hofe, as foon
as their ends came above the furface of the water in
the barrels, ail the air that was included m the upper
parts of them was blown with great force into the bell:
whilft the water entered at the bung-holes below, and
filled them ; and as foon as the air of one barrel had
been thus received, upon a fignal given, that was drawn
up, and at the fame time the other defeended ; and
by an alternate fucceffion, furniflied air fo quick, and
in fo great plenty, that I myfelf have been one of five
who have been together at the bottom in nine or ten
fathom water, for above an hour and a half at a time,
without any fort of ill confequence ; and I might have
continued there as long as I pleafed, for any thing that
appeared to the contrary. Befides, the whole cavity
of the bell was kept entirely free from water, fo that I
fat on a bench which was diametrically placed near the
bottom, wholly dreffed, with all my clothes on. I
only obferved, that it w-as neceflary to be let down
gradually at firft, as about 12 feet at a time; and
then
D I V I
Diving, then to flop and drive out the air that entered,
—y-i- receiving three or four barrels of frelh ^ before I
defcendecl further. But, being arrived at the depth
defigned, I then let out as much of the hot air that
had^been breathed, as each barrel would replenifti
with cool, by means of the cock at the t°P °f the
bell •, through whofe aperture, though very fmall
the air would ruih with fo much violence, as to make
the furface of the fea boil, and to cover it with a
white foam, notwithftanding the weight of the water
°V<‘ Thus I found that I could do any thing that re¬
quired to be done juft under us 5 and that, by taking
the ftage, I could, for a fpace as wide as the cir¬
cuit of the' bell, lay the bottom of tbe fea fo far dry
as not to be overihoes thereon. And, by the glais
window, fo much light was tranfmitted, that when the
fea was clear, and efpecially when the fun ^one» ^
could fee perfeaiy well to write or read *, mucb m°re
to fallen or lay hold on any thing under 11s that was
to be taken up. And, by the return of the air-barrels,
I often fent up orders written with an iron pen, on
fmall plates of lead, direaing how to move us from
- place to place as occafion required. At other times
when the water was troubled and thick, . would
be as dark as night below, but m fuch cafes I have
been able to keep a candle burning in the bell as
long as I pleafed, notwithftanding the great expence
of fir neceffary to maintain flame.—By an additional
contrivance, I have found it not impraaicable, for a
diver to go out of an engine to a good diftance from
it, the afr being conveyed to him with a continued
ftream, by fmall flexible pipes ; which pipes may ler e
as a clue,' to direft him back again when he would re-
^Plate^LXXVI. fig. I. fhows Dr Halley’s diving-
bell with“ diversg« work. DBLKR1MP repre-
fents the body of the bell. D the gUs wh.ch ferves
window. B, the cock for letting ou^the £
280 ] D I V
by it is colder, and consequently more fit Jor refpitation.
Diving.
as a winaow. , r r* ^ ^
which has been breathed. LM the feats. » ™
the air-barrels. P, H, two of the divers. I, another
diver at a diftance from the bell, and breathing through
the flexible tube K—This diver is fuppofed to have a
head-piece of lead, made to fit quit dole about his
ihoulders •, this head-piece was capable of containing as
much-air as would fupply him for a minute or two
When he had occafion for more air, he turned a cock at
F by which means a communication was opened with
the air in the bell, and thus he could receive a new lup-
^^fThTinventiotr of this diving machine there
has been one contrived by Mr Triewald, I. R. &. and
military archited to the king of Sweden, which for
fingle perfon, is in fome refpeas thought to be more
eligible than Dr Halley’s, and is conftruaed as_ fo -
lows: AB is the bell, which is funk by lead weights
DD hung to its bottom. This bell is of copper and
tinned all over in the infide, which is illuminated y
three ftrong convex lenfes, G, G, G, with coPPer ^
H H H, to defend them. The iron ring or plate E
femes’the diver to Hand on when he is at work and is
fufpended at fuch a diftance from the bottom of the
bell bv the chains F, F, F, that when the diver ftands
upright, his head is juft above the water in the bell,
where the air is much better than higher up, becaufe
It is comer, aim   * ,
But as the diver muft always be within the bell, and
his head of courfe in the upper part, the inventor has
contrived, that' even there, when he has breathed the
hot air as well as he can, be may, by means of a Ipi-
ral copper tube, b c, placed clofe to the infide of the
bell, draw the cooler and frelher air from the lower-
moft parts *, for which purpofe, a flexible leather tube*
about two feet long, is fixed to the upper end of the
copper tube at b ; and to the other end of this tube is
fixed an ivory mouth-piece, by which the diver draws
The greateft improvement, however, which the di¬
ving bell ever received, or probably can rec^ive» ™aS
from the late Mr Spalding of Edinburgh. A feamn
of his improved diving-bell is reprefented m tig. 3.
This conftruftion is defigned to remedy iome incon¬
veniences of Dr Halley’s which are very evident, and
of very dangerous tendency. I hefe are, % Dr
Halley’s conftru£lion, the finking or raifing ot the bell
depends entirely on the people who are at the furtace
of the water-, and as the bell even when in the water
has a very confiderable weight, the raifing it not only
Requires a great deal of labour, but there >S a poffiM.ty
of’the rope breaking by which it is raifed, and thus
every perlon in the bell would inev.tably penfli. 2-As
there are, in many places of the fea, rocks winch he
at a confiderable depth, the figure of which cannot
poflibly be perceived from above, there is danger t bat
fome of their ragged prominences may catch hold
of one of the edges of the bell in its delcent, anu
thus overfet it before any fignal can be given to thofe
above, which would infallibly be attended with
deflruaion of the people in the bell j and as it muft
always be unknown, before trial, what kind of a
bottom the fea has in any place, it is plain, that
without fome contrivance to obviate this laft dange ,
the defeent in Dr Halley’s diving-bell is not at all
Cl1 How thefe inconveniencies are remedied by Mr Spal¬
ding’s new conftruftion will be eafily underftood from
thegfollowing defeription.—ABCD reprefents auc¬
tion of the bell, which is made of wood ; are lr0"
hooks, by means of which it is fufpended by ropes
Q B F e, and QA E fU, and QS, as expreffedm
thTfiffure • c. cy are iron hooks, to which are appended
lead weights, that keep the mouth of the bell a ways
parallel to the furface of the water, whether the ma¬
chine taken altogether is lighter or heavier than an
equal bulk of water. By thefe weights alone, how¬
ever the bell would not fink ; another is therefore
added, reprefented at L and which can be raifed or
lowered at pleafure, by means of a rope Paflln| 0Ver t e
pulley fl, and faftened to one of the ftdes of the bell at
M 7As the bell defeends, this weight, called by Mr
Spalding the balance-weight, hangs down
able way below the mouth of the bell. In cale the
edge of the bell is catched by any obftacle, the balance-
weight is immediately lowered down lo that it may reft
g the bottom. By this means the bell is 1’gktened.
lb that all danger of overfetting is removed, Ior ben]g
lighter, without the balance-weight, than an equal bulk
of water, it is evident that the bell vni! rife, as well s
the length of the rope, affixed to the ^ ^ce-weight
Will allow it. This weight, therefore, will krveasa
D I V [ 281 ] D I V
Diving, kind of anchor to keep the bell at any particular depth
-“■V'—•* which the divers may think neceffary ; or by pulling it
quite up, the del'cent may be continued to the very
bottom.
By another very ingenious contrivance, Mr Spald¬
ing rendered it poflible for the divers to raife the bell,
with all the weights appended to it, even to the fur-
face, or to flop at any particular depth, as they think
proper; and thus they could Hill be fafe, even though
the rope defigned for pulling up the bell was broke.
For this purpofe the bell is divided into two cavities,
both of which are made as tight as poflible. Juit
above the fecond bottom EF, are fmall flits in the fides
of the bell; through which the water entering as the
bell defcends, difplaces the air originally contained in
this cavity, which flies out at the upper orifice of the
cock GH. When this is done, the divers turn the
handle G, which flops the cock ; fo that if any more
air was to get into the cavity AEFD, it could not
longer be difcharged through the orifice H as before.
When this cavity is full of water, the bell finks •, but,
when a confiderable quantity of air is admitted, it
rifes. If, therefore, the divers have a mind to raife
themfelves, they turn the fmall cock g, by which a
communication is made between the upper and under
cavities of the bell. The confequence of this is, that a
quantity of air immediately enters the upper cavity,
forces out a quantity of the water contained in it, and
thus renders the bell lighter by the whole weight of
the water which is difplaced. Thus, if a certain quan¬
tity of air is admitted into the upper cavity, the bell
will defcend very flowly ; if a greater quantity, it will
neither afcend nor defcend, but remain flationary ; and
if a larger quantity of air is ftill admitted, it will arife
to the top. It is to be obferved, however, that the
air which is thus let out into the upper cavity muft be
immediately replaced from the air-barrel 5 and the air
is to be let out very flowly, or the bell will rife to the
top with fo great velocity that the divers will be in
danger of being fliaken out of their feats. But, by
following thefe direftions, every poflible accident may
be prevented, and people may defcend to great depths
without the leaft apprehenfion of danger. The bell
alfo becomes fo eafily manageable in the water, that it
may be conduced from one place to another by a fmall
boat with the greateft eafe, and with perfeft fafety to
thofe who are in it.
Inftead of wooden feats ufed by Dr Halley, Mr
Spalding made ufe of ropes fufpended by hooks bbb;
and on thefe ropes the divers may fit without any in¬
convenience. I and K are twTo windows made of thick
ftrong glafs, for admitting light to the divers. N re-
prefents an air-cafk with its tackle, and OCP the flex¬
ible pipe through which the air is admitted to the bell.
In the afcent and defcent of this calk the pipe is kept
down by a fmall weight appended, as in Dr Halley’s
machine. R is a fmall cock by which the hot air is
difcharged as often as it becomes troublefome. Fig. 4.
is a reprefentation of the whole diving apparatus, which
it is hoped wdll be readily underftood without any fur¬
ther explanation. Two air-barrels are reprefented in
this figure ; but Mr Spalding was of opinion, that one
capable of containing 30 gallons is fufficient for an or¬
dinary machine.
Vol. VII. Part I.
We are told of another method put in pra£lice by Divmg-
a gentleman of Devonfhire. He has contrived a large bladder
cafe of ftrong leather, perfeflly water-proof, which... J*.,..
may hold about half a hoglhead of air. This is fo m ^1 ‘tyf
contrived, that, when he (huts himfelf up in this cafe,
he may walk at the bottom of the fea, and go into any
part of a wrecked veflel, and deliver out the goods.—
This method, we are told, he has praffifed for many
years, and has thus acquired a large fortune. It
would be a confiderable improvement on this machine
to condenfe the air in it as much as poflible before the
diver defcended ; as he would thus be furniflied with
an atmofphere endued with elafticity fufficient to refift:
the weight of the water, which otherwife would fqueeze
his cafe into much lefs room than it originally took up.
The condenfed air alfo would ferve for refpiration a
much longer time than that which is in its ordinary
ftate.
DiriNG-B/adder, a machine invented by Borelli,
and by him preferred, though without any good rea-
fon, to the diving-bell. It is a globular veflel of brafs
or copper, about two feet in diameter, which contains
the diver’s head. It is fixed to a goat’s-lkin habit ex¬
actly fitted to his perfon. Within the veflel are pipes j
by means of which a circulation of air is contrived \
and the perfon carries an air-pump by his fide by
which he can make himfelf heavier or lighter as fifties
do, by contrafling or dilating their air-bladder. By
this means he thought all the objeflions to which
other diving machines are liable w^ere entirely obviated,
and particularly that of want of air ; the air which had
been breathed, being, as he imagined, deprived of its
noxious qualities by circulating through the pipes.
Thefe advantages, however, it is evident, are only ima¬
ginary. The diver’s limbs, being defended from the
preffure of the water only by a goat’s Ikin, would in¬
fallibly be crufhed, if he defcended to any confiderable
depth ; and from the difcoveries now made by Dr
Prieftley and others, it is abundantly evident, that air,
which is once rendered foul by breathing, cannot in
any degree be reftored by circulation through pipes.
Concerning the ufe of copper machines in general, Mr
Spalding favoured us with the following curious ob-
fervation, namely, That when a perfon has breathed
in them a few minutes, he feels in his mouth a very
difagreeable brafly tafte, which continues all the time
he remains in the veflel; fo that, on this account,
copper feems by no means an eligible material. This
tafle moft probably arifes from the aflion of the al-
kalefcent effluvia of the body upon the copper ; for
volatile alkali is a ftrong diflblvent of this metal : but
how thefe effluvia volatilize the copper in fuch a man¬
ner as to make the tafte of it fenfible in the mouth, it
is not eafv to fay.
DIVINI TY, properly fignifies the nature, quality,
and effence of God.
Divinity is alfo ufed in the fame fenfe with theo-
logy.
DIVISIBILITY, that property by which the par¬
ticles of matter in all bodies are capable of a feparadon
or difunion from each other.
The Peripatetics and Cartefians hold divifibility to
be an affeftion of all matter. The Epicureans, again,
allow it to agree to every phyfical continuum j but
N n they
D I V [
Bivifibllity. tliey deny that this affeftion agrees to all bodies, for
the primary corpufcles or atoms they maintain to be
perfedtly infecable and indiviflble. < .
As it is evident that body' is extended, fo it is no
lefs evident that it is divifible •, for fince no. two par¬
ticles of matter can exift in the fame place, it follows,
that they are really diftin£t from each other j which is
all that is meant by being divifible. In this fenfe the
leait conceivable particle mull ftill be divilible, lince it
will confift of parts which will be really diftinft. . To
illuftrate this by a familiar inftance. Let the lead ima¬
ginable piece of matter be conceived lying on a fmooth
plain furface, it is evident the furface will not touch
it everywhere ; thofe parts, therefore, which it does not
touch may be fuppofed feparable from the others, and
fo on as far as we pleafe •, and this is all that is meant
when we lay matter is infinitely divifible.
The infinite divifibility of mathematical quantity is
demonftrated thus geometrically. Suppofe the line
AC perpendicular to BF •, and another, as GH, at a
fmall diftance from it, alfo perpendicular to the lame
line ; with the centres CCC, &c. delcribe circles cut¬
ting the line GH in the points e e <?, &c. Now the
greater the radius AC is, the lefs is the part e H.
But the radius may be augmented in infinitum j lo
long, therefore, the part e H may be divided into ftill
lefs portions j confequently it may be divided in in¬
finitum. c ,,
All that is fuppofed in ft rift geometry (fays Mr
Maclaurin) concerning the divifibility of magnitude,
amounts to no more than that a given magnitude may
be conceived to be divided into a number oi parts equal
to any given or propofed number. It is true, that the
number of parts into which a given magnitude may oe
conceived to be divided, is not to be fixed or limited,
becaufe no given number is fo great but a greater may
be conceived and affigned •, but there is not, therefore,
any neceflity of fuppofing the number of parts actually
Plate
CLXXV.
any ncucuny   - * r r
infinite ; and if fome have drawn very abftrufe conie-
quences from fuch a fuppofition, yet geometry ought
not to be loaded with them.
How far matter may a&ually be divided, may in
fome meafure be conceived from hence, that a piece of
wire gilt with fo fmall a quantity as eight grains of
gold, may be drawn out to a length of 13,000 feet,
the whole furface of it ftill remaining covered with
gold. We have alfo a furprifing inftance of the mi-
nutenefs of fome parts of matter from the nature of
light and vifion. Let a candle be lighted, and placed
in an open plain, it will then be vifible two miles round *,
and confequently, was it placed two miles above the
furface of the earth, it would fill with luminous par¬
ticles a fphere whofe diameter was four.miles,, and that
before it had loft any fenfible part of its weight. A
quantity of vitriol being diffolved, and mixed with
nooo times as much water, will tinge the whole 5 con¬
fequently will be divided into as many parts as there
are vifible portions of matter in that quantity of water.
There are perfumes, which, without a fenfible dimi¬
nution of their quantity, fhall fill a very large fpace
with their odoriferous particles •, which muft therefore
be of an inconceivable fmallnefs, fince there will be a
fufficient number in every part of that fpace fenfibly
to affeft the organ of fmelling. Dr keill demonftrates,
that any particle of matter, how fmall foever, and any
282 ] D I V
finite fpace, how large foever, being given, it is pofiible ^
for that fmall particle of matter to be diffufed through
all that fpace, and to fill it in fuch a manner, as that
there ftiall be no pore in it whofe diameter fhall exceed
any given line.
The chief objeftions againft the divifibility of mat¬
ter in infinitum are, That an infinite cannot be con¬
tained by a finite; and that it follows from a divifibili¬
ty in infinitum, either that all bodies are equal, or that
one infinite is greater than another. But the anfwer
to thefe is eafy ; for the properties of a determined
quantity are not to be attributed to an infinite confider-
ed in a general fenfe ; and who has ever proved that
there could not be an infinite number of infinitely fmall
parts in a finite quantity, or that all infinites are equal ?
The contrary is demonftrated by mathematicians in in¬
numerable inftances. See the article Infinity, and
Gravefande Elem. Mathem. 1. i. c. 4.
DIVISION, in general, is the feparating a thing
into two or more parts.
Mechanical Division, fignifies that feparation which
is occalioned in the parts of a body by help of mecha¬
nical inftruments.—The mechanical divifion of bodies
does indeed feparate them into fmaller, homogeneous,
fimilar parts ; but this feparation cannot extend to the
primary integrant molecules of any body; and confe¬
quently is incapable of breaking what is properly call¬
ed their ag^vegation ,■ alfo, no union is formed betwixt
the divided and dividing bodies, in which refpeft di¬
vifion effentially differs from diffolution. .
Divifion is not properly a chemical operation. It is
only employed preparatorily to facilitate other opera¬
tions, and particularly folution. For this purpofe it
is very ufeful, as it increafes the quantity of furface,
and confequently the points of contaft of any body.—
Different methods are ufed to divide bodies according
to their nature. Thofe which are tenacious and elaftic,
as horns and gums, require to be cut, rafped, or filed.
Divifion.
Metals, becaufe of their duttility, require the fame
treatment : but as they are alio fufible, they may be
quickly and conveniently reduced into grains fmall
enough for moft operations, by pouring them, when
melted, into water. All brittle bodies may be redu¬
ced conveniently into fine parts by being bruifed in a
mortar with a peftle. Very hard bodies, fuch as.glafs,
cryftals, ftones, particularly thofe of the vitrifiable
kind, before they are pounded, ought to be plunged
when red hot into water, by which they are fplit and
cracked, and rendered more eafily pulverable. Bodies
of this kind may alfo be bruifed or ground by means
of a hard and flat ftone, upon which the matter is to
be put, and bruifed by another hard ftone fo fmall as
to be held and moved upon the larger ftone with the
hand. The larger ftone is called a porphyry, from its
being generally of that kind of ftone ; and the opera¬
tion is called porphyri%ation. Inlfead of porphyriza-
tion, a mill may be ufed, compofed of a hard grit
millftone, moving round upon another ftone of the
fame kind, which muft be fixed : in the upper ftone is
a groove or channel, through which the matter to be
ground paffes. By this method a fubftance may be
more quickly reduced to a fine powder than by por-
phyrization. But thefe mills can be only employed
for confiderable quantities of matter.
Thefe methods of mechanically dividing bodies are
- - - - attended
D I U [ 283 ] D I V
Divifion attended with fome praftical inconveniences; the moft
>1 confiderable of which is, that fome parts of the divid-
' ing inftruments are always flruck off, and mixed with
the matter to be divided. This may greatly affedl the
operations. For inftance, inftruments of iron and cop¬
per furnifh metallic colouring particles, and copper is
very prejudicial to health. Porphyry is coloured by a
reddifh brown matter, which injures the colour of
cryftal glaffes, enamels, and porcelains made with mat¬
ters ground upon this ftone. Thefe matters therefore
muft be cleanfed after their porphyrization, or elie no
inftruments capable of injuring the intended operations
ought to be employed. Thus, for the preparation of
all medicines to be taken internally, no copper inftru-
ments, as mortars, peftles, &c. ought to be ufed •, thofe
made of iron are preferable : and, inftead of porphyries,
mortars, grinding ftones and millftones made of hard
and white ftones, ought to be employed for fubftances
which are to enter into the compolition of enamels,
cryftal glafs, and porcelain, the whitenefs of which is
a moft neceffary quality.
Division, in Algebra. See Algebra.
Division, in Arithmetic. See Arithmetic, N°
11.
Divisions of an Army, in the military art, the
feveral brigades and fquadrons into which it is can¬
toned.
Divisions of a Battalion, are the feveral platoons in¬
to which it is divided in marching or firing, each of
which is commanded by an officer.
Division, in fea affairs, a fele£l number of ftiips in
a fleet or fquadron of men of war, diftinguiftied by a
particular flag or pendant, and ufually commanded by
a general officer. A fquadron is commonly ranged
into three divifions, the commanding officer of which
is always ftationed in the centre.
When a fleet confifts 0/ 60 fail of the line, that is,
of fhips having at leaft 60 cannon each, the admiral
divides it into three fquadrons, each of which has its
divifions and commanding officers. Each fquadron
has its proper colours, according to the rank of the
admiral who commands it, and every divifion its proper
mail. Thus the white flag denotes the firft divifion of
France ; the white and blue the fecond ; and the third
is charadlerized by the blue. In Britain, the firft ad¬
miral, or the admiral of the fleet, difplays the union
flag at the main-top-maft head ; next follows the w hite
flag with St George’s crofs j and afterwards the blue.
The private (hips carry pendants of the fame colour
wfith their refpedlive fquadrons at the mail of their
particular divifions ; fo that the laft (hip in the divifion
of the blue fquadron carries a blue pendant at her
mizen-top-maft head.
DIVISOR, in Arithmetic. See Arithmetic, N°
II.
DIUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of Chalci-
dice in Macedonia, near Mount Athos. Alfo a pro¬
montory of Crete, on the north fide of the illand.—A
third Dium, a promontory of Euboea ; or a town of
that name in Euboea, near the promontory Cenaeum,
on the north-weft fide of the ifland, called alfo Dia.—•
A fourth Dium in Pieria of Macedonia, on the weft
fide of the Sinus Thermaicus. Strabo and Livy place
it on the borders of Pieria to the fouth, at the foot of
Mount Olympus towards Theffaly. That it was a
fplendid city, appears from Polybius; who relates, that Divodu-
its gymnafium and walls were overthrown by the Alto-
lians. From which overthrow, however, it again reco-1
vered, Alexander adding new fplendour to it, by thebrafs
ftatues call by Lyfippus, and eredled there in memory
of the flain at the Granicus : an ornament which was
continued down to the time of the Romans } who made
it a colony, called Dienjis.—A. fifth Dium beyond Jor¬
dan, near Pella in the Piraea.
DIVODURUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of
the Mediomatrici, in Gallia Belgica $ fituated on the
Mofelle, on the fpot where now Metz Hands : now a
city of Lorrain. E. Long. 6. o. N. Lat. 49. 16.
DIVORCE, a breach or diffolution of the bond of
marriage. See Marriage, and Law Index.
Divorce is of two kinds: the one, a vinculo matri¬
monii, which alone is properly divorce; the other, a
menfa et thoro, “ a feparation from bed and board.”
The woman divorced a vinculo matrimonii receives
all again that ffie brought wuth her : the other has a
fuitable feparate maintenance allowed her out of her
hufband’s effedts. The firft only happens through
fome effential impediment, as confanguinity or affinity
within the degrees forbidden, pre-contraft, impotency,
adultery, &c. of which impediments the canon law
allows 14, comprehended in thefe verfes :
Error, conditio, votum, cognatio, crimen,
Cultus, difpantas, vis, ordo, hgamen, honejlas,
Sifts a finis, Ji forte coire nequibis,
Si par ochi et duplicis deft prafentia tefis,
Raptave ft mulier, nec parti reddita tut a.
Divorce is a fpiritual judgment, and therefore is paf-
fed in the fpiritual court. Under the old law, the wm-
man divorced was to have of her hufband a writing,
as St Jerome and fofephus teftify, to this effedl : Ipro-
mife, that hereafter I will lay no claim to thee; which
was called a bill of divorce.
Divorce was allowed of in great latitude both among
the Pagans and JewTs. At Rome, barrennefs, age,
difeafe, madnefs, and baniffiment, were the ordinary
caufes of divorce. Spurius Carvilius, between 500 and
600 years after the building of Rome, under the con-
fulffiip of M. Attilius, and P. Valerius, was the firft;
who put away his wife becaufe ffie was barren j though
Plutarch, in his Roman Queftions, maintains, that Do-
mitian w’as the firft who permitted divorce. Juftinian
afterwards added impotence, a vow of chaftity, and
the profeffion of a monaftic life, as valid reafons of di¬
vorce.
The Roman lawyers diftinguiffi between repudiurfi
and divortium ; making the former to be the breaking
of a contraft or efpoufal, and the latter feparation af¬
ter matrimony. Romulus enabled a fevere law, which
fuffered not a wife to leave her huffiand, but gave the
man the liberty of turning oft’ his wife, either upon
poifoning her children, counterfeiting his private keys,
or for the crime of adultery ; but if the huffiand on
any other occafion put her away, he ordered one moiety
of his eftate for the wufe, and the other to the goddefs
Ceres: befides an atonement to the gods of the earth.
However, in later times, the women as well as the men
might fue a divorce. The common way of divorcing
was by fending a bill to the woman, containing the rea¬
fons of feparation, and the tender of all her goods which
N n 2 ffie
t> I V
f 284 1
D I V
Divorce, {he brought with her : and this was called repudium
1 v ' mittere; or elfe it was performed in her prefence, and
before feven witneffes, and accompanied with the for-
’ malities of tearing the writings, refunding the portion,^
taking away the "keys, and turning the woman out of
doors.
The Grecian laws concerning divorces were differ¬
ent : The Cretans allowed divorce to any man that
was afraid of having too many children. The Spartans
feldom divorced their wives j and it was extremely
fcandalous for a woman to depart from her huihand.
The Athenians allowed divorce on very fmall grounds,
by a bill, containing the reaibn of the divorce, and ap¬
proved, if the party appealed, by the chief magilfrate ;
and women alfo were allowed to leave their hufbands
en juft occafions. Perfons divorcing their wives were
obliged to return their portions ; otherwife, the Athe¬
nian0 laws obliged them to pay nine oboli a month for
alimony. The terms exprefling the feparation of men
and women from each other were differentthe men
were fa id xTroTrs/ATriiv or c&7ro\t'Jiw> to diftnifs their
wives ; but wives, otTroXuiruv, to leave their hujhands.
Faley'sMo- The ]aw 0f Mofes (Mr Paley obferves), for rea-
talTm fr f™5 of local expediency, permitted the Jewilh hufhand
n 27s to Put awaf his wife ’ but whether for every caufe’ or
f7‘3’ for what caufe, appears to have been controverted a-
mongft the interpreters of thofe times. Chrift, the
precepts of whofe religion were calculated for more
general ufe and obfervation, revokes this permiffion,
as given to the Jews * for their hardnefs of heart, and
promulges a law wdnch was thenceforward to confine
divorces to the fingle caufe of adultery in the wife :
« Whofoever lhall put away his wife, except it be for
fornication, and fhall marry another, committeth adul¬
tery } and whofo marrieth her which is put away, doth
commit adultery,’ Mat. xix. 9.
Inferior caufes may juftify the feparation ofhufband
and wife, although they will not authorize fuch a dif-
folution of the marriage contraft as would leave either
at liberty to marry again : for it is that liberty in
which the danger and mifchief of divorces principally
confift. The law of this country, in conformity to
our Saviour’s injunction, confines the diffolution of the
marriage contrad to the fingle cafe of adultery in
the wife \ and a divorce even in that cafe can only be
brought about by the operation of an aft of parlia¬
ment, founded upon a previous fentence in the fpiritual
court, and a verdift againft the adulterer at common
law : which proceedings taken together compofe as com¬
plete an inveftigation of the complaint as a caufe can re¬
ceive. It has lately been propofed to the legiilature to
annex a claufe to thefe afts, reftrainmg the offending
party from marrying wfith the companion of her crime,
who by the courfe of proceeding is always known and
convifted : for there is reafon to fear, that adulterous
connexions are often formed with the profpeft of bring¬
ing them to this conclufion ; at leaf!, w7hen the feducer
has once captivated the affeftion of a married woman,
he may avail himfelf of this tempting argument to fub-
due her fcruples, and complete his viftory j and the le-
giflature, as the bufinefs is managed at prefent, aflifls
by its interpofition the criminal defign of the offenders,
and confers a privilege where it ought to inflift a pu«
nifhment. The propofal deferved an experiment; but
fomething more penal, it is apprehended, will be found
Divorce
neceflary to check the progrefs of this alarming depra¬
vity. Whether a law might not be framed, direfting
the fortune of the adultcrefs to defend as in cafe of her na¬
tural death ; referving, however, a certain proportion of
the produce of it, by way of annuity, for her fubfiftence
(fuch annuity in no cafe to exceed a certain fum) ; and
alfo fo far fufpending the eftate in the hands of the heir,
as to preferve the inheritance to any children fire might
bear to a fecond marriage, in cafe there was none to
fucceed in the place of their mother by the firft : whe¬
ther fuch a law wmuld not render female virtue in higher
life lefs vincible, as well as the feducers of that virtue
lefs urgent in their fuit, I would recommend to the de¬
liberation of thofe who are willing to attempt the re¬
formation of this important but moft incorrigible clafs
of the community. A paffion for fplendour, for expen-
five amufements and diftinftions, is commonly found
in that defcription of w'omen who w ould become the
fubjefts of fuch a law, not lefs inordinate than their
other appetites. A feverity of the kind propofed ap¬
plies immediately to that paffion. And there is no
room for any complaint of injuftice, fince the provi-
fions above Hated, with others which might be con¬
trived, confine the punifhment, fo far as it is pofiible,
to the perfon of the offender ; fuffering the eftate to
remain to the heir, or within the family of the an-
ceftor from whom it came, or to attend the appoint¬
ments of his will.
“ Sentences of the ecclefiaftical courts, which releafe
the parties a vinculo matrimonii, by reafon of impuberty,
frigidity, confanguinity within the prohibited degrees,
prior marriage, or want of the requifite confent of pa¬
rents or guardians, are not diflblutions of the marriage
contraft, but judicial declarations that there never was
any marriage , fuch impediment fubfifting c(t the time
as rendered the celebration of the marriage rite a mere
nullity. And the rite itfelf contains an exception of
thefe impediments. The man and woman to be mar¬
ried are charged, “ if they know any impediment why
they may not be lawfully joined together, to confels
it and affured, “ that fo many as are coupled to¬
gether, otherwile than God’s w’ord doth allow, are not
joined together by God, neither is their matrimony
lawful 5” all which is intended by way of folemn no¬
tice to the parties, that the vow they are about to make
will bind their confciences and authorize their cohabi¬
tation only upon the fuppofition that no legal impedi¬
ment exift.” .
DIURETICS (from by, and vpy, urine J, medi¬
cines which provoke a diicharge by unne.
Such is water drank plentifully , w’hite wine drank
in a morning j alkaline falts of all kinds ; fea falt,.fal
gemmae, nitre, borax, alum, tartar, fal ammoniac,
whey, four milk, lemon juice, &c. Aqueous liquors
are generally diuretic, efpecially if mixed with fait,
and drank cold. Fermented liquors are the leaft diu¬
retic of all ; and the lefs fo, as they are the fatter.
Sharp thin four wines, Rhenifh, &c. as alio acid fpirits
of vinegar, fait, fulphur, alum, vitriol, &c. afparagus,
bitter almonds, fmallage, eryngium, eupatcrium, iafla-
fras, &c. are all diuretics.
DIURNAL, in Jfronomy, fomething relating to¬
day in oppofition to no&urnal, which regards the
night.
DIVUS, Ditfa, in antiquity, appellations given to
me a
DOB [ 285 1 DOC
men and women who had been deified, or placed in
the number of the gods. See Deification, &c.
Hence it is, that on medals ftruck for the confecra-
tion of an emperor or emprefs, they give them the
title of divus or diva : for example, DIVUS JULIUS.
DIVO ANTONINO PIO. DIVO PIO.‘ D1VO
CLAUDIO. DIVA FAUSTINA AUG. &c.
DIZZINESS, in Medicine. See Vertigo.
DO, in Mujic, a note of the Italian fcale, corre-
fponding to ut of the common gammut. See Music.
DOBSON, William, an eminent Englifh portrait
and hiftory painter, born at London in 1610. He
ferved an apprenticefhip with one Peck, a ilationer
and pidure-dealer ; and owed his improvement to the
copying fome piftures of Titian and Van Dyck, whofe
manner he always retained. He had farther obliga¬
tions to the latter of thefe artifts ; for it is faid, that a
pi&ure of his painting being expofed at a {hop on
Snow hill, Van Dyck palling by was {truck with it
exceedingly ; and inquiring after the author, found him
at work in a poor garret. Van Dyck had the gene-
rofity to equip him in a manner fuitable to his merit.
He prefented him to King Charles I. who took him un¬
der his protection, kept him with him at Oxford all
the time his majefty continued in that city, and not
only fat to him feveral times for his picture, but caufed
the prince of Wales, Prince Rupert, and molt of the
lords of his court, to do fo too. Mr Dodfon, how¬
ever, being fomewhat loofe and irregular in his way of
life, was far from improving the many opportunities
he had of making his fortune ; and died very poor in
1647. at his houfe in St Martin’s Lane.
DOBUNI, or Boduni 5 an ancient people of Bri¬
tain, who pofleffed the territory which now forms the
counties of Oxford and Gloucelter. Both the names
of this Britiilr nation feem to have been derived from
the low lituation of a great part of the country which
they inhabited : for both Duvn and Bodun fignify
“ profound” or “ low,” in the ancient language of
Gaul and Britain. The Dobuni are not mentioned
among the Britilh nations who refilled the Romans
under Julius Csefar, which was probably owing to the
diflance of their country from the fcene of a£tion ; ami
before the next invafion under Claudius, they had been
fo much oppreflfed by their ambitious neighbours the
Cattivellauni, that they fubmitted with pleafure to the
Romans, in order to be delivered from that oppretlion.
Cogidunus, who was at that time (as his name im¬
ports) prince of the Dobuni, recommended himfelf fo
effe&ually to the favour of the emperor Claudius, by
his ready fubmiffion, and other means, that he was not
only continued in the government of his own territo¬
ries, but had fome other Bates put under his authority.
I his prince lived fo long, and remained fo Beady a
friend and ally to the Romans, that his fubje&s, be¬
ing habituated to their obedience in his time, never
revolted, nor Bood in need of many forts or forces to
keep them in fubjeSion. This is certainly the reafon
that we meet with fo few Roman towns and Bations in
the country anciently inhabited by the Dobuni. The
Durocornovium of Antoninus, and the Corinium of
Ptolemy, are believed by antiquaries to have been the
fame place, the capital of the Dobuni, and fituated at
CirenceBer in Glouceflerfiiire, where there are many
marks of a Roman flation. Clevum or Glevum, in the
thirteenth iter of Antoninus, Bood where the city of Boretas
Gloucefler now Bands ; and Abone, in the fourteenth 11
iter, was probably fituated at Avinton on the Severn, y^,
The country of the Dobuni was comprehended in the . . .. ' *_
Roman province Britannia Prima.
DOCETJE (from dutcew, to appear), in ecclefiafii-
cal hiflory, the followers of Julius Caflianus, one of the
Valentinian fe6l, towards the clofe of the fecond cen-
tuiy, who revived a notion that had been adopted by
a branch of the GnoBics, againfl whom St John, Ig¬
natius, and Polycarp, had afferted the truth of the in¬
carnation. They believed and taught, as their name
imports, that the aflions and fufferings of Jtfus Chrilt
were not in reality, but only in appearance.
DOCIMASIA, in Greek antiquity, a probation of
the magiBrates and perfons employed in public bufi-
nefs at Athens. It was performed publicly in the fo¬
rum, where they were obliged to give account of
themfelves and their paB life before certain judges.
Among feveral queflions propofed to them, we find the
following : Whether they had been dutiful to their pa¬
rents, had ferved in the wars, and had a competent
eflate ?
DOCIMASTIC art, a name gi ven to the art of
eflaying by operations in fmall, the nature and quan¬
tity of metallic or other matters which may be obtain¬
ed from mineral or other compound bodies. See Re¬
fining and Metallurgy.
DOCIMENUM marmor, a name given by the
ancients to a fpecies of marble of a bright and clear
white, much ufed in large and fumptuous buildings,
fuch as temples and the like. It had its name from-
Docimenos, a city of Phrygia, afterwards called Synaia;
near which it was dug, and from whence it was fent
to Rome. It was accounted little inferior to the Pa¬
rian in colour, but not capable of fo elegant a polifli ;
whence it was lefs ufed by the flatuaries, or in other
fmaller works. The emperor Adrian is faid to have
ufed this marble in building the temple of Jupiter ; .
and many others of the great works of the Romans
are of it.
DOCK, in Botany. See Rumex, Botany /We.r.
Dock, in the manege, is ufed for a large cafe of
leather, as long as the dock of a horfe’s tail, which
ferves it for a cover. The French call the dock
troujfequeue. It is made fafl by Braps to the crupper,
and has leathern thongs that pafs between his thighs,
and along his Banks to the faddle flraps,_in order to
keep the tail tight, and to hinder it from whilking,
about.
Dock, in maritime affairs, a fort of broad and deep
trench formed on the fide of a harbour, or on the
banks of a river ; and commodioufly fitted either to
build Blips or receive them to be repaired and breamed
therein. Thefe forts of docks have generally flrong
flood-gates to prevent the flux of the tide from enter¬
ing the dock while the Blip is under repaii There
are likewife docks of another kind, called wet docks,
where a Blip can only be cleaned during the recefs of
the tide, or in the interval between the time when the
tide left her dry aground, and the period when it a-
gain reaches her by the return of the flood. Docks
of the latter kind are not furniflied with the ufual flood¬
gates.
Docz-Yards, certain magazines containing all forts-'
o£ f
DOC
:»oftor. of naval ftores and timber for {hip-building
1 *   land, the royal dock-yards are at Chatham, Portfmourh,
Plymouth, Deptford, Woolwich, and Sheernefs* His
majefty’s {hips and veffels of war are generally moored
at thefe ports during the time of peace j and fuch as
want repairing are taken into the uocks, examined, and
refitted for fervicc.
The principal dock-yards are governed by a com-
miffioner, refident at the port ; who fuperintends all
the mufters of the officers, artificers, and labourers, em¬
ployed in the dock yard and ordinary. He alfo con-
trouls their payments therein ; examines their accounts;
contrafts, and draw bills on the navy office to fupply
the deficiency of {lores *, and, finally, regulates what¬
ever belongs to the dock-yard, maintaining due order
in the refpe&ive offices.
Thefe yards are generally fupplied from the northern
crowns with hemp, pitch, tar, rofin, canvas, oak plank,
and feveral other fpecies. With regard to the mails,
particularly thofe of the largeil fize, they are ufually
imported from New England.
DOCTOR, a perfon who has paffed all the degrees
of a faculty, and is empowered to teach or praftife the
• fame : thus we fay, doftor in divinity, dodor in phy-
fic, dodlor of laws.
The eftablilhment of the doBorate, fuch as now in
ufe among us, is ordinarily attributed to Irnerius, who
himfelf drew up the formulary. The firft ceremony
of this kind was performed at Bologna, in the perfon
of Bulgarus, who began to profefs the Roman law,
and on that occafion wasfolemnly promoted to the doc-
torax, i. e. inftalled juris utnufque dofter. But the cu-
ftom was foon transferred from the faculty of law to
that of theology *, the firft inftance whereof was given
in the univerfity of Paris, where Peter Lombard and
Gilbert de la Portree, the two chief divines ot thole
days, were created doftors in theology,/rfme theologus
do Bores.
Spelman takes the title of do£lor not to have com¬
menced till after the publication of Lombard’s len-
tences, about the year 1140; and affirms, that iuch
as explained that work to their fcholars were the firft
that had the appellation of doftors. Others go much
his/her, and hold Bede to have been the firft doftor at
Cambridge, and John de Beverley at Oxford which
latter died in the year 7 21. But Spelman will not al¬
low doftor to have been the name of any title or de¬
gree in England till the reign of King John, about the
To pafs doftor in divinity at Oxford, it is neceffary
the candidate have been four years bachelor of divinity.
For doftor of laws, he muft have been feven years in
the univerfity to commence bachelor of law ; five years
after which he may be admitted doftor of laws. O-
therwife, in three years after taking the degree of
matter of arts, he may take the degree of bachelor m
law ; and in four years more, that of LL. D. which
fame method and time are likewife required to pals the
degree of doftor in phyfic. r j n. * j*
At Cambridge, to take the degree of doftor in di¬
vinity it is required the candidate have been {even
years bachelor of divinity. Though in feveral of the
colleges the taking of the bachelor of divinity s degtxe
is difpenfed with, and they may go out per faltum. lo
commence doftor in laws, the candidate mull have
r 286 1 D O D
In Eng- been five years bachelor of law, or feven years matter JJ0<Sor
of arts. To pafs dodlor in phyfic, he mull have been tne J w
bachelor in phyfic five years, or feven years mafter of Doc]d.
arts. A doftor of the civil law may exercife ecclefi--y—J
aftical jurifdiftion, though a laymen, Hat. 37 Hen-
VII. cap. 17. feft. 4.
Doctor of the Law, a title of honour among the
Jews. The inveftiture, if we may fo fay, of this order,
was performed by putting a key and table book, in
their hands; which is what fome authors imagine our
Saviour had in view, Luke xi. 52. when, fpeaking of
the doftors of the law, he fays, “ Wo unto you, doc¬
tors of the law, for you have taken away the key ot
knowledge : you entered not in yourfelves, and them
that were entering you hindered.
Doctor of the Church, a title given to certain of the
fathers whole doftrines and opinions have been the moft
generally followed and authorized. We ufually reckon
four doftors of the Greek church, and three of the
Latin. The firft are, St Athanafius, St Bafil, St Gre¬
gory Nazianzen, and St Chryfoftom. T he latter are
St Jerome, St Auguftine, and Gregory the Great. In
the Roman breviary there is a particular office for the
doftors. It only differs from that of the confeffors, by
the anthem of the Magnificat, and the lefions.
Doctor, is alfo an appellation adjoined to feveral
fpecific epithets, expreffing the merit of fome of tke
fchoolmen : thus, Alexander Hales is called the irre¬
fragable doftor ; Thomas Aquinas, the angelic dcftor;
St Bonaventure, the feraphic doftor ; John Duns Sco-
tus, the fubtile doftor ■, Raimond Lully, the illuminat¬
ed doftor ; Roger Bacon the admirable dodlor, &c.
Doctor, in the Greek church, is a par¬
ticular officer, appointed to interpret part of the fcrip-
tures. He who interprets the gofpels, is called doBor
of the Gofpels ; he who interprets St Paul’s Epiftles,
doBor of the Apoflei he who interprets the Pfalms,
doBor of the PJalter.
Doctors Commons, See College of Civilians.
DOCUMENT, in Law, fome written monument
produced in any thing aflerted.
DODART1A, a genus of plants belonging to the
didynamia clafs; and in the natural method ranking
under the 40th order, Perfonatce. See Botany
ficlcoc m
DODD, Dr William, an unfortunate Englilh di¬
vine, eldeft fon of the Rev. William Dodd, many years
vicar of Bourne in Lincolnffiire, was born May 29.
1729. He was fent, at the age of 16, to the uni¬
verfity of Cambridge; and admitted in the year 1745
a fizer of Claie-Hall. In 1749-50 he took the de£ree
of B. A. with great honour, being upon that occafion
in the lift of wranglers. Leaving the univerfity, he
imprudently married a Mifs Mary Perkins in 175 ^
was ordained a deacon the fame year, pneft in 1753!
and foon became a celebrated and popular preacher.
His firft preferment was the leftureftup of Weft-Ham.
In 17 H he alfo was chofen lefturer of St Olave’s,
Hart-ftreet; and in 1757 took the degree of M. A.
at Cambridge. On the foundation of the Magdalen
Hofpital in 1758, he was a ftrenuous fupporter of that
charity, and foon after became preacher at the chapel
of it. Bv the patronage of Bifliop Squire, he m 1763
obtained a prebend of Brecon, and by the mtereft ot
fome city friends procured himfelf to be appointed one
D O D
[ ^7 ]
D O D
Dodder, of the king’s chaplains ; foon after which, he had the
Doddridge. education of the prefent earl of Chefterfield commit-
ted to his care. In 1766 he went to Cambridge and
took the degree of LL. D. At this period, the efti-
xnation in which he was held by the xvorld was fufficient
to give him the expectations of preferment, and hopes
of riches and honours 5 and thefe he might probably have
acquired, had he poffefled a common portion of pru¬
dence and difcretion. But, impatient of his fituation,
and eager for advancement, he raflily fell upon means
which in the end were the occafion of his ruin. On
the living of St George, Hanover Square, becoming
vacant, he wrote an anonymous letter to the chancel¬
lor’s lady, offering 3000 guineas if by her affillance he
was promoted to it. This being traced to him, com¬
plaint was immediately made to the king, and Dr Dodd
was difmilTed with difgrace from his office of chaplain.
From this period he lived neglefted, if not defpifed j
and his extravagance ftill continuing, he became in-
Kicbd's volved in difficulties, which tempted him to forge a
Anecdotes of bond from ^ ]ate pUpJi Lord Chefterfield, Feb. 4.
1777, for 4200I. wffiich he aClually received : but be¬
ing dete&ed, he was tried at the Old Bailey, found
guilty, and received fentence of death •, and in Ipite
of every application for mercy, was executed at Ty¬
burn, June 27. 1777. Dr Dodd was a voluminous
writer, and poffeffed confiderable abilities, with little
judgment and much vanity. An accurate lift of his va¬
rious writings is prefixed to his “ Thoughts in Prifon,”
edit. 1781.
DODDER. See Cuscuta, Botany Index.
DODDRIDGE, Philip, D. D. an eminent Pref-
byterian minifter, wras the fon of Daniel Doddridge an
oilman in London, where he w^as born on the 26th of
June 1702; and having completed the ftudy of the
claffics in feveral fchools, was in 1719 placed under
the tuition of the reverend Mr John Jennings, who
kept an academy at Kilworth in Leceifterftiire. He was
fir ft fettled as a minifter at Kilworth, where he preach¬
ed to a fmall congregation in an obfeure village : but,
on Mr Jennings’s death, fucceeded to the care of his
academy ; and foon after was chofen minifter of a large
congregation of Dilfenters at Northampton, to which
he removed his academy, and where the number of his
pupils increafed. He inftruCted his pupils with the
freedom and tendernefs of a father 5 and never expeCted
nor defired that they ftiould blindly follow his fenti-
ments, but encouraged them to judge for themfelves.
He checked any appearance of bigotry and uncha-
ritablenefs, and endeavoured to cure them by fhowdng
what might be faid in defence of thofe principles they
difliked. He died at Liffion, whither he went for the
recovery of his health ; and his remains were interred
in the burying-ground belonging to the Britiffi faClory
there, and a handfome monument w7as ereCted to his
memory in the meeting-houfe at Northampton, at the
expence of the congregation, on which is an epitaph
written by Gilbert Weft, Efq. He wrote, i. Free
Thoughts on the moft probable means of reviving the
Diffenting Intereft. 2. The Life of Colonel James
Gardiner. 3. Sermons on the Education of Children.
4. The Rife and Progrefs of Religion in the Soul.
5. The Family Expofitor, in 6 vols 4to, &c. And fince
the author’s death, a volume o^ his Hymns have been
publiftted, and his Theological Le&ures. Several of
Dodona.
his works have been tranflated into Dutch, German, Dodecagoa
and French.
DODECAGON, in Geometry, a regular polygon
confiiling of twelve equal fides and angles.
DODECAHEDRON, in Geometry, one of the
platonic bodies, or regular folids, contained under
twelve equal and regular pentagons.
DODECANDRIA, (from dahjcec, txvefae, and «?>]§,
a man) ; the name of the eleventh clafs in Linnaeus’s
fexual fyftem, confiftihg of plants with hermaphrodite
flowers, that according to the title, have twelve ftami-
na or male organs. This clafs however, is not limited
with refpefl to the number of ftamina. Many genera
have fixteen, eighteen, and even nineteen ftamina j the
efTential character feems to be, that, in the clafs in que-
ftion, the ftamina, however numerous, are inferted into
the receptacle ; whereas in the next clafs, icofandria,
which is as little determined in point of number as the
prefent, they are attached to the infide of the calyx or
flower-cup.
The orders in this clafs, which are fix, are founded
upon the number of the ftyles, or female organs. A-
farabacca, mangoftan, ftorax, purple loofeftrife, wild
Syrian rue, and purflain, have only one ftyle } agrimony
and heliocarpus have two j burning thorny plant, and
baftard rocket, three 5 ghnus, five j i/licium, eight 5 and
houfe leek, twelve.
DODECAS, a genus of plants belonging to the do-
decandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DODECATHEON, a genus of plants belonging
to the pentandria clafs; and in the natural method
ranking under the 21ft order, Precice. See Botany
Index.
DODO. See Didus, Ornithology Index.
DODONA, a town of Thefprotia in Epirus, or
(according to others) in Theffaly. T here was in its
neighbourhood a celebrated oracle of Jupiter. 1 he
towm and temple of the god were fiift built by Deu¬
calion, after the univerfal deluge. It was fuppofed to
be the moft ancient oracle of all Greece *, and accord¬
ing to the traditions of the Egyptians mentioned by
Herodotus, it was founded by a dove. I w'o black
doves, as he relates, took their flight from the city of
Thebes in &gypt ; one of which flew to the temple of
Jupiter Ammon, and the other to Dodona, where
with a human voice they acquainted the inhabitants
of the country that Jupiter had confecrated the ground,
which in future w7ould give oracles. I he extenfive
grove which furrounded Jupiter’s temple was endowred
w’ith the gift of prophecy ; and oracles wrere frequent¬
ly delivered by the facred oaks and the doves which in¬
habited the place. This fabulous tradition of the ora¬
cular power of the doves is explained by Herodotus,
who obferves that fome Phenicians carried away two
priefteffes from Egypt, one of which went to fix her
refidence at Dodona, where the oracle was eftabliflied.
It may farther be obferved, that the fable might have
been founded upon the double meaning of the word
which fignifies doves in moft parts of Greece,
while in the dialed! of the Epirots it implies old wo¬
men. In ancient times the oracles were delivered by
the murmuring of a neighbouring fountain •, but the
cuftom was afterwards changed. Large kettles wrere
fufpended in the air near a brazen ftatue, which held
a lalh in its hand. When the wind blew ftrong, the
ftatue
D O D [ 28I
■©odona ftatue was agitated and (truck againlt one of the ket-
jl ties, which communicated the motion to all the reft,
)o' ' . and raifed that clattering and difcordant din, which
continued for a while., and from which the artifice of
the priefts drew the predictions. Some fuppofe that
the noife was occalioned by the {baking of the leaves
and boughs of an old oak, which the fuperftition of
the people frequently confulted, and from which they
pretended to receive oracles. It may be obfeived,
with more probability, that the oracles were delivered
by the priefts, who, by artfully concealing tbemfelves
behind the oaks, gave occaflon to the fuperftitious
multitude to believe that the trees were endowed
wuth the power of prophecy. As the fhip Argo was
built with fome of the oaks of the foreft of Dodona,
there w'ere fome beams which gave oracles to the Ar¬
gonauts, and warned them againft the approach of
calamity. Within the foreft of Dodona there was
a ftream and a fountain of cool water w7hich had the
power of lighting a torch as foon as it touched it.
This fountain was totally dry at noon day, and was re-
ftored to its full courfe at midnight, from which time
till the following noon it began to decreafe, and at
the ufual hour was again deprived of its waters. The
oracles of Dodona were generally delivered by wTomen.
DODONAiA, a genus of plants belonging to the
oCIandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DODONIAN, (Dodonaus,') in antiquity, an epithet
-given to Jupiter, becaufe he was w'orfhipped in a temple
built in the foreft of Dodona, where was the moft fa¬
mous, and (it is faid) the moft ancient, oracle of all
Greece. See Dodon^.
DODON1DES, the priefteffes who gave oracles in
the temple of Jupiter in Dodona. According to fome
traditions the temple was originally inhabited by feven
daughters of Atlas, who nurfed Bacchus. Their names
were Ambrofia, Eudora, Pafithoe, Pytho, Plexaure,
Coronis, Tythe or Tyche. In the latter ages the ora¬
cles were always delivered by three old women ; which
cuftom was firft eftablifhed when Jupiter enjoyed the
company of Dione, whom he permitted to receive di¬
vine honour in his temple at Dodona. T he Boeotians
were the only people of Greece who received their ora¬
cles at Dodona from men, for reafons which Strabo,
1. 9. fully explains.
DODRANS, in antiquity, three-fourths of the as.
See the article As.
DODSLEY, Robert, an eminent bookfeller, and
ingenious writer, born at Mansfield in Nottingham-
fhire, in the year 1703. He was not indebted to
education for his literary fame, being originally a li¬
very fervant •, but his natural genius, and early paflion
for reading, foon elevated him to a fuperior ftation.
He wrote an elegant little fatirical farce called Toy-
fbup, which was a6Ied with applaufe in 1735» an^ which
recommended him to the patronage of Mr Pope. The
following year he produced the King and Miller of
Mansfield. The profits of thefe two farces enabled
him to commence bookfeller, and his own merit pro¬
cured him eminence in that profefiion. He wrote fome
other dramatic pieces, and publifhed a colleftion of his
works in one vol. 8vo, under the modeft title of Trifles 5
which was followed by Public Virtue, a poem in 4to.
JMr Dodfley was the author of the Economy of Hu-
; ] DOG
man Life, a work which acquired confiderable cele- Dodwtll-
brity j but for this, it is fuppofed to have been in- ^
debted to the miftaken opinion which long prevailed .
of its being the produ&ion of Lord Cherfterfield.
DODWELL, Henry, a very learned controverfial
writer, born at Dublin, but of Englifli extra&ion, in
1641. He wrote an incredible number of tradls : but
his fervices w'ere fo little acknowledged, that Bifhop
Burnet and others accufe him of doing more hurt than
good to the caufe of Chriftianity, by his indifcreet love
of paradoxes and novelties, and thus expofing himfelf
to the feoffs of unbelievers. His pamphlet on the im¬
mortality of the foul gave rife to the well-known con-
troverfy between Mr Collins and Dr Clark on that fub-
jeft. He died in 1711.
DOESBURG, a town of the United Provinces, in
the county of Zutphen and province of Guelderland.
It is fmall, but well peopled, and very ftrong both by
art and nature, having the river Yffel on one fide, and
a morafs on the other, and is only to be approached by
a narrow neck of land. E. Long. 5. 55. N. Lat. 52, 3.
DOG, in Zoology, an animal remarkable for its
natural docility, fidelity, and affe&ion for his matter;
which qualities mankind are careful to improve for
their own advantage. Thefe ufeful creatures guard our
houfes, gardens, and cattle, with fpirit and vigilance.
By their help we are enabled to take not only beafts,
but birds; and to purfue game both over land and
through the waters. In fome northern countries, they
ferve to draw fledges, and are alfo employed to carry
burdens. In feveral parts of Africa, China, and by
the Weft Indian negroes, dogs are eaten, and account¬
ed excellent food. Nay, we have the teftimony of Mr
Forfler, that dogs flefh, in tafte, exaftly refembles mut¬
ton*. They were alfo ufed as food by the Romans,
and long before them by the Greeks, as we learn from * See Amen
feveral treatifes of Hippocrates. In the prefent times, r/Va N° 90-.
their {kins, dreffed with the hair on, are ufed in muffs,
made into a kind of bufkins for perfons in the gout,
and for other purpofes. Prepared in another way, they
are ufed for ladies gloves, and the linings of mafks, be¬
ing thought to make the fkin peculiarly wdrite and
fmooth. The French import many of thefe fkins from
Scotland, under a fmall duty. Here, when tanned,
they ferve for upper leathers for neat pumps. Dogs
fkins dreffed are exported under a fmall, and imported
under a high duty. The French import from Denmark
large quantities of dogs hair, both white and black.
The laft is efteemed the beft, and is worked up in the
black lift of a particular kind of woollen cloth ; but is
not ufed, as many have fuppofed, in making of hats,
being entirely unfit for this purpofe.
With regard to the qualities of dogs, thofe bred in
the ifland of Britain are juftly reckoned fuperior to the
dogs bred in any other country. The fwiftnefs of the
greyhound is amazing ; as are alfo the fteadinefs and
perfeverance of other hounds and beagles; the boldnefs
of terriers in unearthing foxes, &c. ; the fagacity of
pointers and fetting dogs, who are taught a language
by figns as intelligible to fportfmen as fpeech ; and the
invincible fpirit of a bull-dog, which can be quelled
only by death.—All the nations in Europe not only do
juftice to the fuperior qualities of the Britifh dogs, but
adopt our terms and names, and thankfully receive the
creatures
2
DOG [2
creatures as prefents.—It is remarkable, however, that
almoft every kind of Britifh dogs degenerates in foreign
s countries ; nor is it poffible to prevent this degeneracy
by any art whatever.
For the natural hiftory of the dog, fee Canis, Mam¬
malia Index.
Choojmg of Dogs.—In order to choofe a dog and bitch
for good whelps, take care that the bitch come of a
generous kind, be well proportioned, having large ribs
and flanks } and like wife that the dog be of a good
breed and young, for a young dog and an old bitch
breed excellent whelps.
The befl time for hounds nitches, or bratches, to
be lined in, are the months of January, February, and
March. The bitch (hould be ufed to a kennel, that
file may like it after her whelping, and (he ought to be
kept warm. Let the wheips be weaned after two
months old 5 and though it be fome difficulty to choofe
a whelp under the dam that will prove the beff of tha
litter, yet fome approve that which is lad, and account
him to be the beff. Others remove the whelps from
the kennel, and lay them feverally and apart one from
the other ; then they watch which of them the bitch
fii'fl takes and carries into her kennel again, and that
they fuppofe to be the bed. Others again imagine
that which weighs lead when it fucks to be the bed:
this is certain, that the lighter whelp will prove the
fwifter. As loon as the bitch has littered, it is proper
to choofe them you intend to preferve, and drown the
led : keep the black, brown, or of one colour ; for the
fpotted are not much to be edeemed, though of hounds
the fpotted are to be valued.
Hounds for chafe are to be chofen by their colours.
The white, with black ears, and a black fpot at the fet-
ting on of the tail, are the mod principal to compofe a
kennel of, and of good fcent and condition. The black
hound, or the black tanned, or the all liver-coloured or
all white : the true talbots are the befl; of the dronger
line j the grizzled, w’hether mixed or unmixed, fo they
be diag-haired, are the bed verminers, and a couple
of thefe are proper for a kennel.—In fhort, take thefe
marks of a good hound : That his head be a middle
proportion, rather long than round ; his nodrils wide,
his ears large, his back bowed ; his fillet great, his
haunches large, thighs well trufled, ham drait, tail big
near the reins, the red flender ; the leg big, the foie
of the foot dry, and in the form of that of a fox, with
large claws.
Keeping Dogs in Health.—As pointers and fpaniels,
when good of their kinds and well broken, are very
valuable to a fportfman, it is worth while to take fome
care to preferve them in health. This very much de¬
pends on their diet and lodging : frequent cleaning
their kennels, and giving them frefii draw to lie on, is
very necedary; or, in dimmer time, deal fhavings,
or fand, indead of draw, will check the breeding of
fleas. If you rub your dog with chalk, and brufli
and comb him once or twice a-week, he will thrive
much the better ; the chalk will clear his fkin from
all greafinefs, and he will be the lefs liable to be
mangy. A dog is of a very hot nature : he fliould
therefore never be without clean water by him, that
he may drink when he is thirdy. In regard to their
food, carrion is by no means proper for them \ it mud
hurt their fenfe of duelling, on which the excellence
Vox. VII. Part I.
89 ] DOG
of thele dogs greatly depends. Barley meal, the drofs
of wheat dour, or both mixed together, with broth or
fkimmed milk, is very proper food. For change, a ‘Jf,,
fmall quantity of greaves from which the tallow is^"’
preffed by the chandlers, mixed with flour, or fheep’s
feet well baked or boiled, are a very good diet :
and when you indulge them wdth fledi, it fiiould always
be boiled. In the feafon of hunting your dogs, it is
pioper to feed them in the evening before, and give
them nothing in the morning you intend to take them
out except a little milk. If you flop for your own re-
fiediment in the day, you fliould alfo refredi your dogs
wuth a little bread and milk. It has been already ob-
feryed that dogs are of a hot conflitution 5 the greated
relief to them in the dimmer is twitch-grafs, or dog-
grafs, which is the fame thing. You fliould therefore
plant fome of it in a place wdiere you can turn them into
every morning : they will feed freely on it to be cured
of the ficknefs they are fubjeft to, and cured of any
extraordinary heat of blood : but unlefs the grafs be of
this fort, it will have no effecf.
Difeafes of Dogs.— 1. Bites and Stings. If dogs are
bitten by any venomous creatures, as fnakes, ad¬
ders, &c. fqueeze out the blood, and wadi the place
with fait and urine; then lay a plader to it made of
calamint, pounded in a mortar, with turpentine and
yellow wax, till it come to a falve. If you give your
dog fome of the juice of calamint to drink in milk, it
wull be good ; or ajr ounce of treacle diffolved in fome
fweet wine.
2. Mange.—Dogs are fubjefl to the mange from
being fed too high, and alkwed no exercife or an op¬
portunity of refrelhing themfelves with dog-grafs ; or
by being ftarved at home, which will caufe ’them to
eat the vileft fluff abroad, fuch as carrion, or even hu¬
man excrement : or by want of water, and femetimes
by not being kept clean in their kennel, or by founder¬
ing and melting in their greafe. Either of thefe will
heat the blood to a great degree, which will have a
tendency to make them mangy. The cure may be ef-
fefted by giving ftone brimftone powdered fine, either
m milk or mixed up with butter, and rubbing them
well every day for a week with an ointment made of
fome of the brimflane and pork lard, to which add a
fmall quantity of oil of turpentine. Or, boil four
ounces of quickfilver in two quarts of water to half the
quantity ; bathe them every day with this w^ater, and
let them have fome of it to lick till the cure is perfect¬
ed. Or, a fmall quantity of trooper’s ointment rubbed
on the parts on its firft appearance will cure it. It
will alfo free loufy puppies from their lice. Or, take
turn ounces of euphorbium ; flour of fulphur, Flan¬
ders oil of bays, and foft foap, each four ounces.
Anoint and rub your dog with it every other day ;
give him w^arm milk, and no water. The cure will be
performed in about a week. Fhe following receipt is
alfo faid to be efficacious. Take two handfuls of wild
creffes, and as much elecampane, and alfo of the leaves
and roots of roerb and forrel, and two pounds of the
roots of fodrels: boil all thefe well together in lye
and vinegar; ftrain the deco&ion, and put into it two
pounds of gray foap, and when it is melted, rub the
dog with it four or five days fucceflively, and it will
cure him.
3. Poifqn.—If you fufpeft your dog to be poifoned
O 0 with
DOG
[ 290 ]
DOG
Bog.
Sportfman'
Ditt.
with nux vomica (the poifon ufually employed ^7 t^ie
warreners, which caufes convulfive fits and loon kills),
the moft effe&ual remedy, if immediately applied, is
to give him a good deal of common fait} to admini-
fler which, you may open his mouth, and put a flick
acrofs to prevent the (hutting it, whilft you cram
his throat full of fait, at the fame t.me holding Ins
mouth upwards ; and it will diffolve fo that a luth-
cient quantity will be fwallowed to purge and vomit
him. When his ftomach is fufficiently cleared by a
free paffage obtained by ftool, give him lome warm
broth frequently, to prevent his expiring from faint-
nefs ; and he will recover. '
4. Worms.—Dogs are very frequently troubled with
worms; but more particularly whilft they are young.
Any thing bitter is fo naufeous to thefe worms, that
they are very often voided by taking two or three
purges of aloes > or (which is the, fame thing) Scots
pills, four or five being a dofe for a large dog : this ts
to be repeated two or three times in a week, it this
do not fucceed, you may give him an ounce of powder
of tin mixed up with butter, in three dofes ; which lei-
dom fails to cure. Or, of the herb favin, dried and
rubbed to powder, give about as much as will lie on a
(hilling for a dofe > which will entirely deftroy worms
and their feed. , ,
c. Sore Feet.—A pointer ought not to be hunted
oftener than two or three days in a week •, and unleis
you take care of his feet, and give him good lodging
as well as proper food, he will not be able to perform
that through the feafon. You ftiould therefore, after a
hard day’s hunting, wafh his feet with warm water and
fait : and when dry, walh them with warm broth, or
beer and butter, which will heal their forenefs, and pre¬
vent a fettled ftiffhefs from fixing.
6. Strains, Blows, or fmall Wounds. -If your dog
has received any little wounds by forcing through
hedges, or gets any lamenefs from a blow or wrain j
bathe the wound or grieved part with fait and cold
vinegar rfor warming it only evaporates the fine
fpirit) •, and when dry, if a wound, you may pour in
it a little friar’s balfam, which will perform the cure
fooner than any method hitherto experienced.
7. Coughs and Colds.-—Dogs are very fubjeft te a
cough, with an extraordinary choking, wftnch is
thought to arife generally from a cold or fome inward
diforder ; and probably it is often occafioned by then-
eating of fidi bones, to guard againft it, order your
Servants to throw all fuch filh bones where the dogs
cannot get at them. But if the diforder be from a cold,
let bleeding be repeated in fmall quantities, if necenary 5
but if it be what is called the dijlempcr in dogs, and they
appear to be very low in fpirits, the bleeding is better
omitted. Let meat broth, or milk broth warmed, be
the principal part of his diet, ufing at the fame time
the following medicine. Take flour of lulphur, cold
drawn linfeed oil, and faltpetre, of each an ounce j
divide it into four dofes, giving him one dofe every
other day, and let him have plenty of clean draw to
lie on j or one fpoonful of honey daily.
Doa-Madnefs.—Of this there are no lefs than feven
forts common among dogs. The chief caufes are, high
^ceding, want of exercife, fulnefs of blood, and coftive-
nefs. As for the two firft, you mull obferve when
when they reft; and let them be neither too fat nor ^ p°g- ,
too lean but, of the two, rather fat than lean 5 by s -
which means they will not only be prelerved from
madnefs but alfo from the mange and fcab *, which
difeafes they will be fubject to for want of air, water,
or exercife : but if you have but the knowledge to
keep them in an even temper, they may live long, and
continue found. As for water, they Ihould be left to
their own pleafure ; but for exercife and diet, it muft
be ordered according to diferetion, obferving a me¬
dium. Give them once a-week, efpecially in the heat
of the year, five or fix fpoonfuls of falad oil, which
will cleanfe them : at other times, the quantity of a
hazel nut of mithridate is an excellent thing to pre¬
vent difeafes. It is alfo very good to bleed them
under the tongue, and behind the ears.
The fymptoms of madnefs are many and eafily dit-
cerned. When any dog feparates himfelf contrary to
his former ufe, becomes melancholy or droops his head,
forbears eating, and as he runs fnatches at every thing;
if he often looks upwards, and his ftern at his fetting
on be a little ere&, and the reft hanging down ; if his
eyes be red, his breath ftrong, his voice hoarfe, and
he drivels and foams at the mouth ; you may be affured
he has this diftemper.
The feven forts of madnefs are as follows ; ot which
the two firft are incurable. 1. The hot burning mad¬
nefs. 2. The running madnefs. The animals labour¬
ing under thefe are peculiarly dangerous; for all things
they bite and draw blood from will have the fame dif¬
temper ; and they generally feize on all they meet with,
but chiefly on dogs. Their pain is fo great it foon kills
them. The five curable madneffes are,
3. Sleeping Madnefs, fo called from the dog’s great
drowfinefs, and almoft continual fleeping. This is caufed
by the little worms that breed in the mouth of the fto¬
mach, from corrupt humours, vapours, and fumes which
afeend to the head ; for cure of w-hich, take fix ounces
of the juice of wormwood, two ounces of the powder
of hartftiorn burnt, and two drachms of agaric ;, mix all
thefe together in a little white wine, and give it the
dog to drink in a drenching horn.
4 Dumb Madnefs, lies alfo in the blood, and caules
the dog not to feed, but to hold his mouth always wide
open, frequently putting his feet to his mouth, as if he
had a bone in his throat; to cure this, take the juice of
black hellebore, the juice oifpatula putrida, and of rue,
of each four ounces; ftrain them well, and put thereto
two drachms of unprepared fcammony, and being mix¬
ed well together, put it down the dog’s throat with a
drenching horn, keeping his head up for fome time, left
he caft it out again ; then bleed him in the mouth, by
cutting two or three veins in his gums. _ #
It is faid, that about eight drachms of the juice of an
herb called hartjhorn, or dog's tooth, being given to the
dog, cures all forts of madnefs. r , , ,
r. Lank Madnefs, is fo called by reafon of the dog s
leannefs and pining away. For cure give them a puige
as before direfted, and alfo bleed them ; but lome lay
there is no cure for it. , , ,
6. Rheumatic or favenng madnefs, occahons the dog s
head to fwell, his eyes to look yellow, and he will be
always Havering and drivelling at the mouth. To cure
which, take four ounces of the powder of the roots of
you hunt them, that they ftiould be better fed than
polipody of the oak, fix ounces of the juice of fennel
r r ' roots,
DOG [ 2Qi ] DOG
Bog. roots, with the like quantity of the roots of mifletjpe,
and four ounces of the juice of ivy 5 boil all the£e jto-
gether in white wine, and give it to the dog as hot as
he can take it, in a drenching horn.
7. Falling madnefs, is fo termed becaufe it lies in the
dog’s head, and makes him reel as he goes, and to fall
down. For the cure, take four ounces of the juice of
briony, and the fame quantity of the juice of peony,
with four drachms of ftavefacre pulverized ; mix thefe
together, and give it the dog in a drenching horn ; alfo
let him blood in the ears, and in the two veins that
come down his flioulders $ and indeed bleeding is ne-
celfary for all forts of madnefs in dogs.
When a dog happens to be bit by a mad one, there
is nothing better than their licking the place with their
own tongues, if they can reach it ; if not, then let it be
waihed with butter and vinegar, made lukewarm, and
let it afterwards be anointed with Venice turpentine $
but, above all, take the juice of the ftalks of ftrong to¬
bacco boiled in water, and bathe the place therewith ;
alfo wa(h him in fea water, or water artificially made
fait j give him likewife a little mithridate inwardly in
two or three fpoonfuls of fack j and fo keep him apart ;
and if you find him after fome time ftill to droop, the
beft way is to hang him.
Some have afferted their having cured feveral crea¬
tures that have been bit by mad dogs, with only giving
them the middle yellow bark of buckthorn ; which
muft be boiled in ale for a horfe or cow, and in milk
for a dog; but that it muft be boiled till it is as bitter
as you can take it.
As to the preventive of worming dogs, fee Worm¬
ing.
Doa-Days. See Canicula.
Doa-Fifh. See Squalus, Ichthyology Index.
Doas-Bane. See Apocynum, Botany Index.
Doa-Wood Hree. See Piscidia, Botany Index.
DOGE, the chief magiftrate in the republics of Ve¬
nice and Genoa.
The word properly fignifies duke, being formed
from the Latin dux ; as dogate, and dogado, from duca~
tus, “ duchy.”
The dogate, or office and dignity of doge, is elec¬
tive $ at Venice the doge is eledled for life 3 at Genoa,
only for twTo years. He is addreffed under the title of
Serenity, which among the Venetians is fuperior to that
of highnefs.
The doge is the chief of the council, and the mouth
of the republic; yet the Venetians do not go into
mourning at his death, as not being their fovereign,
but only their firft minifter. In effedl, the doge of Ve¬
nice is no more than the phantom or ftiadow of the
majefty of a prince ; all the authority being referved
to the republic. Pie only lends his name to the fe-
nate 3 the power is diffufed throughout the whole bo¬
dy, though the anfwers be all made in the name of the
doge. If he gives any anfwers on his own account,
they muft be very cautioufly expreffed, and in general
terms, otherwile he is fure to meet with a reprimand.
So that it is abfolutely neceffary he be of an eafy and
pliable difpofition.
Anciently the doges were fovereigns 3 but things
are much altered 3 and at prefent, all the prerogatives
referved to the quality of doge, are thefe which fol¬
low : He gives audience to ambafladors 5 but does not
give them any anfwer from himfelf, in matters of any
inoport^nce 3 only he is allowed to anfwer according
to his own pleafure, to the compliments they make to
the fignory ; fuch anfwers being of no confequence.
The doge, as being firft magiftrate, is head of all the
councils 3 and the credentials which tfb fenate fur-
nilhes its minifters in foreign courts, are written in his
name 3 and yet he does not fign them 3 but a fecretary
of ftate figns them, and feals them with the arms of the
republic. The ambaffadors diredt their defpatches to
the doge 3 and yet he may not open them but in pre¬
fence of the counfellors. The money is ftruck in the
doge’s name, but not with his ftamp or arms. All the
magiftrates rife, and falute the doge when he comes
into council 3 and the doge rifes to none but foreign
ambafi'adors.
The doge nominates to all the benefices in the
church of St Mark 3 he is prote&or of the monaftery
delle Virgine; and beftows certain petty offices of
ulhers of the houfehold, called Commanders of the Pa"
lace. His family is not under the jurifdidtion of the
matter of the ceremonies ; and his children may have
ftaff officers, and gondoliers in livery.
His grandeur, at the fame time, is tempered with
a variety of circumftances, which render it burden-
fome. He may not go out of Venice without leave
of the council 3 and if he does go out, he is liable to
receive affronts, without being entitled to demand fa-
tisfadlion 3 and, if any diforder ffiould happen where
he wTas, it belongs not to him, but to the podefta, as
being invefted with the public authority, to compofe
it.
The children and brothers of the doge are excluded
from all the chief offices of ftate. They may not re¬
ceive any benefice from the court of Rome 3 but are
allowed to accept of the cardinalate, as being no be¬
nefice, nor including any jurifdidlion. The doge may
not divert himfelf of his dignity, for his eafe 3 and af*
ter his death, his conduct is examined by three in-
quifitors, and five corre&ors, who lift it with gre|t
feverity.
DOGGER, a Dutch fiffiing veffel navigated in the
German ocean. It is generally employed in the her¬
ring fiffiery ; being equipped with two marts, viz. a
main-maft and a mizen-maft, and fomewhat refembling
a ketch. See the Plates at the article Ship.
DOGGERS, in the Engliffi alum works, a name
given by the workmen to a fort of ftone found in the
fame mines with the true alum rock, and containing
fome alum, though not near fo much as the right kind.
The county of York, which abounds greatly with the
true alum rock, affords alfo a very confiderable quantity
of thefe doggers 3 and in fome places they approach fo
much to the nature of the true rock, that they are
wrought to advantage.
DOGMA, a principal maxim, tenet, or fettled opi¬
nion, particularly with regard to matters of faith and
philofophy.
DOGMATICAL, fomething belonging to a doc¬
trine or opinion. A dogmatical philofopher is one who
afferts things pofitivelyj in oppofition to a fceptic, who
doubts of every thing.
DOGMATISTS, a feft of ancient phyficians, of
O o 2 w’hich
DOM
[
Dolce
II
Dom.
which Hippocrates was the firft author. Th
called logici, “ logicians,” from their ufing the rules of
logic in fubjefts of their profedion, I hey laid down
definitions and divifions } reducing difeafes to certain
genera, and thofe genera to fpecies, and furnilhing re¬
medies for them all; fuppofing principles, drawing con-
clufions, and applying thofe principles and conclufions
to particular difeafes under confideration •, in which
fenfe, the dogmatifts Hand contradillinguhhed from em¬
pirics and methodifts. They rejeft all medicinal vir¬
tues, that they think not reducible to manifeft quali¬
ties ; but Galen hath long ago obferved of fuch men,
that they muft either deny plain matter of faft, or af-
fign but very poor reafons and caufes of many eftecls
they pretend to explain.
DOLCE, Carlo, or Carlino, a celebrated hi-
flory and portrait painter, was born at Florence in
1616, and was the difciple of Vignali. This great
mailer was particularly fond of reprefenting pious iub-
jefls, though he fometimes painted portraits ; and his
works are eafily diilinguifhed by the peculiar delicacy
with which he perfefled all his compofitions, by a
pleafing tint of colour, and by a judicious manage¬
ment of the chiaro feuro. His performance was re-
markablv flow ; and it is reported that his brain was
fatally affected by feeing Luca Jordana defpatch more
bufinefs in four or five hours than he could have done
in as many months. He died in 1686.
DOLE, in the Saxon and Britiih tongue, fignified
a part or portion, moil commonly of a meadow, where
feveral perfons have fhares. It alfo {till fignifies a dif-
tribution or dealing of alms, or a liberal gift made by
a great man to tbe people.
Dole, in Scots Law, fignifies a malevolent intention.
It is effential in every crime, that it be committed in¬
tentionally, or by an aft of the will: hence the tule,
Crimen dolo contrahitur.
DOLICHOS, a genus of plants belonging to the
diadelphia clafs, and in tbe natural method ranking un¬
der the 32d order Papilionacece. See Botany Index.
DOLLAR, or Daller, a filver coin nearly of
the value of the Spaniih piece of eight, or French
crown.
Dollars are coined in different parts of Germany
and Holland •, and have their diminutions, as femi-
dollars, quarter-dollars, &c. See Money Table. .
They are not all of the fame finenefs or weight.
The Dutch dollars are the molt frequent. In the
Levant they are called a/laim, from the impreflion of
a lion thereon.
DOLPHIN. See Delphinus, Cetology Index.
Dolphin of the Maf, a peculiar kind of wreath,
formed of plaited cordage, to be fattened occafionally
round the mafts, as a fupport to the puddening, whole
ufe is to fuftain the weight of the fore and main yards
in cafe the rigging or chains by which thofe yards are
fufpended (hould be Ihot away in the time of battle ; a
circumftance which might render their fails ufelefs at a
feafon when their afliftance is extremely necellary.
See the article Puddening. .
DOM, or Don, a title of honour invented and
chiefly ufed by the Spaniards, fignifying> or lord.
This title, it feems, was fiitt given to Pelayo, m the
beginning of the eighth century. In Portugal no per-
2Q2 ] D O M
y are alfo fon can affume the title of don without the pernnffion
of the king, fince it is looked upon as a mark of hon- DcIi,Jfd
 In "France it is fometimes ufed among' '
Dom
our and nobility. In France it is fometimes uled among   ^
the religious. It is an abridgement of domnus, from
dominus.
Dom and Som, in old charters, fignifies full property
and jurifdiftion.
DOMAIN, the inheritance, eftate, or poffeflion of
any one. See Demesne.
DOMAT, John, a celebrated French lawyer, born
in 1625, who oblerving the confufed ftate of the laws,
digefted them in 4 vols 410, under the title of The
Civil Laws in their natural order : for which underta¬
king, Louis XIV. fettled on him a penfion of 2000
livres. Dcmat was intimate with the famous Pafcal,
who left him his private papers at his death : he him-
felf died in 1696.
DOME, in Mrchite&vre, a fpherical roof, or a roof
of a fpherical form, raifed over the middle of a build¬
ing, as a church, hall, pavilion, vellibule, ftaircafe, Sec.
by way of crowning.
Dome, in Chemiflry, the upper part of furnaces,
particularly portable ones. It has the figure of a hol¬
low hemifphere or fmall dome. Its ufe is to form a
fpace in the upper part of the furnace, the air of which
is continually expelled by the fire : hence the current
of air is confiderably increafed, which is obliged to en¬
ter byThe afli-hole, and to pafs through the fire, to
fupply the place of the air driven from the dome.
The form of this piece renders it proper to refleft
or reverberate a part of the flame upon the matters
which are in the furnace, which has occahoned this
kind of furnace to be called a reverberating one. See
Furnace.
Dome, or Doom, fignifies judgment, fentence, or de¬
cree. The homagers oath in the black book of Here¬
ford ends thus: “ So help me God at his holy dome,
and bv mv trowthe.”
DOMENICH1NO, a famous Italian painter, born
of a good family at Bologna in 1581. He was at firft
a difciple of Calvart the Fleming, but foon quitted his
fchool for that of the Caraccis. He always applied
himfelf to his wmik with much ftudy and thoughtful-
nefs■ and never offered to touch his pencil but when he
found a proper kind of enthufiafm upon him. His
great {kill in archite&ure alfo procured him the ap¬
pointment of chief architeft of the apcftolical palace
from Pope Gregory XV. •, nor was he wdthout a theo¬
retical knowledge in mufic. He died in ibq1*
DOMESDAY, or Doomsday Book, a moft an¬
cient record, made in the time of W illiam I. furnamed
the Conqueror, and containing a furvey of all the lands
of England. It confifts of two volumes, a greater and
a lefs. ' The firft is a large folio, written on 382 double
pages of vellum, in a fmall but plain charader; each
page having a double column. Some of the capital
letters and principal paffages are touched with red ink ;
and fome have ftrokes of red ink run acrofs them, as ft
fcratched out. This volume contains the defcription or
31 counties. The other volume is in quarto, written
upon 450 double pages of vellum, but in a Angle co¬
lumn, and in a large but very fair charaaer. It con¬
tains the counties of Effex, Norfolk, Suffolk, part of
the county of Rutland, included in that of Northampr
DOM [ 293 ] DOM
Bomefday ton, and part of Lancafhire in the counties of York
* v and Chefter.
This work, according to the red book in the ex¬
chequer, was begun by order of William the Con¬
queror, with the advice of his parliament, in the year
of our Lord 1080, and completed in the year 1086.
The reafon given for taking this furvey, as affigned by
feveral ancient records and hiilorians, was, that every
man (hould be fatisfied with his owTn right, and not
ufurp with impunity what belonged to another. But,
befides this, it is faid by others, that now all thofe
who poflefled landed eifates became vaflals to the king,
and paid him fo much money by way of fee or ho¬
mage in proportion to the lands they held. This ap¬
pears very probable, as there was at that time extant
a general furvey of the whole kingdom, made by order
of King Alfred.
For the execution of the furvey recorded in domef-
day book, commiffioners w’ere fent into every county
and fibre ; and juries fummoned in each hundred, out
of all orders of freemen, from barons down to the low-
eft farmers. Thefe commiflioners were to be informed
by the inhabitants, upon oath, of the name of each
manor, and that of its owner ; alfo by whom it was
held in the time of Edward the Confellbr; the number
of hides j the quantity of wood, of palture, and of
meadow land •, how many ploughs were in the demefne,
and how many in the tenanted part of it; how many
mills 5 how many fiih-ponds or filheries belonged to it ;
with the value of the whole together in the time of
King Edward, as well as when granted by King Wil¬
liam, and at the time of this furvey 5 alfo whether it
was capable of improvement or of being advanced in
its value j they were likewife dire&ed to return the te-
.nants of every degree, the quantity of lands then and
formerly held by each of them, what was the number
of vill ams or Haves, and alfo the number and kinds of
their cattle and live Hock. Thefe inquifitions being firft
methodized in the county, w'ere afterwards fent up to
the king’s exchequer.
This furvey, at the time it was made, gave great
offence to the people j and occafioned a jealoufy that it
was intended for fome new imppfition. But notwith-
ftanding all the precaution taken by the conqueror to
have this furvey faithfully and impartially executed, it
appears from indifputable authority, that a falfe return
was given in by fome of the commSifioners: and that,
as it is faid, out of a pious motive. This was parti¬
cularly the cafe with the abbey of Croyland in Lincoln-
flbre, the poffeHions of w’hich were greatly underrated
both with regard-to quantity and value. Perhaps more
of thefe pious frauds were difcovered, as it is faid Ralph
Flambard, roinifter to William Rufus, propofed the
making a frefh and more vigorous inquifition j but
this was never executed.
Notwithftanding this proof of its falfehood in fome
inftances, wdrich mull throw a fufpicion on all others,
..the authority of domefday book was never permitted
to be called in queftion ; and always, when it hath been
neceffary to diftinguidr whether lands were held in an¬
cient demefne, or in any other manner, recourfe was
had to domefday book, and to that only, to determine
the doubt. From this definitive authority, from which,
as from the fentence pronounced at domefday, or the
day of judgment, there could be no appeal, the name DomefcTay,
of the book is faid to have been derived. But Stowe
afligns another reafon for this appellation j namely,
that domefday book is a corruption of domus Dei book;
a title given it becaufe heretofore depofited in the king’s
treafury, in a place of the church of Weftminfter or
Wincherter, called domus Dei. From the great care for¬
merly taken for the prefervation of this furvey, we may
learn the eftimation in which its importance was held.
The dialogue de Scaccariis fays, “ Liber ille (domd-
bay) Jig ill 1 regis conies ejl mdividuus in thefauro.^ Un¬
til lately it has been kept under three different locks
and keys; one in cuffody of the treafurer, and the
others in that of the two chamberlains of the exchequer.
It is now depofited in the chapterhoufe at Weftminfter,
where it may be confulted on paying to the proper of¬
ficers a fee of 6s. 8d. for a fearch, and fourpence per
line for a tranfeript.
Befides the two volumes above-mentioned, there is
alfo a third made by order of the fame king ; and
wrhich differs from the others in form more than matter.
There is alfo a fourth called domejday., which is kept
in the exchequer; which, though a very large volume,
is only an abridgement of the others. In the remem¬
brancers office in the exchequer is kept a fifth book,
likewife called domefday, which is the fame with the
fourth book already mentioned. King Alfred had a
roll which he called domefday; and the domefday book
made by William the Conqueror referred to the time
of Edward the Confeffor, as that of King Alfred did
to the time of Ethelred. The fourth book of domef¬
day having many pidftures and gilt letters in the begin¬
ning relating to the time of King Edward the Con¬
feffor, this had led fome into a falfe opinion that
domefday book was compofed in the reign of King
Edward.
DOMESTIC, any man who afts under another,
ferving to compofe his family; in which he lives, or is
fuppofed to live, as a chaplain, fecretary, &.c. Some¬
times domeftic is applied to the wife and children; but
very feldom to fervants, fuch as footmen, lacquies,
porters, &c.
Domestic, adj. is fometimes oppofed to foreign.-
Thus “ domejlic occurrences” fignify thofe events which
happen in our own country, in contradiftin&ion to
thole of which we receive intelligence from abroad.
In its more ufual acceptation, the term implies fome-
thing peculiar to home or houfehold. Thus we fpeak of
domefic happinefs or pleafures : meaning the pleafures
enjoyed in the bofom of one’s family ; in oppofition to
thofe found in the buftle of public life, or delufively
fought in the haunts of dilfipation.
The folace of domeftic enjoyments has been coveted
by the wifeft and greateft of men. Senators and heroes
have ftiut out the acclamations of an applauding world,
to enjoy the prattling of their little ones, and to par¬
take the endearments of family converfation. They
knew that even their beft friends, in the common inter-
courfe of life,, were in fome degree adluated by intereft-
ed motives in difplaying their affeftion ; that many
of their followers applauded them in hopes of reward;
and that the giddy multitude, however zealous, were
not always judicious in their approbation. But the at¬
tentions paid them at their fire fide, the fmiles which
exhilarated^
DOM [ 294 1
Domrft.c. exhilarated their own table, were the genuine refult of the indulgence.
iCnox s
BJfays,
No 4c.
undilTembled love.
To purfue the obfervations of an elegant eilayiit :
“ The nurfery has often alleviated the fatigues of the
bar and the fenate-houfe. Nothing contributes more
to raife the gently pleafing emotions, than the view of
infant innocence, enjoying the raptures of a game at
play. All the fentiments of uncontrouled nature diiplay
themfelves to the view, and furnilh matter for agreeable
reflexion to the mind of the philofophical obfeyver.
To partake with children in their little pleafures, is by
no means unmanly. It is one of the pureft fources of
mirth. It has an influence in amending the heart,
-which neceffarily takes a tinaure from the company
that furrounds us. Innocence as well as guilt is com¬
municated and increafed by the contagion of example.
And the great Author of evangelical philofophy has
taught us to emulate the fimplicity of the infantine age.
He feems indeed himfelf to have been delighted with
young children, and found in them, what he in vam
fought among thofe who judged themfelves their fupe-
riors, unpolluted purity of heart. .
“ Among the great variety of piftures which the
vivid imagination of Homer has difplayed throughout
the Iliad, there is not one more pleafing than the fa¬
mily piece, which reprefents the parting interview be¬
tween Hedlor and Andromache. It deeply mterefts
the heart, while it delights the imagination. The hero
ceafes to be terrible, that he may become amiable.
We admire him while he (lands completely armed in
the field of battle ; but we love him more while he is
taking off his helmet, that he may not frighten his
little boy wnth its nodding plumes. . We are refreihed
with the tender feene of domeftic love, while all
around breathes rage and difeord. We are pleated
to fee the arm, which is (hortly to deal death and de-
llru&ion among an hoft of foes, employed in caremiig
an infant fon with the embraces of paternal love A
profeffed critic would attribute the pleafing effedt en¬
tirely to contraft ; but the heart has declared pre-
vioufly to the inquiries of criticifm, that it is chiefly
derived from the fatisfaftion which we naturally take
in beholding great charafters engaged in tender and
amiable employments. . r
“ But after all that is faid of the purity and the lo-
Udity of domeftic pleafures, they unfortunately appear
to a great part of mankind, infipid, unmanly, and ca¬
pable of fatisfying none but the weak, the fpmtleis,
the inexperienced, and the effeminate. The pretend¬
ers to wit and modern philofophy are often found to
renounce the received opinions of prudential conduct \
and, while they affedt a fuperior liberality, to regulate
their lives by the moft felfifti principles. Whatever ap¬
pears to have little tendency to promote perfonal plea-
fure and advantage, they leave to be performed by
thofe fimple individuals, who are dull enough, as they
fay, to purfue the journey of life by the ftraight road
of common fenfe. It is true, they will allow, that
the world muft be repleniftied by a perpetual fucceLion;
and it is no lefs true, than an offspring, once introdu¬
ced into the world, requires all the care of painful at¬
tention. But let the talk be referyed for meaner fpmts.
If the paflions can be gratified without the painful con-
fequences of fupporting a family, they eagerly feize
DOM
uuc u.uu^w^. But the toil of education they leave DomdHc.
to thofe whom they deem fools enough to. take a plea- -
fure in it. There will always be a fufheient number,
fay they, whofe folly will lead them, for the fake of
a filly paflion called virtuous love, to engage m a life
of perpetual anxiety. The fool’s paradife, they add
with derifion, will never be deferted.
“ Prefumptuous as are all fuch pretenders to newly
invented fyftems of life and condud, it is not to be
fuppofed they will think themfelves fupenor to fucero.
Yet Cicero, with all his liberality of mind, felt the
tendernefs of conjugal and paternal attachment, and
acknowledged that, at one time, he received no atil-
faftion in any company but that of his wife, his little
daughter, and, to ufe his own epithet, his honied
young Cicero. The great Sir Thomas More, whom
nobody will fufpea of narrownefs of mind, who by a
very Angular treatife evinced that he was capable ot
thinking and of choofing for himfelf, has left it on re¬
cord that he devoted a great (hare of his time, from
the united motives of duty and delight, to the amu e-
ment of his children. , ,
“ It will be objeaed by thofe who pretend, to have
formed their ideas of life from aftnal obfervation, that
domeftic happinefs, however pleafing in defcription, like
manv a poetic dream, is but an alluring piflure, defign-
ed by a good heart, and painted in glowing colours
by a lively fancy. The conftant company, they urge,
even of thofe we love, occafions an infipidity. . Inu-
pidity grows into difguft. Difguft, long continued,
fours the temper. Peeviftmefs is the natural confe-
quence. The domettic circle becomes the feene or dii-
pute. Mutual antipathy is ingenious in devifing mu¬
tual torment. Sullen filence or malignant remarks fill
up every hour, till the arrival of a ftranger caufes a tem¬
porary reftraint, and excites that good humour which
ought to be difplayed among thofe whom the bonds ot
affe&ion and blood have already united.
“ Experience, indeed, proves that thefe remarks are
fometimes verified. But that there is much domeftic
mifery is no argument that there is no domeftic hap¬
pinefs, or that the evil may not be removed. Natural
flupidity, natural ill temper, acquired ill habits, want
of education, illiberal manners, and a neglect ot the
common rules of diferetion, will render every fpecres
of intercourfe difagreeable. When thofe are united by
connubial ties who were feparated by natural and inhe¬
rent diverfity, no wonder if that degree of happinefs
which can only refult from a proper union, is unknown.
In the forced alliance, which the poet of Venufium
mentions, of the ferpent with the dove, of the tyger
with the lamb, there can be no love. When we expa¬
tiate on the happinefs of the domeftic group, we pre-
fuppofe that all who compofe it are onginauy aflimi-
lated by affe&ion, and are ftill kept m union by di-
erect friendlhip. Where this is not the cafe the cen-
fure muft fall on the difeordant difpofition of the par¬
ties, and not on the effential nature of family inter-
courfe
“ To form, under the direftion of prudence, and by
the impulfe of virtuous love, an early conjugal attach¬
ment, is one of the beft fecurities of virtue as well as
the moft probable means of happinefs. The duties,
which are powerfully called forth by .he Canons of
X
DOM
Domicile hufband and father, are of that tender kind which in
Domin'1 nt ^P*res gooc^ne^s and humanity. He who beholds a wo-
. man whom he loves, and a helplefs infant, looking up
to him for fupport, will not eafily be induced to in¬
dulge in unbecoming extravagance, or devote himfelf
to indolence. He who has a rifing family to intro¬
duce into a vicious world, will be cautious of fetting a
bad example, the contagion of which, when it pro¬
ceeds from parental authority, mull be irrefitlibly ma¬
lignant. Thus many who, in their individual and un-
connefted Hate, would probably have fpent a life not
only ufelefs to others, but profligate and carelefs in it-
felf, have become valuable members of the commu¬
nity, and have arrived at a degree of moral improve¬
ment, to which they would not otherwife have at¬
tained.
“ The contempt in which domeflic pleafures have in
modern times been held, is a mark of profligacy. It
is alfo a proof of a prevailing ignorance of real enjoy¬
ment. It argues a defe£l in talle and judgment as
well as in morals. I1 or the general voice of the expe¬
rienced has in all ages declared, that the trueft happi-
nefs is to be found at home.”
DOMICILE, in Scots Law, is the dwelling place
where a perfon lives with an intention to remain.
DOMIFYING, in AJlrology, the dividing or dif-
tributing the heavens into 12 houfes, in order to erefl
a theme, or horofcope, by means of fix great circles,
called circles of pofition.
There are various ways of domifying: that of Regio¬
montanus, which is the moft common, makes the circles
of pofition pafs through the interfeftions of the meri¬
dian and the horizon : others make them pafs through
the poles of the zodiac.
DOMINANT (from the Latin word dominari “ to
rule or govern”), among muficians, is ufed either as
an adjeilive or fubftantive-, but thefe different accepta¬
tions are far from being indifcriminate. In both fenfes
it is explained by Rouffeau as folloivs :
The dominant or fenfible chord is that which is prac-
tifed upon the dominant of the tone, and which intro¬
duces a perfect cadence. Every perfect major chord
becomes a dominant chord, as foon as the feventh mi¬
nor is added to it.
Dominant {Jubjld). Of the three notes elfential to
the tone, it is that which is a fifth from the tonick. 
The tonick and the dominant fix the tone : in it they
are each of them the fundamental found of a particular
chord ; whereas the mediant, which conftitutes the
mode, has no chord peculiar to itfelf, and only makes
a part of the chord of the tonic.
Mr Rameau gives the name of dominant in general
to every note which carries a chord of the feventh, and
diftinguilhes that which carries the fenfible chord by
the name of a tonick dominant; but, on account of the
length of the word, this addition to the name has not
been adopted by artifts : they continue fimply to call
that note a dominant which is a fifth from the tonick j
and they do not call the other notes which carry a
chord of the. feventh dominant, but fundamentals;
which is fufficient to render their meaning plain, and
prevents confufion.
A dominant, in that fpecies of church mufic which is
called plain-chant, is that note which is moft frequently
repeated or beaten, in whatever degree it may be from
t 29j ]
DOM
the tonick. In this fpecies of mufic there are dominants Dornina-
and tonicks, but no mediant. turn
DOMINATION, or Dominion, in Theology, the n 0 .
fourth order of angels or bleffed fpirits in the hierarchy, 0m‘nlCa,
reckoning from the feraphim. See Angel.
DOMINGO, or St Domingo, the capital of the
ifland of Hifpaniola in the Weft Indies, is feated in that
part, belonging to the Spaniards on the fouth fide of
the ifland, and has a commodious harbour. The town
is built in the Spanifh manner, with a great fquare in
the middle of it ; about which are the cathedral and
other public buildings. From this fquare run the prin¬
cipal llreets, in a direfl line, they being croffed by
others at right angles, fo that the form of the town is
almoft fquare. The country on the north and eaft fide
is pleafant and fruitful; and there is a large navigable
river on the weft, with the ocean on the fouth. It is
the fee of an archbifhop, an ancient royal audience, and
the feat of the governor. It has feveral fine churches
and monafteries ; and is fo well fortified, that a fleet
and army fent by Oliver Cromwell in 1654 could not
take it. The inhabitants are Spaniards, Negroes, Mu-
lattoes, Meitices, and Albatraces ; of whom about a
fixth part may be Spaniards. It had formerly about
2000 houfes, but it is much declined of late years. -
1 he river on which it is feated is called 0%ama.  
W. Lon. 69. 30. N. Lat. 18. 25.
DOMINIC de Gusman, founder of the Domini¬
can order of monks, was born at Calaroga in Old Ca-
ftile, 1170. He preached with great fury againft the
Albigenles, when Pope Innocent III. made a croifade
againft that unhappy people; and was inquifitor in
Languedoc, where he founded his order, and got it
confirmed by the Lateran council in 1215. He died
at Bologna in 1221, and was afterwards canonized.
The Dominican order has produced many illuftrious
men. See Dominicans.
DOMINICA, one of the Caribbee iflands, in the
Weft Indies, about 39 miles long and 13 broad, fituat-
ed between 6i° and 62° W\ Long, and between ij°
and i6° of N. Lat. This ifland formerly belonged to
the French, but was ceded to Britain by the treaty in
1763. It is very advantageous to the latter, as being
fituated between the French iflands of Guadaloupe ami
Martinico, fo that it is equally alaiming to both ; and
its fafe and commodious roads enable the Britilh pri¬
vateers to intercept, without rifle, the navigation of
France in her colonies, whenever a war happens be¬
tween the two nations.
This ifland was reduced, in the year 1778, by the
French., under the marquis de Bouille, governor of
Maitinico. At that time the ifland, though very well
fortified, had been unaccountably negledled by the
Bri.tifh government, in fuch a manner as to be almoft
entirely deftitute of a garrifon. I he French com¬
mander therefore, who made a defeent with 2000 men,
found only 100 regular forces and a few companies
of militia to oppofe him. All refiftance therefore be¬
ing vain, the only thing the garrifon could do wras to
procure as favourable terms of capitulation as poflible.
Thefe were granted with fuch readinefs as did great
honour to the chara&er of this officer ; the inhabitants
experiencing no kind of change except that of tranf-
ferring their obedience from Britain to France, being
left unmolefted in the enjoyment of all their rights
both
DOM t 2
Dominical, botl, civil and religious. The capitulation was fttiSly
Domini- 0bferved by the marquis 5 no plunder or irregularity
can?- being allowed, and a pecuniary gratification being dii-
    'uibuted among the foldiers and volunteers who ac-
companied him in the expedition. An hundred and
fixrv-four pieces of excellent cannon, and twenty-four
brafs mortars, befides a large quantity of military ftoves
were found in the place •, infomuch that the French
therafelves expreffcd their lurpnfe at finding fo few
hands to make ufe of them. The marquis, however,
took care to fupply this defea, by leaving a garnion
of 1 ?co of the belt men be bad with him. It was re-
ftored to Britain at the conclufion of the peace in
J Dominica, one of the Marquesas iflands m
^DOMINICAL letter, popularly called Sunday^
Letter, one of the feven letters A B C D E F G, u e
in almanacks, ephemerides &c. to denote the Sunday
throughout the year. See Chronology, 3 •
^-ord is formed from dominie a or domuncus dies, Lord s
The dominical letters were introduced m the kalen-
dnr by the primitive Chriftians in lieu of the nundinal
letters in the Roman Wiendar.
Dosus.ciL, in church hiftory. The council of
Auxerre, held in 578, decrees, that women communi¬
cate with their dominical. Some authors contend, that
this dominical was a linen cloth, wherein they rece.ved
the fpecles ; as not being allowed to receive them
the bare hand. Others will have it a kind of veil,
herewith they covered the head The moft proba¬
ble account is, that it was a fort ofl.nen cloth or hand-
kerchief wherein they received and preferved the eu-
charifl in times of perfection, to be taken on occ
at home. This appears to have been the cafe by the
praftice of the firft Chriftians, and by Tertullian’s bock
DOMINICANS, an order of religious called m
fume places Jacobins; and in others, Predicants or
^Thf Dominicans take their name from their founder
Dominic de Guzman, a Spamfti gentleman, born in
1170, at Calaroga in Old Caftile. He was i a
non and archdeacon of Offuna j and afterwards preached
with great zeal and vehemence againft the Albigen e
in Languedoc, where he laid the firft foundation of his
order. It was approved of in 1215 by Innocent I .
and confirmed in 1216 by a bull of Hononus HE un¬
der the title of St Augujlin ; to which Dominic added
feveral auftere -precepts and obfervances, obliging the
brethren to take a vow of abfofute poverty and to
• abandon entirely all their revenues and poMons and
alfo the title of Preaching Friars, becaufe public in-
ftru&ion was the main end of their inftitution.
The firft convent was founded at I houloufe by the
hiftiop thereof and Simon de Montfort. [wo years
afterwards they had another at Pans, near the blftiop s
houfe; and fmr.e time after a third in the rue St
Jacques. (St James’s ftreet), whence the denomination
°f UiTbefoie his death, Dominic fent Gilbert de Fref-
„ey, with twelve of b-thren .nt„ Fngland, w le^e
nev. with twelve tn luc ? /-v°r j •
Xhly founded their firft monaftery at Oxford m the
year 1221, and foon after another at London. In
06 1 DOM
the year 1276 the mayor and aldermen of the city of
London gave them two whole ftreets by the river ^
Thames, where they erefted a very commodious con- Domir,;s.
vent, whence that place is ftill called Black Fnat -f, t  
fom the name by which the Dominicans were called
1,1 StDominic, at fitft, only took the habit of the re¬
gular canons •, that is, a black caffock and rochet:
but this he quitted in 1219, for that which they
now wear, which it is pretended was ^ownbyt(
bleffed Virgin herfelf to the beatified Renaud d Or-
k This order is diffufed throughout the whole known
world. It has forty-five provinces under the general,
who refides at Rome •, and 12 particular congregations
or reforms, governed by vicars general. ^
They reckon three popes of this order, above fixty
cardinals, feveral patriarchs, a hundred and fifty arch-
bithops, and about eight hundred bifhops ; befide ma¬
tters of the facred palace, whofe office has been con-
ftantly difeharged by a religious ot this order exc
fince'St Dominic, who held it under Honorius III.
I2Of all the monaftic orders, none enjoyed a higher
degree of power and authority than the Dominican
friars, whofe credit was great, and their influence un -
verfal. But the meafures they ufed in order to main¬
tain and extend their authority were Perfidious and
cruel, that their influence began to dtclme towards the
beginning of the flxteenth century. 1 be tragic Itory
of Jetzerf conducted at Bern in r5°9. f «
an uninterefting difpute between them ami ^
eifeans relating to the mmaculate conception, will rettect
indelible infamy on this order. See an account of
it in Burnet’s Travels through France, Italy, Germany,
and Switzerland, p. 31. or Moftreim s Eccl' H ' ’
iii p. 294. 8vo. They were indeed perpetually em¬
ployed in ftigmatizing with the opprobrious name of
herefy numbers of learned and pious men j in encroach-
ing upon the rights and properties of others. to aug-
ment their poffeffions •, and m laying the moft iniqui¬
tous fnares and ftratagems for the deftruftion of them
adverfaries. They were the principal counfellors, by
wtfe inftigation a'nd advice Leo X. -s dete.mined o
the public condemnation of Luther. The papal iee
never had more aftive and ufeful abettors than this or¬
der, and that of the Jefuits. _ nnnoflte
The dogmata of the Dominicans are ufually oppofite ^
to thofe of the FrsricifcBns# 11 j *
There are alfo nuns or fillers of this order, called in
fome places Precching Stjlert. Thefe are even more
ancient than the friars ; St Dominic having founded
a fociety of religious maids at Promlles tome years
before the inftitution of his order of men , viz. in
12There is alfo a third order of Dominicans, both for
^DOMINION, iDo.ininm) in the civil law, fig-
nifies the power to ufe or difpofe of a thing as we
PlDf0M.m0H, or Domination. See DoM.HiT.ON-
DOMINIS, Mark Antony de, archbiftiop of opa-
latro in Dalmatia at the dole of the 15th and begin¬
ning of the 16th centuries, was a man whofe Acklene
in religion proved his ruin. His preferment, inftead
DON [2
Dominium of attaching him to the church of Rome, rendered
Don. k'.m to it. Becoming acquainted with our
 1— • Bifhop Bedell, while chaplain to Sir Henry Wotton
ambaffador from James I. at Venice, he communicated
his books De Republica Ecclejiajiica to him 5 which were
afterwards publilhed at London, with Bedell’s correc¬
tions. He came to England with Bedell; where he
was received with great refpeft, and preached and
wrote againft the Romifh religion. He is faid to have
had a principal hand in publilhing Father Paul’s Hi/lory
of the Council of Trent, at London, which was infcribed
to James in 1619. But on the promotion of Pope
Gregory XIV. who had been his fchoolfellow and old
acquaintance, he was deluded by Gondomar the Spa-
nilh ambaffador into the hopes of procuring a cardi¬
nal’s hat, by which he fancied he (hould prove an in-
flrument of great reformation to the church. Accord¬
ingly he returned to Rome in 1622, recanted his er¬
rors, and was at firft well received : but he afterwards
wrote letters to England, repenting his recantation ;
which being intercepted, he was imprifoned by Pope
Urban VIII. and died in 1625. He was alfo the
author of the firft philofophical explanation of the rain¬
bow, which before his time was regarded as a prodigy.
DOMINIUM eminens, in Scots law, that power
which the ftate or fovereign has over private property,
and by which the proprietor may be compelled to fell it
for an adequate price where public utility requires. See
Law Index.
Dominium Dire&um, in Scots Law, the right which
a fuperior retains in his lands, notwithftanding the feu¬
dal grant to his vaflal. See Law Index.
Dominium Utile, in Scots Law, the right which the
vaffal acquires in the lands by the feudal grant from
his fuperior. See Law Index.
DOMINUS, in ancient times, a title prefixed to a
name, ufually to denote the perfon either a knight or
a clergyman. See Vies Dominus.
The title was fometimes alfo given to a gentleman
not dubbed ; efpecially if he were lord of a manor. See
Dom, Gentleman, and Sire.
In Holland the title dominus is ftill retained, to di-
ftinguifh a minifter of the reformed church.
DOMI * IAN, the Roman emperor, fon to Vefpafian,
was the laft of the 12 Casfars. See (Hiforyof) Rome.
DON, or Tanais, a river of Ruflia, which takes
its rife from the fmall lake of St John, near Tula, in
the government of Mofcow, and palling through
part of the province of Voronetz, a fmall portion of
the Ukraina-Slobodlkaia, and the whole province of
Azof, divides itfelf near Tcherkalk into three ftreams,
and falls in thefe feparate branches into the fea of Azof.
This river has fo many windings, is in many parts fo
lhallow, and abounds with fuch numerous fhoals, as to
be fcarcely navigable, excepting in the fpring, upon
the melting of the fnows j and its mouth is alfo fo
choked up with fand, that only flat-bottomed veffels,
excepting in the lame feafon, can pafs into the fea of
Azof. 1 he banks of the Don, and the rivulets which
fall into it, are clothed with large trafls of foreft, whofe
timber is floated down the ftream to St Demetri and
Roll of, where the fiigates for the fea of Azof are
chiefly conftrufled. The navigation of the Don, Mr
Coxe obferves, may polhbly hereafter be rendered high¬
ly valuable, by conveying to the Black fea the iron of
Siberia, the Chinefe goods, and the Perfian raerchan-
•>*. VII. Part I.
97] DON
dife : which latter commodities, as well as the pro¬
ducts of India, formerly found their w’ay into Europe
through this fame channel.
Don is alfo the name of a river in Scotland, noticed
under the article Aberdeen ; the Old Town being ii-
tuated near its mouth. See Aberdeen.
Don Martin dc Mayorca, the name given by the
Spaniards to a duller of illands in the South fea, which
were difeovered in 1781 by Don F. k. Maurelle.
According to thedefeription given of thefe illands, they
abound with tropical fruits and roots, are in a toletable
ftate of cultivation, and the inhabitants have made feme
progrefs in civilization. Their government, manners,
and drefs, referable in moft points thofe of the natives
of the other South fea illands. In thieving, whether in
difpofition or dexterity, they feemed inferior to none.
In one of thefe illauds Don Maurelle found a good
harbour, which he places in 18. 36. S. Lat. and in
177. 48. W. Long.
DONARIA, among the ancients, in its primary
fignification, was taken for the places where the obla¬
tions offered to the gods were kept ; but afterwards
was ufed to denote the offerings themfelves 5 and lome-
times, though improperly, the temples.
DONATIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
triandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DONATION, (Donatio) , an a£t or contraC! where¬
by a man transfers to another either the property or
the ufe of the whole or a part of his effeCls as a free gift.
A donation, to be valid and complete, fuppofes a
capacity both in the donor and the donee j and requires
confent, acceptance, and delivery ; and by the French
law regiftry alfo.
Donation Mortis Caufa, in Law, a difpofition of pro¬
perty made by a perfon in his laft ficknefs, who appre¬
hending his diffolution near, delivers, or caufes to be
delivered to another, the poffeflion of any perfonal
goods, to keep in cafe of his deceafe. If the donor
dies, this gift needs not the confent of his executor;
but it fhall not prevail againft creditors ; and it is ac¬
companied with this implied truft, that, if the donor
lives, the property fhall revert to himfelf, being only
given in profpedl of death, or mortis cavfa. This me¬
thod of donation feems to have been conveyed to us
from the civillawyers, who borrow’ed it from the Greeks.
DONATISTS, ancient fchifmatics in Africa, fo
denominated from their leader Donatus.
This fe£I arofe in the year 311, when, in the room
of Menfurius, who died in that year on his return to
Rome, Ciecilian was eledled bilhop of Carthage, and
confecrated by the African bilhops alone, without the
concurrence of thofe of Numidia. The people refufed
to acknowledge him, and fet up Majorinus in oppofi-
tion ; who, accordingly, was ordained by Donatus
bifhop of Cafae Nigras. The Donatifts were con¬
demned, in a council held at Rome, two years after
their feparation ; and afterwards in another at Arles,
the year following ; and again at Milan, before Con-
ftantine the Great, in 316, who deprived them of
their churches, fent their feditipus bifhops into ba-
nifhment, and even punifhed fome of them with death.
Their caufe was efpoufed by another Donatus, called
great, the principal bifhop of that fed!, w ho, with
numbers of his follow ers, w'as exiled by order of Con-
ftans. Many of them were punifhed with great feve-
rity. See Ciucvmcelliones. However, after the
P P acceflion
Don
II .
Donathfs..
DON t 2
Donatifts acceffion of Julian to the throne in 362, were
II. permitted to return, and reftored to their former lx-
Donative. ■ r' s. fpveral ednfls againlt them ,
G to return, aiiu ^ • n. v
berty. Gratian publiftied feveral edtas againft them *,
and in 377 deprived them of their churches, and pro
Whited all their aflTemblies. But notwithftanding the
feverities they fuffered, it appears that they had a very
confiderable number of churches towards the clofe o
this century ; but at this time they began to decline,
on account of a fchifm among themfelve^ occafioned
by the eleftion of two bilhops, m the room of Pa¬
rian, the fucceffor of Donatus •, one party
Primian, and were called Prtmwmjs, and ^
ximian, and were called Maximamfts. Their decline
was alfo precipitated by the zealous oppofition of
Auguftine, and by the violent meafures which were
purfued againft them, by order of ^ emperor Hono-
rius, at the felicitation of two councils held at Car
thage •, the one in 404, and the other in 411. Many
of them were fined, the biftiops were bamfhed, and
fome put to death. This fea revived and multiphed
under the proteaion of the Vandals, who invaded A-
frica in 427, and took poffeffion of this province J but
it funk again under new feverities, when their empire
was overturned in <34. Neverthelefs, they remained
in a feparate body till the clofe of this century, when
Gregory, the Roman pontiff, ufed various methods
fo fupp effing them 5 his zeal fucceeded and there
are few traced to be found of the Donatifts after this
period. They were diftinguiihed by other appella-
Lis ; as Circumcelliones, Montenfes or Mountaineers,
Cumpites, Rupites, &c. They held three councils, or con-
ciliabules; one at Cirta in Numidia, and two at Carthage.
The errors of the Donatifts, befides their fchifm,
were I That baptifm conferred out of the church,
That is, out of their feft, was null 5 and accordingly
they rebaptifed thofe who joined their party from
other churches, and re-ordained their mmifters 2. That
theirs was the only true, pure, and holy church, al the
reft of the churches they held as proftitute and a en.
Donatus feems likewife to have given into the
doftrine of the Arians, vvith whom he was cloWy
allied; and accordingly, St Epiphamus, 1 heodoret,
and fome others, accufed the Donatifts of Ananifm ;
and it is probable that the charge was well founded»
becaufe they were patronized by the Vandals who held
that doarine. But St Auguftine, Ep. 185. to Count
Boniface, & Haer. 69. affirms, that the Donatifts,
in this point, kept clear of the errors of their leader.
DONATIVE, (Donativutn), aprefent made by any
nerfon ; called 2.M0 gratuity- . , • r u*
P The Romans made large donatives to their foldier .
Julia Pia, wife of the emperor Severus, is called on
certain medals mater cajlrorum, becaufe of the care fhe
took of the foldiery, by interpofmg for the augmenta¬
tion of their donatives, &c. ij;_rv .
Donative was properly a gift made to the foldi«7 ,
as congiatium was that made to the people Salma-
fius on his notes to Lampndius, in his Life of H -
liogabalus, mentioning a donative that emperor gave
of three pieces of gold per head, obferves, that this
was the common and legitimate rate of a donative.
Cafaubon, in his notes on the Life of Pertinax y a-
nitolinus, obferves, that Pertinax made a promife of
Loo denarii to each foldier; which amounts to up¬
wards of 97 pounds fterling. The fame author writes
that the legal donative was 20,000 denarii; and that
08 1 DON
^ it was not cuftomary to give lefs, efpecially to the pr*- Donative
torian foldiers ; that the centurions had double, and
the tribunes, &c. more in proportion. . '
Donative, in the canon law, a benefice given, and
collated to a perfon, by the founder or patron - with,
out either prefentation, mftitution, or induftion by the
^irchapels founded by laymen be not approved by
the diocefan, and, as it is called, they
are not accounted proper benefices, neither can they
be conferred by the bifhop, but remain to jbe pious
difpofition of the founders ; fo that the founders, and
their heirs, may give fuch chapels without the biftiop.
Gwin obferves, that the king might of ancient time
found a free chapel, and exempt it from the jurisdic¬
tion of the diocefan; fo may he, by liters patent,
give liberty to a common perfon to found fuch a cha¬
pel and make it donative, not prefentable ; and the
chaplain or beneficiary, fhall be depnvable by the
founder or his heir, and not by the biftiop. And this
feems to be the original of donatives in Eng an .
Donatives are within the ftatute agamft
if they have cure of fouls, wtth.n that agamft plural.-
tIs If the patron of a donative doth not nominate
a clerk, there can be no lapfe thereof, unlefs it be
fpecially provided for in the foundation; but the 1-
(Top mav compel him to do it by fpmuial cenfures
Buf if h be augmented by Queen A""' s «
will lapfe like other prefentative livings. I Geo. I. Hat.
- can. 10. The ordinary cannot vifit a donative, and
therefore it is free from procuration, and the incum¬
bent is exempted from attendance at vifitations.
All bifhopnes in ancienttimes were donative by the
king Again, where a bilhop has the g,f, o a be-
nS, it if properly called a doncuve, becaufe he can-
""dOnItORY?!!: Scots Low, that perfon to whom
theming beftows his right to any forfeiture that has
fal DONAT US,W a fchifmatic biftiop of Carthage,
founder of the fea of Donatists. His powers
fwore by him, and honoured him like a god. He died
abIDoNATOS, JElius, a famous grammarian lived at
Rome in 354 He was one of St Jerome’s matters; and
composed commentaries on Terence and Virgil, which
'"dONAWERT, a ftrong town of Germany, in the
circle of Bavaria, on the frontiers of Swabia. It has
been taken and retaken feveral times in the wars of
Germany ; and was formerly an imperial city, but at
prefent L fubjeft to the duke of Bavaria. E. Long.
10DONAX,ata gtnM of Ihells belonging to the bi-
"dONCASTER, a market town of Yotkftnre, 37
miles fouth of York. It has been long noted for the
DON IN E, J narents were of the Romiftv
religion,7'andCeufedrtheir utmoft effoA'0
to it; but his early examination of the conttov ^y ^
]
Doria.
DOR [ 299
Donne tween the church of Rome and the Proteftants, at laft fo natural to a failor
determined him to adhere to the latter. He travelled
 into Italy and Spain ; where he made many ufeful ob-
fervations, and learned their languages to perfe&ion.
Soon after his return to England, Sir Thomas Eger-
ton, keeper of the great feal, appointed him his fecre-
tary ; in which poll he continued five years. He mar-
rying privately Anne the daughter of Sir George
Moore then chancellor of the garter, and niece to the
lord keeper’s lady; was difmifled from his place, and
thrown into prifon. But he was reconciled to Sir
George by the good offices of Sir Francis Wolley. In
1612, he accompanied Sir Robert Drury to Paris.
During this time, many of the nobility folicited the
king for fome fecular employment for him. But his
majefty, who took pleafure in his converfation, had en¬
gaged him in writing his Pfeuclo Martyr, printed at
London in 1610 ; and was fo highly pleafed with
that work, that in 1614 he prevailed with him to en¬
ter into holy orders; appointed him one of his chap¬
lains, and procured him the degree of dodlor of di¬
vinity from the univerfity of Oxford. In 1619, he
attended the earl of Doncafter in his embaffy into
Germany. In 1621, he was made dean of St Paul’s;
and the vicarage of St Dunftan in the Well, in Lon¬
don, foon after fell to him ; the advowfon of it having
been given to him long before by Richard earl of Dor-
fet. By thefe and other preferments, he was enabled
to be charitable to the poor, kind to his friends, and
to make good provilion for his children. He wrrote,
befides the above, 1. Devotions upon emergent occa-
fions. 2. The ancient Hiltory of the Septuagint,
tranflated from the Greek of Arilleus, quarto. 3. Three
volumes of fermons, folio. 4. A confiderable number
of poems : and other works. His writings fliow him
to be a man of incomparable wit and learning ; but
his greatell excellence was fatire. He had a prodigi¬
ous richnefs of fancy, but his thoughts were much de-
bafed by his verfification. He was, however, highly
celebrated by all the great men of that age.
DONOR, in Law, the perfon who gives lands or
tenements to another in tail, &c.; as he to whom fuch
lands, &c. are given, is the donee.
DOOMSDAY book. See Domesday Book.
DOOR, in ArchiteBure. See Architecture,
N° 76.
DOR, the Englilh name of the common black beetle.
Some apply it alfo to the dully beetle, that flies about
hedges in the evening. See Scarabaeus, Entomo¬
logy Index.
DORADO, in AJlronomy, a fouthern conllellation,
not vifible in our latitude j it is alfo called xiphias.
The liars of this conllellation, in Sharp’s Catalogue,
are fix.
DORCHESTER, the capital of Dorfetlhire, fitu-
ated on the river Frome, on a Roman road, eight miles
north of Weymouth. W. Long. 2. 45. N. Lat. 50.40.
It gives the title of marquis to the noble family of
Pierpoint, duke of Kingllon ; fends two members to
parliament ; and is a town of great antiquity.
DOREE, or John Dor.ee. See Zeus, Ichthyo¬
logy Index.
DORIA, A ndrew, a gallant Genoefe fea officer,
born in 1466. He entered into the fervice of Francis I.
of France ; but preferved that fpirit of independence
DOR
and a republican. When the
French attempted to render Savona, long the ob-
je£l of jealoufy of Genoa, its rival in trade, Doiia
remonllrated againll the meafure in a high tone; which
bold aflion, reprefented by the malice of his courtiers
in the moll odious light, irritated Francis to that de¬
gree, that he ordered his admiral Barbefieux to fail to
Genoa, then in the hands of the French troops, to ar-
rell Doria, and to leize his galleys. This ralh order
Doria got timely hints of; retired with all his galleys
to a place of fafety ; and, while his relentment was
thus raifed, he doled with the offers of the emperor
Charles V. returned his commiflion with the collar of
St Michael to Francis, and hoilled the Imperial colours.
To deliver his country, weary alike of the French and
Imperial yoke, from the dominion of foreigners, was
now Doria’s highell ambition ; and the favourable mo¬
ment offered. Genoa was affli£led with the pellilence,
the French garrilon was greatly reduced and ill paid,
and the inhabitants were fufficiently difpofed to fecond
his view's. He failed to the harbour with 13 galleys,
landed 500 men, and made himfelf mailer of the gates
and the palace with very little refiltance. The French
governor with his feeble garrifon retired to the citadel,
but was quickly forced to capitulate; when the people
ran together, and levelled the citadel with the ground.
It was now in Doria’s power to have rendered him¬
felf the fovereign of his country ; but, with a mag¬
nanimity of which there are few examples, he affembled
the people in the court before the palace, difclaimed
all pre-eminence, and recommended to them to fettle
that form of government they chofe to ellablilh. The
people, animated by his fpirit, forgot their factions,
and fixed that form of government wffiich has fubfifted
ever lince with little variation. This event happened
in 1521. Doria lived to a great age, rcfpedled and
beloved as a private citizen ; and is ftill celebrated in
Genoa by the moft honourable of all appellations,
“ The father of his country, and the reftorer of its
liberty.”
DORIC, in general, any thing belonging to the
Dorians, an ancient people of Greece, inhabiting near
Mount Parnaffus. See Doris.
Doric, in Architecture, is the fecond of the five
orders; being that between the Tufcan and lori’c. It
is ufually placed upon the Attic bafe, though original¬
ly it had no bafe. See Architecture, N* 43.
At its firft invention it was more Ample than at pre-
fent; and when in after times it was more adorned
and enriched, the appellation Doric was reftrained to
this richer manner, and the primitive Ample manner
was called by a new name, the Tufcan order, which
was chiefly ufed in temples ; as the former, being more
light and delicate, was for porticoes and theatres. The
tradition is, that Dorus, king of Achaia, having firfl
built a temple of this order at Argos, w'hich he dedicated
to Juno, occafioned it to be called Doric ,• though others
derive its name from its being invented or ufed by the
Dorians.
The moderns, on account of its folidity, ufe it in
large ftrong buildings ; as in the gates of cities and ci¬
tadels, the outfide of churches, and other maffy works,
where delicacy of ornament w?ould be unfuitable.
The gate of Burlington houfe in Piccadilly is of the
Doric order.
Dona,
Doric.
P p 2
The
DOR
[ 3°° 3
DOR
Doric. The mod confiderabl eancient monuments of th,sol¬
der, are the theatre of Marcellos at Rome, where,n
the capital, the height of the fnze, and its projeame,
are much fmaller than in the modern architecture^,
and the Parthenion, or temple of Minerva, at A*11'''5-
in which the (hurt and maffy columns bear upon the
pavement without a bafe ; and the cap, al is a fimnlp
torus, with its cinaure, and a fquare, plain, and fohd
Dorirtj,
Doris.
abacus. t
Doric Cvmatium. See Cyma.
Doric DialeB, one of the five diakas, or manners
of fpeaking, which obtained among the Greeks.
It was firft ufed by the Lacedemonians, and parti-
cularly thofe of Argos •, thence it paffed into Epirus
Libya, Sicily, the iflands of Rhodes, and Crete,
this dialea, Archimedes and Theocritus wrote, who
were both of Syracufe ; as likewife Pindar.
In ftrianefs, however, we (hould rather define _D -
ric, the manner of fpeaking peculiar to the Dorians
after their recefs near Parnaffus and Afopus^ a
which afterwards came to obtain among the Lacede
monians, &c. Some even diftinguifti between the La¬
cedemonian and Doric •, but, m reality, they were the
fame • fetting afide a few particularities in the languag
of the Lacedemonians •, as is (hown by Rulandus m
his excellent treatife De Lingua Graca ejufque Dwlec-
"VefideV'the authors already meurioued to have writ¬
ten in the Doric dialea, we might add Archytas of
Tarentum, Bion, Callinus, Simonides, Bacchylides,
Cypfelas, Aleman, and Sophron. .
Moft of the medals of the cities of Grsecia Magna,
and Sicily favour of the Doric dialeft in their infcnp-
tfonf witnefs, AMBPAK^TAN, AITOAAnNIATAN,
aXEFONTAN, AXTFITAN, HPAXAEftTAN,
NlfiN. ©EFMITAN, KAYAONIATAN, KOniATAN,
TAYFOMENITAN, &C. Which (hows the countries
wherein the Doric dialea was ufed. .
The general rules of this dialea are thus given by
the Port Royalifts.
D\ Hrx grand, J'> do e! l'x/ah h Dore.
D'ufaitm-, d\, »i el d’axvfmt encore.
Op i de IHnfini: et pour lefinguher
Se fert au feminin du nombre planer.
But they are much better explained in the fourth book
of Rulandus j where he even notes the minuter differ¬
ences of the dialeas of Sicily Crete, 1 arentum,
Rhodes, Lacedaemon, Laconia, Macedonia, and Thef-
ialThe a abounds everywhere in the Doric •, but this
dialea bears fo near a conformity to the iEolic,
manv reckon them but one* . .
Doric Mode, in Mufic, the firft of the authentic
jnodes of the ancients. Its charaaer is to be fevere,
tempered with gravity and joy ; and is proper upon
religious occafions, as alfo to be ufed in war. It bc-
oins Djajohre. Plato admires the mufic of the
Doric mode, and judges it proper to preferve good
manners as being mafeuhne j and on this account al¬
lows it in his commonwealth. The ancients had like-
wife their fubdoric or hypodonc mode, which was one
of the plagal modes. Its charaaer was to be very
grave and Solemn; it begins with rt, a fourth lower
than the doric.
DORING, or Daring, among fportfmen, a term
ufed to exprefs a method of taking larks, by means of
a chip-net and a looking-glafs. For this fport there
rirtift be provided four flicks very ftraight and light,
. about the bignefs of a pike •, two of thefe are to be
four feet nine inches long, and all notched at the edges
or the ends. At one end of each of thefe flicks there
is to be fattened another of about a foot long on one
: fide ; and on the other fide a fmall wooden peg about
three inches long. Then four or more flicks are to be
prepared, each of one foot length •, and each of thefe
muft have a cord of nine feet long fattened to it at the
end. Every one fhould have a buckle for the com¬
modious fattening on to the refpeaive flicks when the
net is to be fpread.—A cord muft alio be provided,
which muft have two branches. The one muft have
nine feet and a half, and the other ten ^eet long, with
a buckle at the end of each ; the reft, or body of the
cord, muft be 24 yards long. AH thefe cords, as we
the long ones as thofe about the flicks, muft be well
twifted and of the bignefs of one’s little finger. The
next thing to be provided is a ftaft of four feet long,
pointed at one end, and with a ball of wood at the
other for the carrying thefe conveniences in a lack or
wallet. There ftiould alfo be carried, on this occafion,
a fpade to level the ground where there may be any
little irregularities j and two fmall rods, each 18
inches long, and having a fmall rod fixed with a pack¬
thread at the larger end of the other. To thefe are to
be tied fome pack-thread loops, which are to fallen in
the legs of fome larks : and there are to be reels to
thefe, that the birds may fly a little way up and down.
When all this is done, the lookmg-glals is to be pre¬
pared in the following manner : Take a piece ol wood
about an inch and a half thick, and cut it m form of a
bow, fo that there may be about nine inches fpace be¬
tween the two ends *, and let it have its full thicknefs
at the bottom, that it may receive into it a lalie piece ,
in the five corners of which there are to be fet in five
pieces of looking-glafs. Thefe are fo fixed that they
may dart their light upwards j and the whole machine
is to be fupported on a moveable pin, with the end of
a long line fixed to it, and made in the manner of the
children’s plaything of an apple and a plumbftone ;
fo that the other end of the cord _ being carried
through a hedge, the barely pulling it may fet the
whole machine of the glaffes a turning. Tbis aiJd the
other contrivances are to be placed in the middle be¬
tween the two nets. The larks fixed to the place and
termed calls, and the glittering of the looking-g affes
as they twirl round in the fun, invite the other larks
down ; and the cord that communicates with the nets,
and goes through the hedge, gives the perfon behind
an opportunity of pulling up the nets, fo as to meet
over the whole, and take every thing that is between
them. The places where this fort of fportmg fucceeds
heft are open fields remote from any trees and hedges
except one by way of (belter for. the fportfman : and
the wind fiiould always be either in the front or back ,
for if it blows fidewife, it prevents the playing ot the
lietDORIS, a country of Greece, between Phocis,
Theffaly, and Acarnania. It received its name from
Dorus the fon of Deucalion, who made a fettlement
there. It was called Tetrapohs from the four ciUes^of
DOR [ 3°i J DOR
Pindus or Dryopis, Erineum, Cytiniam, and Borium,
which it contained. To thefe four Tome add Lilaenm
and Carphia, and therefore call it Hexapo/is. The
name of Doris has been common to many parts of
Greece. The Dorians in the age of Deucalion inha¬
bited Phthiotis, which they exchanged for Hiftiseotis,
in the age of Dorus. From thence they were driven
by the Cadmeans, and came to fettle near the town of
Pindus. From thence they palled into Dryopis, and
afterwards into Peloportnefus. Hercules having re-
eftablilhed iEgimius king of Phthiotis or Doris, who
had been driven from his country by the Lapithae, the
grateful king appointed Hyllus the fon of his patron
to be his fucceffor, and the Heraclidas marched from
that part of the country to go to recover Peloponne-
fus. The Dorians fent many colonies into different
places, which bore the fame name as their native coun¬
try. The moft famous of thefe is in Alia Minor, of
which Halicarnaflus was once the capital. This part
of Alia Minor was called Hexapohs, and afterwards
Pentapolis.
Doris, a genus of animals, belonging to the order
of vermes mollufca. See Helminthology Index.
DORMANT, in Heraldry, is ufed for the pofture
of a lion, or any other beaft, lying along in a fleeping
attitude with the head on the fore paws : by which it
is dilfinguilhed from the couchant, where, though the
beaft is Wing, yet he holds up his head. ^
DORMER, in ArchiteBure, fignifies a window
made in the roof df a houfe, or above the entablature,
being raifed upon the rafters.
DORMITORY, a gallery in convents or religious
houfes, divided into feveral cells, in which the religious
fleep or lodge.
DORMOUSE. See Mus and Sciurus, Mam¬
malia Index.
DORONICUM, leopard’s bane; a genus of
plants belonging to the fyngenefia clafs ; and in the
natural method ranking under the 49th order, Compo-
Jltce. See Botany Index.
DORSAL, an appellation given to whatever be¬
longs to the back. See Dorsum.
DORSET, Thomas Sackville, Lord Buckhurft.
See Sackville.
Dorset, Charles Sackville, earl of. See Sack-
tille.
DORSETSHIRE, a county of England, bounded
on the fouth by the Englifti channel, on the north by
Somerfetlhire and Wiltftiire, on the eaft by Hamplhire,
and on the weft by Devonfhire and fome part of So-
merfetlhire. It is between 40 and 50 miles long from
eaft to weft, and 34 broad from fouth to north, and
contains 34 hundreds, 22 market towns, and 248 pa-
rifties. This county enjoys a mild, pleafant, and whole-
fome air, and a deep, rich, and fertile foil, finely diver-
fified. Towards the north it is level, under the high
lands that divide it from Somerfetfhire, where there
are fine arable grounds that will yield large crops of
different kinds of grain. But on the fouth, from the
borders of Hampfhire by the fea coaft, for an extent
of almoft 20 miles in length, and in fome places four
or five in breadth, is a heathy common, which renders
this county lefs populous than it otherwife would be.
From eaft to weft runs a ridge of hills called the Downs,
.abounding with fweet and fhort herbage, which nou-
rifties a vaft number of fheep equally efteemed for their Dorfiferom
fiefh and fleece. The country is alfo very plentifully QUn
watered ; and in all refpedls fo well fuited both for ,
pleafure and profit, that it wms diftinguiftied by the
Romans above all others. They had more ftations and
fummer camps in Dorfetfliire than in any other coun¬
ty. That the Saxons had the fame regard for it, is
evident from the number of palaces they had in it, the
ftately minfters they built, and the^ exprefs direftions
they gave that their bodies ftiould be interred in thofe
monuments of their piety. This county yields many
and very valuable commodities. The quarries in Pur-
beck and Portland fupply ftones of different qualities,
fuited to various ufes, and in prodigious quantities, to¬
gether wuth fome very rich and beautiful marble. The
beft tobacco-pipe clay in England is alfo found in this
county. Madder, hemp, and flax, alfo thrive in many
places, grain of all forts, &c.
DORSIFEROUS plants, among botanifts, fuch
as are of the capillary kind, without ftalks, and which
bear their feeds on the back fide of their leaves.
DORSTENIA, contrayerva ; a genus of plants
belonging to the tetrandria clafs ; and in the natural
method ranking under the 53d order, Scabridx, See
Botany Index.
DORSUM, the Back, in Anatomy, comprehends
all the pofterior part of the trunk of the body from the
neck to the buttocks. See Anatomy Index.
DORT, or Dordrecht, a city of Holland, which
holds the firft rank in the affembly of the ftates. It is
feated in a fmall ifland formed by the rivers Meufe,
Merue, Rhine, and Linghe. The Meufe, on which it
ftands, gives it a good harbour, and feparates it from
the iflands of Iffelmonde and Ablas. It is divided from
Beyerland by a canal. The harbour is very commo¬
dious for the merchandifes wrhich come dow-n the
Rhine and the Meufe, which keep it in a flouriftiing
condition. Its ftrength confifts in being furrounded
with w’ater; Its walls are old, and defended by round
tow^ers. It is very rich, and well built with brick, and
had formerly the exclufive right of coining money. It
is at prefent the ftaple town for wines, particularly
Rhenilh. It w>as detached from the main land in 1421,
on the 17th of November, by a flood occafioned by
the breaking down of the dike, which overwhelmed 70
villages, and about 100,000 perfons. However, by-
time and the induftry of the inhabitants, a great part
of the land is recovered. It has two principal canals,
namely, the New and Old Haven, by which heavy
loaded veffels may enter into the city. Over the Old
Haven is a large bridge well built with brick.
Dort was almoft reduced to allies in the year 1457 ;
there being then confumed 2000 houfes, with the halls,
hofpital, and church of Notre Dame : but they are
now well provided with fire engines and watchmen to
prevent the like difafter. This city is famous for the
meeting of the clergy called the Synod of Dort, in
which the Calvinifts obtained a fentence again!! the
Arminians, who were called the Remonjlrants. The
difpute between the contending parties occafioned
ftrange diforders, Ikirmilhes and murders, in moft of
the principal cities. Thofe minillers who would not
fubfcribe to the decree of the fynod were banilhed, of
whom there were above 100. E. Long. 4. 36. N. Lat.
5r* 39-
DOS [ Z02 ]
Dort Synod of Doit, a national fynod, fummoned by au- lifhed by I hotius.
tl thority of the ftates general, the provinces of Holland,
po lithe-it:5 Utrecht, and Overyffel excepted, and held at Dort in
1618. The mofl eminent divines of the United Pro¬
vinces, and deputies from the churches of England,
Scotland, Switzerland, Bremen, Heffia, and the Pa¬
latinate, affembled on this occalion, in order to decide
the controverfy between the Gomarifts or Calvinifls
and Arminians } the latter of whom were declared
corrupters of the true religion. But the authority of
this fynod was far from being univerfally acknowledged
either in Holland or in England. The provinces of
Friedand, Zealand, Utrecht, Guelderland, and Gro¬
ningen, could not be perfuaded to adopt their deci-
lions j and they were oppofed by the authority of
Archbilhop Laud and King James I. in England. The
reformed churches in France, though at firft difpofed to
give a favourable reception to the decifions of this fa¬
mous fynod, in procefs of time efpouied doftrines very
different from thofe of the Gomarifts •, and the churches
of Brandenburgh and Bremen would not fuffer their
doftors to be tied down to the opinions and tenets of
the Dutch divines. The liberty of private judgment
with refpeft to the doctrines of predeftinatjon and
grace, which the fpirit that prevailed among the di¬
vines of Dort feemed fo much adapted to difcourage
and fupprefs, acquired new7 vigour in confequence of
the arbitrary proceedings of this affembly.
DORTMUND, a rich, populous, and imperial city
of Germany, in the circle of Weftphalia. It is pretty
large, but not well built. Formerly it was one of the
Hanfe towns. Its territory alfo was formerly a. coun¬
ty, and had lords of its owm ; but fince 1504, it hath
been poffeffed entirely by the city.
DORYPHORI (from fyvjpear, and / W),
an appellation given to the life-guard men of the Ro¬
man emperors. They w’ere held in fuch high eftima-
tion, as frequently to have the command of armies con¬
ferred on them.—It was ufual alio for chief command¬
ers to have their doryphori or life guard to attend
them.
DOSE, in Pharmacy, &c. the quantity of a medi¬
cine to be taken at one time. T he word is formed
from the Greek Ssfij, w7hich fignifies gift, or a thing
given ; from ittiupu, do, “ I give.”
DOSITHEANS, {Dofithei), an ancient feft a-
mong the Samaritans in the firft century of the Chri-
ftian era.
Mention is made in Origen, Epiphanius, Jerome,
and divers other Greek and Latin fathers, of one Do-
fitheus, the chief of a fa£lion among the Samaritans j
but the learned are not at all agreed as to the time
wherein he lived. St Jerome, in his dialogue againft
the Luciferians, places him before our Saviour ; where¬
in he is followed by Drufius, wrho in his anfwer to
Serrarius places him about the time of Sennacherib
king of Affyria. But Scaliger will have himjrofterior
to our Saviour’s time : And in effeft Origen intimates
him to have been contemporary with the apoftles j
where he obferves, that he endeavoured to perfuade
the Samaritans that he was the Meffiah foretold by
Mofes.
He had many followers } and his feft was ftill fub-
fifting at Alexandria in the time of the patriarch Eu-
logius, as appears from a decree of that patriarch pub-
D O U
  v   In that decree, Eulogius accufesDofitheans
Dofitheus of injurioufly treating the ancient patriarchs Do^ajr>
and prophets, and attributing to himfelf the fpirit of .. —y—j
prophecy. He makes him contemporary with Simon
Magus •, and accufes him of corrupting the Pentateuch
in divers places, and of compofing feveral books direft-
ly contrary to the law7 of God.
Archbifhop Ulher takes Dofitheus to be the author
of all the changes made in the Samaritan Pentateuch,
which he argues from the authority of Eulogius. But
all we can juftly gather from the teftimony of Eulogius
is, that Dofitheus corrupted the Samaritan copies fince
ufed by that fe£t j but that corruption did not pafs
into all the copies of the Samaritan Pentateuch now in
ufe among us, which vary but little from the Jewilh
Pentateuch : And in this fenfe we are to underftand
that paffage in a Samaritan chronicle, where it is faid
that Doufis, i. e. Dofitheus, altered feveral things in
the law of Mofes. The author of that chronicle, who
was a Samaritan by religion, adds, that their high-
prieft fent feveral Samaritans to feize Doufis and his
corrupted copy of the Pentateuch.
Epiphanius takes Dofitheus to have been a Jew7 by
birth, and to have abandoned the Jewifti party for that
of the Samaritans. He imagines him likewife to have
been the author of the left of the Sadducees . Which
feems inconfiftent writh his being later than our Savi¬
our ; and yet the Jefuit Serrarius agrees to make Dofi¬
theus the mafter of Sadoc, from whom the Sadducees
are derived.
Tertullian, making mention of the fame Dofitheus,
obferves, that he was the firft wEo dared to rejeft the
authority of the prophets by denying their infpiration.
But he charges that as a crime peculiar to that feflary,
w'hich in reality is common to the whole fe£l, who
have never allow7ed any but the five books of Mofes
for divine.
DOSSER, a fort of bafket to be carried on the
fiioulders of men. It is ufed in carrying the overplus
earth from one part of a fortification to another where
it is wanted. There are hkewiie fmall carts and wheel¬
barrows for the fame ufe.
DOSSIL, in Surgery, is lint made into a cylindric
form, or refembling the (hape of dates or olive ftones.
Dofiils are fometimes fecured by a thread tied round
their middle.
DOTTEREL. See Charadrius, Ornitholo¬
gy Index.
DOU, or Douw, Gerard. See Douw.
DOUAY, or Doway, a large and ftrong city of
the French Netherlands, fituated in E. Long. 3. O.
N. Eat. 50. 25. It is fituated on the river Scarpe, in
a very fertile and pleafant country. The town is large
and populous, and exceedingly well fortified. ^ ou
enter it by fix gates, and the ftreets from each of thefe
gates lead to the market-place. Here is a^ venerable
old town-houfe, adorned with the ftatues of the cans
of Flanders, in which the magiftrates affemble, and are
renew’ed every thirteen months. Here alfo are held
feveral country courts for the dependencies of Douay,
which contain about 30 villages. I lie parliament of
Douay was at firft only a fupreme council, eftabliftied
at Tournay in 1668, and ere&ed into a parliament in
1686. But Tournay being taken by the allies in 1709,
the parliament was removed to Cambray j and upon
Double.
D O U [ 3°3 1 D O U
the yielding of Tournay to the Auftrians by the treaty
of Utrecht, the parliament was removed to Douay,
where it ftill continues. This city was eredled into an
univcrlity like that of Louvain by Philip II. becaufe
of its being in the middle of fo many great cities, and
Louvain at fo great a diftance, that the children on
that fide of the country were generally fent for their
education into France. Before the French revolution
it contained 14 colleges, all governed and fettled af¬
ter the manner of thofe at Louvain 5 and the fchools
of philofophy, canon and civil law, and phyfic, were
difpofed alfo after the fame manner. There was a
confiderable feminary here of Englifb Roman Catholics,
founded by Philip II. of Spain about the year 1560.
There were alfo a great number of convents } and
amongftthe reft two Fmglifh, one of Francifcan friars,
the other of Benedidtine monks. Douay was taken
from the Spaniards by the French king in perfon in
1667, after a fhort refiftance. That prince made it
very ftrong, and built a fort about a cannon fhot be¬
low it upon the Scarpe, with fluices, by which the ad¬
jacent country could be drowned. The allies laid
fiege to it in 1710, under the command of the duke
of Marlborough 5 and after a vigorous defence, the
town and Fort Scarpe furrendered upon honourable
terms. It was retaken by the French in 1712, after
the fufpenfion of arms between Great Britain and
France.
DOUBLE j two of a fort, one correfponding to
the other.
Double Children, Double Cats, Double Pears, &c.
Inftances of thefe are frequent in the Philofoph. Tranf.
and elfewhere. See Monster..
Sir John Floyer, in the fame Tranfatfions, giving an
account of a double turkey, furnifties fome refledtions on
the produdlion of double animals in general. Two tur¬
keys, he relates, were taken out of an egg of the com¬
mon fize, when the reft were all hatched, wdfich grew
together by the flefti of the breaft-bone, but in all
other parts were diftindl. They feemed lefs than the
ordinary fize, as wanting bulk, nutriment, and room
for their growth ; which latter, too, was apparently
the occafion of their cohefion. For, having two di-
ftindt cavities in their bodies, and two hearts, they
muft have arifen from two cicatriculas •, and, confe-
quently, the egg had two yolks ; which is no uncom¬
mon accident. He mentions a dried double chicken in
his pofleffion, which, though it had four legs, four
ivings, &c. had but one cavity in the body, one heart,
and one head •, and, confequently, was produced from
one cicatricula.
So, Paraeus mentions a double infant, with only one
heart: in which cafe, the original or ftamen of the in¬
fant was one, and the veffels regular ; only, the nerves
and arteries towards the extremities dividing into more
branches than ordinary, produced double parts.
The fame is the cafe in the double flowers of plants,
occafioned by the richnefs of the foil. So it is in the
eggs of quadrupeds, &c.
There are, therefore, two reafons of duplicity in em¬
bryos : 1. The conjoining or connexion of two perfect
animals ; and 2. An extraordinary divifion and ramifi¬
cation of the original veffels, nerves, arteries, &c.
Double Employment, in Muflc, a name given by M.
Rameau to the two different manners in which the
chord of the fub-dominant may be regarded and treated, Double,
viz. as the fundamental chord of the fixth fuperadded,
or as the chord of the great fixth, inverted from a fun¬
damental chord of the feventh. In reality, the chords
carry exa6tly the fame notes, are figured in the fame
manner, are employed upon the fame chord of the
tone, in fuch a manner, that frequently we cannot dif-
cern which of the two chords the author employs, but
by the afliftance of the fubfequent chord, which re-
folves it, and which is different in thefe different cafes.
To make this diftin£lion, we muft confider the dia¬
tonic progrefs of the two notes which form the fifth
and the fixth, and which, conftituting between them
the interval of a lecond, muft one or the other confti-
tute the diffonance of the chord. Now this progrefs is
determined by the motion of the bafs. Of thefe two
notes, then, if the fuperior be the diffonance, it will
rife by one gradation into the fubfequent chord, the
lower note will keep its place, and the higher note
will be a fuperadded fixth. If the lowrer be the diffo¬
nance, it will defcend into the fubfequent chord, the
higher will remain in its place, and the chord will be
that of the great fixth. See the two cafes of the double
employment in Rouffeau’s Mufical Didlionary, Plate D,
fig. 1 2.
With refpeft to the compofer, the ufe which he may
make of the double employment, is to confider the
chord in its different points of view, that from thence
he may know how to make his entrance to it, and his
exit from it 5 fo that having arrived, for inftance, at
the chord of the fuperadded fixth, he may refolve it
as a chord of the great fixth, and reciprocally.
M. D’Alembert has ftiown, that one of the chief ufes
of the double employment is, that we be able to carry
the diatonic fucceffion of the gamut even to an odfave,
without changing the mode, at leaft whilft we rife ; for
in defcending we muft change it. Of this gamut and
its fundamental bafs, an example will be found in Rouf¬
feau’s Mufical Di£fionary, Plate D, fig. 13. It is evi¬
dent, according to the lyftem of M. Rameau, that all
the harmonic fucceffions which refult from it, are in
the fame tone : for, in ftriftnefs, no other chords are
there employed but three, that of the tonic, that of
the dominant, and that of the fub-dominant 5 as this
laft, in the double employment, conftitutes the ieventh
from the fecond note, which is employed upon the
fixth.
With refpeft to what M. D’Alembert adds in his
Elements of Mufic, p. 80. and which he repeats in the
Encyclopedic, article Double emplai, viz. that the
chord of the feventh re fa la ut, though we fliould
even regard it only as inverfion of fa, la, ut, re, can¬
not be followed by the chord ut mi fol ut; “ I can¬
not (fays Rouffeau) be of his opinion in this point.
“ The proof which he gives for it is, that the diffo¬
nance ut of the firft chord cannot be refolved in the
fecond ; and this is true, fince it remains in its place :
but in this chord of the feventh re fa la ut, inverted
from this chord of the fuperadded fixth, fa la ut re, it
is not the ut, but the re, which is the diffonance j which,
of confequence, ought to be refolved in afcending upon
mi, as it really does in the fubfequent chord ; fo that
this procedure in the bafs itfelf is forced, which, from
re, cannot without an error return to ut, but ought to
afcend to mi, in order to refolve the diffonance.
“ M.
Double
I!
DonH'pt.
D O U [ 304
“ M. D’Alembert afterwards (henvs, that this chord
re fa la ut, when preceded and followed by
D o U
^  _ that of
1 the tonic, cannot be authorized by the double employ¬
ment, and this is likewife very true •, becaufe this
chord, though figured with a 7, is not treated as a
chord of the feventh, neither when we make our en¬
trance to it, nor our exit from it *, or at lead that it is
not neceffary to treat it as fuch, but Amply as an inver-
fion of the fuperadded fixth, of which the diflbnance is
the bafs : in which cafe we ought by no means to for¬
get, that this diffonance is never prepared. Thus,
though in fuch a tranfition the double employment is
not in queftion, though the chord of the feventh be no
more than apparent, and impoffible to be refolved by
the rules, this does not hinder the tranfition from be¬
ing proper and regular, as I have juft proved to theo-
rifts. I (hall immediately prove to pradical artifts,
by an inftance of this tranfition : which certainly will
not be condemned by any one of them, nor juftified by
any other fundamental bafs except my own. (See the
Mufical Di&ionary, Plate D, fig. 14.)-
“ I acknowledge, that this inverfion of the chord of
the fixth fuperadded, which transfers the diffonance to
the bafs, has been cenfured by M. Rameau. This au¬
thor, taking for a fundamental chord the chord of the
feventh, which refults from it, rather chofe to make
the fundamental bafs defeend diatonically, and refolve
one feventh by another, than to unfold this feventh by
inverfion. I had diflipated this error, and many
others, in fome papers which long ago had paffed into
the hands of M. D’Alembert, when he was compo-
fing his Elements of Mufic ; fo that it is not his fenti-
ment which I attack, but my own opinion which I de¬
fend.”
For what remains, the double employment cannot be
ufed with too much referve, and the greateft mafters
are the moft temperate in putting it in praftice.
Double Fichy, or Fiche, in Heraldry, the denomi¬
nation of a crofs, when the extremity has two points ;
in contradiftinaion to fiche, where the extremity is
iharoened away to one point.
Double OBave, in Mufic, an interval compofed of
fifteen notes in diatonic progreffion 5 and which, for
that reafon, is called a fifteenth. “ It is (fays Rouf-
feau) an interval compofed of two oaaves, called by
the Greeks difdiapafon. '
It deferves, however, to be remarked, that in inter¬
vals lefs diftant and compounded, as in the third, the
fifth, thefimple oBave, &c. the lowed and higheft ex¬
tremes are included in the number from whence the in¬
terval takes its name. But, in the double oBave, when
termed a fifteenth, the fimple number of which it is
compofed gives the name. This is by no means ana¬
logical, and may occafion fome confufion. We Ihould
rather choofe, therefore, to run any hazard which
might occur from uniformly including all the terms of
which the component intervals confift, and call the
double oftave a fixteenth, according to the general ana-
logy. See Interval.
DOUBLET, among lapidaries, implies a counter¬
feit (tone compofed of two pieces of cryftal, and fome-
times glafs foftened, together with proper colours be¬
tween them ; fo that they make the fame appearance
to the eye as if the whole fubftance of the cryftal had
been tinged with thefe colours.
The impra&icability of imparting tinges to the bo- Doublet ^
dy of cryftals, while in their proper and natural date, *
and the foftnefs of glafs, which renders ornaments
made of it greatly inferior in wear to cryftal, gave in¬
ducements to the introdudlion of colouring the lurtace
of cryftal wrought in a proper form, in fuch a manner,
that the furfaces of two pieces fo coloured being laid
together, the effeft might appear the fame as if the
whole fubftance of the cryftal had been coloured. The
cryftals, and fometimes white tranfparent glafs fo
treated, were called doublets ; and at one time prevail¬
ed greatly in ufe, on account of the advantages, with
refpeft to wear, fuch doublets had, when made of cry¬
ftal, over glafs, and the brightnefs of thecolours which
could with certainty be given to counterfeit (tones this
way, when coloured glals could not be procured, or at
lead not without a much greater expence. Doublets
have not indeed the property which the others have, of
bearing to be fet tranfpardnt, as is frequently required
in drops of ear-rings and other ornaments : but when
mounted in rings, or ufed in fuch manner that the fides
ot the pieces, where the joint is made, cannot be in-
fpefted, they have, when formed of cryftal, the title to
a preference to the coloured glafs} and the art of ma¬
naging them is therefore, in fome degree, of the fame
importance with that of preparing glals for the coun¬
terfeiting gems } and is therefore properly an appen¬
dage to it, as being entirely fubfervient to the fame in¬
tention. The manner of making doublets is as fol¬
lows: .
Let the cryftal or glafs be firft cut by the lapidaries
in the manner of a brilliant, except that, in this cafe,
the figure muft be compofed from two feparate ftones,
or parts of ftones, formed in the manner of the upper
and under parts of a brilliant, if it was divided in a
horizontal diredion, a little lower than the middle.
After the two plates of the intended (tone are thus cut,
and fitted fo exaftly that no divifion can appear when
they are laid together, the upper part muft be polilhed
ready for fet ting •, and then the colour muft be put be¬
twixt the two plates by this method. “ Take of Ve¬
nice or Cyprus turpentine two fcruples; and add to it
one fcruple of the grains of maftich chofen perfeaiy
pure, free from foulnefs, and previoufty powdered.
Melt them together in a fmall filver or brafs fpoon
ladle, or other veffel, and put to them gradually any
of the coloured fubftances mentioned below, being firft
well powdered j ftirring them together as the colour is
put in, that they may be thoroughly commixed. Warm
then the doublets to the fame degree of heat as the
melted mixture j and paint the upper furface of the
lower part, and put the upper one inft. ntly upon it,
preffing them to each other, but taking care that they
may be conjoined in the moft perfedlly even manner.
When the cement or paint is quite cold and fet, the re¬
dundant part of it, which has been preffed out of the
joint of the two pieces, (liould be gently feraped off
the fide, till there be no appearance of any colour on
the outfide of the doublets: and they Ihould then be
fkilfully fet ; obferving to carry the mounting over the
joint, that the upper piece may be well fecured from
feparating from the under one.
The colour of the ruby may be beft imitated, by
mixing a fourth part of carmine with fome of the fineft
ctimfon lake that can be procured.
I he
D O U [ 305 1 D O V
doublet The fapphire may be counterfeited with very bright
Pruflian blue, mixed with a little of the above-men-
7)..)ii,)Iing.^ jjone(j crimfun lak.e< to give it a cart of the purple.
The Prudian blue drould not be very deep coloured,
or but little of it fliould be ufed : for otherwife, it will
give a black {hade that will be injurious to the luftre
of the doublets.
The emerald may be well counterfeited with diftilled
verdigrife, to which is added a little pow7dered aloes.
But the mixture (hould not be ftrongly heated, or kept
long over the fire after the verdigrile is added : for the
colour is to be foon impaired by it.
The refemblance of the garnet may be made with dra¬
gon’s blood ; which, if it cannot be procured of fuffi-
cient brightnefs, may be helped by a very fmall quan¬
tity of carmine.
The amethyd may be imitated with the mixture of
fome Pruflian blue with the crimfon lake j but the pro¬
portions can only be regulated, by dire&ion, as differ¬
ent parcels of the lake and Pruflian blue vary extreme¬
ly in the degree of ftrength of the colour.
The yellow topazes may be counterfeited by mixing
the powdered aloes with a little dragon’s blood, or by
good Spaniflr anotto : but the colour mufl: be very fpa-
ringly ufed, or the tinge will be too flrong for the ap¬
pearance of that Hone.
The chryfolite, hyacinth, vinegar garnet, aigue ma¬
rine, and other fuch weaker or more diluted colours,
may be formed in the fame manner, by leffening the
proportions of the colours, or by compounding them
together correfpondently to the hue of the {tone to be
imitated ; to which end it is proper to have an original
Itone, or an exafl imitation of one, at hand when the
mixture is made, in order to the more certain adapting
the colours to the effedf defired : and when thefe pre¬
cautions are taken, and the operation well conducted,
it is practicable to bring the doublets to fo near a re¬
femblance of the true {tones, that even the beft judges
cannot diflinguifli them, when well fet, without a pe¬
culiar manner of infpeCtion.
There is, however, an eafy method of diftinguifliing
doublets, which is only to behold them betwixt the eye
and light, in fuch a pofition, that the light may pafs
through the upper part and corners of the {tone j when
it will eafily be perceived that there is no colour in the
body of the {tone.
DOUBLETS, a game on dice within tables j the
men, which are only 15, being placed thus : Upon the
lice, cinque, and quatre points, there {land three men
a-piece j and upon the trey, duce, and ace, only two.
Pie that throws higheft hath the benefit of throwing
firft, and what he throws he lays down, and fo doth
the other : w'hat the one throws, and hath not, the
other lays down for him, but on his own account j and
thus they do till all the men are down, and then they
bear. He that is down firft, bears firft; and will doubt-
lefs win the game, if the other throws not doublets to
overtake h;m : which he is fure to do, fince he advan¬
ces or bears as many as the doublets make, viz. eight
for twTo fours.
DOUBLING, in the military art, is the putting
two ranks or files of foldiers into one. Thus, when
the word of command is, double your ranks, the fecond,
fourth, and fixth ranks march into the firft, third, and
filth, fo that the fix ranks are reduced to three, and
Vol. VII. Part I.
the intervals between the ranks become double what Doubling
they were before. il
Doubling, among hunters, who fay that a hare
doubles, when flue keeps in plain fields, and winds \ r' '
about to deceive the hounds.
Doubling, in the manege, a term applied to a horfe,
who is laid to double his reins, when he leaps feveral
times together, to throw his rider; thus it is faid,/ta
rammgue doubles his reins, and makes fsontlevis.
Doubling, in Navigation, the art of failing round,
or pafling beyond, a cape or promontory, fo as that
the cape or point of land feparates the fhip from her
former fituation, or lies between her and any diftant
obferver.
Dovkling Upon, in Naval Taflics, the ad of enclo-
fing any part of a hoftile fleet between two fires, or of
cannonading it on both fides.
It is ufually performed by the van or rear of that
fleet which is fuperior in number, taking the advantage
of the w7ind, or of its fituation and circumftances, and
tacking or veering round the van or rear of the ene¬
my, who will thereby be expofed to great danger, and
can fcarcely avoid being thrown into a general con-
fufion.
DOUBLON, or Dubloon, a Spanifli and Portu-
guefe coin, being the double of a Pistole.
DOUBLING, the aft of withholding our affent
from any propofition, on fufpicion that we are not tho¬
roughly apprifed of the merits thereof, or from not be¬
ing able peremptorily to decide between the reafons
for and againft it.
Doubting is diftinguiflied by the fchoolmen into two
kinds, dubitatio Jlerilis, and dubitatio ejficax. The for¬
mer is that where no determination enfues: in this
manner the Sceptics and Academics doubt, who with¬
hold their affent from every thing. See Sceptics,
Stic.
The latter is followed by judgment, which diftin-
guiflies truth from falfehood : fuch is the doubting of
the Peripatetics and Cartefians. The laft in particular
are perpetually inculcating the deceitfulnefs of our
fenfes, and tell us that we are to doubt of every one of
their reports, till they have been examined and con¬
firmed by reafon. On the other hand, the Epicureans
teach, that our fenfes always tell truth ; and that, if
you go ever fo little from them, you come within the
province of doubting. See Cartesians, Epicure¬
ans, &c.
Doubting, in Rhetoric, a figure wherein the ora¬
tor appears fome time fluftuating, and undetermined
what to do or fay. Tacitus furnifhes us with an in-
ftance of doubting, almoft to a degree of diftraftion, in
thofe words of Tiberius written to the fenate : -^uid
fcribam, P. S. aut quomodo fcribam, out quid omnino
non fcribam hoc tempore, dii me deaque pejus perdant
quam penre quotidie fentio, ft fcio.
DOUCETS, or Doulcets, among fportfmen, de¬
note the teftes of a deer or flag.
DOUCINE, in ArchiteBure, a moulding concave
above and convex below, ferving commonly as a cy-
matium to a delicate corniche. It is likewife called
GULA.
DOVE. See Col umba, Ornithology Index.
DorE-Tailing, in carpentry, is the manner of faft-
ening boards together by letting one piecQ into ano-
Qjl ther
T9 over.
D O V [ 306
ther in the form of the tail of a dove.. .The dove-tail
is the ftrongeft of the afferablages or jointings ; becaule
the tenon, or piece of wood w'hichis put into the other,
goes widening to the extreme, fo that it. cannot be
drawn out again, by reafon the extreme or tip is bigger
than the hole. . _ . ,
DOVER, a borough and port town ^ot England,
in the county of Kent, fituated in E. Long. .0. 25
N. Lat. 51. 10. It fends two members to parliament
ftyled barons of the Cinque ports, whereof Dover is the
chief. Dover gave the title of duke in the Queenf-
berry family, but extinft : now a revived barony in the
York family. . ,
By the Romans this town was named Dukns, and
by the Saxons Dofra, probably from the Britifh word
Dour, which fignifies water. The convenience ot its
fituation drew the attention of the Roman governors,
who ruled here while they poffeffed this part of the
iOand •, and there ftill remain indubitable teftimomes
of their care and refpeft for this important place, lor
the defence of the town, the Romans, or, according
to fome, Arviragus, a Britifh king, their confederate
by cutting out walls with infinite labour in the iohd
rock, conftrufted a ftony fortrefs ; and, as Us vener¬
able remains ftill prove, erefted alfo a lighthoufe for
the benefit of navigation. The Saxons, Danes, and
Normans, had a very high opinion of this place j and
when the barons invited over the young prince, after¬
wards Louis VIII. of France, his father Phil.p Au-
guftus conceived a bad opinion of the expedition, be-
caufe the caftle and port of Dover were held for King
John, though a great part of the kingdom had fubmit-
ted to Louis. In its moft flourifhing ftate, the for¬
trefs was impregnable, and the town a very opulent
emporium. It had 21 w'ards,. each of which furmih-
cd a (hip for the public fervice, 10 gates, 7 panih-
churches, many religious houfes, hofpitals, and other
public edifices. The decay of the town was brought
on by that of the harbour. To recover this, Hen¬
ry VIII. fpent no lefs than 63,000b in conftruCtmg
piers •, and 5000b in building a caftle between this
and Folkftone, called Sanfate, where the (hore was
flat, and the landing eafy. Notwithftanding all this
expence, however, it was again choked up. in the
rei'Tn of Queen Elizabeth, by whom it was again clear-
ed0at a vaft expence, fo that ihips of fome hundred
tons could enter it. Since that time it has again de¬
clined, notwithftanding of many efforts for its relief,
and great afliftance from time to time given by par¬
liament for this purpofe. As the haven however,
is ftill capable of receiving veffels ofimall burden,
and as the packets to France and. Flanders are fla-
tioned here in time of peace, it is ftill a place .of
confequence, and the people are aftive and mduftn-
^DoStraits, thenarrow channel between Dover and
Calais, which feparates our ifland from the oppofite con¬
tinent. Britain is fuppofed by many to have been once
peninfulated, the prefent ftraits occupying the ftte of the
ffthmus which joined it to Gaul. No certain caufe
Hays Mr Pennant*) can be given for the mighty con-
wbich tore us from this continent.-, whether it
voV'In’ was rent by an earthquake, or whether it was worn
P' U' through by the continual dafhing of the waters, no Py¬
thagoras isil-ft to folve the Fortune locorutnt
] D O V
Vidi ego, quod fuerat quondam folidijjima tellus
Effe /return.
But it is moft probable, that the great philofopher al¬
luded to the partial deftrudlion of the /Itiantica infula,
mentioned by Plato as a diftant tradition in his days.
It wTas effefted by an earthquake and a deluge, which
might have rent afunderthe narrow ifthmus inqueftion,
Dover.
and left Britain, large as it feems at prefent, the mere
w'reck of its original fize. T he Scilly ifles, the He¬
brides, Orkneys, Shetlands, and perhaps the Feroe
ifiands, may poflibly be no more than fragments of the
once far-extended region. I have no quarrel about the
word ijland. The little ifthmus, compared to the whole,
might have been a jumflion never attended to in the li¬
mited navigations of very early times. rI he peninfula
had never been wholly explored, and it paffed with the
ancients for a genuine ifland. The correfponde.ncy of
ftrata on part of the oppofite fliores of Britain and
France, leaves no room to doubt but that they wTere
once united. The chalky cliffs of Blancnez between
Calais and Boulogne, and thofe to the weftwatd of Do¬
ver, exactly tally : the laft are vaft and continued; the
former fhort, and the termination of the immenfe bed.
Between Boulogne and Folkftone (about fix miles from
the latter) is another memorial of the jundtion of the
two countries; a narrow' fubmarine hill, called the Rip¬
raps, about a quarter of a mile broad, and ten miles
long, extending eaftwards towards the Goodwin fands.
Its materials are boulderftones, adventitious to many
ftrata. The depth of water on it, in very low ebbs during
fpring tides, is only fourteen feet. The fifhermen from
Folkftone have often touched it with a fifteen feet oar ;
fo that it is juftly the dread of navigators. Many a tall
{hip has periftied on it, and funk inftantly into twenty-
one fathoms water. In July 1782, the Belleide o.
fixty-four guns (truck, and lay on it during three hours;
but, by ftarting her beer and water, got clear oft.
“ Thefe celebrated ftraits are only twenty-one miles
wide in the narroweft part, from the pier at Dover
to that at Calais is twenty-four. It is conjeaured,
that their breadth leffens, and that they are two miles
narrower' than they were in ancient times. An accu¬
rate obferver of fifty years remarks to me, that the m-
creafed height of water, from a decrease of breadth
has been apparent even in that fpace. 'I he depth ot
the channel at a medium in higheft fpring tides is
about twenty-five fathoms. The bottom either coaiie
fand or rugged fears, which have for ages unknown re¬
fitted the attrition of the currents. From the ftraits
both eaftward and weftward is a gradualincreafe ofdepth
through the channel to a hundred fathoms, till found¬
ings are totally loft or unattended to. The fpring tides
in the ftraits rife on an average twenty-four feet, the
neap tides fifteen. The tide flows from the German
fea, paffes the ftraits, and meets, with a great rippling,
the weftern tide from the ocean between Fairleigh near
Haftings and Boulogne ; a proof that, if the feparation
of the land was effeaed by the feas, it muft have been
bv the overpowering weight of thofe of the north.
' Dover, a town of Delaware in North America. It
is the chief town of the county of Kent in the Dela¬
ware ftate, and is the feat of government. It (lands
on Jones’s creek, a few miles from the Delaware river,
and confifts of about 100 houfes, principally of brick.
Four {fleets hiterfeft each other at right angles, in the
centre
D O U
Douglas, centre of the town, whofe mcklencies form a fpacious
v parade, on the eaft fide of which is an elegant ftate-
houfe of brick. The town has a lively appearance,
and drives on a confiderable trade with Philadelphia.
Wheat is the principal article of export. The landing
is five or fix miles from the town of Dover.
DOUGLAS, Lord. See {Hijlory of) Scot¬
land.
iiouGLAs, Gavin, billiop of Dunkeld in Scotland,
was tiie third fon of Archibald earl of Angus, and
born in the year 1474. Where he was educated, is
not known ; but it is certain that he ftudied theology :
a ftudy, however, which did not eftrange him from the
mufes ; for he employed himfelf at intervals in tranf-
lating into beautiful verfe the poem of Ovid de Remcdio
Amoris. The advantages of foreign travel, and the
converfation of the moft learned men in France and
Germany, to whom his merit procured the readieft ac-
cefs, completed his education. With his fuperior re¬
commendations and worth it was impoflible he could
remain unnoticed. His firfl preferment was to be pro-
voft of the collegiate church of St Giles in Edinburgh j
a place at that time of great dignity and revenue. In
the year 1514, the queen mother, then regent of Scot¬
land, appointed Douglas abbot of Aberbrothock, and
foon after archbilhop of St Andrew’s j but the queen’s
power not being fufficient to eftablilh him in the pof-
fetTion of that dignity, he relinquilhed his claim in fa¬
vour of his competitor Foreman, who was fupported
by the pope. In 1515, he was by the queen appoint¬
ed bifhop of Dunkeld ; and that appointment wras foon
after confirmed by his holinefs Leo X. Neverthelefs
it was fome time before he could obtain peaceable pof-
feffion of his fee. The duke of Albany, who in this
year was declared regent, oppofed him becaufe he w'as
fupported by the queen ; and, in order to deprive him
of his bilhopric, accufed him of a&ing contrary to law
in receiving bulls from Rome. On this accufation
he was committed to the calfle of Edinburgh, where
he continued in confinement above a year; but the re¬
gent and the queen being at laft reconciled, he obtain¬
ed his liberty, and was confecrated bifhop of Dunkeld.
In 1517, he attended the duke of Albany to France j
but returned foon after to Scotland. In 1521, the
difputes between the earls of Arran and Angus having
thrown the kingdom into violent commotion, our pre¬
late retired to England, where he became intimately
acquainted with Polydore Virgil the hiftorian. He
died in London of the plague in 1522 ; and was bu¬
ried in the Savoy. He wrote, 1. The palace of Ho¬
nour: a moft ingenious poem under the fimilitude of a
vifion ; in which he paints the vanity and inconftancy
of all worldly glory. It abounds wdth incidents, and
a very rich vein of poetry. The palace of happinefs,
in the pifture of Cebes, feems to be the groundwork
of it. 2. Aurea Narratwnes : a performance now loft;
in which, it is faid, he explained, in a moft agreeable
manner, the mythology of the poetical fictions of the
ancients. 3. Comceduv aliquot facrae: None of which
are now to be found. 4. Thirteen Bukes of Eneades,
of the famofe poet Virgil, tranflatet out of Latin verfes
into Scottifli metre, every buke having its particular
prologe. Imprinted at London 1553, in 410; and
reprinted at Edinburgh 1710, in folio. The laft is
the moft efteemed of all bus works. He undertook it
D O U
at the defire of Lord Henry Sinclair, a munificent pa- Douglas,
Iron of arts in thofe times : and he completed it in 18 Douw-
months ; a circumftance which his admirers are too v
fond of repeating to his advantage. David Hume of
Godfcroft, an author of uncommon merit, and an ad¬
mirable judge of poetry, gives the following teftimony
in his favour. “ He wrote (fays he) in his native
tongue divers things; but his chiefeft work is his
tranfiation of Virgil, yet extant, in verle : in which he
ties himfelf fo ftridtly as is poflible ; and yet it is fo
well expreffed, that whofoever will eflay to do the like
will find it a hard piece of work to go through with
it. In his prologues before every book, where he hath
his liberty, he Ihoweth a natural and ample vein of poe¬
try, fo pure, pleafant, and judicious, that I believe there
is none that hath written before or fince but cometh
Ihort of him.” It has been Lid, that he compiled an
hiftorical treatife De Rebus Scoticis ; but no remain of
it hath defcended to the prefent times.
Douglas, the principal town of the ille of Man,
and which has lately increafed both in trade and build¬
ings. The harbour, for Ihips of a tolerable burden, is
the fafeft in the ifland, and is much improved by a fine
mole that has been built. It is feated on the eaftern
fide. W. Long. 4. 25. N. Lat. 54. 7.
DOUW, Gerhard, a celebrated painter, was born
at Leyden in 1613 ; and received his firft inftru£Hons
in drawing and defign from Bartholomew Dolendo an
engraver, and alfo from Peter Kouwhoorn a painter
on glafs ; but at the age of fifteen he became a difciple
of Rembrandt. In that famous fchool he continued
for three years ; and then found himfelf qualified to
ftudy nature, the moft unerring direftor.
From Rembrandt he learned the true principles of
colouring, and obtained a complete knowledge of the
chiaro-fcuro ; but to that knowledge he added a deli¬
cacy of pencil, and a patience in working up his co¬
lours to the higheft degree of neatnefs, fuperior to any
other mafter. He therefore was more pleafed with
thofe pidlures of Rembrandt which were painted in
his youth than thofe by which he was diftinguifhed in
his more advanced age ; becaufe the firft feemed fi-
nifhed with more care and attention, the latter with
more boldnefs, freedom, and negligence, which wjas
quite oppofite to the tafte of Douw. But although
his manner appears fo different from that of his ma¬
fter, yet it was to Rembrandt alone that he owed all
that excellence in colouring by which he triumphed
over all the artifts of his own country.
His pictures are ufually of a fmall fize, with figures
fo exquifitely touched, fo tranfparent, fo wonderfully
delicate, as to excite aftoniftiment as well as pleafure.
He defigned every objeft after nature, and with an ex-
atftnefs fo lingular, that each objedl appears as perfeiT
as nature itfelf, in refpeft to colour, freftinefs, and
force. His general manner of painting portraits, w^as
by the aid of a concave mirror, and fometimes by
looking at the objedt through a frame with many exafi
fquares of fine lilk. But the latter cuftom is difufed,
as the eye of a good artift feems a more competent
rule, though the ufe of the former is ftill pradlifed by
painters in miniature.
It is almoft incredible what vaft fums have been given
and are given at this day for the piiftures of Douw,
even in his own country ; as alfo in Italy and every
(^q 2 polite
[ 3°7 1
DOW
[ 3°8 1
DOW
Douw polite part of Europe : for he was exceedingly curious
it in finithing them, and patiently affiduous beyond ex-
Dowager. ample- Qf that patience Sandrart gives a ftrong proof
y——. ^ circumifance which he mentions relative to this
artift. He fays, that having once, in company with
Bamboccio, vifited Gerhard Douw, they could not
forbear to admire the prodigious neatnels of a picture
which he was then painting, in which they took par¬
ticular notice of a broom •, and exprefling their tur-
prife at the exctflive neatnefs of the finiflnng that mi¬
nute objeft, Douw told them he fhould fpend three
days more in working on that broom before he fhould
account it entirely complete. In a family pitture ot
Mrs Spiering, the fame author obferves, that the lady
fat five davs for the finifhing one of her hands that
leaned on an arm chair. For that realon not many
would fit to him for their portraits ; and he therefore
indulged himfelf moftly in works of fancy, in which lie
could introduce objeas of ttill life, and employ as much
time on them as fuited his own inclination. _ Hou-
braken teftifies, that his great patron Mr Spiering al¬
lowed him a thoufand guilders a year, and paid befide
whatever be demanded for bis pidures, and purchafed
feme of them for their weight in filver *, but Sandrart
with more probability, allures us, that the thouland
guilders a-year were paid to Gerhard, on no other con-
fideration 'than that the artift flrould give his bene ac¬
tor the option of every piaurehe painted, for which he
was immediately to receive the utmoft of his demand.
This great mailer died in 1674, aged 61.
Douw appears inconteftably to be the moft wonder¬
ful in his finifhing of all the Flemifti mafters. Every
thing that came from his pencil is precious, and his
colouring hath exaftly the true and the lovely tints of
nature ; nor do his colours appear tortured, nor is their
vigour lefl'ened by his patient pencil; for whatever pains
he may have taken, there is no look of labour or ftift-
nefs; and his pidures are remarkable, not only for re¬
taining their original luftre, but for having the fame
beautiful efifed at a proper diftance as they have when
brought to the neareft view. , _ , , „
At Turin are feveral pidures by Gerhard Douw,
wonderfully beautiful; efpecially one, of a_ dodor at¬
tending a fick woman, and furveying an urinal. 1 he
execution of that painting 'is aftomfh.ngly fine, and
although the fhadows appear a little too dark, .e
whole has an inexpreflihle effed. In the gallery at
Florence there is a night-piece by candle light, which
is exqnifitely finithed ; and in the fame apartment, a
mountebank attended by a number of figures, which it
teems impofiible either fuflficiently to commend or to
^DOULEIA, (AovXu*.), amongthe Athenians, a kind
of puniftiment by which the criminal was reduced
into the condition of a Have. It was never injhd-
ed upon any but the fojourners w&peedjer-
^To DOUSE, in fea language, is to lower fuddenly,
or flacken ; and it is applied to a fail m a fquall of
wind, an extended hawfer, &c.
DOWAGER, Dotifca (q. d.
or that has a jointure), a title, or
t • l    ^oc flnlcpc. f
Dowaget
the widows of princes, dukes,
high rank only.
widow endowed,
addition, applied to
earls, and perfons of
Queen DorrAGER, is the widow of the king, and as
fuch enjoys moft of the privileges belonging to her as Do^n>
queen confort : but it is not high treafon to violate her ( v 
chaftity or confpire her death, becaufe the fucceihon
is not endangered thereby ; but no man can marry her
without fpecial licetife from the king, on pain of for¬
feiting his lands and goods. See Queen.
DOWER, (Dotarium, Doarium, or Dos), a portion
of lands or tenements which a widow enjoys for terI1'j
of life from her hniband, in cafe ftiefurvives him ; and
which, at her death, deicends to their children. But
fire muft have been the wife of the party at the time
of his deceafe ; or not divorced a vinculo matrimonii:
nor, if (he has eloped from her hufoand, and lives with
an adulterer, (hall (he be entitled to dower unlefs her
hulband be voluntarily reconciled to her. The widows
of traitors are alfo barred of their dower by 5 and 6
Edw VI. cap. II. but not the widows ot felons. An
alien’eannot be endowed, unlefs (he be queen confort.
And if a woman levies a fine with her hufband, orjif
a common recovery he had with the hofband and wife
of the hulhand’s lands, (he is barred of her dower.
A widow, clear of thefe impediments, is by law entitled
to be endowed of all lands and tenements, of which
her hufband was ieifed in fee-fimple or lee-tail at
any time during the coverture ; and of which any ifiue
flie might have had might by poflibihty have been heir.
See Jointure. , . , . r
DOWN, a county of Ireland m the province of
Ulfter ; bounded on the eaft and fouth by St George s
channel; on the weft by the county of Armagh ; and
on the north by the county of Antrim. It lies oppo-
fite to the ifle of Man, Cumberland and Weftmor-
land ; and the north part of it fronts the Mull ot Gal¬
loway in Scotland, and is about 44 miles from it.—.
It is about 44 miles in length and 30 m breadth. It
fends 14 members to parliament, two for the county,
and 12 for the following boroughs, Down-PaUick,
Newry, Newtown, Killeleagh, Bangor, and HiiUbo-
This county is rough and full of hills, and yet the
air is temperate and healthy. The foil naturally pro¬
duces wood, unlefs conftantly kept open and ploughed ,
and the low grounds degenerate into bogs ^ mo(s,
where the drains are neglected. But by the mduftry
of the inhabitants it produces good, crops of corn,
particularly oats ; and, where marl is found, barley.
This laft is exported from killogh to Dublin. Tee
ftaple commodity of this county is the linen manu-
fd<r)o\VN, or Down-Patrick, a town of Ireland, in the
county of Down, is one of the moft ancient in that
kingdom. It is a market town and a biftiopnc, faid
to be erefted in the fifth century by St Patrick, but
is now united to the fee of Connor. . Within 200 paces
of the town, on the afeent of a hill, are ruins o
•an old cathedral, remarkable for the tomb of St Pa¬
trick the founder, in which they fay the b°d'es of
Bridget and St Columb are alfo laid. 1 he town,
which is feated on the fouth corner of Lough Coin,
now called the /ake of Strang ford, is adorned with (e-
veral handfome public buildings. Among the hills
and in many ifiands, are flights of fwans and other
water fowl; and the lough abounds with falmon, mul-
Down
Doxology.
D O X [3=9
lets, and other feafiih. About a mile from tills town
is St Patrick’s well, which many people frequent to
drink at fome feafons of the year, and others to per¬
form a penance enjoined them by the Popifh priefts.—
The linen manufa&ure is carried on here, as it is in
feveral places in this county. W. Long. 5. 50. N. Lat.
54- 23-
Down, the fine feathers from the breads of feve¬
ral birds, particularly of the duck kind.— That of the
eider duck (fee Anas, N° 17.) is the mod valuable.
Thefe birds pluck it from their breads, and line their
neds with it. We are told that the quantity of down
found in one ned more than filled the crown of a hat,
yet weighed no more than three quarters of an ounce.
Br. Zool.—Three pounds of this down may be com-
preded into a fpace fcarce bigger than one’s fid 5 yet
is afterwards fo dilatable as to fill a quilt five feet
fquare. Salem. Orn. p. 416.—That found in the
neds is mod valued, and Ktxmtd live clown ; it is in¬
finitely more eladic than that plucked from the dead
bird, which is little edeemed in Iceland. The bed
fort is fold at 45 fifh per pound when cleanfed, and
at 16 when not cleanfed. There are generally ex¬
ported every year, on the company’s account, fifteen
hundred or two thoufand pounds of both forts, exclu-
five of what is privately exported by foreigners. In
1750 the Iceland company fold as much in quantity
of this article as amounted to three thoufand (even
hundred and forty-five banco dollars, befides what was
fent direftly to Gluckfiadt.—Von Trod, p. 146.
Down, or hair of plants. See Hair.
DOWNETON, or Dunkton, a borough town of
Wiltfhire, five miles fouth of Salilbury. It fends two
members to parliament.
DOWNHAM, a market torvn of Norfolk, 10 miles
fouth of Lynn, famous for its good butter; there be¬
ing 1000, and fometimes 2000, firkins bought here
every Monday, and fent up the river Oufe to Cam¬
bridge, from whence it is conveyed to London in the
Cambridge w’aggons.
DOWNS, a bank or elevation of fand, which the
fea gathers and forms along its Ihores ; and which
ferves it as a barrier. The- word is formed from the
French d;/»e, of the Celtic dum, a “ mountain.”
Charles de Vifch. in his Compend. Chronolog. Exord.
et Progreff. Abbat. Clarijf. B. Marice, de Dunis, fays,
Vallem reperit arenarum collibus {quos mcolce Duynen
vocant) undique cinBam.
Downs are particularly ufed for a famous road for
fhips, along the eaftern coaft of the county of Kent,
from Dover to the North Foreland ; where both the
outward and homeward bound Ihips frequently make
fome flay ; and fquadrons of men of war rendezvous
in time of war.
It affords excellent anchorage ; and is defended by
the cattles of Deal, Dover, and Sandwich.
DOWRY, the money or fortune which the wife
brings her hufband in marriage ; it is otherwife called
maritagium, marriage goods, and differs from dowrer.
See Dower.
DOXOLOGY, a hymn ufed in praife of the Al¬
mighty, dittinguifhed by the title greater and leffer.
The letter doxology was anciently only a fingle fen-
tence, without refponfe, running in thefe words, Glory
D R A
be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghojl,
ivorld without end, Amen. Part of the latter claufe, As
it was in the beginning, is now, and ever Jhall he, was in-
ferted fome time after the firft compofition. Some
read this ancient hymn, Glory be to the Father, and lb
the Son with the Holy Ghojl. Others, Glory be to the Fa¬
ther in or by the Son, and by the Holy Ghojl. I his dif¬
ference of expreflion occafioned no diipute in the
church, till the rife of the Arian herefy ; but when
the followers of Arius began to make ufe of the lat¬
ter as a dittinguiihing charafter of their party, it was
entirely laid afide by the Catholics, and the ufe of it
wras enough to bring any one under lufpicion of hete¬
rodoxy.
The doxology w'as ufed at the clofe of every folemn
office. The wefiern church repeated it at the end of
every pfalm, and the eaftern church at the end of the
laft pfalm. Many of their prayers were alio concluded
with it, particularly the folemn thankfgiving or confe-
cration prayer at the eucharift. It was alfo the ordi¬
nary conclufion of their iermons.
The greater doxology, or angelic hymn, w’as like-
wife of great note in the ancient church. It began
with thele words, which the angels fung at our Savi¬
our’s birth, Glory be to God on high, &c. It was chiefly
ufed in communion fervice, and in men’s private devo¬
tions. Both the doxologies have a place in the church
of England, the former being repeated after every
pfalm, and the latter ufed in the communion fervice.
DRAB A, a genus of plants belonging to the te-
tradynamia clafs ; and in the natural method ranking
under the 39th order, Siliquofa. See Botany Index.
DR ABLER, in the fea fanguage, a fmall fail in a
Ihip, which is the fame to a bonnet that a bonnet is
to a courfe, and is only ufed when the courfe and bon¬
net are too fhoal to clothe the matt. See Bonnet and
Course.
DRABLING, in Angling, is a method of catch¬
ing barbels. Take a ftrong line of fix yards; which,
before you fatten it to your rod, mutt be put through
a piece of lead, that if the fifh bite, it may flip to and
fro, and that the water may fomething move it on the
ground ; bait with a lob worm well fecured, and fo
by its motion the barbel will be enticed into the danger
wuthout fufpicion. The beft places are in running wa¬
ter near piles, or under wooden bridges, fuppoited with
oaks floated and flimy.
DRABS, in the fait wmrks, a kind of wooden boxes
for holding the fait when taken out of the boiling pan ;
the bottoms of which are made (helving or inclining
forwards, that the briny moifture of the fait may drain
off.
DRAG, an imaginary being, much dreaded by the
country people in many parts of France. The dracs
are fuppofed to be malicious or at lead trickfome de¬
mons ; but, which is very rare, if one of them happens
to take a fancy to a man or wmman, they are fure to be
the better for it. They are dill faid to lay gold cups
and rings on the furface over pits and rivers, as baits to
draw women and children in ; though their ufual dwell¬
ing is fome old empty houfe, whence they make excur-
fions in human form, vifible or invifible as beft: fuits
their purpofe. The country folks fliudder at the very
name of the. drac. Some are pofitive that they have
feea
Dral>a
Drac.
Dracaena
II
Dracona-
rius.
D R A [ 310 1 D R A
feen him ; for happy indeed is that village in which
there is not a houfe execrated as the lurking place of
this tremendous drac.
DRACAENA, dragon-tree; a genus of plants
belonging to the hexandria clafs. See Botany Index.
DRACHM, a Grecian coin, of the vame of ieven
pence three farthings. Drachm is alfo a weight uled
by our phyficians; containing juft fixty grains three
fcruples, or the eighth part of an ounce.
DRACO, a celebrated lawgiver of Athens. When
he exercifed the office of archon, he made a code of
laws for the ufe of his citizens, which, on account of
their feverity, were faid to be written in letters of
blood. By them idlenefs was puniftied with as much
feverity as murder, and death was denounced againft:
the one as well as the other. Such a code of rigorous
law’s gave occafion to a certain Athenian to alk of the
legiflator, why he was fo fevere in his punifhments ? and
Draco gave for anfwer, that as the fmalleft tranfgref-
fion had appeared to him deferving death, he could not
find any puniffunent more rigorous for more atrocious
crimes. Thefe laws were at firft enforced, but they
were often negle£ted on account of their extreme feve¬
rity ; and Solon totally aboliftied them, except that
one which puniihed a murderer with death. The po¬
pularity of Draco was uncommon, but the gratitude
of his admirers proved fatal to him. When once he
appeared on the theatre, he was received with repeated
applaufe ; and the people, according to the cuftom of
the Athenians, (bowed their refpeft to their lawgiver
by throwing garments upon him. This was done in
fuch profufion, that Draco was foon hid under them,
and fmothered by the too great veneration of his citi¬
zens. He lived about 624 years before the Chriftian
era.
Draco, the Dragon, a genus of reptiles belonging
to the clafs of amphibia. See Erpetology Index.
Draco Vclans, in Meteorology, a fiery exhalation,
frequent in marftiy and cold countries.
It is moft common in fummer ; and though princi¬
pally feen playing near the banks of rivers, or in boggy
places, yet fometimes mounts up to a confiderable
height in the air, to the no fmall terror of the amazed
beholders ; its appearance being that of an oblong,
fometimes roundifh, fiery body, with a long tail. It is
entirely harmlefs, frequently (licking to the hands and
clothes of people without injuring them in the lead.
Draco, in Jljlronomy, a conftellation of the northern
hemifphere ; whofe liars, according to Ptolemy, are
81 ; according to Tycho, 32 ; according to Hevelius,
40; according to Bayer, 33; and according to Mr
Flamfteed, 80. See Astronomy, N° 406.
DRACOCEPHALUM, dragon’s head; a genus
of plants belonging to the didynamia clafs. See Bo¬
tany Index.
DRACONARIUS, in antiquity, dragon-bearer.
Several nations, as the Perfians, Parthians, Scythians,
&.c. bore dragons on their ftandards ; whence the lland-
ards themfelves were called dracones, “ dragons.” The
Romans borrowed the fame cuftom from the Parthians ;
or, as Cafaubon has it, from the Daci; or, as Codin,
from the Afiyrians.
The Roman dracones were figures of dragons paint¬
ed in red on their flags, as appears from Ammianus
Dragon.
Marcellinus : but among le Pevfians and Parthians Dracontic
they were like the Roman r agle, figures in full relievo;
fo that the Romans weret requently deceived, and took
them for real dragons.
The foldier who bore the dragon or (landard was
ca’l d by the Romans draconarius ; and by the Greeks
^ocixovcteiei; and ; for the emperors carried
thecuitom with them .0 C mftantinople.
DRACONTIC month, the time of the revolution *
of the moon from her alcending node, called caput dra-
corns, to her return thither.
DRACONTIUM, dragons; a genus of plants
belonging to the gynandria ciafs ; and in the natural
method ranking under the firft order, Palmce. See
Botany Index.
DRACUNCULI, in Medicine, fmall long worms
which breed in the mufcular parts of the arms and legs,
called Guinea worms. The common way of getting
out thefe worms is by the point of a needle ; and to
prevent their forming there again, the ufual cuftom is
to wa(h the parts with wine or vinegar, with alum,
nitre, or common fait, or with a ftrong lixivium of
oak allies, and afterwards anointing them with an oint¬
ment of the common kind ufed for fcorbutic. eruptions,
with a fmall mixture of quickfilver.
DRACUNCULUS. See Arum, Botany Index.
DRAFF, a name given in fome places to the wa(h
given to hogs, and the grains given to cows.
DRAG, in building. A door is faid to drag when
in opening or (hutting it hangs or grates upon the
floor.
Drag, in fea language, is a machine confiding of
a (harp, fquare, iron ring, encircled with a net, and
commonly ufed to take the wheel off from the plat¬
form or bottom of the decks.
DRAGOMAN, or Drogman, a term of general
ufe through the eaft for an interpreter, whofe office is
to facilitate commerce between the orientals and occi¬
dentals. Thefe are kept by the ambaffadors of Chri¬
ftian nations refiding at the Porte for this purpofe.
The word is formed from the Arabic targeman or
targiman, of the verb taragem, “ he has interpreted.”
From dragoman the Italians formed dragomano and,
with a nearer relation to its Arabic etymology, turci-
manno ; whence the French and our trucheman, as well
as dragoman and drogman.
DRAGON, in Ajlronomy. See Draco.
Dragon's Head and Tail [caput et cauda draconis),
are the nodes of the planets ; or the two points where¬
in the ecliptic is interfered by the orbits of the planets,
and particularly that of the moon ; making with it
angles of five degrees and eighteen minutes. One of
thefe points looks northward; the moon beginning
then to have northward latitude, and the other fouth-
ward, where fne commences fouth. Thus her deviation
from the ecliptic feems (according to the fancy of
fome) to make a figure like to that of a dragon, whofe
belly is where (lie has the greateft latitude ; the inter-
feHion reprefenting the head and tail, from which re-
femblance the denomination arifes.
But note, that thefe points abide not always in one
place, but have a motion of their own in the zodiac,
and retrograde-wife, 3 minutes 11 feconds per day ;
completing their circle in 18 years 225 days; fo that
the
Dragon
||
Dragonnee.
D R A . . . t 3
the moon can be but twice in the ecliptic during her
monthly period, but at all other times flie will have a
latitude or declination from the ecliptic.
It is about thefe points of interfeftion that all eclip-
fes happen. They are ufually denoted by thefe cha-
rafters dragon’s head, and TS dragon’s tail.
Dragon, in Zoology. See Draco.
Dragon's Blood, a gummi-refinous fubdance brought
from the Eart Ind<ies, either in oval drops wrapped up
in (lag leaves, or in large mafles compofed of fmaller
tears. It is faid to be obtained from the palmijuncus
draco, the calamus rotang, the dracaena draco, the
pterocarpus draco, and feveral other vegetables.
The writers on the materia medica in general give
the preference to the former, though the others are
not unfrequently of equal goodnefs. The fine dragon’s
blood of either fort breaks fmooth, free from any vifible
impurities, of a dark red colour, which changes upon
being powdered into an elegant bright crimfon. Seve¬
ral artificial compofitions, coloured with the true dra¬
gon’s blood, or Brazil wmod, are fometimes fold in the
room of this commodity. Some of thefe diffolve like
gums in water j others crackle in the fire without prov¬
ing indammable ; whild the genuine fanguis draconis
readily melts and catches dame, and is not afted on by
watery liquors. It totally diflblves in pure fpirit, and
tinges a large quantity of the mendruum of a deep red
colour. It is likewife foluble in exprefled oils, and
gives them a red hue, lefs beautiful than that commu¬
nicated by anchufa. This drug in fubdance has no
fenfible fmell or tade ; when diflblved, it difcovers
fome degree of warmth and pungency. It is ufually,
but without foundation, looked upon as a gentle a-
dringent ; and fometimes direfted as fuch in extempo¬
raneous prefcription againd feminal gleets, the duor
albus, and other duxes. In theie cafes, it is fuppofed
to produce the general edefts of refinous bodies, light¬
ly incradating the fiuids and fomewhat drengthening
the folids. But in the prefent praftice it is very little
ufed either externally or internally.
A folution of dragon’s blood in fpirit of wine is ufed
for daining marble, to which it gives a red tinge, wdiich
penetrates more or lefs deeply according to the heat of
the marble during the time of application. But as it
fpreads at the fame time that it finks deep, for fine
defigns the marble drould be cold. Mr Du Fay fays,
that by adding pitch to this folution the colour may
be rendered deeper.
Dragon Fifh, or Dragonct. See Callionymus,
Ichthyology Index.
Dragon Fly. See Libellula, Entomology
Index.
1 Dragon Shell, in Natural Hi/lory, a name given by
fome to a fpecies of concamerated patella or limpet.
This has a top very much bent; and is of an adi
colour on the ouTfide, but of an elegant and bright
fiedi colour within. This has been found dicking on
the back of a tortoife, as the common limpets do on
the fides of rocks ; and fome have been found affixed
to large diells of the pinna marina brought from the
Ead Indies at different times.
Dragons. See Dracontium, Botany Index.
DRAGONET, or Dragon FIJI}. See Calliony¬
mus, Ichthyology Index.
DRAGONNE'E, in Heraldry. A lion dragonnee
ii ] t> R A
is where the upper half refembles a lion, the other half Dragoon,
going off like the hinder part of a dragon. The fame Diagoon-
may be faid of any other bead as well as a lion. ■ ' '
DRAGOON, in military affairs, a mufqueteer
mounted on horfeback, who fometimes fights or marches
on foot, as occafion requires.
Menage derives the word dragoon from the Latin
draconarius, which in Vegetius is ufed to fignify foldier.
But it is more probably derived from the German tra-
gen or dragen, which fignifies/o cwry ; as being infan¬
try carried on horfeback.
Dragoons are divided into brigades as the cavalry ;
and each regiment into troops ; each troop having a
captain, lieutenant, cornet, quarter-mader, two fer-
jeants, three corporals, and two drums. Some regi¬
ments have hautboys. They are very ufeful on any
expedition that requires defpatch ; for they can keep
pace with the cavalry, and do the duty of infantry ;
they encamp generally on the wings of the army, or at
the paffes leading to the camp : and fometimes they
are brought to cover the general’s quarters: they march
in the front and rear of the army.
The fird regiment of dragoons raifed in England
was in 1681, and called the regiment of dragoons of
North Britain. In battle or attacks they generally
fight fword in hand after the fird fire. Their aims
are, a fword, firelock, and bayonet. In the French
fervice, when the dragoons march on foot, their offi¬
cers bear the pike and the ferjeants the halbert, neither
of wffiich are ufed in the Englidi fervice.
DRAGOONING, one of the methods ufed by
Papids for converting refraftory heretics, and bring¬
ing them within the pale of the true church.
The following method of dragooning the French
Protedants, after the revocation of the edift of Nantz,
under Louis XIV. is taken from a French piece,
trandated in 1686.
The troopers, foldiers, and dragoons, w?ent into
the Protedants houfes, wdiere they marred and defaced
their houfehold duff, broke their looking glaffes, and
other utenfils and ornaments, let their wine run about
their cellars, and threw7 about their corn and fpoiled
it. And as to thofe things which they could not de-
droy in this manner, fuch as furniture of beds, linen,
wearing apparel, plate, &c. they carried them to the
market place, and fold them to the Jefuits and other
Roman Catholics. By thefe means the Protedants in
Montauban alone were, in four or five days, dripped
of above a million of money. But this was not the
word.
They turned the dining rooms of gentlemen into
dables for their horfes $ and treated the owners of the
houfes wrhere they quartered with the highed indigni¬
ty and cruelty, ladling them about from one to ano¬
ther, day and night, without intermiffion, not fuffering
them to eat or drink 5 and w7hen they began to fink
under the fatigue and pains they had undergone, they
laid them on a bed, and when they thought them
fomewhat recovered, made them rife, and repented the
fame tortures. When they faw the blood and fweat
run down their faces and other parts of their bodies,
they duiced them w7ith water, and putting over their
heads kettle drums, turned upfide down, they made
a continual din upon them till thefe unhappy crea¬
tures M their fenfes. When one party of tbefe tor-
2 mentors
t
D R A [ 31
mentors were weary, they were relieved by another,
who pra&ifed the fame cruelties with trefh vigour.
At Negreplifle, a town near Montauban, they
hung up Ifaac Favin, a Protcftant citizen of that
place, by his armpits, and tormented him a whole
night by pinching and tearing off his flefli with pin¬
cers. They made a great fire round a boy of about
3 2 vears old, who with his hands and eyes lifted up
to heaven cried out “My God, help me!” And when
they found the youth refolved to die rather than re¬
nounce his religion, they fnatched him from the fire
juft as he was on the point of being burnt.
In feveral places the foldiers applied red hot irons
to the hands and feet of men and breafts of women.
At Nantz they hung up feveral women and maids by
their feet, and others by their armpits, and thus ex-
pofed them to public view ftark naked. They bound
to polls mothers that gave fuck, and let their fuck¬
ing infants lie languifhing in their fight for feveral
days and nights, crying, mourning, and gafping for
life. Some they bound before a great fire, and being
half roafted, let them go : a punilhment worfe than
death. Amidft a thoufand hideous cries and a thou-
fand blafphemies, they hung up men and women by
the hair, and fome by their feet, on hooks in chim¬
neys, and fmoked them with wifps of wet hay till
they were fuffocated. They tied lome under the arms
with ropes, and plunged them again, and again into
wells; they bound others like criminals, put them
to the torture, and with a funnel filled them with
wine till the fumes of it took away their reafon, when
they made them fay, they confented to be Catho¬
lics. They ftripped them naked, and after a thou¬
fand indignities, ftuck them with pins and needles
from head to foot. They cut and flalhed them with
knives •, and fometimes with red hot pincers took
‘hold of them by the nofe and other parts of the body,
and dragged them about the rooms till they made
them promife to be Catholics, or till the cries of thefe
miferable wretches, calling upon God for help, forced
them to let them go. They beat them with ftaves,
and thus bruifed, and with broken bones, dragged
them to church, where their forced prefence, was taken
for an abjuration. In fome places they tied fathers
and hufbands to their bed-pofts, and before their eyes
ravilhed their wives and daughters with impunity.
They blew up men and women with bellows till they
burft them. If any to efcape thefe barbarities endea¬
voured to fave themfelves by flight, they purfued them
into the fields and woods, where they (hot at them
like wild beafts, and prohibited them from departing
the kingdom (a cruelty never pra&ifed by Nero or
Dioclefian) upon pain of confifcation of effe61s, the
galleys, the lafli, and perpetual imprifonment 5 info-
much that the prifons of the fea-port towns were
crammed with men, women, and children, who endea¬
voured to fave themfelves by flight from their dread¬
ful perfecution. With thefe fcenes of defolation and
horror, the Popifli clergy feafted their eyes, and made
them only a matter of laughter and fport.
Though my heart aches (fays the writer of the piece
from which we are tranfcribing) whilft I am relating
thefe barbcrities, yet for a perpetual memorial of the
infernal cruelty praftifed by thefe monfters I beg the
reader’s patience to lay before him two other in-
2
2 ] D R A
fiances, which, if he hath a heart like tnine, he will r)r.aS°on*
not be* able to read without watering thefe Iheets with
his tears. .
“ The firft is of a young woman, who being brought
before the council, upon refufing to abjure her re¬
ligion, wras ordered to prifon. There they ftraved
her head, finged off the hair from other parts of her
body ; and having ftripped her ftark naked, led her
through the ftreets of the city, where many a blow
was given her, and ftones flung at her j then they itt
her up to the neck in a tub full of water, where, after
{he had been for a while, they took her out, and put
on her a fliift dipt in wine, which, as it dried and
ftuck to her fore and bruifed body, they fn.atched off
again, and then had another ready dipped in wine to
clap on her. This they repeated fix times, thereby
making her body exceeding raw and iore. W hen all
thefe cruelties could not {hake her conftancy, they
faftened her by bet feet in a kind of gibbet, and let her
hang in that pofture, with her head downward, till flue
expired.
“ The other is of a man in whofe home were quar¬
tered fome of thefe miffionary dragoons. One day,
having drank plentifully of his wine, and broken tneii
glaffes at every health, they filled the floor with the
fragments, and by often walking over them reduced
them to very fmall pieces. , This done, in the infolence
of their mirth, they reiolved on a dance, and told
their Proteftant hoft that he muff be one of their com¬
pany j but as he would not be of their religion he
muft dance quite barefoot; and thus barefoot they
drove him about the room, treading on the ftiarp points
of the broken glaffes. When he was no longer able
to ftand, they laid him on a bed, and, in a ftiort time,
ftripped him ftark naked, and rolled him from one
end of the room to the other, till every part of his
body was full of the fragments of glafs. After this
they dragged him to his bed, and having fent for a
furgeon, obliged him to cut out the pieces of g^a ^
with his inftruments, thereby putting him to the moft
exquifite and horrible pains that can poflibly be con¬
ceived. . ,
“ Thefe, fellow Proteftants, were the methods
ufed by the moft Chriftian king’s apoftolic dragoons
to convert bis heretical fubjedts to the Roman Catho¬
lic faith ! Thefe, and many other of the like nature,
were the torments to which Louis XIV. delivered
them over to bring them to his own church . and as
Poperv is unchangeably the fame, thefe .are the tor¬
tures prepared for you, if ever that religion fliould be
permitted to become fettled amongft you •, the con-
fideration of which made Luther fay of it, what every
man that knows any thing of Chriftianity muft agree
with him in, ‘ If you had no other reafon to go out
of the Roman church, this alone would fufhce, that
you fee and hear, how contrary to the law of God,
they flied innocent blood. This Angle c.rcumftance
{hall, God willing, ever {eparate me from the Papacy.
And if I w'as now fubjedl to it, and could blame no¬
thing in any of their doftrines ; yet for this crime
of cruelty, I would fly from her communion, as from
a den of thieves and murderers.”
DRAGS, in the fea language, are whatever hangs
over the {hip in the fea, as fliirts, coats, or the like j
and boats, when towed, or whatever elfe that after
lng,
Drag's.
D R A [ 3
this manner may hinder the flap’s way when fne fails,
are called drags.
DRAIN, a cut,or ditch for carrying off water from
the foil, to improve it for the purpofes of agriculture.
In the fen countries of England drains are 20, 30,
and fometimes 40 feet wide, carried through the
marfliy ground to feme river or other place capable
of difeharging the water which they carry out of the
fen lands.
DRAINING. For the different methods, fee A-
griculture Index.
DRAKE, the male of the duck kind. See Anas,
Ornithology Index.
Drake, Sir Francis, a celebrated Englifli admi¬
ral, was the fon of Edmund Drake a failor, and born
near Taviftock in Devonlhire, in the year 1545. He
was brought up at the expence, and under the care of,
Sir John Hawkins, who was his kinfman *, and, at the
age of 18, was purfer of a fliip trading to Bifcay. At
20, he made a voyage to Guinea ; and, at 22, had the
honour to be made captain of the Judith. In that ca¬
pacity he was in the harbour of St John de Ulloa, in
the gulf of Mexico, where he behaved moll gallantly
in the glorious aftions under Sir John Hawkins, and
returned with him to England with great reputation,
though not worth a groat. Upon this he proje£led
a delign againft the Spaniards in the Weft Indies ;
which he no fooner publilhed, than he had volunteers
enough ready to accompany him. In 1570, he made
his firft expedition with two ftiips; and the next year
with one only, in which he returned fafe, if not rvith
fuch advantages as he expe&ed. He made another
expedition in 1572, wherein he did the Spaniards
fome mifehief, and gained confiderable booties. In
thefe expeditions he was much aflifted by a nation of
Indians, who then were, and have been ever fince, en¬
gaged in perpetual wars with the Spaniards. The
prince of thefe people was named Pedro; to whom
Drake prefented a fine cutlafs from his fide, which he
faw the Indian greatly admired. Pedro, in return,
gave him four large wedges of gold ; which Drake
threwr into the common ftock, faying, That he thought
it but juft that fuch as bore the charge of fo uncertain
a voyage on his credit, ftiould (hare the utmoft advan¬
tage that voyage produced. Then, embarking his
men with all the wealth he had obtained, which was
very confiderable, he bore awTay for England, where
he arrived in Auguft 1573.
His fuccefs in this expedition, joined to his honour¬
able behaviour towards his owners, gained him a high
reputation ; and the ufe he made of his riches, a ftill
greater. For, fitting out three ftout frigates at his
own expence, he failed with them to Ireland ; where,
under Walter earl of Effex, the father of the famous
unfortunate earl, he ferved as a volunteer, and did many
glorious adlions. After the death of his noble patron,
he returned into England; w’here Sir Chriftopher Hat¬
ton introduced him to her majefty, and procured him
countenance and protedlion at court. By this means
he acquired a capacity of undertaking that grand ex¬
pedition which will render his name immortal. The
firft thing he propofed w’as a voyage into the South
feas through the ftraits of Magellan ; which was w'hat
hitherto no Engliftiman had ever attempted. The pro-
jedl was ivell received at court.; the queen furnhhed
Vol. VII. Part I.
13 ] D R A
him with means; and his own fame quickly drew to¬
gether a fuflicient force. The fleet with which he
failed on this extraordinary undertaking, confifted only
of five veffels, fmall when compared with modern ftiips,
and no more than 164 able men. lie failed on the 13th
of December 1577 ; on the 2 5th fell in with the coaft
of Barbary, and on the 29th with Cape Verd. On the
13th of March he paffed the equinoctial, made the
coaft of Brazil on the 5th of April, and entered the
river de la Plata, where he loft the company of two
of his ftiips ; but meeting them again, and taking out
their provifions, he turned them adrift. On the 29th
of May he entered the port of St Julian’s, where he
continued two months for the fake of laying in provi¬
fions: on the 20th of Auguft he entered the ftraits of
Magellan, and on the 25th of September paffed them,
having then only his own fliip. On the 25th of No¬
vember he came to Macao, which he had appointed
for a place of rendezvous in cafe his fliips feparated ;
but Captain Winter, his vice-admiral, having repaffed
the ftraits, wras returned to England. Thence he con¬
tinued his voyage along the coaft of Chili and Peru,
taking all opportunities of feizing Spanifti (hips, and
attacking them on fhore, till his men were fated with
plunder ; and then, coafting America to the height of
48 degrees, he endeavoured to find a paffage that way
back into our feas, but could not. However, he land¬
ed, and called the country New Albion, taking poffef-
fion of it in the name and for the ufe of Queen Eliza¬
beth ; and, having careened his fliip, fet fail from thence
on the 29th of September 1579, for the Moluccas.
He is fuppofed to have cholen this paffage round,
partly to avoid being attacked by the Spaniards at a
difadvantage, and partly from the latenefs of the fea-
fon, whence dangerous ftorms and hurricanes were ap¬
prehended. On the 13th of October he fell in with
certain iflands inhabited by the moft barbarous people
he had met with in aB his voyage : on the 4th of No¬
vember he had fight of the Moluccas; and, coming to
Ternate, wras extremely well received by the king
thereof, who appears from the moft authentic relations
of this voyage to have been a wife and politic prince.
On the xoth of December he made Celebes; where his
fliip unfortunately ran upon a rock, the 9th of January
following; from wrhich, beyond all expectation, and in
a manner miraculoufly, they got oft', and continued
their courfe. On the 16th of March he arrived at Java
Major ; and from thence he intended to have diredted
his courfe to Malacca ; but found himfelf obliged to
alter his purpofe, and to think of returning home. On
the 2 5th of March 1580, he put this defign in execu¬
tion ; and on the 15th of June he doubled the Cape of
Good Hope, having then on board 57 men, and but
three calks of water. On the 1 2th of July he paffed
the line, reached the coaft of Guinea on the j6th, and
there watered. On the l£th of September he made
the illand of Tercera ; and on the 3d of November
entered the harbour of Plymouth. This voyage round
the world w7as performed in two years and about ten
months. Shortly after his arrival, the queen going to
Deptford went on board his ftiip ; where, after dinner,
flie conferred on him the order of knighthood, and de¬
clared her abfolute approbation of all he had done. She
likewdfe gave directions for the prefervation of his fliip,
that it might remain a monument of his own and his
R r country’s
D R A [ 3'
Drake, country’s glory. This celebrated (hip, which had been
-—r—1 contemplated many years at Deptford, at length de-
caying, it was broke up, and a chair, made out of the
planks, was prefented to the univerfity of Oxford •, up¬
on which the famous Abraham Cowley made the fol¬
lowing verfes :
To this great (hip, which round the world has run,
And match’d in race the chariot of the fun :
This Pythagorean (hip (for it may claim,
Without prefumption, fo deferv’d a name,
By knowledge once, and transformation now)
In her new ihape this facred port allow.
Drake and his fhip could not have wifh’d, from fate,
An happier ftation, or more blefs’d eftate :
For, lo ! a feat of endlefs reft is given,
To her in Oxford, and to him in heaven.
Works, Vol. II.
In the year 15855 he failed with a fleet to the Weft
Indies, and took the cities of St Jago, St Domingo,
Carthagena, and St Auguftine. In 1587, he went to
Lifbon with a fleet of 30 failj and having intelligence
of a great fleet aflembled in the bay of Cadiz, which
wras to have made part of the armada, he with great
courage entered that port, and burnt there upwards of
10,000 tons of (hipping which he afterwards merrily
called burning the king of Spain's beard. In 1588, when
the armada from Spain was approaching our coafts,
Sir Francis Drake Was appointed vice-admiral under
Charles Lord Howard of Effingham, high admiral of
England, where fortune favoured him as remarkably
as ever: for he made prize of a very large galleon,
commanded by Don Pedro de Valdez, who was reputed
the proje&or of this invafion. This affair happened
in the following manner: On the 22d of July, Sir
Francis obferving a great Spanifh fhip floating at a di-
ftance from both fleets, fent his pinnace to fummon
the commander to yield. Valdez replied, with much
Spanifh folemity, that they were 450 ftrong *, that he
himfelf was Don Pedro, and flood much upon his ho¬
nour } and thereupon propounded feveral conditions,
upon which he was willing to yield. But the vice-ad¬
miral replied, That he had no leifure to .parley 5 but
if he thought fit inftantly to yield, he might; if not,
he fliould foon find that Drake was no coward. Pedro,
hearing the name of Drake, immediately yielded, and
with 46 of his attendants came on board Drake’s flup.
This Don Pedro remained about two years Sir Francis
Drake’s prifoner in England ; and, when he was re¬
leafed paid him for his own and his captain’s liberties
a ranfom of 3500I. Drake’s foldiers were well recom-
penfed with the plunder of this fhip for they found
in it 55,000 ducats of gold, which were divided among
A Jittle before this formidable Spanifh armament
nut to fea, the ambaffador of his Catholic majefty had
the confidence to propound to Queen Elizabeth, in La¬
tin verfe, the terms upon which fhe might hope tor
peace; which, with an Englifh tranflation by Dr Ful¬
ler, we will infert in this place, becaufe Drake’s expe¬
dition to the Weft Indies makes a part of this meflage.
The verfes are thefe :
TV voto ne pergas hello defendere Belgas;
%iue Dracus eripuit nunc rejlituantur oportef.
l ] D R A
pater ever tit jubeo te condere cellas:
Religio Paper fac rejHtuantar ad unguem.
Thefe to you are our commands,
Send no help to th’ Netherlands :
Of the treafure took by Drake,
Reftitution you muft make :
And thofe abbeys build anew.
Which your father overthrew :
If for any peace you hope,
In all points reftore the pope.
The queen’s extempore return :
yld Grercas, bone rex, font mandata kalendas.
Worthy king, know, this your will
At Latter Lammas we’ll fulfil.
In the year 1589, Sir Francis Drake commanded as
admiral the fleet fent to reftore Don Antonio king of
Portugal, the command of the land forces being given
to Sir John Norris : but they were hardly got to fea,
before the commanders differed, and^ fo the attempt
proved abortive. The war with Spain continuing, a
more effe&ual expedition was undertaken by Sir John
Hawkins and Sir Francis Drake, againft their fettle-
ments in the Weft Indies, than had hitherto been made
during the whole courfe of it: but the commanders
here again not agreeing about the plan, this alfo did
not turn out fo fuccefsfully as was expefted. AH dif¬
ficulties, before thefe two laft expeditions, had given
way to the fkill and fortune of Sir Francis Drake ;
which probably was the reafon why he did not bear
thefe difappointments fo well as he otherwife would
have done. A ftrong fenfe of them is fuppofed to
have thrown him into a melancholy, which occafioned
a bloody flux ; and of this he died on board his own
fhip near the town of Nombre de Dios in the W eft In¬
dies; on the 28th of January 1595-6. His death was
lamented by the whole nation, and particularly by his
countrymen ; who had great reafon to love him from
the circumftance of his private life, as well as to efteem
him in his public charaaer. He was eleaed burgels
for the town of Boffiny, alias Tintagal, in the county
of Cornwall, in the 27th parliament of Queen Eliza¬
beth; and for Plymouth in Devonfhire, in the 35th of
the fame reign. This town had very particular obli¬
gations to him : for, in the year 1587, he undertook
to bring water into it, through the want of which, till
then, it had been grievoufly diftreffed; and he perform¬
ed it by condufting thither a ftream from fprmgs at
eight miles diftance, that is to fay, in a ftraight line .
for in the manner he brought it, the courfe of it runs
upwards of 20 miles.
DR AKENBORCH, Arnold, doflor of laws. 1 his
celebrated literary character w’as a native of Utrecht,
and was born on the iftof January 1684, and in which
city he was afterwards profeffor of rhetoric and hi-
ftory. Grsevius and Burmann taught him the belles
lettres, and Cornelius Van Eck was his preceptor
while he devoted his attention to the law. He fuc-
ceeded Profeffor Burmann in the year 1716, and ter¬
minated his mortal career in 1748, in the 64th year
of his age. He was an author of very confiderable
eminence, as the following publications fufficiently e-
vince. His differtation entitled, Difputatio Philolog.
tiijt.
Drake,
Draken-
broch.
D R A f 315 j D R A
Brama Hijl. de prctfeElls urbis, in 4to, proves him to have
been an able philologift, and gave flattering indica-
, tions of future eminence. Its intrinflc merit caufed
it to be reprinted at Frankfort-on-tbe-Oder, in 1750,
by Profeffor Uhl, accompanied with a life of its learn¬
ed author. His next work, entitled Difputatio de offi¬
cio prafeclorum prcetorio, was publiflied in the year
1707', and ten years after his C. Silii Ita/ici Punicoritm,
in 17 books, to render which perfeih and complete,
nothing was omitted by this great man ; many hiftori-
cal fubjedts being engraved for the purpofe of elucida¬
ting the text, to which his own copious and learned
annotations mofl: powerfully contributed. His fplendid
edition of Livy, with a life of that eminent hillorian,
will render his name immortal. It is entitled T. Livii
Patavini hifloriarum ab urbe condita libri, qui fuperjunt,
9mnes. Lugd. Batav. 1738 and 1746; 7 tom. The
preface to this work is very long, and replete with
erudition, giving a particular account of all the liter¬
ary charadlers who have at different periods commen¬
ted on the works of Livy. He took the edition of
Gronovius for his model, as being in his ellimation
the mofl: corredf j but he made many important alter¬
ations on the authority of manuferipts which it is pro¬
bable Gronovius had either never feen, or not taken
the pains to confult. Upon the whole, this edition of
Livy is at once the mofl: elaborate, interefting, and in-
flrudfive, ever given to the world, fince into it he has
introduced the criticifms of Duchier, Gronovius, Pe-
rizonius, and Sigonius, in addition to his own, which
are certainly fraught with much literature and deep
difeernment.
DRAMA., a poem containing fome certain a&ion,
and reprefenting a true picture of human life, for the
delight and improvement of mankind.
The principal fpecies of the drama are two, comedy
and tragedy. Some others there are of lefs note, as
parfforal, fatire, tragi-comedy, opera, &cc. See the ar¬
ticle Poetry.
DRAMATIC, an epithet given to pieces written
for the ftage. See Poetry.
DRAN, Henry Francis Le, a French furgeon
of diftinguifhed eminence, was born in the year 1685.
His father followed the fame profeflion at Paris, and
was highly celebrated for his treatment of cancers.
Dran had much experience as well as abilities, although
his anatomical knowledge was rather circumfcribed,
and his acquaintance with books was far from being
extenfive. In 1730, he published in 8vo a valuable
work, entitled Parallele des differentes Manures de
tirer la Pierre hors de la VeJJie. In this work he takes
a comparative view of the different modes of perform¬
ing the hazardous operation of lithotomy, preferring
the lateral method which was praftifed by Ckefelden.
In the year 1731, he publiflied his Obfervations de
Chirurgie, avee des Rejleblions, in , 2 vols i2mo, which
is juftly confidered as a valuable performance for men
who are employed in the praftice of furgery. In
1757, appeared his Praite 011 Reflexions drees de la
Pratique fur les Playes d1 Slrmcs a Feu ; in which he
gives the refults of his own praftice while in the army,
with efficacious methods for the cure of gun-fliot
wounds. Gataker tranflated into Engliih his Fraite des
operations de Chiruroic, to which many interelling ob¬
fervations were added by Chefelden. In 176$, were Drank
publithed his Confultations fur la plupart des Maladies ^ ^ ^
qui font du Reffiort de la Chirurgie; the plan of w'hich “ J
is admirably calculated for the inftruflion of young
pradlitioners. As at leaft one evidence of the merit
of Dran’s works, tranflations of them have been made
into various languages. If his judgment was pene¬
trating, he was equally famed for his fuccefsful opera¬
tions. Fie died at Paris in the year 1770, in the 85th
year of his age.
DKANK, among farmers, a term ufed to denote
wild oats, which never fail to infeft worn-out lands ; fo
that, when ploughed lands run to thefe weeds and
thirties, the farmer knows it is high time to fallow
them, or elfe to fow them with hay feed, and make
pafture of them.
DRAPERY, in Sculpture and Painting, fignifies the
reprefentation of the clothing of human figures, and
alfo hangings, tapeftry, curtains, and moft other things
that are not carnations or landfcapes. See Painting,
Crayon, Drawing, and Miniature.
DRASTIC, in Phy/ic, an epithet beftowed on fuch
medicines as are of prefent efficacy, and potent in ope¬
ration ; and is commonly applied to emetics and ca¬
thartics.
DRAVE, a large navigable river, which, taking
its rife in the archbiffiopric of Saltzburgh, in Germany,
runs fouth-eaft through Stiria ; and continuing its
courfe, divides Hungary from Sclavonia, and fails into
the Danube at Effeck.
DRAUGHT, in Medicine. See Potion.
Draught, in trade, called alfo doff or clouch, is a
fmall allowance on weighable goods, made by the king
to the importer, or by the feller to the buyer, that the
weight may hold out when the goods are weighed
again.
The king allows itb draught for goods weighing
no lefs than 1 cwt. 2 lb for goods weighing between
I and 2 cwt. 31b for goods weighing between 2 and
3 cwt. 41b from 3 to 10 cwt. ylb from 10 to 18 cwt.
9lb from 18 to 30 or upwards.
Draught is alfo ufed fometimes for a bill of ex¬
change, and commonly for an order for the payment
of any fum of money due, &c. Then the perfon who
gives the order, is faid to draw upon the other.
Draught, or, as it is pronounced, Draft, in Ar-
chitedure, the figure of an intended building deferibed
on paper ; wherein are laid down, by fcale and com-
pafs, the feveral divifions and partitions of the apart¬
ments, rooms, doors, paffages, conveniences, &c. in
their due proportion.
It is ufual, and exceedingly convenient, before a
building is begun to be raifed, to have draughts of the
ichnography, or ground-plot of each floor or ftory: as
alfo of the form and faffiion of each front, with the
windows, doors, ornaments, &c. in an orthography, or
upright. Sometimes the feveral fronts, &c. are taken,
and reprefented in the fame draught, to (how the effefl
of the whole building; this is called a feenography, or
perfpeXive. ,
Draught, the depth of a body of water neceffary
to float a (hip ; hence a (hip is faid to draw fo many
feet of water, when (he is borne up by a column of wa¬
ter of that particular depth. Thus, if it requires a
R r 2 body
D R A [ 3>
Draught, body of water whofe depth is equal to i 2 feet, to float
Drawback. or buoy Up a fliip on its furface, fhe is faid to draw I 2
feet water*, and that this draught may be more readily
known, the feet are marked on the ftem and ftern poll,
regularly from the keel upwards.
DRAUGHT-Hoaks, are large hooks of iron, fixed on
the cheeks of a cannon carriage, two on each fide, one
near the trunnion-hole, and the other at the train, di-
llinguiihed by the name of fore and hind draught-hooh.
Large guns have draught hooks near the middle tran-
fom, to which are fixed the chains that ferve to keep
the (hafts of the limbers on a march. The fore and
hind hooks are ufed for drawing a gun backwards or
forwards, by men with ftrong ropes, called diaught-
ropes, fixed to thefe hooks.
DrauGHT-Horfey in farming, a fort of coarfe-made
horfe, deilined for the fervice of a cart or plough.
DRAWBACK, in commerce, certain duties, either
of the cuftoms or of the excife, allowed upon the ex¬
portation of fome of our own manufa61ures 5 or upon
certain foreign merchandifes, that have paid duty on
importation.
The oaths of the merchants importing and export¬
ing are required to obtain the drawback on toreign
goods, affirming the truth of the officers certificate on
the entry, and the due payment of the duties: and
thefe may be made by the agent or hufband of any cor¬
poration or company j or by the known fervant of any
merchant ufually employed in making his entries, and
paying his cuftoms. In regard to foreign goods entered
outward, if lefs quantity or value be fraudulently (hip¬
ped out than what is expreffed in the exporter’s certi¬
ficate, the goods therein mentioned, or their value, are
forfeited, and no drawback to be allowed for the fame.
Foreign goods exported by certificate in order to ob¬
tain the drawback, not fhipped or exported, or reland¬
ed in Great Britain, unlefs in cafe of diftrefs to fave
them from perifhing, are to lofe the benefit of the
drawback, and are forfeited, or their value, with the
veffel, horfes, carriages, &c. employed in the reland¬
ing thereof j and the perfons employed in the reland¬
ing them, or by whofe privity they are relanded, or
into whofe hands they (hall knowingly come, are to for¬
feit double the amount of the drawback. Officers of
the cuftoms conniving at, or affifting in any fraud re¬
lating to certificate goods, befides other penalties, are
6 1 D R A.
to forfeit their office, and fuffer fix months imprifon- Draw;
ment without bail or mainprife ; as are alfo mafters, Bn g&
or perfons belonging to the drips employed therein. Dra|virig_
Bonds given for the exportation of certificate goods to u—-
Ireland muft not be delivered up, nor drawback allow¬
ed for any goods, till a certificate under the hands and
feals of the colledlor or comptroller,^ &c. of the cu¬
ftoms be produced, teftifying the landing.
BRAir-Bridge, a bridge made after the manner of a
float, to draw up or let down, as occafions ferve, be¬
fore the gate of a town or caftle. See Bridge.
A draw-bridge may be made after feveral different
ways; but the mofl common are made with plyers, twice
the length of the gate, and a foot in diameter. The
inner fquare is traverfed with a crofs, which ferves for
a counterpoife j and the chains which hang from the
extremities of the plyers to lift up or let down the
bridge are of iron or brafs.
In navigable rivers it is fometimes neceffary to make
the middle arch of bridges with two moveable plat¬
forms, to be raifed occafionally, in order to let the
mafts and rigging of (hips pafs through. This kind
of draw bridge is reprefented in Plate CLX’V III. where
AB is the width of the middle arch ; AL and BL,
the two piers that fupport the draw-bridge NO, one
of the platforms of which is raifed, and the other let
down, having the beam PQ__for its plyer. lo NO
are fufpended two moveable braces EH, EH *, which
refting on the fupport E, prefs againft the bracket M,
and thereby (Lengthen the draw-bridge. Thefe braces
are conduced to the reft by means of the weight. S,
pulling the chain SLF. .
DRAir-Net, a kind of net for taking the larger fort
of wildfowl, which ought to be made of the beft fort
of packthread, with wide meffies 5 they fliould be
about two fathoms deep and fix long, verged on each
fide with a very ftrong cord, and ftretched at each end
on long poles. It fliould be fpread fmooth and flat
upon the ground and ftrewed over with grafs, fedge,
or the like to hide it from the fowl ■, and the fportf-
man is to place himfelf in fome (belter of grals, fern,
or fome fuch thing. . ,
DRAWING, in general, denotes the a&ion of pul¬
ling out, or hauling along', thus we read of tooth¬
drawing, wire-drawing, See.
DRAWING,
THE art of reprefenting the appearances of objefts
upon a plane furface, by means of lines, ffiades,
and ffiadows, formed with certain materials adapted to
the purpofe.
{ j. Of the proper Materials for Drawing, and the
manner of ufng them.
The firft thing neceffary for a beginner is to furniffi
himfelf with proper materials, fuch as black lead pen¬
cils, crayons of black, white, or red chark, crow-
quill pens, a rule and compaffes, camels hair pencils^
and Indian ink. He muft accuftom himfelf to hold
the pencil farther from the point than one does a pen
in writing j which will give him a better command
of it, and contribute to render the ftrokes more free
and bold. The ufe of the pencil is to draw the firft
fketches or outlines of the piece, as any ftroke or line
that is amifs may in this be more eafily rubbed out
than in any other thing; and when he has made the
fketch as correft as he can with the pencil, he mpp
then draw carefully the beft outline he has got, wxtft
3'7
DRAWING.
his crow-quill pen and ink (a) ; after which he may
difcharge the pencil lines, by rubbing the piece gently
with the crumb of ftale bread or India rubber. Ha¬
ving thus got the outline clear, his next work is to
{hade the piece properly, either by drawing fine ftrokes
with his pen where it requires to be (haded, or by
walking it with his pencil and the Indian ink. As to
his rule and compaffes, they are never or very rarely to
be ufed, except in meafuring the proportions of figures
after he has drawn them, to prove whether they are
right or not ; or in houfes, fortifications, and other
pieces of architedlure.
§ 2. Of drawing Lines, Squares, Circles, and other re¬
gular and irregular Figures.
Having got all thefe implements in readinefs, the
firit praftice mud be to draw ftraight and curve lines,
with eafe and freedom, upwards and downwards, fide-
wife to the right or left, or in any direction whatfo-
ever. He muft alfo learn to draw, by command of
hand, fquares, circles, ovals, and other geometrical
figures : for, as the alphabet, or a knowledge of the
letters, is an introdu£Iion to grammar •, fo is geometry
to drawing. The praffice of drawing thefe fimple
figures till he is mailer of them, will enable him to
imitate, with greater eafe and accuracy, many things
both in nature and art. And here it is proper to ad-
monifli him, never to be in a hurry j but to make him-
felf perfectly mafter of one figure before he proceeds
to another : the advantage, and even neceftity, of this,
will appear as he proceeds. Two obfervations more
may be added: r. That he accutfom himfelf to draw
all his figures very large, which is the only way of ac¬
quiring a free bold manner of defigning. 2. That he
praftife drawing till he has gained a tolerable mallery
of his pencil, before he attempts to fliadow any figure
or objecl of any kind whatever.
j 3. Of Drawing Eyes, Ears, Legs, Arms, Hands,
Feet, <b’c.
As to the drawing of eyes and ears, legs and arms,
the learner will have very little more to do than to
copy carefully the examples given in Plate CLXXVII.
and CLXXVIII. taken from Sebaftian le Clerc’s draw¬
ing book. But the adlions and poftures of the hands
are fo many and various, that no certain rules can be
given for drawing them, that will univerfally hold
good. Yet as the hands and feet are difficult mem¬
bers to draw, it is very necefiary, and well worth while,
to beflow feme time and pains about them, carefully
imitating their various poftures and actions, fo as not
only to avoid all lamenefs and imperfection, but alfo to
give them life and fpirit. To arrive at this, great care,
ftudy, and practice, are requifite j particularly in imi¬
tating the beft prints or drawings that can be got of
hands and feet (fome good examples of which are
given in Plate CLXXVIII.) ; for, as to the mechani¬
cal rules of drawing them by lines and meafures, they
are not only perplexed and difficult, but alfo contrary
to the praCtice of the beft mailers. One general rule,
however, may be given (which is univerfally to be ob-
ferved in all fubjeCts,) and that is, Not to finilh perfect¬
ly at firit any fingle part, but to (ketch out faintly, and
with light ftrokes of the pencil, the ffiape and propor¬
tion of the whole hand, with the aCtion and turn of it;
and after confidering carefully whether this firit (ketch
be perfeCt, and altering it wherever it is amifs, you may
then proceed to the bending of the joints, the knuckles,
the veins, and other fmall particulars, which, when the
learner has got the whole drape and proportion of the
hand or foot, will not only be more eafily but alfo more
perfedly defigned.
§. 4. Of Drawing Faces.
The head is ufually divided into four equal parts,
(1.) From the crown of the head to the top of the
forehead. (2.) From the top of the forehead to the
eyebrows. (3.) From the eyebrows to the bottom
of the nofe. (4.) From thence to the bottom of the
chin. But this proportion is not ccnftant ; thofe
features in different men being often very different as
to length and drape. In a well-proportioned face, howr-
ever, they are nearly right. To direCt the learner
therefore in forming a perfeft face, his firft bufinefs is
to draw an oval, or rather the form of an egg 5 in the
middle of which, from the top to the bottom, drawr a
perpendicular line. Through the centre or middle of
this line draw' a diameter line, diiedly acrofs from one
fide to the other of your oval. On thefe two lines all
the features of your face are to be placed as follow’s :
Divide your perpendicular line into four equal parts 5
the firft muft be allotted to the hair of the head ; the
fecond is from the top of the forehead to the top of
the nofe between the eyebrows ; the third is from
thence to the bottom of the nofe ; and the fourth in¬
cludes the lips and chin. Your diameter line, or the
breadth of the face, is always fuppofed to be the length
of five eyes ; you muft therefore divide it into five equal
parts, and place the eyes upon it fo as to leave exaClly
the length of one eye betwixt them. This is to be un-
derftood only of a full front face, Plate CLXXVII. fig.
a; for if it turn to either fide, then the diftances are to
be leffened on that fide which turns from you, lefs
or more in proportion to its turning (fig. b b b.}. The
top of the ear is to rife parallel to the eyebrows, at the
end of the diameter line ; and the bottom of it muft be
equal to the bottom of the nofe. The noftrils ought
not to come out farther than the corner of the eye in
any face ^ and the middle of the mouth muft always be
placed upon the perpendicular line.
§ 5. Of Drawing Human Figures.
When the learner is tolerably perfeCI in drawing
faces,.heads, hands, and feet, he may next attempt to
draw the human figure at length. In order to which,
let him firft (ketch the head ; then draw a perpendicu¬
lar
(a) The ink made ufe of for this purpofe muft not be common, but Indian ink ; which is much fofter than
the other, and does not run : by mixing it with water, it may be made to any degree of (Length, and ufed ia
a pen like common ink.
3*8
DRAW
lar line from the bottom of the head feven times its
length (for the length of the head is about one-eighth
part of the length of the figure).
The beft proportioned figures of the ancients are
heads in height. If, therefore, the figure Hands upright,
(as fig. a, Plate CLXXIX.) draw a perpendicular line
from the top of the head to the heel, which mult be
divided into two equal parts. The bottom of the belly
is exaftly the centre. Divide the lower part into two
equal parts again, the middle of which is the middle
of the knee. For the upper part of the figure, the
method muft be varied. Take off with your com-
paffes the length of the face (which is three parts in
four of the length of the head) ; from the throat pit to
the pit of the ftomach is one face, from thence to the
navel is another, and from thence to the low-er nm of
the belly is a third. The line muft be divided into
feven equal parts. Againft the end of the firft divi-
fion, place the breafts ; the fecond comes down to the
navel; the third to the privities j the fourth to the
middle of the thigh ; the fifth to the lower part of the
knee ; the fixth to the lower part of the calf; and the
feventh to the bottom of the heel, the heel of the bear¬
ing leg being always exattly under the pit of the throat.
But as the effence of all drawing confifts in making at
firft a good Iketch, the learner muft in this particular
be very careful and accurate ; he ought to draw no
one part perfe£t or exafl till he fee whether the whole
draught be good ; and when he has altered that to his
mind, he may then finifti one part after another as cu-
rioufly as he can. _ .
There are fome who, having a ftatue to copy, begin
with the head, which they finith, and then proceed in
the fame manner to the other parts of the body, finiih-
ing as thev go : but this method generally fucceeds ill;
for if they make the head in the leaft too big or too
little, the confequence is a dilproportion between all
the parts, occafioned by their not having Iketched the
whole proportionably at firft. Let the learner remem¬
ber, therefore, in whatever he intends to draw, firft to
iketch its feveral parts, meafuring the diftances and
proportions between each with his finger or pencil,
without ufing the compaffes ; and then judge of them
by the eye, which by degrees will be able .to Ju^ge ot
truth and proportion, and will become his belt an
principal guide. And let him obferve, as a general
rule, always to begin with the right fide of the piece
he is copying : for by that means he will always have
what he has done before his eyes; and the reft will
follow more naturally, and with greater eafe ; whereas
if he begin with the left fide, his hand and arm will
cover what he does firft, and deprive him of the fight
of it; by which means he will not be able to proceed
with fo much eafe, pleafure, or certainty.
I N G.
As to the order and manner of proceeding in draw¬
ing the human body, he muft firft Iketch the head ;
then the Ihoulders in the exadt breadth ; then draw the
trunk of the body, beginning with the armpits (leav¬
ing the arms till afterwards), and fo draw dowm to the
hips on both Tides ; and be lure he obferve the exadl
breadth of the wairt. When he has done this, let him
then draw that leg which the body Hands upon ; and
aftenvards the other which Hands loofe; then the arms,
and laft of all the hands.
He muft take notice alfo of the bowings and bend¬
ings that are in the body ; making the part which is
oppofite to that which bends correlpond to it in bend¬
ing with it. For inftance : If one fide of the body
bend in, the other muft ftand out anfwerable to it ; if
the back bend in, the belly muft flick out ; if the knee
bend out, the ham muft fall in ; and fo of any other
joint in the body. Finally, He muft endeavour to form
all the parts of the figure with truth, and in juft pro¬
portion : not one arm or one leg bigger or lefs than
the other ; not broad Herculean Ihoulders, with a thin
and (lender waift ; nor raw and bony arms, with tkck
tmd gouty legs i but let there be a kind of harmonious
agreement amongft the members, and a beautiful fym-
tnetry throughout the whole figure.
Proportions and Meafures of the Human Body. The
centre or middle part, between the two extremes of the
head and feet of a new born child, is in the navel, but
that of an adult is in the os pubis ; and the piaelice o«.
dividing the meafures of children into four, five, or fix
parts, whereof the head is one, is made ufe of by paint¬
ers and fculptors. .
A child of two years old has about five heads in its
whole length, but one of four or five years old has near
fix ; about the fifteenth or fixteenth year, feven heads
are the proportion or meafure, and the centre inclines
to the upper part of the pubis. Hence it appears, as
the growth of the body advances, there is a gradual
approach to the proportion of an adult of near eight
heads in the whole length, of which, as mentioned
above, the head makes one. ,
Agreeable to thefe principles, the follownng Fable
is conftru&ed, exhibiting the proportions of the parts
of a man and of a woman, as they were fixed by the
ancients, and meafured by M. Audran from the A-
pollo Pythins (Plate CLXXX.) in the garden of the
Vatican at Rome, and the Venus Aphrodites (Plate
CLXXXI.) belonging to the family ef the Medicis.
Suppofing the figures to ftand upright and duly polled
on both legs, the whole height of the former is divided
into 3’li parts, being 7 heads 3 parts and 6 minutes;
and that of the latter into 31 parts, being 7 heads and
3 parts.
Length of the Head and Trunk of the Body.
From the
the
the
the
the
top of the head to the bottom of the chin 4 parts or
bottom of the chin to the top of the fternum or breaft-bone
top of the fternum to the pit of the ftomach
pit of the ftomach to the navel
navel to the pubis
Length of the head and trunk of the body
Apollo.
Hds. Pts. Min
too
o I 7
031°
0210
036
-3.3 9
Venus.
Hds. Pts. Min-
too
018
036
027
039
3 3 6
1
Length
DRAWING.
Length of the Loiver Extremities.
From the pubis to the fmall of the thigh above the patella or knee-pan
the fmall of the thigh to the joint or middle of the knee
the joint of the knee to the fmall of the leg above the ankle
the top to the bottom of the ankle - - _
the bottom of the ankle to the bottom of the heel - -
Length of the lower extremities - _ «
Length of the head and trunk, as above
Total length of the figures _ _ _ _
Length of the Fore Arm or Upper Extremities.
From the top of the (boulder to the elbow - . _ .
the elbow to the hand - - . _
the joint of the hand to the root of the middle finger
the root to the tip of the middle finger ...
Length of the upper extremities
Breadth between the outward angles of the eyes - - -
of the face at the temples
of the upper part of the neck - - . .
over the fhoulders - - - . .
of the body below the armpits
between the nipples - . .
from the bottom of the chin to the horizontal line of the nipples
of the body at the fmall of the waift - - .
over the loins or os ilium - - .
over the haunches or tops of the thigh-bones
of the thigh at the top . . _ _
of the thigh below the middle ...
of the thigh above the knee - - ' -
of the leg below the knee ...
at the calf of the leg ...
below the calf - ...
above the ankle ...
of the ankle
below the ankle - - .
middle of the foot - - - .
at the roots of the toes
of the arm over the biceps mufcle . •
of the arm over the elbow . - .
of the arm below the elbow over the long fupinator
at the wrift ....
of the hand over the firft joint of the thumb
of the hand over the roots of the fingers
over the heads of the fcapulae or fhoulder-blades
Length of both arms and hands, each of the Apollo’s being 3 h. 2 p. 11 m. andT
the Venus 3 h. 1 p. 5 m. - - . . f
Breadth between the tips of the middle fingers of each hand when the arms arel
ftretched out horizontally - - . r
Side View.
Length from the top of the head to the (boulder
from the top of the fhoulder to the loins above the hip
from the loins to the lower part of the hip
from the hip to the fide of the knee, oppofite to the top of the patella
from the fide of the knee to the bottom of the heel
Length of the figures - ...
Apollo.
Hds. Pts. Mm,
2 6
1 9
1 9
X o
o 9
o
o
o
o
1
2
I
I
I
I
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
I
I I
1 3
1 o
X 2
2 O
I 2 3
I I 2
018
O I 10
X
2
2
o
2
O
o
I
I
1
3
2
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
t
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
11
6
2
o
o
5
7
7
o
3
5
o
8-3
8
6
4
7
2
4
i4
4
7
8
6
10
1
9
7
o
10
10
Venus.
Hds. Pts. Min.
I 2 3'
O I
I 2
O I
0 o
10
7
2
11
8
8
8
1
8
6
3
1
7
o
104
3
2
3
1
3
7
9
5
7
o
8
6
4
10
I 6
1 7
2 1
Q 11
o j 1
J19
7 3 0
Side
S2*
drawing.
S/DE VlEPT.
Tbicknefs from the fore to the back part of the flcull
from the wing of the nofe to the tip of the ear
of the upper part of the neck
from the breaft to the back over the nipples
from the belly to the fmall of the back
from the belly above the navel to the back of the loins
from the bottom of the belly to the round of the hip
from the fore part of the thigh to the bottom of the hip
of the thigh at middle
of the thigh above the knee
at the middle of the knee below' the patella
of the leg below the knee " '
of the leg at the calf
of the leg at the ankle
of the foot at the thickeft part
from ^thef fore part of the bend of the foot to the lower and back part j
of the heel - " “ _
of the arm over the biceps
over the elbow
below the elbow
.at the wriflr - " -
below the joint of the wrift
of the hand at the roots of the fingers - _ " _
at the roots of the nails
dpolio.
Hils. Pts Min
D36
1 '
2
O
3
3
o
3
3
2
2
1
1
1
o
o
Venus.
Hds. Pts. Mia.
034
1
1
o
3
o
o
3
3
2
2
1
1
1
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
2
I
I
1
I
o
o
o
o
I
o
X
I
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
I
6
11
6
7
2
5
7
64
3
2
11
9
4
3
44
9
6
7
11
10
5
3
The other moft admired antique ftatues differ a jit-
tie from thefe proportions, the Laocoon meafurmg
^h. 2 p. 3 m. the Hercules 7 h. 3 p. 7
ramus 7 h. 2 p. the Antinous 7 h. 2 p. the Grecian
fhepherdefs 7 h. 3 p. 6 m. and the Mirm.llo 8 h. But
all their other proportions are allowed to be harmonious
and agreeable to the chara&ers of the figures they re-
^ The moft remarkable differences of the fymmetry
or proportions of a man and of a womap to be ob er-
vedP from the Table are : Firft, The fhoulders of a
man are broader, meafuring two heads, and the haun¬
ches narrower, meafuring 1 h. 1 p. 5 m- ^hereaSfi ^
fhoulders of a woman meafure only I h. 3 p. » m.
and the haunches meafure I h. 2 p. 3 m. I he iter-
num or breaft-bone of a man is longer, meafuring 3 p.
8 m. and the fternum of the woman only 3 P- 3.m-
On the contrary, the pelvis of a man is lefs, meafurmg
from the top to bottom only 4 p. whereas the pelvis
of a woman meafures from the top to the bottom
4 ki“'leading principle, in which every perfon con-
verfant in defigning has agreed, that without a per-
fea knowledge of the proportions, nothing can be pro¬
duced but monftrous and extravagant figures i and it is
alfo univerfally admitted, that the ancient Greek and
Roman fculptors attained the higheft fuccefs m produ¬
cing the moft perfea models. , '
The greateft of thevmodern artifts who have ex¬
amined their figures with attention admit that feveral
of the ancient fculptors in fome degree have excelled
nature, they never having found any man fo perfea in
all hi; parts as fome of their figures are. I heir op¬
portunities indeed were great ; Greece abounded wit
beauties j and Rome being miftrefs of the worid every
thing that was curious and beautiful was bro g
it from all parts. Their motives were alfo powerful \
religion, glory, and intereft. They confidered it as a
kind of religious worfhip to give the figures of their
gods fo much noblenefs and beauty as to be able to at-
traft the love and veneration of the people. 1 heir
own glory was alfo concerned, particular honours be¬
ing beftowed on thofe who fucceeded ; and for their
fortune they had no further care to take when they
once arrived at a certain degree of merit.
Attitudes and ABion of the Mufcles. If a ftrong per-
fon is to be reprefented in a vigorous aaion, fuch as
Hercules, &c. after a fuitable proportion to fuch a figure
and the aaion is defigned, the parts or limbs employ¬
ed in the chiefeft force of the aftion ought to be con¬
fidered. If the figure is Handing, the foot mu ft be
placed in a right line, or perpendicular to the trunk
or bulk of the body, where the centre of gravity may
be placed in equilibria. This centre is determined
by the heel; or, if the figure is upon tiptoe, then the
ball of the great toe is in the centre. 1 he mu.cles of
the leg which fupports the body ought to be iweii-
ed, and their tendons drawn more to extenfion than
thofe of the other leg, which is only placed fo as to
receive the weight of the body towards that way to
which the aaion inclines it. For example, luppole
Hercules with a club ftriking at any thing before him
towards the left fide : Then let his right leg be placed
fo as to receive the whole weight of the body, and the
left loofely touching the ground with his toes. Here the
external mufcles of the right leg ought to be expreffed
very ftrong ; but thofe of the left fcarcely appearing
more than if it were in fome fedentary pofture, except
in the prefent cafe. The foot being extended the
mufcles which compofe the calf of the leg arc in aaion
and appear very ftrong ; though it is not meant that*//
the mufcles of the right leg, which fupports the weight
321
DRAWING.
t)f tlie body, ought to be exprcffed very ftrong or equally
fwelled, bvrt thofe moll tumefied which are chiefly con¬
cerned in the action or pofture that the leg is then in.
For example, if the leg or tibia is extended, then the
extending mufcles placed on the thigh are moft iwell-
ed : if it is bended, then the bending mufcles and
their tendons appear mofl. The like may be obferved
of the whole body in general wrhen it is put into vi¬
gorous a<51ion. The Laocoon formerly in the Vatican
garden at Rome, now in the Louvre at Paris, furnifhes
an example of this mufcular appearance through the
whole *, but in the Antinous, Apollo, alfo in the
Louvre, and other figures of the ancients, in poftures
where no confiderable actions are defigned, we fee their
mufcles exprefled but faintly, or fcarcely appearing.
The clavicles or collar-bones, and mufcles in general,
do not appear in women as in men ; nor will any action
in which a woman ufes her utmoft ftrength occafion
fuch fwellings or rifings of the mufcles to appear as
they do in men, fince the great quantity of fat placed
under the fkin of women fo clothes their mufcles, &c.
as to prevent any fuch appearances.
EffcBs of the Exertion of the Mufcles. The follow¬
ing are the mofl: obvious effefts of the exertion of fe-
veral of the mufcles ; of thofe, to wit, which chiefly
demand the attention of an artift.
If either of the maftoid mufcles (Plate CLXXXII.
I. x.) aft, the head is turned to the contrary fide, and
the mufcle which performs that aftion appears very
plain under the fkin.
If the arms are lifted up, the deltoid mufcles placed
on the ftroulders, which perform that aftion, fwell,
and make the extremities of the fpines of the fhoulder-
blades ( Plate CLXXXIIL 3. 3.), called the tops of the
{boulders, appear indented or hollow.
The {houlder-blades following the elevation of the
arms, their bafes (Plate CLXXXI1I. 4. 4.) incline at
that time obliquely downward.
If the arms are drawn down, put forwards, or pulled
backwards, the {houlder-blades neceffarily vary their
pofitions accordingly. All thefe particulars are to be
learned by confulting the life only *, when being w>ell
acquainted with what then appears in every aftion, the
artift will be able to form an adequate idea how it ought
to be exprefled. Thefe circumftances are little known ;
hence feldom attended to in defigning.
When the cubit or fore-arm is bended, the biceps
(Plate CLXXXII. 5. 5.) has its belly very muchraifed,
as appears in the left arm. The like may be obferved
of the triceps (Plate CLXXXIIL 6. 6.) when the arm
is extended as obferved in the right arm.
The ftraight mufcles of the abdomen (Plate
CLXXXII. 7. 7.) appear very ftrong when rifing from
a decumbent pofture.
Thofe parts of the great ferratus mufcle (ib. 8. 8.)
which are received in the teeth or beginnings of the
oblique defcending mufcle immediately below, are very
much fwelled when the fhoulder on the fame fide is
brought forwards ; that ferratus mufcle then being in
aftion in drawing the fcapula forwards.
The long extending mufcles of the trunk (Plate
CLXXXIII. 9. 9.) aft alternately in walking, after this
manner : If the right leg bears the weight of the bo¬
dy, and the left is in tranflation as on tiptoe, the laft
mentioned mufcles of the back on the left fide may be
Vol. VII. Part I.
obferved to be tumefied on the other fide about the re¬
gion of the loins, and fo on the other fide.
The trochanters, or outward and uppermoft heads
of the thigh-bones (Plate CLXXXIIL 10. 10.),
vary in their pofitions in fuch a manner as no precife
obiervation can explain their feveral appearances}
but the ftudy after the life ought to be carefully at¬
tended to.
If the thigh is extended, as when the whole weight
of the body refts on that fide, the gluteus or buttock
mufcle ( Plate CLXXXIII. 11.11.) makes a very differ¬
ent appearance from what offers at another time ; but
if the thigh is drawn backwards, that mufcle appears
ftill more and more tumefied.
When the whole leg is drawn upwards forwards, and
at the fame time the foot is inclined inwards, the up¬
per part of the fartorius mufcle (Plate CLXXXII.
12. 12) appears rifing very ftrong ; in other pofitions of
the thigh, that mufcle makes a furrowing appearance
in its whole progrefs.
If a man is upon tiptoe, the extending mufcles of
the leg placed on the fore part of the thigh (Plate
CLXXXII. 13. 13. 13.), and thofe of the foot that
compofethe calf of the leg (Plate CLXXXIIL 14. 14.)
appear very ftrong, and the long peronaeus (Plate
CLXXXI1. 15.) makes a confiderable indentation or
furrowung at that time in its progrefs on the outfide of
the leg.
Many other remarks might here be offered j but a
due attention to nature will foon difcover them.
§ 6. Of Light and Shade.
After the learner has made himfelf in fome mea-
fure perfeft in drawing outlines, his next endeavour
muft be to fhade them properly. It is this which gives
an appearance of lubftance, fliape, diftance, and di-
ftinftion, to whatever body he endeavours to repre-
fent, whether animate or inanimate. The beft rule for
doing this is, to confider from what point, and in what
direftion the light falls upon the objtfts which he is
delineating, and to let all his lights and {hades be pla¬
ced according to that direftion throughout the whole
work. That part of the objeft muft be lighteft which
hath the light moft direftly oppofite to it j if the light
falls fideways on the pifture, he muft make that fide
which is oppofite to it lighteft, and that fide which is
fartheft from it darkeft. If he is drawing the figure
of a man, and the light be placed above the head, then
the top of the head muft be made lighteft, the {boul¬
ders next lighteft, and the lowTer parts darker by de¬
grees. That part of the objeft, whether in naked
figures or drapery, or buildings, that ftand farthefl:
out, muft be made the lighteft, becaufe it comes nearefl:
to the light ; and the light lofeth fo much of its bright-
nefs, by how much any part of the body bends in¬
ward, becaufe thofe parts that flick out hinder the luftre
and full brightnefs of the light from jinking on thofe
parts that fall in. Titian ufed to fay, that he knew
no better rule for the diftribution of lights and ftiadows
than his obfervations drawn from a bunch of grapes.
Satins and filks, and all other ftiining fluffs, have cer¬
tain glancing refleftions, exceeding bright where the
light falls ftrongeft. The like is feen in armour, brafs
pots, or any other glittering metal, where you fee a
fudden brightnefs in the middle or centre of the light,
S f which
322
drawing.
which difcovers the fhining nature of fuch things. Oo-
ferve alfo, that a ftrong light requires a ftrong (hade,
a fainter light a fainter {hade •, and that an equal balance
be preferved throughout the piece between the lights
and {hades. Thofe parts which muft appear round
require but one ftroke in {hading, and that fometimes
but very faint 5 fuch parts as fhould appear deep or hol¬
low, require two llrok.es acrofs each other, or fome¬
times three, which is fufficient for the deepeft. {hade.
Care muft be alfo taken to make the outlines faint and
fmall in fuch parts as receive the light j but where the
fhades fall, the outline muft be ftrong and bold. The
learner muft begin his {tradings from the top, and pro¬
ceed downward, and ufc his utmoft endeavours both
by pradtice and obfervation to learn how to vary the
{tradings properly ; for in this confifts a great deal, of
the beauty and elegance of drawing. Another thing
to be obferved is, that as the human fight is weakened
by diftances, fo objects muft feem more or lefs con fill¬
ed or clear according to the places they hold in the
piece : Thofe that are very diftant,——weak, faint, and
confufed j thofe that are near and on the foremoft
ground,—clear, ftrong, and accurately finilhed.
§7.0f Drapery.
In the art of clothing the figures, or calling the
drapery properly and elegantly upon them, many things
are to be obferved. M. The eye muft never be in doubt
of its objedl; but the drape and proportion of the part
or limb,' which the drapery is fuppofed to cover, muft
appear $ at leaft fo far as art and probability will per¬
mit : and this is fo material a confideration, that many
artifts draw firft the naked figure, and afterwards put
the draperies upon it. 2. The drapery muft not fit
too clofe to the parts of the body : but let it feem to
flow round, and as it were to embrace them 5 yet fo
as that the figure may be eafy, and have a free motion.
3. The draperies which cover thofe parts that are ex-
pofed to great light muft not be fo deeply {haded as to
feem to pierce them ", nor fhould thole members be
croffed by folds that are too ftrong, left by the top
great darknefs of the fhades the members look as if
they were broken. 4* ^ folds muft be drawn
firft, and then ftroked into leffer ones: and great care
muft be taken that they do not crofs one another im¬
properly. 5. Folds in general ftiould be large, and as
few as poflible. However they muft be greater or lefs
according to the quantity and quality of the fluffs of
which the drapery is fuppofed to be made. The qua¬
lity of the per Ion is alfo to be confidered in the drapery.
If they are magiftrates, their draperies ought to be
large and ample : if country clowns or {laves, they
ought to be coarfe and fhort} if ladies or nympua,
light and foft. 6. Suit the garments to the body, and
make them bend with it, according as it ftands in or
out, ftraight or crooked 5 or as it bends one way or
another -/ and the clofer the garment fits to the body,
the narrower and fmaller muft be the folds. 7- Fcdds
well imagined give much fpirit to any kind of aftion ;
becaufe their motion implies a motion in the afting
member, which feems to draw them forcibly, and
makes them more or lefs ftirring as the aftion is more
or lefs violent. 8. An artful complication of folds in
a circular manner greatly helps the effett of foreflrort-
cnings. 9. All folds confift of two {hades, and no
more : which you may turn with the garment at plea-
fure, fliadowing the inner fide deeper, and the outer
more faintly. 10. The {hades in filk and fine linen
are very thick and fmall, requiring little folds and a
light ftiadow. 11. Obferve the motion of the air or
wind, in order to draw the loofe apparel all flying one
way ; and draw that part of the garment that adheres
clofeft to the body before yon draw the loofer part
that flies off from it; left, by drawing the loofe part
of the garment firft, you ftiould miftake the pofition of
the figure, and place it awry. 12. Rich ornaments,
when judicioufly and fparingly ufed, may fometimes
contribute to the beauty of draperies. But fuch orna¬
ments are far below the dignity of angels or heavenly
figures 5 the grandeur of whofe draperies ought rather
to confift in the boldnefs and noblenefs of the folds,
than in the quality of the fluff or the glitter of orna¬
ments. 13. Light and flying draperies are proper on¬
ly to figures in great motion, or in the wflnd : but
when in a calm place, and free from violent adion,
their draperies ftrould be large and flowing } that by
their contrail and the fall of the folds, they may ap¬
pear with grace and dignity. Thus much for drape¬
ry ; an example or two of which are given in Plate
CLXX1X. But fee farther the articles Crayon and
Painting.
§ 8. On the Pajfions.
The pafiions, fays M. le Brun, are motions of the
foul, either upon her purfuing what {he judges to be
for her good, or ftiunning what Ihe thinks hurtful to
her j and commonly, whatever caufes emotion or paf-
fion in the foul, creates alfo fome aftion in the body.
It is therefore neceffary for a painter to know which
are the different adieus in the body that exprefs the
feveral paflions of the foul, and how to delineate them.
M. Le Brun has been extremely happy in exprefling
many of the paflions, and the learner cannot ftudy any
thing better than the examples which he has left us of
them. However, as M. De Piles juftly obferyes, it is
abfurd as well as impoflible to pretend to give fuch
particular demonftrations of them as to fix their ex-
preflion to certain ftrokes, which the painter Ihould be
obliged to make ufe of as effential and invariable rules.
This (fays he) would be depriving the art of that ex¬
cellent variety of expreflion w’hich has no other princi¬
ple than diverfity of imagination, the number of which
is infinite. The fame paflion may be finely expreffed
feveral ways, each yielding more or lefs plealuie in
proportion to the painter’s underftanding and the ipec-
tator’s difeernment.
Though every part of the face contributes towards
exprefling the fentiments of the heart, yet the eye¬
brow, according to M. Le Brun, is the principal feat
of expreffion, and where the paflions beft make them-
felves known. It is certain, fays he, that the pupil of
the eye, by its fire and motion, very well ihows the a-
gitation of the foul, but then it does not exprefs the
kind or nature of fuch an agitation } whereas the mo¬
tion of the eyebrow differs according as the paflions
change their nature. To exprefs a fimple paflion, the
motion is fimple ; to exprefs a mixed paflion, the mo¬
tion is compound : if the paflion be gentle, the mo¬
tion is gentle : and if it be violent, the motion is fo
too. We may obferve farther, fays he, that there are
two
DRAWING.
two kinds of elevation in the eyebrows. One, in
which the eyebrows rife up in the middle ; this eleva¬
tion exprefles agreeable fenfations, and it is to be ob-
ferved that then the mouth riles at the corners : Ano¬
ther, in which the eyebrows rife up at the ends, and
fall in the middle $ this motion denotes bodily pain,
and then the mouth falls at the corners. In laughter,
all the parts agree ; for the eyebrows, which fall to¬
ward the middle of the forehead, make the nofe, the
mouth, and the eyes, follow the fame motion. In
weeping, the motions are compound and contrary j for
the eyebrows fall toward the nofe and over the eyes,
and the mouth rifes that way. It is to be obferved al-
fo, that the mouth is the part of the face which more
particularly exprefles the emotions of the heart : for
when the heart complains, the mouth falls at the cor¬
ners 5 when it is at eafe, the corners of the mouth are
elevated ; and when it has an averfion, the mouth
fhoots forward, and rifes in the middle.
“ The head (fays M. De Piles) contributes more to
the expreflion of the paffions than all the other parts
of the body put together. Thofe feparately can only
Ihow fome few pafilons, but the head exprefles them
all. Some, however, are more peculiarly exprefled by
it than others : as humility, by hanging it down j ar¬
rogance, by lifting it up 5 languilhment, by inclining
it to one fide ; and obflinacy, when with a ftiff and re-
folute air it ftands upright, fixed, and ftiffbetween the
two fhoulders. The head alfo belt {hows our fupplica-
tions, threats, mildnefs, pride, love, hatred, joy, and
grief. The whole face, and every feature, contributes
lomething : efpecially the eyes ; which, as Cicero fays,
are the windows of the foul. The paflions they more
particularly difcover are, pleafure, languilhing, fcorn,
ieverity, mildnefs, admiration, and anger j to which
one might add joy and grief, if they did not proceed
more particularly from the eyebrows and mouth ; but
when thofe twTo paflions fall in alfo with the language
of the eyes, the harmony will be wonderful. But
though the paflions of the foul are moft vifible in the
lines and features of the face, they often require the
afliftance alfo of the other parts of the body. Without
the hands, for inftance, all aftion is weak and imper-
feft •, their motions, which are almoft infinite, create
numberlefs expreflions : it is by them that we dejire,
hope, promife, call, fend back ; they are the inftruments
cf threatening, prayer, horror, and praife; by them
we approve, condemn, refufe, admit, fear, afk ; exprefs
our J°y and grief, our doubts, regrets, pain, and admi¬
ration. In a word, it may be faid, as they are the
language of the dumb, that they contribute not a lit¬
tle to fpeak a language common to all nations, which
is the language of painting. But to fay how thefe
parts muft be difpofed for expreffing the various paf¬
fions, is impoflible ; nor can any exaft rules be given
lor it, both becaufe the talk would be infinite, and be-
caufe every one muft be guided in this by his own ge¬
nius and the particular turn of his own ftudies.” See
the article Passions, and the Plate there referred to.
§ 9. Q/'drawing Flowers, Fruits, Birds, Beafs, &c.
The learner may proceed now to make fome at¬
tempts at drawing flowers, fruits, birds, beafts, and
the like j not only as it wdll be a more pleafing em¬
ployment, but as it is an eafier talk, than the draw¬
ing of hands and feet, and other parts of the human
body, which require not only more care, but greater
exaftnefs and nicer judgment. Very few rules or in-
ftru&ions are requifite upon this head ; the beft thing
the learner can do is, to furniih himfelf with good
prints or drawings by way of examples, and with great
care and exadlnefs to copy them. If it is the figure
of a beaft, begin with the forehead, and draw the
nofe, the upper and under jaw, and flop at the throat.
Then go to the top of the head, and form the ears,
neck, back, and continue the line till you have given
the full fliape of the buttock. Then form the breaft,
and mark out the legs and feet, and all the fmaller
parts. And, laft of all, finilh it with the proper {ha-
dows. It is not amifs, by way of ornament, to give a
fmall (ketch of landfcape 5 and let it be fuitable and na¬
tural to the place or country of the beafl: you draw.
Much the fame may be faid with regard to birds. Of
thefe, as wTell as beafts and other objefts, the learner will
find many examples among the plates given in this
work.
§ 10. Of drawing Landfcapes, Buildings, Sec.
Of all the parts of drawing, this is the moft ufeful
and neceflary, as it is what every man may have occa-
fion for at one time or another. To be able, on the
fpot, to take the (ketch of a fine building, or a beau¬
tiful profpeift ; of any curious production of art, or
uncommon appearance in nature ; is not only a very
definable accompliftiment, but a very agreeable amufe-*
ment. Rocks, mountains, fields, woods, rivers, cata-
raCts, cities, towns, caftles, houfes, fortifications, ruins,
or whatfoever elfe may prefent itfelf to view on our
journeys or travels in our own or foreign countries,
may be thus brought home, and preferved for our fu¬
ture ufe either in bufinefs or converfation. On this
part, therefore, more than ordinary pains (hould be be-
ftowed.
All drawing confifts in nicely meafuring the diflan-
ces of each part of the piece by the eye. In order to
facilitate this, let the learner imagine in his own mind,
that the piece he copies is divided into fquares. For
example : Suppofe or imagine a perpendicular and a
horizontal line crofling each other in the centre of the
piClure you are drawing from ; then fuppofe alfo two
fuch lines crofling your own copy. Obferve in the
original, what parts of the defign thofe lines interfeCI,
and let them fall on the fame parts of the fuppofed
lines in the copy : We fay, the fuppofed lines; becaufe
though engravers, and others who copy with great
exa&nefs, divide both the copy and original into many
fquares, as below *, yet this is a method not to be re¬
commended, as it will be apt to deceive the learner,
W’ho will fancy himfelf a tolerable proficient, till he
comes to draw after nature, where thefe helps are not
to be had, when he will find himfelf miferably defec¬
tive and utterly at a lofs.
If he is to draw a landfcape from nature, let him
S f 2 take
3^
324
drawing.
take his ftation on a rifing ground, where he will have
a large horizon j and mark his tablet into three divi-
fions, downwards from the top to the bottom; and
divide in his own mind the landfcape he is to take, in¬
to three divifions alfo. Then let him turn his face di-
reaiy oppofite to the midft of the horizon, keeping
his body fixed, and draw what is direftly before his
eyes upon the middle divifion of the tablet j then turn
his head, but not his body, to the left hand, and de¬
lineate what he views there, joining it properly to
what he had done before ; and, laftly, do the fame by
what is to be feen upon his right hand, laying down
every thing exaftly both with refpea to diftance and
proportion. One example is given on Plate CLXXIX.
The beft artifts, in drawing their landfcapes, make
them (host away one part lower than another.
Thofe who make their landfcapes mount up higher and
higher, as if they flood at the bottom of a hill to take
the profpeft, commit a great error : the beft way is to
get upon a rifing ground, make the neareft objefts m
the piece the higheft, and thofe that are farther off to
(hoot away lower and lower till they come almoft level
with the line of the horizon, leffening every thing pro-
portionably to its diftance, and obferving alfo to make
the objefts fainter and lefs diftindl the farther they are.
removed from the eye. He muft make all his lights
and (hades fall one way, and let every thing have its
proper motion : as trees (haken by the wind, the (mall
boughs bending more, and the large ones lefs : water
agitated by the wind, and daftnng againft (hips or
boats j or falling from a precipice upon rocks and
ftones, and fpirting up again into the air, and (prink-
ling all about : clouds alfo in the air, now gathered
with the winds; now violently condenfed into hail,
rain, and the like : Always remembering, that what¬
ever motions are caufed by the wind muft be made all
to move the fame way, becaufe the wind can blow but
one way at once. .
Finally, It muft be obferved, that in order to attain
any confiderable proficiency in drawing, a knowledge
of Perspective is abfolutely neceffary : fee that ar¬
ticle.
D R A.
Drav DRAY, a kind of cart ufed by brewers for carry-
Drayfon. bg barrels of beer or ale j alfo a fledge drawn without
Dray, among fportfmen, denotes fquirrel nefts built
in the tops of trees. . ...
DRAYTON, Michael, an eminent Fngliln poet,
born of an ancient family in Warwickfture in 15 3.
His propenfity to poetry was extremely ftrong, even
from his infancy 5 and we find the moft of his principal
poems publiftied, and himfelf highly diftingmftied as a
poet by the time he was about 30 years of age.—it
appears^from his poem of Mofes’s Birth and Miracles,
that he was a fpeftator at Dover of the famous Spamfti
armada, and it is not improbable that he was engage
in fome military employment there. It is certain, that
not only for his merit as a writer but his valuable qua¬
lities as a man, he was held in high eftimation, and
ftrongly patronized by feveral perfonages of confe-
quence ; particularly by Sir Henry Goodere, Sir Wal¬
ter Afton, and the countefs of Bedford; to the fii
of whom he owns himfelf indebted for great part of
his education, and by the fecond he was for many years
fUPHis poems are very numerous ; and fo elegant, that
his manner has been copied by many modern writers
of eminence fince. Among thefe the moft celebrated
one is the Poly-Albion, a chorographmal defcription ot
England, with its commodities, antiquities, and cu-
riofities, in metre of 12 fyllables ; which he dedicated
to Prince Henry, by whofe encouragement it was writ¬
ten : and whatever may be thought of the poetry, his
defcriptions are allowed to be txa&. He was fty e
poet laureat in his time : which, as Ben Johnfon was
then in that office, is to be underftood in a loofe fenfe
of approbation as an excellent poet ; and was beftowed
on others as well as Drayton, without being confined
ftri&ly to the office known by that appellation. He
died in 1631; and was buried in Weftmmfter abbey
D R E
among the poets, where his buft is to be feen, with an Dreams, ^
epitaph penned by Ben Johnfon.
DREAMS, are all thofe thoughts which people
feel paffing through their minds, and thofe imaginary
tranfaftions in which they often fancy themfelves en¬
gaged, when in the date of deep.
Scarce any part of nature js lefs open to our obier-
vation than the human mind in this ftate. 1 he
dreamer himfelf cannot well obferve the manner in
which dreams arife or difappear to him. When he
awakes, he cannot recolleft the circumftances of his
dreams with Efficient accuracy. WTre we to watch
over him with the moft vigilant attention, we could not
perceive with certainty what emotions are excited, m
his mind, or what thoughts pafs through it, during
his fleep. But though we could afcertam thele phe¬
nomena, many other difficulties would ftill remain.
What parts of a human being are adhve, what dor¬
mant, when he dreams ? Why does not he always dream
while afleep ? Or why dreams he at all ? Do any cir¬
cumftances in our conftitution, fituation, and peculiar
chara&er, determine the nature of our dreams .
We may lay before our readers luch faffs as have
been afcertained concerning dreaming, and the mo t
plaufible conjeaures that have been offered to explain
thofe particulars, about which we can only conjeaure,
or have at lead hitherto obtained nothing more certain
than conjeaure. .
j. In dreaming, we are not confcious of being aileep.
This is well known from a thoufand circumftances.
When awake, we often recolka our dreams ; and we
remember on fuch occafions, that while thofe dreams
were paffing through our minds, it never occurred to
us that we were feparated by fleep from ^ a^lYe
world. We are often obferved to aa.and talk in
dreaming as if we were bufily engaged in the inter-
courfe of focial life. r , „
2. In dreaming, we do not confider 0l^^nVeeffing
V
d a a w r x c
IMateCr.XKVIll
cr.xxrx.
/
\7T,'«r;‘
I
DHA WI JST (T.
Plate CLXXXM.
3) P AW IN G .
Hate CLIXXHI.
c%/2s// /fa/^s/cufeZcr/esit.
Dreams.
D R E [ 325 ] D R E
witneflirig or bearing a part in a fi&itious fcene : we
feem not to be in a fimilar fituation with the atbors in
a dramatic performance, or the fpeilators before whom
they exhibit, but engaged in the bufinefs of real life.
All the varieties of thought that pafs through our
minds when awake may all’o occur in dreams ■, all the
images which imagination prefents in the former Hate,
(he is alfo able to call up in the latter j all the fame
emotions may be excited, and we are often afluated by
equal violence of paffion ; none of the tranlatlions in
which we are capable of engaging while awake is im-
poffible in dreams*: in (hort, our range of adlion and
obfervation is equally wide in the one ftate as in the
other; and while dreaming, we are not fenfible of any
diftin&ion between our dreams and the events and
tranfa£!ions in which we are adlually concerned in our
intereourfe with the world.
3. It is faid, that all men are not liable to dream.
Dr Beattie, in a very pleafing eflay on this fubjeft,
relates, that he knew a gentleman who never dreamed
except when his health was in a difordered ftate j and
Locke mentions fomewhere, that a certain perfon of
his acquaintance was a ftranger to dreaming till the
26th year of his age ; and then began to dream in
confequence of having a fever. Thefe inftances, how¬
ever, are too few, and we have not been able to ob¬
tain more ; and, befides, it does not appear that thofe
perfons had ahvays attended, with the care of a philo-
fopher making an experiment, to the circumftances of
their deep. They might dream, but not recoiled their
dreams on awaking ; and they might both dream and
recoiled their dreams immediately upon awaking, yet
afterwards fuffer the remembrance of them to flip out
of the memory. We do not advance this therefore as
a certain fad concerning dreaming $ we are rather in¬
clined to think it a miftake.
But though it appears to be by no means certain
that any of the human race are through the whole of
life abfolute ftrangers to dreaming } yet it is well
known that all men are not equally liable to dream.
The fame perfon dreams more or lefs at different times j
and as one perfon may be more expofed than another
to thofe circumftances which promote this exercife of
fancy, one perfon may therefore dream more than ano¬
ther. The fame diverfity will naturally take place in
this as in other accidents to which mankind are in ge¬
neral liable.
4. Though in dreams imagination appears to be free
from all reftraint, and indulges in the moft wanton
freaks; yet it is generally agreed, that the imaginary
tranfadions of the dreamer bear always fome relation
to his particular charader in the world, his habits of
adion, and the circumftances of his life. The lover,
we are told, dreams of his miftrefs •, the mifer of his
money j the philofopher renews his refearches in fleep
often with the fame pain and fatigue as when awake j
and even the merchant, at times, returns to balance
his books, and computes the profits of an adventure,
when flumbering on his pillow. And not only do the
more general circumftances of a perfon’s life influence
his dreams *, his paflions and habits are nearly the fame
when afleep as when awake. A perfon whofe habits
of life are virtuous, does not in his dreams plunge into
a feries of crimes j nor are the vicious reformed when
they pafs into this imaginary world. The choleric Dreams,
man finds himfelf offended by flight provocations _v ~
as well in his dreams as in his ordinary intercourfe
with the world, and a mild temper continues pacific
in fteep.
5. The charader of a perfon’s dreams is influenced
by his circumftances when awake in a ftill more unac¬
countable manner. Certain dreams ufually ariie in the
mind after a perfon has been in certain fituations. Dr
Beattie relates, that he once, after riding 30 miles in
a high wind, pafled a part of the fucceeding night in
dreams beyond defcription terrible. The ftate of a
perfon’s health, and the manner in which the vital
fundions are carried on, have a confiderable influ¬
ence in determining the charader of dreams. Af¬
ter too full a meal, or after eating of an unufual fort
of food, a perfon has always dreams of a certain nature.
6. In dreaming, the mind for the moft part carries
on no intercourfe through the fenfes wflth furrounding
objeds. Touch a perfon gently who is afleep, he feels
not the impreflion. You may awake him by a (mart
blow ; but when the ftroke is not fufficiently violent
to awake him, he remains infenfible of it. We fpeak
foftly befide a perfon afleep without fearing that he
overhear us. His eyelids are Unit j and even though
light (hould fall upon the eyeball, yet ftill his powers
of vifion are not wakened to adive exertion, unlefs
the light be fo ftrong as to roule him from fleep. He
is infenfible both to fweet and to difagreeable fmells.
It is not eafy to try whether his organs of tafte retain
their adivity, wfithout awakening him 5 yet from ana¬
logy it may be prefumed that thefe too are inadive.
With refped to the circumftances here enumerated,
it is indifferent whether a perfon be dreaming or buried
in deep fleep.
Yet there is one remarkable fad concerning dream¬
ing w hich may feem to contradid w hat has been here
afferted. In dreams, wre are liable not only to (peak
aloud in confequence of the fuggeftions of imagination,
but even to get up, and walk about and engage in little
enterprifes, without awaking. Now, as we are in this
inftance fo adive, it feems that we cannot be then in¬
fenfible of the prefence of furrounding objeds. The
fleepwalker is really fenfible in a certain degree of the
prefence of the objeds around him $ but he does not
attend to them with all their circumrtances, nor do
they excite in him the fame emotions as if he were
awake. He feels no terror on the brink of a precipice j
and in confequence of being free from fear, he is alfo
without danger in fuch a fituation unlefs fuddenly
awaked. This is one of the moft inexplicable phenome¬
na of dreaming.
There is alfo another fad not quite confonant with
what has been above mentioned. It is faid, that in fleep
a perfon will continue to hear the noife of a catarad
in the neighbourhood, or regular ftrokes wfith a ham¬
mer, or any fimilar found fufficiently loud, and con¬
tinued uninterruptedly from before the time of his fall¬
ing afleep. We know not whether he awakes on the
fudden ceffation of the noife. This fad is afferted on
fufficient evidence : it is curious. Even when awake,
if very deeply intent on any piece of ftudy, or clofely
occupied in bufinefs, the found of a clock ftriking in
the neighbourhood, or the beating of a drum, will
efcape
[ 326 ]
D R E
a pretty certain truth, that many, if not all, of the Dreams.
D R E
Breams, efcape us unnoticed j and *t is therefore the more fur-
—"Vprifing that we (hould thus continue fenfible to founds
when afleep.
7. Not only do a perfon’s general character, habits
of life and Hate of health, influence his dreams ; but
thofe concerns in which he has been moft deeply inte-
refted during the preceding day, and the views which
have arifen moft frequently to his imagination, very
often afford the fubje£ls of his dreams. When I look
forward with anxious expeflation towards any future
event, I am likely to dream either of the difappoint-
ment or the gratification of my wilhes. Have I been
engaged through the day, either in bufinefs or amufe-
ments which I have found exceedingly agreeable, or
in a way in which I have been extremely unhappy ?
either my happinefs or my mifery is likely to be re¬
newed in my dreams.
8. Though dreams have been regarded among almoft
all nations through the world, at leaft in fome periods
of their hiftory, as prophetic of future, events; yet it
does not appear that this popular opinion has been
eftablifhed on good grounds. Chriftianity, indeed,
teaches us to believe, that the Supreme Being may,
and a£lually does, operate on our minds, and influence
at times the determinations of our will, without making
us fenfible of the reftraint to which we are thus fubjeft-
ed. And, in the fame manner, no doubt, the fug-
geftions which arife to us in dreams may be produced.
The imaginary tranfaftions in which we are then en¬
gaged, may be fuch as are aftually to occupy us in
life ; the ftrange and feemingly incoherent appearances
which are then prefented to the mind’s eye, may al¬
lude to fome events which are to befal ourfelves or
others. It is, therefore, by no means impoffible, or
inconfiftent with the general analogy of nature, that
dreams {hould have a refpeft to futurity. We have no
reafon to regard the dreams which are related in the
Holy Scriptures to have been prophetic of future
events, as not infpired by Heaven, or to laugh at the
idea of a prophetic dream as abfurd or ridiculous.
Yet it would be too much to allow to dreams all
that importance which has been afcribed to them by
the priefthood among heathen nations, or by the vul¬
gar among ourfelves. We know how eafily ignorance
impofes on itfelf, and what arts impofture adopts to im-
pofe upon others. We cannot trace any certain con¬
nexion between our dreams and thofe events to which
the fimplicity of the vulgar pretends that they refer.
And we cannot, therefore, if difpofed to confine our
belief to certain or probable truths, join with the vul¬
gar in believing them really referable to futurity.
9. It appears that the brutes are alfo capable of
dreaming. The dog is often obferved to ftart tudden-
Iv up in his deep, in a manner which cannot be ac¬
counted for in any other way than by fuppofing that
he is roufed by fome impulfe received in a dream.
The fame thing is obfervable of others of the inferior
animals. That they {hould dream, is not an idea incon¬
fiftent with what we know of their economy and man¬
ners in general. We may, therefore, confidei it as
beings.
It appears, then, that in dreaming we are not con-
fcious of being afleep } that to a perfon dreaming, his
dreams feem realities*, that though it be uncertain
whether mankind are all liable to dreams, yet it is well
known that they are not all equally liable to dream :
that the nature of a perfon’s dreams depends in fome
meafure on his habits of a&ion, and on the circum-
ftafices of his life : that the ftate of the health too, and
the manner in which the vital funftions are carried on,
have a powerful influence in determining the charafter
of a perfon’s dreams : that in fleep and in dreaming,
the fenfes are either abfolutely ina&ive, or nearly fo :
that fuch concerns as we have been very deeply inte-
refted in during the preceding day, are very likely to
return upon our minds in dreams m the hours of reft ;
that dreams may be rendered prophetic of future events ;
and therefore, wherever we have fuch evidence of their
having been prophetic as we would accept on any
other occafion, we cannot reafonably reje£I the fadl on
account of its abfurdity ; but that they do not appear
to have been aftually fuch, in thofe inftances in which
the fuperftition of nations, ignorant of ttue religion, has
reprefented them as referring to futurity, nor in thofe
inftances in w'hich they are viewed in the fame light
by the vulgar among ourfelves *, and, laftly, that dream¬
ing is not a phenomenon peculiar to human nature,
but common to mankind with the brutes.
We know of no other fa&s that have been fully af-
certained concerning dreaming. But we are by no
means fufficiently acquainted with this important phe¬
nomenon in the hiftory of mind. We cannot tell by
what laws of our conftitution we are thus liable to be
fo frequently engaged in imaginary tranfaftions, nor
what are the particular means by which the delufion
is accompli fired. The delufion is indeed remarkably
Prong. One will fometimes have a book prefented to
him in a dream, and fancy that he reads; and actually
enter into the nature of the imaginary compofition be¬
fore him, and even remember, after he awakes, what
he knows that he only fancied himfelf reading (a).
Can this be delufion ? If delufion, how or for what
purpofes is it produced ? 1 he mind, it would appear,
does not, in fleep, become inaftive like the body ; or
at leaft is not always ina&ive while we. are afleep.
When we do not dream, the mind muft either be in-
aflive, or the connexion between the mind and the
body muft be confidered as in fome manner fufpended :
and when we dream, the mind, though it probably
a£ls in concert w7ith the body, yet does not aft in the
fame manner as when we are awTake. It feems to be
clouded or bewildered, in confequence of being depriv¬
ed for a time of the fervice of the fenfes. Imagina¬
tion becomes more aftive and more capricious. and
all the other powers, efpecially judgment and memory,
become difordered arid irregular in their operation.
Various theories have been propofed to explain what
appears here moft inexplicable. The ingenious Mr
Baxter
f,! The writer of this article has been told by a refpeaable old gentleman of his acquaintance fmce dead,
thlt he had frequently dreams of this nature. The fail may therefore be confidered as unqueftronable.
D R E C 327 ] D R E
T>reams-. Baxter, in his Treatife on the Immateriality of the Hu- and Formey has been too haftily and incautioully ad- Dreams.
"~'V nian Soul, endeavours to prove that dreams are pro- vanced. " —y—
duced by the agency of fome fpiritual beings, who ei- Other phyfiologifts tell us, that the mind, when we
ther amufe or employ themfelves ferioufly in engaging dream, is in a date of delirium. Sleep, they fay, is at-
mankind in all thofe imaginary tranfaftions with which tended with what is called a collapfe of the brain j
they are employed in dreaming. This theory, how- during which either the whole or a part of the nerves
ever, is far from being plaufible. It leads us entirely of which it confifts, are in a date in which they can-
beyond the limits of our knowledge. It requires us not carry on the ufual intercourfe between the mind
to believe without evidence. _ It is unfupported by any and the organs of fenfation. When the whole of the
analogy. It cieates difficulties dill more inexplicable brain is in this date, we become entirely unconfcious
than thofe which it has been propoled to remove. I ill of exidence, and the minds finks into inactivity : when
it appear that our dreams cannot poffibly be produced only a part of the brain is collated, as they term it,
without the interference of other Ipiritual agents, pol- we are then neither afleep nor awake, but in a fort of
feffing fuch influence over our minds as to deceive us delirium between the two. This theory, like the lad
with fancied joys, and involve us in imaginary afflic- mentioned, fuppofes the mind incapable of a&ing
tions, we cannot reafonably refer them to fuch a caufe. without the help of fenfation : it fuppofes that we
Befides, from the fa£ts which have been dated as well know the nature of a date of which we cannot afcer-
known concerning dreams, it appears that their nature tain the phenomena : it alfo contradicts a known fad,
depends both on the date of the human body and on in reprefenting dreams as confufed images of things
that of the mind. But were they owing to the agen- around us, not fanciful combinations of things not ex-
cy of other ipiritual beings, how could they be influ- iding together in nature or in human life. We mud
enced by the date of the body ? 1 hofe mud be a cu- treat it likewile, therefore, as a bafelefs fabric.
nous fet of Ipiritual beings who depend in fuch a man- In the lad edition of this work, a theory fomewhat
ner on the date of our corporeal frame. Better not different from any of the foregoing was advanced in
to allow7 them exidence at all, than to place them in this fubjed. It was obferved,°that the nervous fluid
UCVxra,rependjnCr ‘ • ^ which is allowed to be fecreted from the blood by the*
Wolhus, and after him M. Formey, have fuppofed, brain, appears to be likewife abforbed from the blood ,
that dreams never arife in the mind, except in confe- by the extremities of the nerves. It was farther ad-
quence of fome of the organs of fenfation having been vanced, that as this fluid was to be confidered as the
previoufly excited. Either the ear or the eye, or the or- principle of fenfibility; therefore, in all cafes in which
gans of touching, tading, or fmelling, communicate a fufficient fupply of it was not abforbed from the
information, fomehow, in a tacit, fecret manner j and blood by the extremities of the nerves, the parts of the
thus Partly roufe its faculties from the lethargy in body to which thofe nerves belonged, mud be, in fome
which they are^ buried in deep, and engage them in a degree, deprived of fenfation. From thefe pofitions
ienes o. contufed and imperfeCt exertions. But it was inferred, that as long as impreffions of external
what panes in dreams is fo very different from all that objeCts continue to communicate a certain motion
we do when awake, that it is impoflible for the from, the fentient extremities of the nerves to the
dreamer himfelf to didinguiffi, whether his powers of brain,—fo long we continue awake ; and that, when
ieniation perform any part on the occafion. It is not there is a deficiency of this vital fluid in the extremi-
neceffary that imagination be always excited by fen- ties of the nerves, or wffien from any other caufe it
iation. fancy, even when we are awake, often wan- ceafes to communicate to the brain the peculiar motion
tiers from the prefent Icene. Abfence of mind is inci- alluded to, we mud naturally fall afleep, and become
dent to the dudious : the poet and the mathematician infenfible of our exiflence. It followed of confequence
many times forget where they are. We cannot difeo- that, in deep, the nervous fluid between the extreme
ver from any thing that a perfon in dreaming difplays parts of the nerves and the brain mud either be at red
to the oblervation of others, that his organs of fenfa- or be deficient, or be prevented by fome means from
tion take a part in the imaginary tranfaftlons in which pafling into the brain : and it was concluded, that
ie is employed. In thofe indances, indeed, in which whenever irregular motions of this fluid were occafion-
perlons afleep are faid to hear founds ; the founds ed by any internal caufe, dreaming was produced. In
which they hear are faid alfo to influence, in fome this manner it appeared that we might be deceived
manner, the nature of their dreams. But fuch in- with regard to the operation of any of the fenfes
dances are fingulan Since then it appears that the fo as to fancy that we faw obje&s not actually before
per on who dteams is himfelf incapable of didinguiflx- us,—to hear imaginary founds,—to tade,—to feel, and
mg either during his dreams, or by recolledion when to fmell in imagination. The indances of vifions
awake, whether any new impreflions are communicated which will fometimes arife, and as it were fwim be-
to him in that date by his organs of fenfation ; that fore us when awake, though our eyes be Ihut, tinnitus
even y watching over him, and comparing our obfer- aitrium, which is often a fymptom in nervous difeafes,
nations of his circumdances and emotions, in his and the drange feelings in the cafe of the amputated
dreams, with what he recolleds of them after awak- limb, were produced in proof of this theory, and
1H£>* we cannot, except in one or two Angular indan- applied lo as to confirm it.
ce^, afeertain this fad ; and that the mind is not in- We are dill of opinion, that this theory is more
capa e o ading while the organs of fenfation are plaufible, and goes farther toward explaining the na-
at red, and on many occafions refufes to liden to ture of dreaming, and the manner in which r/reawr are
the information which they convey j we may, with- produced, than any other with which we are acquaint-
out hefitation, conclude, that the theory of Wolfius ed. But it mud be confefl'ed, upon a review, that even
* in
D R E
in it there is too much fuppolitiom
nervous fluid is but imperfe&ly known, and even its
exiftence not very fully ai'certained. I he nature ol the
connexion by which the foul and body are united,
feems to be almoft beyond our comprehenfion. And
till we can apply experiment and obfervation in a bet¬
ter manner to this branch of phyfiology, it mult un¬
doubtedly remain unknown. To fomething mylienous
in the nature of that connexion, the delufion produced
in dreams is in all probability owing.
Amid this uncertainty with refpect to the manner
in which the powers of mind and body perform their
Wtions in dreaming, it is pleafing to find that we
can, however, apply to ufeful purpofes the imperfeft
knowledge which we have been able to acquire con¬
cerning this feries of phenomena. Our dreams are
affected by the ftate of our health, by the manner in
which we have paffed the preceding day, by our gene¬
ral habits of life, by the hopes which we moft londly
indulge, and the fears which prevail moft oyer our
fortitude when we are awake. From recolle&ing our
dreams, therefore, we may learn to correft many im¬
proprieties in our conduft ; to refrain from bodily ex-
ercifes, or from meats and drinks that have unfavour¬
able effe£ts on our conftitution ; to refill, in due time,
evil habits that are ftealing upon us •, and to guard
again!! hopes and fears which detach us bom our pro¬
per concerns, and unfit us for the duties of life. In-
ftead of thinking what our dreams may forebode, we
may with much better reafon reflea by what they
have been occafioned, and look back to thofe circum-
ilances in our paft life to which they are owing. 1 he
fleep of innocence and health is found and refrelhing ,
their dreams delightful and pleafing. . A diftemper-
ed body, and a polluted or perturbed mind, are haunt¬
ed in fleep with frightful, impure, and unpleafing
dr Some very beautiful fables have been written both
by ancients and moderns in the form of dreams. The
Somnium Scipionis is one of the fine!! of Cicero s com-
pofitions. He who (hall carefully perufe this piece,
with Macrobius’s commentary upon it, will acquire
from them confiderable knowledge of ancient philolo-
nhy. In the periodical publications, which have d.f-
fufed fo much elegant and ufeful knowledge throug
Britain, the Tatlers, Speftators, Guardians, &c. we
had a number of excellent dreams. Addiion excelled
in this way of writing. The publ.c are now lefs par-
tial to this fpecies of compofition than they formerly
Dr Beattie, in his valuable effay on the fubje& of
dreaming, quotes a very fine one from the 1 atler, and
gives it due praife. - ,
The reader who is difpofed to fpeculate farther on
this fobiefl, may confult Beattie’s Mays, Hartley on
Man, and the principal writers on phyfiology.
DRELINCOURT, Charles, mmifter of the re¬
formed church at Paris, was born at Sedan in 1595,
where his father enjoyed a confiderable poll. He had
all the qualifications that compofe a rebpeftable cleigy-
man ; and though he defended the Proteftant caufe
again!! the Romifti religion, was much efteemed even
among the Catholics. He is be!! known in England
by his Confolations again!! the Fears of Death which
w^ork was tranflated, and is often printed. He mar-
Drench
r 028 ] D R E
The nature of the tied the daughter of a rich merchant at Paris by whom
he had 16 children. His third fon, profeffor of pbync Drefden,
at Leyden, was phyfician to the prince and pnneeis of  
Orange before their acceflion to the crown ot Lngland.
Bay le has given him a high charaaer. Mr Drehncourt
died in 1660. , _ , . f
DRENCH, among farriers, a phyfical potion for
hories. 1 he ingredient for this purpole are to be
beat coarfely, and either mingled with a decodum or
with wine. Then let all infufe about a quarter of an
hour, and give it to the horfe with a born after he has
been tied up two hours to the rack.
DREPANE, the ancient name of Corcyra, from
the curvity of its figure, refembling a fickle.
Daz?A.SE,(Dreparwm,) in indent Geography, a town
of Bithynia, fituated between the Sinus Aftacenus and
the Bofphorus Thracius •, called Helenopohs by Con-
ftantine, in honour of his mother (Nicephorus Calht-
tJ DREPANUM, in Ancient Geography, the promon¬
tory Rhium in Achaia ; fo called becaufe bent in the
manner of a fickle. Another Drepanutn on the Ara¬
bic gulf, on the fide of Egypt. A third on the
north fide of Crete, fituated between Cydoma and the
Sinus Amphimallus. A fourth on the weft fide of
Cyprus. A fifth, a promontory of Cyrenaica, on the
Mediterranean.
Drepahum, -f; or Drepana, -orurn; a town and port
on the weft fide of Sicily, and to the weft of Mount
Eryx : Drepanitani the people. Now Jrepano, a city
and port town on the weftmoft point of Sicily. E. Long.
12. 8. N. Lat. 38. O. _ r
DRESDEN, the capital city of the ele61 orate ot
Saxon, in Germany. It is feated on the nver Elbe
which divides it into two parts. One part is called Old
Drefden, and the other the New Town, in the German
language New Stadt. They are joined together by a
ftone bridge, fupported by 19 piers, and 630 paces in
length. As this bridge was too narrow for the crowds
of people that were continually palling and repafling.
King Auguftus in 1730, caufed two walks for foot
paffengers to be built, one on each fide, m a very won¬
derful manner •, the one for thofe that go into the city,
and the other for thofe that return back. Thefe are
bordered with iron pallifadoes of curious workmanfihip.
Drefden is furrounded by ftrong and handfome fortifi¬
cations ; and contains, according to the late!! accounts,
110,000 inhabitants. _ a , ..1
All the buildings of this city are conftruaed with
fquare freeftone, and are almoft all of the fame heig t.
They have ftone from the neighbourhood of I mna,
about ten miles from this city, which is readily brought
down the Elbe. In general the houfes are high and
ftrong ; the ftreets wide, ftraight, well paved, clean,
and well illuminated in the night* ^the re are large
fquares, difpofed in fuch a manner, that Drefden may
pafs for one of the handfomeft cities in the world. 1 he
ele&or’s palace is a magnificent ftruaure and abounds
in many valuable cunofities both of nature and a .
The colle&ion of pi&ures is reckoned one of the fine
that exifts, and is valued at 500,000!. , .
Above 700 men are here conftantly employed m
the porcelain manufaaure, the annual expence of which
is eftimated at no more than 80,000 crowns ; and the
manufaaure yields to the king 200,00© crowns yemdy.
D R E
^Brcffing. befides tbe magnificent prefents which he occafionnlly
* 1 makes, and the large quantity referved for the-ufe of
his houfehold.
I he other mcft confiderable article of trade is filvcr,
of which the mines near Fridburg produce every 15
days near the value of 20,000 dollars. The metal is
brought into the city in ingots, where it is immediately
coined and delivered to the proprietors.
’I he court of Drefden is one of the moft remarkable
in Furope for fplendour and profufion. Six thoufand
five hundred ducats are yearly allowed for comfits and
fimilar articles, which is near twice as much as the
king of Pruffia allows for the whole expence of his
table. The revenues of the elector are eftimated at
about 1,576,0001.5 which arife from the taxes on
.Kinds, and a capitation of fix dollars on all males as
loon as they commence an apprenticefhip or begin to
W’ork. People of a higher rank are taxed according
to their clafs, and are liable to be called to account if
they aflume not an exterior appearance correfpondent
to the extent of their fortune. Every foreigner pays
capitation after refiding fix months in the country.
The Jews are taxed at 50, their wives at 30, and their
chi.dren at 20^dollars. There is alfo an excife on all
eatables and liquors 5 and 10 per cent, is levied out of
the incomes of the people.
Though this city lies in a low fituation, yet it hath
agreeable profpecls. It is fupplied with a prodigious
quantity of provifions, not only out of the neighbour¬
hood, but from Bohemia, which are brought every
market day, which is once a-w’eek. E. Long. 13. 34.
N. Lat. 5r. 12.
DRESSING ot H-cmp and Flax. See FiAX-Dref-
±)rf.ssing of Meats) the preparing them for food by
means of culinary fire.
1 he defign of drefling is to loofen the compages or
texture of the flefh, and difpofe it for difiblution and
digeftion in the ftomach. Flelh not being a proper
food without dreffing, is alleged as an argument that
man was not intended by nature for a carnivorous ani¬
mal.
The ufual operations are roafting, bailing, and fiew-
^n,? In roafting, it is obferved, meat will bear a much
greater and longer heat than either in boiling or ftew-
ing 5 and in boiling, greater and longer than in fterv-
ing. I he realon is, that roafting being performed in
the open air, as the parts begin externally to warm,
they extend and dilate, and fo gradually let out part
of the rarefied included air, by which mebns the inter¬
nal fuccuftions, on which the diffblution depends, are
much weakened and abated. Boiling being performed
in water, the preflure is greater, and confequently the
fuccuftions to lift up the weight are proportionably
llrong 5 by which means the coflion is haftened : and
even in this way there are great differences 5 for the
greater the wTeight of water, the fooner is the bufinefs
done.
In ftewing, though the heat be infinitely fhort of
what is employed in the other w7ays, the operation is
much more quick, becaufe performed in a dole veffel,
and full 5 by which means the fuccuftions are oftener
repeated, and more ftrongly reverberated. Hence the
force of Papin’s digefter ; and hence an illuftration of
the operation of digeftion.
Vol. VII. Part I.
t 329 1
t) R I
Drieper.
Boiling, Dr Cheyne obferves, draws more of the Dreflln.-r
rank ftrong juices from meat, and leaves it lefs nutri¬
tive, more diluted, lighter, and eafier of digeftion : ,
roafting, on the other hand, leaves it fuller of the
ftrong nutritive juices, harder to digeft, and needing
more dilution. Strong, grown, and adult animal food,
therefore, fiiould be boiled; and the younger and ten¬
derer roafted.
Dressing, in Surgery, the treatment of a wound
or any difordered part. The apparatus of drefling con-
fifts of doflils, tents, plafters, compreffes, bandage*,
bands, ligatures, and firings. See Surgery Index.
DREVET, Peter, the Younger, an eminent
French engraver, was a member of the royal academy
of painting and fculpture 5 and died at Paris in 1739,
at 42 years of age. His portraits are neat and ele¬
gant ; but laboured to the laft degree. He particular¬
ly excels in reprefenting lace, filk, fur, velvet, and other
ornamental parts of drefs. His father was excellent in
the fame art ; and had inftru&ed, but was furpaffed by
the fon. The younger Drevet did not confine him-
felf to portraits. We have feveral hiftorical prints by
him, which in point of neatnefs and exquifite work-
manfhip are fcarcely to be equalled. His moft efteem-
ed and beft hiftorical print is very valuable 5 but the
firft impreflions of it are rarely to be met with : it is.
The Prefentation of Chrift in the Temple 5 a very
large plate, lengthwife, from Louis de Bologna. The
following deferve alfo to be particularized : The
Meeting of Abraham’s Servant with Rebecca at the
Well; a large upright plate, from An. Coy pel : and
Abraham, with his fon Ifaac on the Altar," the fame,
from the fame, date 1707; the firft impreflions of
which are before the work upon the right thigh of
Ifaac was altered, the curved lines from the button
almoft down to the knee being in thofe impreffions
arched downwards, but in pofterior ones arched up¬
wards. Among his portraits, the two following are
juftly held in the higheft eftimation : M. Boffuet
biftiop of Meaux ; a whole length figure {landing, a
middling fized upright plate, from Rigaud : and
Samuel Bernard; a whole length figure fitting in a
chair, a large upright plate. The firft impreflions
of the laft are, before the words Confeiller el Elat were
inferted upon the plate.
DREUX, a town in the Me of France, remarkable
for its antiquities; and for the battle which was
fought in December 1562 between the Papifts and
the Proteftants, in which the latter were defeated.
Some think it took its name from the priefts of Gaul,
called the Druids, in the times of Paganifm. It con-
fifts of two parifties, St Stephen’s and Notre Dame,
called the great church, which is pretty well built. It
is feated on the river Blaife, at the foot of a mountain,
on which is a ruined caftle. E. Long. 1. 27. N. Lat!
48. 44.
DRIEPER, or Dnieper, a river of Ruflia, which
rifes in the foreft of Volkonfld, near the foutce of the
Volga, about 100 miles from Smolenlko. It paffes by
Smolenfko and Mohilef, feparates the Ukraine from
Poland, flows by Kiof, and falls into the Black fea be¬
tween Otzakof and Kinburn. By the acquifition of
the piovmce of IVIohilef, its whole courle is now in¬
cluded within the Ruffian territories. It begins to be
navigable at a little diftance above Smolenlko, though
T t ia
X) R I E 330 D R I
ir. forae fcafons of the yeat it It ^ ‘ha'Iow -e the
town, that the goods tauft be tranfpo.ted upon rates wkU th/.hyV. I„ the blood-vef-
and fmall flat-bottomed^boats. H ^ muft be ke fluid in order t0 pr0per
STS neareft'meridian, when miature, drink rncreafes *0 fluidity, and gtves .enfton
Drink.
JJK.ir 1, in iMuvigutwu, uwu. “-t,-- ,
a fhip’s motion makes with the neareft meridian, when
{he drives with her fide to the wind and waves and is
not governed by the power of the helm : it alfo im¬
plies the diftance which the ihip dnves on that line.
A fhip’s way is only called drift m a ftorm 5 and
then when it blows fo vehemently as to prevent her
from carrying any fail, or at leaft reftrains her to fuch
a portion of fail as may be neceffary to keep her fuffi-
ciently inclined to one fide, that (he may not be dif-
mafted by her violent labouring produced by the tur¬
bulence of the fea. t i
Drift, in mining, a paffage cut out under the earth
betwixt draft and diaft, or turn and turn j or a pailage
or way wrought under the earth to the end of a meer
of ground, or part of a meet. • ,
DRiFT-Sail, a fail ufed under water, veered out right
a-head by (beets, as other fails are. It ferves to keep
the (hip’s head right upon the fea in a dorm, and to
hinder her from driving too fad in a current.
DRILL in Mechanics, a fmall indrument tor ma-
king fuch holes as punches will not conveniently ferve
for.8 Drills ate of various fizes, and are chiefly tiled
bv fmiths and turners. . . „
Drill, or Drill-Box, a name given to an indrument
for lowing land in the new method of horfehoeing
hufbandry. See Agriculture Index. _
DRtLL-Sowing, a method of lowing grain or feed
of any kind, fo that it may all be at a proper depth m
th<* earth, which is neceffary to its producing health¬
ful" and vigorous plants. For this purpofe a variety of
drill ploughs have been invented and recommen e .
See Agriculture Index ,r r ,
DRILLING is popularly ufed for exercifing fol-
diers. The word is derived from the french drille,
'^DRI MbrS*;“a^genus^olf plants changed by Murray,
in the 14th edit, of ;5jy?. Veget. to Winteraj which
r'DRmira parfof our ordinary food in a liquid
f0rThe gteS”; of drink is to fupply fluid ; facili-
tate folution ; in confequence of that, to expede the eva¬
cuation of the ftomach, and promote the progrefs of
rte aliment through
traflion of the lonSItu^!oa^^^s laut^fluhf^an^pals^
lels, wnere an muu. ^   ^ 1
mixture, drink increafes the fluidity, and gives tendon,
by its bulk, without concomitant acrimony or too much
elafticity, and fo (Length and ofcillatory motion : hence
drink contributes to fanguification, as fometimes food
gives too denfe a nutriment to be acled upon by the
folids; and hence alfo we can fee how drink promotes
the fecretions. Thefe are the efTefts of drink in gene¬
ral ; but what has been faid mud be taken with fome
limitations •, for the more liquid the food, it is fooner
evacuated, and lefs nourilhment is extra^ed. Hence
drink is, in fome degree, oppofed to nounihment ; and
fo, cceteris paribus, thofe who ufe leaft drink are molt
^ AlUhe effeas of drink above mentioned are produ¬
ced by Ample water j and it may be faid, that other
liquors are fit for drink in proportion to the water they
contain. Water, when ufed as_ drink is often im¬
pregnated with vegetable and farinaceous fubftances ,
but, as drinks, thefe impregnations are of little C01“e“
quence: they add, indeed, a little nounftiment; but
this is not to be regarded in a healthy ftate. Some¬
times we impregnate water with the fruBus acido-dul-
ces ; and then, indeed, it acquires other qualities, of
confiderable ufe in the animal economy. All drinks,
however, may be reduced to two heads : _ fnft, pure
water, or where the additional fubftances give no ad¬
ditional virtue 5 fecondly, fermentatec. Of the firft
we have already fpoken •, and the latter have not on y
the qualities of the firft, but alfo qualities peculiar to
themfelves. . ,
Fermented liquors are more or lefs poignant to the
tafte, and better calculated to quench Jhir,
may be owing to various caufes : Firft, To de-eft of
fluid in the fyftera, which occafions a fcanty fecretion m
the mouth, fauces, and ftomach ; the drynefs of the
mouth and fauces will alfo in this cafe be increafed by
their continual expofure to the perpetual flux and reflux
of the evaporating air. Secondly, Thirft depends on a
large proportion of folid vifeid food. Thirdly, On an
alkalefcent aliment, efpecially if it has attained any
thing of the putrefaftive taint. Fourthly, On the heat
of the fyftem ; but this feems to operate in the fame
manner" as the firft caufe, giving a fenfe of drynefs from
its diffipation of the fluids. The fermented liquors are
peculiary adapted for obviating all thefe caufes , fti-
p . . ■’ , r ...u c   orvrl ftnmach. to throw
tra£Son of the longitudinal fibte, of fto^ pecu^ty d ft ach, to throw
pylorus is drawn up, and nothing but P outthe faliva and gaftric liquor by their poignancy .
which, by its bulk, makes a hurried progrefs throug arefcency they are fitted to deftroy alkalefcent
the inteilntes, and fo determines a greater ^ ^ony,‘to quench thitft from that caufe : by there
ftool, as lefs then can be abforbed by the Iad^s* idi Jhev di]ute vifcid food ; though here, indeed,
Hence a large quantity of common wa er a they anfwer no better than common water. In two
found purgative ; and, Cftens paribus, that aLment y mote the evacuation by ftool, and pro-
which is accompanied with the large ProPor^on Rrefs through the inteftines : firft, by their fluidity and
drink, makes the largeft evacuation by ftool Here a g _ fecogndl by their acefcency, which, uniting
queftion has arifen, about where t1ae J^uRnt par , forms the peculiar ftimulus formerly men-
the aliment is firft remarkably collefted. It is com- with the m , ^ ^ KWd.veffels. in fo far as
monry thought to'be in the great guts: but undoubt-
^lv 0ften begins in the lower part of the ileum,
efoecially when the drink is in a fmall proportion, and
when the progrefs of the aliment is flow i for when^the
co-tents of the guts are very fluid, they are quick y
™led cn. and teach the great guts before they de-
tinned. Carried into the blood-veifels, m fo far as
they retain any of the faline nature, they ftimulate the
excretories, and promote urine and fweat ; correfting
thus alkalefcency,Pnot only by mixture, but d.ffipation
0fMtnyephylcians>d treating of fermented liquors^
D R I
have only mentioned thefe qualities, reje&ing their nu¬
tritious virtue, which certainly ought to be taken in j
though by expediting the evacuation by ftool they make
lefs of the nutritious parts of the aliment to be taken
up, and by ftimulating the excretories make thefe nu¬
tritious parts to be for a Ihorter time in the fyftem.
All thefe and many more effeds arile from fermented
liquors. Their acefcency fometimes promotes the dif-
eafe of acefcency, by increafing that of vegetables, afl:-
ing as a ferment, and fo producing flatulency, purging,
cholera, &c.: fo that, with vegetable aliment, as little
drink is neceffary, the moft innocent is pure water; and
it is only with animal food that fermented liquors are
neceflary. In warmer climates,would feem
neceflary to obviate alkalefcency and heat. But it
fliould be confidered, that though fermented liquors
contain an acid, yet they alfo contain alcohol ; which,
though it adds ftimulus to the ftomach, yet is extreme¬
ly hurtful in the warmer climates, and wherever alka¬
lefcency prevails in the fyftem. Nature in thefe cli¬
mates has given men an appetite for water impregnated
with acid fruits, e. g. fherbet: but the ufe of this needs
caution, as in thefe countries they are apt to fhun ani¬
mal food, ufing too much of the vegetable, and often
thus caufmg dangerous refrigerations, choleras, diar¬
rhoeas, &c.
Of varieties of fermented liquors. We ftiall only
mention here the chief heads on which thefe varieties
depend, Firft, They are owing to the quality of the
fubjeft, as more or lefs vifcid ; and to its capacity alfo
of undergoing an aftive fermentation, although perhaps
the more vifcid be more nutritious. Hence the differ¬
ence between ales and wines ; by the firft meaning fer¬
mented liquors from farinacea, by the fecond from the
fruits of plants. It depends, fecondly, On the acerbity,
acidity, nature,?and maturation, of the fruit. Thirdly,
The variety depends on the conduft of the fermentation.
In general, fermentation is progreflive, being at firft
aftive and rapid, detaching the fixed air or gas fyl-
vejlre, at the fame time acquiring more acid than be¬
fore. ThTe qualities of flatulency and acidity remain
for fome time : but as the fermentation goes on, the
liquor becomes more perfefl, no air is detached, and
alcohol is produced ; fo that fermented liquors differ
according to the progrefs of the fermentation, and have
different effe&s on the fyftem. When fermentation is
Hopped before it comes to maturity, though naturally
it proceeds in this way, yet by addition of new fer¬
ment it may again be renewed with a turbid inteftine
motion.
DRIVERS, among fportfmen, a machine for driv¬
ing pheafant powts, cohfifting of good ftrong ofier
wands, fuch as the balketmakers ufe ; thefe are to be
fet in a handle, and twifted or bound with fmall ofiers
in two or three places. With this inftrument the fportf-
man drives whole eyes of young powts into his nets.
See the next article.
^ DRIVING, among fportfmen, a method of taking
pheafant powts. It is thus: The fportman finds out
the haunts of thefe birds; and having fixed his nets
there, he calls upon them together by a pheafant call,
imitating the voice of the dam ; after this he makes a
noife with his driver, which will make them run a
little way forward in a clufter ; and this he is to re¬
peat till he has made fure of them, which an expert
[ ]
D R O
Dromore.
fportiman never fails to do, by driving them into his Driving;
nets.
Driving, in Metallurgy, is faid of filver, when, in
the operation of refining, the lead being burnt away,
the remaining copper rifes upon its furface in red fiery
bubbles.
Driving, in the fea language, is faid of a fhip, when
an anchor being let fall will not hold her faft, nor pre¬
vent her failing away with the wind or tide. The beft
help in this cafe is to let fall more anchors, or to veer
out mqre cable ; for the more cable ftie has out, the
fafer (he rides. When a (hip is a-hull or a-try, they
fay fhe drives to leeward.
DROGHEDA, by the Englifti called ’Tredah, a
town of Ireland, in the province of Leinfter and county
of Lowth, and fituated on the bay of the fame name,
in W. Long. 6. 17. N. Lat. 53. 45. It was formerly
very remarkable for its fituation and ftrengtb. In con-
fequence of this it was much diftinguifhed by the old
Englifti monarchs. Edward II. granted it a market
and fair ; and to thefe were added other great privi¬
leges in fucceeding ages, particularly the right of coin¬
age. It was bravely defended againft the rebels in
1641. After the ceffation of arms it was taken by the
duke of Ormond and the earl of Inchiquin ; but was
retaken by Cromwell in 1649. At this time it fuffered
fo much, that for a long time after it remained almoft
in ruins, The buildings were exceedingly ftiattered ;
and the town being taken by ftorm, not only the gar-
rifon, but the inhabitants, men, women, and children,
were moftly put to the fword. By degrees, however,
it recovered, and is at prefent a large and populous
place. It is a town and county ; and as fuch fends two
reprefentatives to parliament. It has a great fhare of
inland trade, and an advantageous commerce with
England ; and though the port is but indifferent and
narrow at its entrance, with a bar over which fhips of
burden cannot pafs but at high water, yet a great deal
of bufinefs is done ; fo that, from a low and declining
port, it is now become rich and thriving,
Drogheda is perhaps one of the ftrongeft inftances
than can be mentioned of the ineftimable benefit of a
river in any degree navigable ; for though the Boyne
is not capable of carrying veffels bigger than barges
or pretty large boats, yet the conveniency that this af¬
fords of conveying coals by water carriage through a
great extent of country, introduced a correfpondence
between this place and Whitehaven in Cumberland, to
which the revival of its commerce has been in a great
njeafure owing.
DROITWITCH, a town of Worcefterftiire in
England, noted for excellent white fait made from the
fait fprings in its neighbourhood. It fends two mem¬
bers to parliament. W. Long. 2. 16. N. Lat. qz. 20.
DROMEDARY. See Camelus, Mammalia
Index.
DROMORE, a town of Ireland, in the county of
Down. It is a very ancient town, and the feat of a
bifhopric. The fee was founded by St Colman in the
6th century. It was refounded by King James I. who
by his charters (now preferved in the Rolls office) grant¬
ed it very great and uncommon privileges. Among
other marks of royal favour, he diftinguifhes the bi-
ffiops of this fee by the ftyle of “ A. B. by Divine
Providence bifliop of Dromore whereas all other
T 1 2 . biffiops
Drone.
D R O [ 33
billiops in Ireland, except tbofe of Meath and luldate,
i r - » ,, i -r-v • nnKic ipf* 'A\-
2 1
d r o
Drone.
are ftyled, “by Divine Permifiion.” Ibis fee, al¬
though the leaft in its extent, is fo complete and per-
fe£l in its endowment and jurifdiftion, that it need not
envy the greateil and moft opulent.
DRONE, a kind of large bees which make their
appearance in hives about the month of May, but never
work nor prepare any honey : and are at laft all killed
by the reft. Under the article Bee, N 20 et ft?•
have given an account of the experiments of Meffrs
Debraw and Schirach concerning thefe animals : but
in a Treatife upon Bees and their Managen&nt by Mr
Bonner near Berwick on Tweed, who has made the
management of bees his ftudy for a great number of
years, this author diffents from the opinions of the
above-mentioned gentlemen for the following reafons,
which we fhall give in his own words. Having men¬
tioned the opinions of Mr Debraw concerning the littm
drones mentioned in the article above mentioned, he
proceeds thus: , . r i
“ i. Can it be thought that the prying eyes of mul¬
titudes in many generations fhould have efcaped feeing
thofe little drones (they being, according to his ac¬
count, vaftly numerous) thruft their poftenor parts in¬
to the cells? Yet none ever faw them do it except
himfelf j while many have feen the queen do it, though
but a ftngle bee. . , , i ■ j
“ 2. It is well known the queen is very long behind
the wings, wife nature having made her fo, in order
that ftie might thruft her pofterior part into the cells,
and yet her wings fcarcely touch them, nor receive
the leaft injury. If thefe imaginary little drones had
to thruft their pofterior parts into the cells m the lame
manner as the queen, certainly their wings would have
been made in the fame manner fhort,_and their pofte¬
rior parts long and taper, which is not the cafe.
Whereas were a bee of any kind (the queen excepted)
to thruft its hinder part into a common cell, its wings
or coats would come over its head, and be antic-like,
and injure both them and its body. Befides, 1 fcarce y
think they could get into the common cells that way
at any rate for want of room.
“ Mr Debraw grants, that without a queen or
errgs^bees will not begin to work, as well knowing
they cannot propagate their fpecies without her j and
vet he fays, thole bees which wanted little drones be-
aan to work, and. the queen laid eggs, and all went
forward, till they were not impregnated, and then they
gave over work, and deferted the hive. Certainly thofe
figacious creatures would have been as fenhble tha
they wanted drones at the very firft, when they were
put into the hive, and that they could not do without
them, as they are fenftble when they want a queen, and
that it is needlefs to begin work without her •, and it
maht be added, that two different kinds of drones in
one hive does not appear to be probable, or ferve any
end* '
“ But I fhdl narrate fome of my own experiments on
that head, which will put it, I hope beyond dilpute :
On September ift, I had a hive breeding faft ; I took
out all her bees (among which were only ,our large
drones, which I killed), and I put them in a hive that
had nothing in her but empty combs : I waited ten
days, when, by looking between the combs I law her
have new fealed up maggots in her cells. 1 then took
all her bees out, and ftrook them into a tub full of wa¬
ter, and recovered them gradually *, and when recover¬
ing, I preffed every one of them, in order to iee if I
could find any of thofe little drones, but could not
find one ; but all and every one of them had flings ;
they were in number 3coo. After which 1 fearched
the hive I took them out of, and cut out all her combs
that had eggs in them, and found they had new laid
eggs, four days old eggs, and maggots in them. 1
then recovered the queen and all the bees, and put m
the fame hive again, which had not an egg in her now,
and waited other twenty days, and faw her in fine oays
working very well j a lure indication (he was breeding
again. I then turned her up, and cut out one of her
brood combs, and faw in it new laid eggs, .oui ^ajs
old eggs, and maggots and fome young almoit fit tor
emereing out of their cells.
“ the very fame day I made a further experiment :
I had a hive which I faw had fome brood combs m
her, but file had not had a large drone for four weeks
before in her-, fhe had not above 5oo bees in her
which favoured me, becaule few m number. _ I took
the hive into a clofe place in my houfe, m oreei ^
that not a tingle bee fbould efcape me j I then took -
all the bees out of her, and immerfed them m wa¬
ter ; and when recovering, I preffed every one of
them, and each bee had a Iting, as in the former ex-
Per,‘ I think the above experiments may. fatisfy any
judicious perfon, that there is no fuch thing in being
Is little drones, unlefs in Mr Debraw’s brain Arid
if Mr Debraw, who can find 57-m a fmall fwarm
of bees, will fend me the odd ieven, I will fend hun
one of my bell hives for them, and he will fcarcely
think he is ill paid. I add I never faw a hue in
fpring, however few bees in her but (he bied feme
fhe had a queen, though to be fine few in proportion
t0 ^B^this time the reader will be very ready, no
doubt, to a Ik me the ufe of the drones. I beg to be
excufed on that head, as I have not the leaft idea of
their ufe in a hive ; they do not fecundate the queen,
for ftie can lay and breed too though fine never fee
them. Their heat does not appear to me to be ne-
ceffary for hatching the young, as they ^e mo il¬
ly hatched before any are bred in a hive j and uhen
drones are in the hive, the weather is lo warm, and
fo many common bees in it, that they appeal o mv
rather too much heat, by their lying out of the hives
°ft^i have many times had good hives with few or no
drones in them all the year 5 and Keys is quite wrong
when he fays a top fwarm will not do without dio
in her ; far I am pofitive to the contrary, as in the
fummer 1785 I took off four fwarms of mine own in
one day with not a Tingle drone in any of them, and
they all throve well, and b«d drones in themlelves
about four weeks after.
a Although I cannot fay what ufe the drones are
of to a hive (unlefs it be to help away with a great
deal of her honey, which they are very good at), yet
the beft hives have them fooneft m the year tHy g -
nerallv apnearing in fuch about the latter end of May,
and the bees pufa period to their lives about Lammas,
at which time I give them all the affiftance 1 can. ^
D> R O [ 333 J D R O
way they kill them is thus : They pull and bite them
with their teeth, and fling them alfo. I have feen
great havock make of.them in one day, as appeared by
their lying dead before the door of the hive. But their
mold etfeflual way of killing them is their banifhing
them from the honeycombs •, upon which the drones
betake themfelves to the under edges of the hives in
great numbers, and to the board the hive Hands on 3
and fometimes, though rare, I have even feen them
come to the outlide of the hive, and clutter there about
the bulk of a man’s hand. When they are banithed
thus, they are very dull and lifelefs : and I have lifted
up a hive from the board, and there they would have
been fitting clofe on it, with fcarcely three or four
common bees among them 3 and I have trod to death
40 or more at a time.
“ We may now take a view of the difadvantages at¬
tending the old, and alfo Mr Debraw’s principles on
bees, were they true ; and next fee how a hive of bees
may be preferved from coming to ruin, according to
my fentiments on them.
“ 1. The old principles on bees fay, that without a
queen or royal cell be in a hive, it will come to ruin.
“ 2. Mr Debraw’s principles fay, that without little
drones be in a hive it will come to ruin.
“ 3. I fay, if a hive have only new laid eggs in her
(which may be eafily got the greatell part of the, year,
in cafe fire have none of her owm) and common bees,
Are will find herfelf a queen, and lo thrive.
“ According to the old principles, it is eafily feen
that, in cafe a hive lofe her queen, wdren there is no
royal cell in her, and no queen can be got to put to her
(neither of which can be expended but in June and
July), fire is entirely ruined.
“ According to the Frenchman’s fcbeme, there mull
be drones in a hive at all times of the year to fecun¬
date the eggs, otherwife the hive is ufelefs. Suppofing
his fentiments to be true (which, however, can by no
means be admitted, feeing there is no fuch thing as
little drones), how perplexed would the owner be to
know when there were little drones in the hive ! When
he wanted to make an artificial fwarm, he might bring
off a queen and common bees with her 3 but howT (hould
he come to know whether there were any, or a luffi-
cient quantity, of little drones among them, as they
canaot be diftinguilhed from the commons but by im-
merfion and preffure, which would be intolerably
troublefome, and next to killing the bees, and not at
all pra<dicable ? All that could be done would be to
hope the heft, that there were little drones in her at
any time of the year.
“ I fay, if a queen die in a hive, and that hive have
fome new-laid eggs in her, or fome put to her, in cafe
file have none of her own, fhe will nourifh up fome
of thefe eggs to be a queen to herfelf : and alfo by
taking out a queen and fome commons out of a hive
(without a fingle drone, large or fmall), and put¬
ting them in an empty hive, will make a fwarm, and
the old hive will breed herfelf a queen again, if fhe
have eggs in her.”
Drone-F/j', a two-winged infedf, extremely like the
common drone bee, whence alfo the name.
DROPS, in Meteorology, fmall fpherical bodies
which the particles of fluids fpontaneoufly form them-
felves into when let fall from any height. The fphe¬
rical figure, the Newtonian philofophers demonftrate ©tops
to be the efFe6t of corpufcular attradion 3 for confi- DroJn;il{.,
dering that the attractive force of one fingle particle
of a fluid is equally exerted to an equal diftance, it
muft follow that other fluid particles are on every fide
drawn to it, and will therefore take their places at an
equal diftance from it, and confequently form a round
fuperficies. See the article Attraction, Fluid,
and Rain.
Drops, in Medicine, a liquid remedy, the dofe of
which is eftimated by a certain number of drops.
Engltjh Drops, (Guttce Anglicancr,) a name given to
a chemical preparation efteemed of great virtue againlt
vapours and lethargic affedions, and purcbafed at
5®col. by King Charles II. from the inventor Dr God¬
dard. The medicine appeared to be only a fpirit drawn
by the retort from raw filk, and afterwards 1 edified
with oil of cinnamon, or any other effential oil 3 and
was in reality no better than the common lal volatile
oleofum, or any of the volatile fpirits impregnated with
an effential oil, except that it was Ids dilagreeable than
any of them to the tafte.
DROPSY, in Medicine, an unnatural colledion of
water in any part of the body. See Mldicine Index.
DROPWORT. See Filipendula, Botany
Water-DROPrroRT. See Oenanthe, Botany Index.
DROSERA, ros solis, or Sun-Dew. See Bo¬
tany Index.
DROWNING, fignifies the extindion of life by a
total immerfion in water.
In fome refpeds, there feems to be a great fimila-
rity between the death occafioned by irnmerfion in wa¬
ter, and that by ftrangulation, fuffocation by fixed
air, apoplexies, epilepfies, fudden faintings, violent
fliocks of eledricity, or even violent falls and bruifes.-
Phyficians, however, are not agreed with regard to the
nature of the injury done to the animal fyfiern in any
or all of thefe accidents. It is indeed certain, that in
all the cafes above mentioned, particularly in drown¬
ing, there is very often fuch a fufpenfion of the vital
powers as to us hath the appearance of a total extinc¬
tion of them 3 while yet they may be again fet in mo¬
tion, and the perfon reftored to life, after a much longer
fubmerfion than hath been generally thought capable
of producing abfolute death. It were to be willied,
however, that, as it is now univerfally allowed, that
drowning is only a fufpenfion of the adion of the vi¬
tal powers, phyficians could as unanimoufiy determine
the means by which thefe powers are {bfpended ; be-
caufe on a knowledge of thefe means, the methods to
be ufed for recovering drowned perfons muft certainly
depend.
Dr de Haen, who hath written a treatife on this
fubjed, aferibes this diverfity of opinion among the
phyficians to their being fo ready to draw general con-
clufions from a few7 experiments. Some, having never
found water in the lungs, have thought that it never
was there 3- and others, from its prefence, have drawn
a contrary conclufion. Some have aferibed the death:
which happens in cafes of drowning to that fpecies
of apoplexy which arife> from a great fulnels of the
ftomach. But this opinion our author rejeds, becaufe
in 13 dogs which he had drowned and afterwards dif-
feded, no figns of fuch a fulnefs appeared. Another
reafon is drawn from the want of the common marks
of
D R O
Drowning, of apoplexy on the difleftion of the brain, and from
the aftual prefence of water in the lungs. He is of
opinion, that the death of drowned perfons happens
in confequence of water getting into the lungs, and
flopping the blood in the arteries. He then difcuffes
the queftion how far the blowing of air into the lungs
is ufeful in recovering drowned people. 11 their death
is to be afcribed to the w^er entering the lungs, this
pra6tice, he obferves, muft be hurtful, as it wnll in-
creafe the prefi'ure on the blood-Veffels, or may even
force the water into them ; which, on the authority
of Lewis’s experiments, he alleges is poffible. But, in
fpite of this reafoning, he afferts, that from experience
it has been found ufeful. He allows, that the prac¬
tice of fufpending drowrted people by the feet muft be
hurtful, by determining the blood too much to the
head ; but he obferves, that remedies in fome refpe&s
hurtful may be ufed when the advantages derived from
them preponderate ; and is of opinion, that the prac¬
tice above mentioned may be ufeful by agitating the
vifcera againft each other, and thus renewing their mo¬
tions. Cutting the larynx in order to admit air more
freely to the lungs, he reckons to be of little or no
life ; but acknowledges, however, that it may fome-
times prove beneficial on account of the irritation occa-
fioned by the operation.
Dr Cullen, in his Letter to Lord Cathcart concern¬
ing the recovery of perfons drowned and feemingly
■dead, tells us, that “ From the difledlion of drowned
men, and other animals, it is known, that very often
the water does not enter into the cavity of the lungs,
nor even into the ftomach, in any quantity to do hurt
to the fyftem ; and, in general, it is known, that, in
moft cafes, no hurt is done to the organization of the
vital patts. It is therefore probable, that the death
which enfues, or feems to enfue, in drowned perfons,
is owing to the ftoppage of refpiration, and to the
ceafing, in confequence, of the circulation of the blood,
whereby the body lofes its beat, and, with that, the ac¬
tivity of the vital principle.”
In the Phil. Tranf. vol. Ixvi. Mr Hunter gives the
following theory. The lofs of motion in drowning
feems to a rife from the lofs of refpiration ; and the im¬
mediate effeft this has upon the other vital motions of
the animal, at leaft this privation of breathing, ap¬
pears to be the firft caufe of the heart’s motion ceafing.^
It is moft probable, therefore, Mr Hunter obferves,
that the reftoration of breathing is all that is neceffary
to reftore the heart’s motion ; for if a fufficiency of
life ftill remains to produce that effeft, we may fup-
pofe every part equally ready to move the very inftant
in which the a&ion of the heart takes place, their ac¬
tions depending fo much upon it. What makes it very
probable, that the principal effeft depends upon throw7-
ing air into the lungs, is, that children in the birth,
when too much time has been fpent after the lofs of
that life which is peculiar to the foetus, lofe altogether
the difpofition for the new life. In fuch cafes there is
a total fufpmfion of the aftions of life ; the child re¬
mains to all appearance dead ; and would die, if air
was not thrown into its lungs, and the firft principle
of aftion by that means reftored. To put this in a
clearer right, Mr Hunter gives the refult of fome ex¬
periments made on a dog in 1755 —A Pa‘r double
bellows were provided, which were fo conftru&ed, that
D R O
by one adlion air was thrown into the lungs, and by Drowning,
the other the air was fucked out which had been
thrown in by the former, without mixing them toge¬
ther. The muzzle of thefe bellows was fixed into the
trachea of a dog, and by working them he was kept
perfeftly alive. While this artificial breathing was
going on, the fternum was taken off, fo that the heart
and lungs were expofed to view. The heart then con¬
tinued to aft as before, only the frequency of its ac¬
tion was greatly increafed. Mr Hunter then flopped
the motion of the bellows •, and obferved that the con-
tra&ion of the heart became gradually weaker and lefs
frequent, till it left off moving altogether ; but by re¬
newing the operation, the motion of the heart all'o re¬
vived, and foon became as ftrong and frequent as be¬
fore. This procefs was repeated upon the fame dog
ten times ; fometimes flopping for five, eight, or ten
minutes. Mr Hunter obferved, that every time he
left off working the bellows, the heart became ex¬
tremely turgid with blood, and the blood in the lett
fide became as dark as that in the right, wThich w7as
not the cafe when the bellows were working. Thefe
fituations of the animal, he obferves, feem to be ex-
adlly fimilar to drowning.
Dr Edmund Goodwyn, in a treatife lately publifhed
on this fubjeift, has endeavoured to afeertain the eftefts
of fubmerfion upon living animals in a more accurate
manner than had hitherto been done. His firft care
was to determine the fymptoms which took place be¬
fore death ; and to obferve thefe, he procured a large
glafs bell in which the animals were to be immerfed.
Having inverted, and filled this with water, be put in¬
to it feveral cats, dogs, rabbits, and fmaller animals,
confining them among the water till they were appa¬
rently dead. In thefe experiments he obferved, that
immediately after fubmerfion the pulfe became weak
and frequent •, there was an apparent anxiety about
the breaft, and ftruggling to relieve it. In thefe drug¬
gies the animal rofe to the top of the water, throwing
out a quantity of air from the lungs. After this the
anxiety increafes, the pulie becomes weaker, and the
ftruggles more violent } he rifes again to the furface,
throws out more air from the lungs, and in his effoits
to infpire, a quantity of water commonly paffes into
the mouth. The fkin about the face and- lips then
becomes blue, the pulfe ceafes, the fphimfters are re¬
laxed, and the animal falls down without fenfe or mo¬
tion. On differing the bodies of drowned animals, our
author met with the following appearances: I. Fhe
external furface of the brain w7as darker, but the lefiels
of it were not more turgid than ufual, nor was there
any appearance of extravafation. 2. I he pulmonary
arteries and veins were filled w7ith black blood, and the
lungs themfelves contained fome frothy liquor. _ 3. Not-
withftanding thefe fymptoms, the right auricle and
ventricle were ftill contrafling and dilating ; the left
finus venofus and auricle moving feebly, but the left
ventricle at reft. 4. The right and left auricles Oi the
heart the right ventricle, and the left finus venofus,
were’filled with black blood; but the laft ventricle
only half filled with the fame, and a quantity of the
fame black blood was alfo contained in the fmaller
branches of the arteries proceeding from the left ven-
This inveftigation was followed by a moft careful
0 and
f 334 1
D R O [ 335 I D R O
Drowniisf- and Ingenious inquiry concerning the caufes of the
  i'ymptoms already related. To find out whether or
not the entrance of water into the lungs was the caufe,
or whether water really entered the lungs in thefe cafes
or not, he drowned feveral .animals among ink $ and
by infpecting their bodies, found, that though water
really did enter, it was in fuch fmall quantity that it
could not be fuppofed capable of producing fuch vio¬
lent effe&s. To afcertain this, however, more exa£l-
ly than could be done by the ink, he drowned other
animals in quickfilver ; which, by reafon of its not be¬
ing mifcible with the animal fluids, could be more ac¬
curately collefted. By thefe it appeared that no more
than five drachms of the fluid in which a cat was im-
merfed entered her lungs in the time of drowning ;
and to determine wdiether or not this could be the oc-
cafion of the animal’s death, he made the following
experiment : Having confined a cat in an ereft pofture,
he made a fmall opening in the trachea, by cutting
one of the cartilaginous rings ; and through this open¬
ing he introduced two ounces of water into the lungs.
The only confequences were a difficulty of breathing
and weak pulfe j but thefe foon abated, and it lived fe¬
veral hours afterwards without any apparent inconve¬
nience. On ftrangling it he found two ounces and a
half of water in the lungs. On repeating the experi¬
ment with other fluids, he found the difficulty of
breathing and alteration in the pulfe fomewdiat great¬
er •, but in thefe inftances alfo they abated in a few
hours ; and when the animals were ftrangled, the lungs
were found to contain four ounces of fluid.
From all thefe experiments Dr Goodwyn draw’s the
following conclufions : I. “ A fmall quantity of fluid
ufually paffes into the lungs in drowning. 2. This
water enters the lungs during the efforts to infpire )
and mixing with the pulmonary mucus, occafions the
frothy appearance mentioned by authors. 3. The
whole of this fluid in the lungs Is not fufficient to pro¬
duce the changes that take place in drowming. And
hence it follows, that the wrater produces all the chan¬
ges that take place in drowming indireBly, by exclud¬
ing the atmofpheric air from the lungs.” This natu¬
rally leads to an invefligation of the ufes of refpiration,
and the effeHs of the air upon the blood and lungs in
that action, which our author traces with great accu¬
racy and very convincing experiments. He begins
rvith attempting to determine the quantity of air drawn
in at each infpiration, with the proportional quantity
left after expiration. The experiments by which he
endeavoured to afcertain thefe quantities feem to be
more uncertain than the others, as indeed there are not
data fufficient for them. From fuch as he had an op¬
portunity of making, how’ever, the following conclu-
ffons were deduced : 1. “ The lungs contain 109 cubic
inches of air after a complete expiration j and this
quantity receives an additional quantity of 14 cubic
inches during each infpiration. 2. The dilatation of
the lungs after expiration is to their dilatation after
infpiration as 109 to 123. 3. The blood circulates
through the pulmonary veffels in all the degrees of na¬
tural refpiration. 4. The circulation through them,
after expiration, is fufficiently free to keep up the health
of the fyftem.”
The laft part of our author’s inquiry, viz. concern¬
ing the chemical changes produced in the air by refpi¬
ration, and the effe&s of the air upon the blood itfelf, Drowning,
falls naturally to be confidered under the article Re-^
spiration : fo that here we ffiall only obferve in ge¬
neral, that his experiments evidently ffiovv that the
difeafe produced by drowning arifes entirely from the
exclufion of the atmofpheric air or its dephlogifticated
part j for which rtafon he recommends inflating the
lungs wuth that kind of air in preference to any
other.
From thefe different views of this matter, phyficians
have differed confiderably in their account of the me¬
thods to be followed in attempting the recovery of
drowned perfons. De Haen recommends agitation of
all kinds •, every kind of ftrmulus applied to the mouth
nofe, and reiSlum *, bleeding ; heat, both by warm clothes
and warm water ; blowing air into the trachea $ ftimu-
lants, fuch as blifters, warm allies, &c. applied to the
head, ankles, thighs, pit of the ffomach, and other
parts.
Doiffor Cullen’s obfervations on this fubje£t are as
follow.—“With refpeft to the particular means to be
employed for the recovery of drowned perfons, it is to
be obferved, in the firft place, That fuch as were re¬
commended and pra&ifed, upon a fuppofition that the
fuffocation was occafioned by the quantity of water
taken into the body, and therefore to be evacuated
again, were very unhappily advifed. The hanging up
of perfons by the heels, or fetting them upon the crown
of the head, or rolling the body upon a cafk, were ge¬
nerally praclifed, upon a fuppofition altogether falfe ;
or upon the fuppofition of a cafe which, if real, is ap¬
prehended to be irrecoverable. At the fame time,
thefe practices were always attended with the danger
of burfting fome veffels in the brain or lungs, and of
rendering thereby fome cafes incurable that were not
fo from the drowning alone. All fuch practices,
therefore, are now very properly difapproved of and
forbidden.
“ In thofe cafes in which the body has not been long
in the water, and in which therefore the natural heat
is not entirely extinguiffied, nor the irritability of the
moving fibres very greatly impaired, it is poffible that
a good deal of agitation of the body may be the only
means neceflary to reftore the ablion of the vital or¬
gans ; but in other cafes, where the beat and irritabi¬
lity have ceafed to a greater degree, it is to me very
doubtful if much agitation can be fafe, and if any de¬
gree of it can be ufeful, till the heat and irritability
are in fome meafure reftored. In all cafes, any violent
concuffion cannot be fafe, and, I believe, is never ne-
ceffary. It may be proper here to obferve alfo, that
in tranfporting the body from the place where it is
taken out of the water, to the place where it may be
neceffary for applying the proper means of its recove¬
ry, all poflures expofing to any improper compreffion,,
as that of the body’s being carried over a man’s Ihoul-
dcr, are to be avoided. The body is to be kept
ftretched out, with the head and upper parts a little
raifed j and care is to be taken to avoid the neck’s be¬
ing bent much forward. In this manner, laid upon
one fide, and upon fome ftraw’ in a cart, it may be moft
properly conveyed ; and the agitation which a pretty
brifk motion of the cart may occafion, will, in molt
cafes, do no harm.
“ From the account I have given above of the cau-
fes,.
D R O
Browning, fes, or of tue appearances, of death in drowned per-
fons, it is evident, that the firft ftep to be taken for
their recovery is to reftore the heat of the body, which
is abfolutely neceffavy to the activity of the moving fi¬
bres. For this purpofe, the body, as foon as polhble,
is to be firipped of its wet clothes, to be well dried,
and to be wrapped »p in dry, and (if poflible) warm,
coverings : and it is to be wifhed, in all ca.es, as loon
as the report of a perfon’s being drowned is heard, that
blankets fhould be immediately carried to the water
fide ; fo that, as foon as the body is got out of the wa¬
ter, the change of covering juft now mentioned may
be inftantly made *, or, if the body has been naked
when drowned, that it may be immediately cried, and
defended againft the cold of the air. Befides covering
the body with blankets, it will be further of advantage,
if it can be done without lofs of time, to cover the
drowned body with a warm ihirt or waiftcoat immedi¬
ately taken from a living perfon. #
“ When, at the time of a perfon’s being drowned,
it happens that the fun fhines out very hot, I think
there can be no better means of recovering the heat,
than by expofing the naked body, in e\ery part, to
the heat of the fun ; while, at the fame time a 1 other
means neceffary or ufeful for the recovery of life are
alfo employed. , , .
“ When the heat of the fun cannot be employee, the
body Ihould be immediately tranfported to the neartit
houfe that can be got convenient for the purpoie : the
fitteft will be one that has a tolerably large chamber,
in which a fire is ready, or can be made ; and if polh-
ble, the houfe (hould afford another chamber, in which
alfo a fire can be provided.
“ When the drowned body is brought into iuch
houfe, and care is at the fame time taken that no more
people are admitted than are abfolutely neceffary to the
fervice of the drowned perfon, every endeavour muff be
immediately employed for recovering the heat of the
body, and that by different meafures, as circumftances
(hall direft. , , . u
“ If in the neighbourhood of the place, there, e
any-brewery, diftillery, dyery, or fabric which gives
an opportunity of immediately obtaining a quantity of
warm water and a convenient veffel, there is nothing
more proper than immerfing the body in a warm bath.
Even where a fufficient quantity of warm water can¬
not be had at once, the bath may be ftill praftifed, it
the accident has happened in or very near a town or
village, when a great many fires .may be at once em¬
ployed in beating fmall quantities of water*, for in
this way the neceffary quantity may be foon obtained.
To encourage this praftice, it is to be obferved, that
one part of boiling water is more than fufficient to
give the neceffary heat to two parts of fpnng or fea
-water, as it is not proper to apply the bath at firft ve¬
ry warm, nor even of the ordinary heat of the human
' body, but fomewhat under if, and, by the addition of
warm water, to bring it gradually to a heat very little
above it. „ , .
“ If the drowned body be of no great bulk, it may
be conveniently warmed by a perfon’s lying down m
bed with it, and taking it near to their naked body,
changing the pofition°of it frequently, and at the
fame time chafing and rubbing with warm cloths the
336 J D R O
parts which are not immediately applied to their warm Browning;.
body.
“ If none of thefe meafures can be conveniently
praffifed, the body is to be laid upon a bed before a
moderate fire, and frequently turned, to expofe the
different parts of it j and thus, by the heat of the fire
gradually applied, and by rubbing the body well with
coarfe towels, or other cloths well warmed, pains are
to be taken for reftoring its beat. This will be pro¬
moted by w7arm cloths applied and frequently renewed
under the hams and armpits ; and by hot bricks, 01
bottles of warm water, laid to the feet.
“ In the practice of rubbing, it has been propofed
to moiften the cloths applied with camphoiated (pints,
or other fuch ftimulating fubftances ', but I think this
muft prove an impediment to the rubbing j and I would
not recommend any praffice of this kind, except, per¬
haps, the application of the vinous fpirits of fal ammo¬
niac to the wrifts and ankles only.
“ Tor recovering the heat of the body, it. has been ^
propofed to cover it all over with warm grains, afnes,
fand, or fait *, and where thefe, fufficiently warm, aie
ready at hand, they may be employed •, but it is very
feldom they can be obtained, and the application might
often interfere with other meafures that may be necei-
fary. All therefore that I can propofe with refpeff
to the ufe of thefe, is to obferve, that bags of warm
and dry fait may be amongft the molt convenient ap¬
plications to the feet and hands, of drowned perfons 5
and the quantity neceffary for this purpofe may be got
pretty quickly by heating the fait in a frying pan over
a common fire. . . ,
“ While thefe meafures are taking for recovering the
heat, means are at the fame time to be employed for
reftoring the aftion of the moving fibres. It is well
known, that the inteftines are the parts of the body
which, both from their internal fituation and peculiar
conftitution, retain the longeft their irritabiuty \ and
therefore, that, in drowned perfons, ftimulants applied
may have more eftVa upon the inteftines than upon
other parts. The aftion, therefore, of the 'nteftmes
is to be fupported or renewed as foon as poflible *, as
the reftoring and fupporting the a£fion of fuch a con-
fiderable portion of moving fibres as thofe of the intef¬
tines, muft contribute greatly to reftore the aftmty of
the whole fyftem. _ r , . A. . a
“ Tor exciting the a£Hon of the inteftines, the molt
proper mean is, the application of their ordinary ftimu-
lus of dilatation 5 and this is moft effeaually applied,
by forcing a quantity of the air into them by the fun¬
dament. Even the throwing in cold air has been found
ufeful : but it will certainly be better if heated, air can
be employed *, and further, if that air can be impreg¬
nated with fomething which, by its acrimony alfo may
be powerful in ftimulating the inteftines.
“ From all thefe confiderations, the fmoke of burning
tobacco has been moft commonly applied, and has up¬
on many occafions proved very effe&ual. . I bis will be
moft properly thrown in by a particular apparatus,
which, for other purpofes as well as this, fhould be m
the hands of every fur-geon *, or at leaft fhould, at the
public expence, be at hand in every part of the coUn.
* t •   fr* Viannpn- With rc-
^wFownlngs are likely to happen. With re¬
gard to the ufe of it. 1 have to obferve, that trll
the
D R O [ 337 ] D R O
Drowning, the tobacco is kindled in a confiderable quantity, a
~ v"   great deal of cold air is blown through the box and
tube •, and as that, as hinted above, is not lb proper,
care fhould be taken to have the tobacco very well
kindled, and to blow through it very gently, till the
heated fmoke only palles through. If, upon certain
occafions, the apparatus referred to Ihould not be at
hand, the meafure however may be executed by a com¬
mon tobacco pipe, in the following manner : A com¬
mon glyfter pipe, that has a bag mounted upon it, is
to be introduced into the fundament, and the mouth of
the bag is to be applied round the ftnall end of a to¬
bacco pine. In the bowl of this, tobacco is to be
kindled j and,'either by a playing card made into a
tube and applied round the mouth of the bowl or by
applying upon this the bowl of another pipe that is
empty, and blowing through it, the fmoke may be thus
forced into the inteftines, and, in a little time, in a
confiderable quantity.
“ If none of thefe means for throwing in the fmoke
can be employed, it may be ufeful to injeft warm wa¬
ter to the quantity of three or four Englifh pints.
This may be done by a common glyfter bag and pipe,
but better by a large fyringe ; and it may be uleful to
difl'olve in the water fome common fait, in the propor¬
tion of half an ounce to an Englilh pint j and alfo, to
add to it fome w-ine or brandy.
“ While thefe meafures for recovering the heat of
the body and the aflivity of the moving fibres are em¬
ployed, and efpecially after they have been employed
for fome time, pains are to be taken to complete and
finifti the bufinefs, by reftoring the aflion of the lungs
and heart.
“ On this fubjeft, I am obliged to my learned and
ingenious colleague Dr Monro, who has made fome
experiments for afcertaining the beft manner of in¬
flating the lungs of drowned perfons. Ey thefe expe¬
riments he finds it may be more conveniently done by
blowing into one of the noftrils, than by blowing into
the mouth. For blowing into the noftril, it is necel-
fary to be provided with a wooden pipe, fitted at one
extremity for filling the noftril, and at the other for
being blown into by a perfon’s mouth, or for receiving
the pipe of a pair of bellows, to be employed for the
fame purpofe. Doffor Monro finds, that a perfon of
ordinary ftrength can blow into fuch a pipe, with a
fufticient force to inflate the lungs to a confiderable
degree ; and thinks the wTarm air from the lungs of a
living perlon will be moft conveniently employed at
firft ; but when it is not foon effeflual in reftoring the
refpiration of the drowned perfon, and that a longer
continuance of the inflation is neceftary, it may be pro¬
per to employ a pair of bellows, large enough at once
to contain the quantity of air neceffary to inflate the
lungs to a due degree.
“ Whether the blowing in is done by a perfon’s
mouth, or by bellows, Dr Monro obferves, that the
air is ready to pafs by the gullet into the ftomach j but
that this may be prevented, by prefling the lower part
of the larynx backwards upon the gullet. To perfons
of a little knowledge in anatomy, it is to be obfer-
ved, that the prefture thould be only upon the cri¬
coid cartilage, bv which the gullet may be ftraiten-
ed, while the paflbge through the larynx is not inter-
lupted.
Vot.. VII. Part L
“ When, by blowing thus into the noftril, it can be
perceived, by the raifing of the cheft or belly, that the
lungs are filled with air, the blowing in Ihould ceafe ;
and by prefling the bread and belly, the air received
into the lungs (hould be again expelled ; then the blow¬
ing and expulfion fhould be again repeated ; and thus
the praflice is to be continued, fo as to imitate, as ex-
aflly as poflible, the alternate motions of natural re¬
fpiration.
“ It is hardly neceflary to obferve, that when the
blowing into the noftril is pratftifed, the other noftril
and the mouth fhould be accurately clofed.
“ If it ftiould happen, that in this pradlice the air
does not feem to pafs readily into the lungs, Doffor
Monro informs me it is very pradlicable to introdu e
direffly into the glottis and trachea a crooked tube,
fuch as the catheter ufed for a male adult. For this
he offers the following direflions : The furgeon {hould
place himfelf on the right fide of the patient $ and, in¬
troducing the fore finger of his left hand at the right
corner of the patient’s mouth, he fhculd pulh the point
of it behind the epiglottis ; and ufing this as a directory,
he may enter the catheter, which he bolds in his right
hand, at the left corner of the patient’s mouth, till the
end of it is paffed beyond the point of his fore finger ,
and it is then to be let fall, rather than puftied into
the glottis; and through this tube, by a proper fyringe
applied to it, air may be with certainty blowm into the
lungs. I obferve, that fome fuch meafure had been
propofed by Monf. le Cat in France ; but I have not
leanjed that it has ever been put in praftice, and I am
afraid it may be attended with feveral difficulties, and
muft be left to the difcretion of furgeons, who may be
properly provided and inftrufled for this purpofe.
“ For throwing air with more certainty into the
lungs, it has been propofed to open the windpipe in
the fame manner as is done in the operation which the
furgeons call bronchotomy, and by this opening to blow
into the lungs 5 and when the blowing into the noftril
does not feem to fucceed, and a fkilful operator is
at hand, I allow that the meafure may be tried ;
but I can hardly fuppofe that it will be of any ad¬
vantage when the blowing in by the noftril has entire¬
ly failed.
“ It is to be hoped, that by blowing into the lungs
one way or other, even a ^quantity of water which had
been taken into the lungs may be again w'afhed out •,
and the fame feems to be the only effedlual means of
waffling out that frothy matter which is found to fill
the lungs of drowned perfons, and which proves, if I
miftake not, the moft common caufe of their mortal
fuffocation. This praflice, therefore, is to be imme¬
diately entered upon, and very affiduoufly continued
for an hour or two together.
“ I have now mentioned the meafures chiefly to be
purfued and depended upon for the recovery of drown¬
ed perfons .j but muff ftill mention fome others that
may prove confiderable helps to it.
“ One of thefe is, the opening the jugular veins to
relieve the congeftion, which aim oft conftantly occurs
in the veins of the head, and is probably a frequent
caufe of the death of drowned perfons. For relieving
this congeftion, the drawing fome blood from the ju¬
gulars, very early, may certainly be of fervice ; and it
will be particularly indicated by the livid and purple
U u colour
Drowning-
D R O
[ 338 1
D R O
&
*
Drowning, colour of the face* It may even be repeated, accord-
1 j ' 1 jng to the effedl it feems to have in taking off that fuf-
fufion but when the drowned perfon is in fome mea-
fure recovered, and fome motion of the blood is re-
ftored, it will be proper to be very cautious in making
this evacuation, and at leaft to take care not to pufh it
fo far as to weaken too much the recovering, but {till
weak, powers of life. # . .
“ Another meafure for recovering the activity of the
vital principle, is the application of ceitain ftimulants
to the more fenfible parts of the body, fuch as holding
the quicklime fpirit of fal ammoniac to the nofe, or
putting a little of it upon a rag into the noftrils. It
has been ufual to pour fome liquids into the mouth j
but it is dangerous to pour in any quantity of liquid,
till it appear that the power of fwallowing is in iome
meafure reftored. _
« When a furgeon is at hand, and is provided with
proper apparatus, a crooked pipe may be introduced
into the gullet; and by this a gill or two of warm wine
may be poured down into the ftomach, and probably
with advantage. But when no fuch apparatus is at
hand or furgeon to employ it, and the power of fwal¬
lowing is ftill doubtful, the trial of pouring liquids in¬
to the mouth ftiould be made by a fmall quantity of
warm water alone ; and when, from fuch trial, the
power of fwallowing (hall appear to be recovered, it
may then be allowable to favour the further recovery
of the perfon, by pouring in fome wine or brandy.-—
In {hort, till fome marks of the recovery of fwallow¬
ing and refpiration appear, it will not be lafe to apply
any ftimulants to the mouth ; excepting that of a few
drops of fome acrid fubftance to the tongue, and
which are not of bulk enough to Hide back upon the
glottis : I can think of no ftimulant more convenient¬
ly and fafely to be applied to the mouth and noftrils,
than a moderate quantity of tobacco fmoke blown into
^‘"'Though I do not imagine that drowned perfons
are ever hurt by the quantity of water taken into their
ftomach, yet, as a ftimulus applied to the ftomach,
and particularly as the aftion of vomiting proves a
ftimulus to the whole fyftem, I can have no objection
to the French praftice of throwing in an emetic as
foon as any fwallowing is reftored. For this pur-
nofe, I would fucceflively throw in fome tea-fpoonfuls
of the ipecacuanha wine •, and when it does not in¬
terfere with other neceffary meafures, the fauces may
be gently irritated by an oiled feather thruft into
“ With regard to the ftimulants, I muft conclude
with obferving, That when a body has lain but for a
{hoi t time in the water, and that therefore its heat
and irritability are but little impaired, the application
of ftimulants alone has been often found effe&ual for
the recovery : but on the contrary, when the body
has lain long in the water, and the heat of it is very
much extinguiftied, the application of any other ftimu¬
lants than that of tobacco fmoke to the inteftines can
be of very little fervice ; and the application of others
ought never to interfere with the meafures for recover¬
ing heat and the motion of refpiration.
‘i With refpeft to the whole of theie pra£lices, I
expcff, from the principles upon which they are in
general recommended, it w-ill be underftood that they Drowning*
are not to be foon difcontinued, though their effefts do v 1
not immediately appear. It is obvious, that, in many
cafes, it may be long before the heat of the body, and
the a&ivity of the vital principle, can be reftored, al¬
though in a longer time it may very poflibly be ac-
complifhed. In fadl, it has often happened, that though
means employed for one hour have not fucceeded,
the fame continued for two or more hours, have at
length had the wiftied-for effe&s. It ftiould therefore
be a conftant rule, in this bufinefs, that the proper
means ftiould be employed for feveral hours together j
unlefs it happen that, wjhile no fymptoms of returning
life appear, the fymptoms of death {hall, at the fame
time, go on conftantly increafing.
“ In the whole of the above I have kept in view
chiefly the cafe of drowned perfons ; but it will be ob¬
vious, that many of the meafures propofed w'ill be
equally proper and applicable in other cafes of fuffoca-
tion as thofe from ftrangling, the damps of mines,
the fumes of charcoal, &c. j and a little attention to
the difference of circumftances will lead to the meafures
moft proper to be employed.
Mr Hunter, in the before-mentioned paper, differs
pretty conftderably from He Haen and Hr Cullen.
He obferves, that when afliftance is foon called after
immerfion, blowing air into the lungs will in fome
cafes effeft a recovery ; but wTen any confiderable
time has been loft, he advifes ftimulant medicines,
fuch as the vapour of volatile alkali, to be mixed with
the air j which may eafily be done, by holding fpirits
of hartfliorn in a cup under the receiver of the bellows.
And, as applications of this kind to the olfaflory neives
tend greatly to roufe the living principle, and put the
mufcles of refpiration into aSion, it may probably,
therefore, be moft proper to have air impregnated in
that manner thrown in by the nofe. To prevent the
ftomach and inteftines from being too much diftended
by the air fo injeaed, the larynx is direded to be gent¬
ly preffed againft the cefophagus and fpine.
' While this bufinefs is going on, an afliftant fhould
prepare bed clothes, carefully brought to a proper de¬
gree of heat. Heat our author confiders as congenial
w ith the living principle ; increafing the neceffity of ac¬
tion, it increafes aaion } cold, on the other hand, lef-
fens the neceflity, and of courfe the aaion is dimi-
niftied : to a due degree of heal, therefore, the living
principle, he thinks, owes its vigour. From experi¬
ments, he fays, it appears to be a law in animal bodies,
that the degree of heat ftiould bear a proportion to the
quantity of life *, as life is weakened, this proportion
requires great accuracy, wdiile greater powers of lite
allow it greater latitudes. #
After thefe and feveral other obfervations on the lame
fubjeft, our author proceeds to more particular direc¬
tions for the management of drowned people.
If bed clothes are put over the perfon, fo as fcarce
to touch him, fleams of volatile alkali, or of warm
balfams, may be thrown in, fo as to come in contact
with many parts of the body. And it might probably
be advantageous, Mr Hunter obferves, to have fleams
of the fame kind conVeyed into the ftomach. This, we
are told, may be done by a hollow bougie and a ly-
ringe : but the operation fhould be very ipeedily per-
D R O
Drowning, formed, as the inftrument, by continuing long in the
‘“—■v—— mouth, might produce ficknefs, which our author fays
he would always wifh to avoid.
Some of the warm ftimulating fubftances, fuch as
juice of horferadilh, peppermint water, and fpirits
of hartlhorn, are dire£led to be thrown into the fto-
mach in a fluid ftate, as alfo to be injected by the anus.
Motion poflibly may be of fervice ; it may at leaf! be
tried : but as it hath lefs effect than any other of the
ufually prefcribed ftimuli, it is direfted to be the laft
part of the procefs.
The fame care in the operator, in regulating the
proportion of every one ofthefe means, is here directed,
as was formerly given for the application of heat.
For every one of them, our author obferves, may pof-
fibly have the fame property of deftroying entirely the
feeble adfion which they have excited if adminiftered
in too great a quantity : inftead, therefore, of increaf-
ing and haftening the operations on the firfl: flgns of
returning life being obferved, as is ufually done, he de-
fires they may be leflened j and advifes their increafe to
be afterwards proportioned, as nearly as poflible, to the
quantity of powers as th^y arife.
When the heart begins to move, the application of
air to the lungs fhould be leflened, that, when the
mufcles of refpiration begin to aft, a good deal may be
left for them to do.
Mr Hunter abfolutely forbids bloodletting in all
fuch cafes; for as it not only weakens the animal
principle, but leflens life itfelf, it mull confequently,
he obferves, leffen both the powers and difpofitions to
aftion. For the fame reafon, he is againft introducing
any thing into the ftomach that might produce fick¬
nefs or vomiting; and, on the fame principle, he fays,
we fliould avoid throwing tobacco fumes, or any other
fuch articles, up by the anus, as might tend to an eva¬
cuation that way.
The following is a defcription of inftruments recom¬
mended for fuch operations by our author.
Firfl:, A pair of bellows, fo contrived, with two fe-
parate cavities, that, by opening them when applied
to the noftrils or mouth of a patient, one cavity will be
filled with common air, and the other with air fuck¬
ed out from the lungs, and by (hutting them again,
the common air will be thrown into the lungs, and that
fucked out of the lungs difcharged into the room. The
pipe of thefe fhould be flexible ; in length a foot, or a
foot and a half; and, at lead, three eighths of an inch
in width. By this the artificial breathing may be con¬
tinued, while the other operations, the application of
the ftimuli to the ftomach excepted, are going on,
which could not be conveniently done if the muzzle
of the bellows were introduced into the nofe. The end
next the nofe fhould be double, and applied to both
noftrils. Secondly, A fyringe, with a hollow bougie,
or flexible catheter, of fufficient length to go into the
ftomach, and convey any ftimulating matter into it,
without affefting the lungs. Thirdly, A pair of fmall
bellows, fuch as are commonly ufed in throwing fumes
of tobacco up by the anus.
Notwithftanding the difterences in theory, however,
between the phyficians above mentioned, it is certain,
that within thefe few years great numbers of drowned
people have been reftored to life by a proper ufe of the
remedies we have enumerated, and focieties for the rc-
[ 339 1
D R O
covery of drowned perfons have been inrtituted in dif- Drowning,
ferent places. The firft fociety of this kind was infti- ^
tuted in Holland, where from the great abundance of
canals and inland feas, the inhabitants are particularly
expofed to accidents by water. In a very few years
150 perfons were faved from death by this fociety j and
many of thefe had continued upwards of an hour with¬
out any figns of life, after they had been taken out of
the water. The fociety was inftituted at Amftcrdam
in 1767: and, by an advertifement, informed the in¬
habitants of the United Provinces of the methods pro¬
per to be ufed on fuch occafions j offering rewards at
the fame time to thofe wFo flrould, with or without
fuccefs, ufe thofe methods for recovering perfons drown¬
ed and feemingly dead. The laudable and humane
example of the Dutch was followed in the year 176!?
by the magiftrates of health in Milan and Venice j af¬
terwards by the magiftrates of Hamburg in the year
1771, by thofe of Paris in the year 1772, and by the
magiftrates of London in 1774.
The following direftions are given for the recovery
of drowned perfons by the fociety at London.
I. As foon as the patient is taken out of the water,
the wet clothes, if the perfon is not naked at the time
of the accident, Ihould be taken off with all poflible ex¬
pedition on the fpot (unlefs fome convenient houfe be
very near), and a great coat or two, or fome blankets
if convenient, ihould be wrapped round the body.
II. The patient is to be thus carefully conveyed in
the arms of three or four men, or on a bier, to the
neareft public or other houfe, where a good fire, if in
the winter feafon, and a warm bed, can be made ready
for its reception. As the body is conveying to this
place, a great attention is to be paid to the pofition of
the head j it mull be kept fupported in a natural and
eafy pofture, not fuffered to hang down.
III. In cold or moift weather, the patient is to be
laid on a mattrefs or bed before the fire, but not too
near, or in a moderately heated room $ in warm and
fultry weather, on a bed only. The body is then to
be wrapped as expeditioufly as poflible with a blanket,
and thoroughly dried with warm coarfe cloths or flan¬
nels.
IV. In fummer or fultry weather too much air can¬
not be admitted. For this reafon it will be neceffary
to fet open the windows and doors, as cool refrefliing
air is of the greateft importance in the procefs of re-
fufeitation.
V. Not more than fix perfons are to be prefent to
apply the proper means j a greater number will be ufe-
lefs, and may retard, or totally prevent, the reftoration
of life, by rendering the air of the apartment unwhole-
fome. It will be neceffary, therefore, to requeft the
abfence of thofe who attend merely from motives of
curicfity.
VI. It will be proper •for one of the afliftants, with
a pair of bellows of the common fize, applying the pipe
a little way up one noftril, to blow with fome force,
in order to introduce air into the lungs 5 at the fame
time the other noftril and the mouth are to be clofed by
another afliftant, whilfl: a third perfon gently preffes the
cheft with his hands, after the lungs are oblerved to be
inflated. By purfuing this procefs, the noxious and
ftagnant vapours will be expelled, and natural breath¬
ing imitated. If the pipe of the bellows be too large,
U u 2 the
DUO [ 340 ]
.Drowning, tire air may be blown in at the moutb, tbe nollrils at expeditioufly
' v'"""* the fame time being clofed, fo that it may not efcape
that way: but the lungs are more eafily filled, and na¬
tural breathing better imitated, by blowing up the
noftril.
VII. Let the body be gently rubbed with common
V iA. AACA AAIA.  J . , .
fait, or with flannels, fprinkled with fpints, as rum or
geneva (a). A warming pan heated (the body being
furrounded with flannel) may be lightly moved up and
down the back. Fomentations of hot brandy are to
be applied to the pit of the ftomach, loins, &c. and
often renewed. Bottles filled with hot water, heated
tiles covered with flannel, or hot bricks, may be efh-
eaciouflv applied to the foies of the feet, palms of the
hands, and other parts of the body. The temples may
be rubbed with fpirits of hartfhorn, and the noftrils
now and then tickled with a feather; and inufif, or eau
de luce, fhould be occafionally applied.
VIII. Tobacco fumes fhould be thrown up the fun¬
dament : if a fumigator be not at hand, the common
pipe may anfwer the purpofe.. The operation fhould
be frequently performed, as it is of importance ; for
the good effects of this procefs have been experienced
in a variety of inftances of fufpended animation. But
fhould the application of tobacco fmoke in this way
not be immediately convenient, or other impediments
arife, clyfters of this herb, or other acrid infulions with
fait, &c. may be thrown up with advantage.
IX. When thefe means have been employed a con-
fiderable time without fuccefs, and any brewhoufe or
warm bath can be readily obtained, the body fliould
be carefully conveyed to fuch a place, and remain 111
the bath, or furrounded with warm grains, for thiee
or four hours. .in 1 1 u
If a child has been drowned, its body fliould be
wiped perfeaiy dry, and immediately placed in bed
between two healthy perlons. 1 he falutary effects of
the natural vital warmth, conveyed in this manner, have
been proved in a variety of luccefsful cafes.
X. While the various methods of treatment are em-
oloyed, the body is to be well fliaken every ten mi¬
nutes, in order to render the procefs of animation more
certainly fuccefsful; and children, in particular, are
to be much agitated, by taking hold of their legs and
arms, frequently and for a continuance of time. In va¬
rious inftances agitation has forwarded the recovery of
boys who have been drowned, and continued for a pon-
fiderable time apparently dead. # r ,
XI. If there be any figns of returning life, fuch as
fighing, gafping, or convulftve motions, a fpoontul o
-any warm liquid may be admimftered ; and if the aft
of fwallowing is returned, then a cordial of warm
brandy or wine may be given in fmall quantities, and
frequently repeated. , . ,
XII Eleftricity may be tried by the judicious and
Ikilful,’ as its application neither prevents nor retards
the various modes of recovftty*already recommended;
but on the other hand, will mbft probably tend to ren¬
der the other means employed more certainly and more
D R U
ca^cvah.iwa.i.j efticacious. This ftimulus bids fair to
prove an important auxiliary in cafes of fufpended ani¬
mation ; and therefore deferves the ferious regard and
attention of the faculty. .
The methods which have been fully defcnbed, are
to be employed with vigour for three hours or upwards.
Bmg
II
Druids.
t V.V* "   o  ‘ -
although no favourable circumftances fhould aide ; tor
it is a vulgar and dangeious opinion to fuppofe that
perfons are irrecoverable, becaufe life does not foon
make its appearance ; an opinion that has configned to
the grave an immenfe number of the feemingly dead,
who might have been reftored to life by refolution and
perfeverance.
Bleeding is never to be employed in fuch cafes, un-
lefs by the direfhon of one of the medical afliftants, or
fome other gentleman of the faculty who has paid at¬
tention to theTefufcitating art.
DRUG, a general term for
and grocery kinds, efpecially
and dyeing. See Materia
and Dyeing.
DRUGGET, in commerce,
goods of the druggift
thofe ufed in medicine
Medica, Pharmacy,
fluff fometimes all
wool, and fometimes half wool half thread, iometimes^
corded, but ufually plain. Thofe that have the woof
of wool, and the warp of thread, are called threaded
druggets; and thofe wrought with the fhuttle on a loom
of four marches, as the ferges of Mom, Beauvois, and
other like fluffs corded, are called corded druggets. As
to the plain, they are wrought on a loom of two marches,
with the fhuttle, in the fame manner as cloth, cambkts,
and other like fluffs not corded. _
DRUID/E, or Droium, in Ancient Geography,
a very ancient town, the principal place of the Druides
or Druidae in Gaul, as they are called (Cse.ar, Cicero).
Now Dreux in the Orleannois. Here they met every
year in a confecrated grove, according to Cmlar. I he
town was alfo called Durocafes. W. Long. I. 21. N.
Lat. 48. 45. . . a
DRUIDS, Druiues, or Druids, the prielts or
minifters of religion among the ancient Celts: or Gauls,
Britons, and Germans. . TJ ,
Some authors derive the word from the Hebrew
n-umi demtrm, or drutfm, which they tranflate co»-
temblatores. Picard, Celtoprcd. lib. ii. p. 58. believes
the druids to have been thus called from Dr*//, or
Dryius, their leader, the fourth or fifth king of the
Gauls, and father of Saron or Naumes. Pliny, Sal-
mafius, Vigenere, &c. derive the name from oak;
on account of their inhabiting, or at leaf! frequenting,
and teaching in forefts ; or perhaps becaufe, as Pliny
fays they never facrificed but under the oak. But it
is hard to imagine how the druids fhould come to fpeak
Greek. Menage derives the word from the om Bn-
tifh drus, “daemon, magician.” Borel, frorn the Saxon
dry, “ magician or rather from the old Britifh dru,
or dervo, “oak,” whence he takes to be derived;
which is the moft probable fuppofition. _Gorop. Be-
canus, lib. i. takes druis to be an old Celtic and Ger¬
man word, formed from trowis or truvlls, a doaor of
\h.e
(a) Dr Fothergill of Bath, in a letter to the Regifter, advifes as a potent
stmftard moiftened with fpirits.
and attive ftimulus the patent
#
D R U [341
Druids, of the truth and the faith 3” which etymology Vcffius
]
General ac¬
count of the
druids.
acquiefces in.
The druids were the firfl and moft diftinguiihed or¬
der among the Gauls and Britons', they were cnofen
nnt nf the belt families; and the honours of their biith,
D R U
to religion. ”1 ne Bntilh and Gauliin youth flocked to
them in crowds to be inltrufted by them. The chil¬
dren of the nobility, Mela tells us, they retired with
into caves, or the moll defolate parts of forelfs, and
kept them there fometimes for twenty years under
Befides the immortality and metemp-
Druids.
and the "judges of all affairs indifferently. Whoever
refufed obedience to them was declared impious and
accurfed. We know but little as to their peculiar doc¬
trines 3 only that they believed the immortality of the
foul, and, as is generally alio iuppoled, the metemp-
fychofis j though a late author makes it appear highly
probable they did not believe this laft, at lead not in
the fenfe of the Pythagoreans.
The chief fettlement of the druids in Britain was
in the ille of Anglefey, the ancient Mona, which they
•'‘might choofe for this purpofe, as it is well ftored with
fpacious groves of their favourite oak. They were di¬
vided into feveral dalles or branches, viz. the vacerri,
bardi, cubages, Jymnothu, ox femnothci, and faronidcc.
The vacerri are held to have been the priefts 3 the
bardi, the poets 3 the cubages, the augurs 3 and the
faronidce, the civil judges and inftrudfors of youth.
As to the femnothei, wrho are faid to have been im¬
mediately devoted to the fervice of religion, it is pro¬
bable they were the fame with the vacerri. Strabo,
however, (lib. iv. p. 197.) and Picard after him in his
Celtopaedia, do not comprehend all thefe different or¬
ders under the denomination of druids, as fpecies un¬
der their genus, or parts under the whole ; but make
them quite different conditions or orders. Strabo, in
effedf, only ditfinguifhes three kinds ; bardi, votes,
and druids. The bardi were the poets 3 the votes,
varus (apparently the fame with the vacerri), were
the prieils and natural!fts 3 and the druids, befide the
ffudy of nature, applied themfelves likewife to mora¬
lity.
Diogenes Laertius affures us, in his prologue, that
the druids were the fame among the ancient Britons
with the fophi or philofophers among the Greeks 3
the magi among the Persians 3 the gymnofophitts a-
mong the Indians 3 and the Chaldeans among the Af-
fyrians.
Their garments were remarkably long ; and, when
employed in religious ceremonies, they always wore a
white furplice. They generally carried a wand in their
hands 3 and wore a kind of ornament enchafed in gold
about their necks, called the druid's'egg. Their necks
were likewife decorated with gold chains, and their
hands and arms with bracelets : they wore their hair
very fhort, and their beards remarkably long.
The druids had one chief, or arch-druid, in every
nation, who a£fed as high prieft, or pontifex maximus.
He had abfolute authority over the reft 3 and command¬
ed, decreed, punifhed, &c. at pleafure. At his death
he was fucceeded by the moft confiderable among his
furvivors 3 and, if there were feveral pretenders, the
matter w^as ended by an ele£lion, or elfe put to the de-
cifion of arms.
The druids, we have obferyed, were in the higheft
efteem. They preftded at facrifices, and other cere¬
monies 5 and had the direction of every thing relating
powder and wifdom of the gods, &c. They pi
the memory and aflions of great pien in their verfes,
which they never allowed to be wrote down, but made
their pupils get them by heart. In their common
courfe of learning, they are faid to have taught them
twenty-four thoufand luch verfes. By this means their
dodfrines appeared more myfterious by being unknown
to all but themfelves 3 and having no books to recur
to, they were the more careful to fix them in their me¬
mory.
They worfhipped the Supreme Being under the
name of Efus, or llefus, and the fymbol of the oak 3
and had no other temple than a wood or a grove, where
all their religious rites were performed. Nor was any
perfon admitted to enter that facred recefs,. unlefs he
carried with him a chain, in token of his abfolute
dependence on the Deity. Indeed, their whole reli¬
gion originally confifted in acknowledging, that the
Supreme" Being, who made his abode in thefe facred
groves, governed the univerfe 3 and that every crea¬
ture ought to obey his laws, and pay him divine ho¬
mage.
They confidered the oak as the emblem, or rather
the peculiar rcfidence, of the Almighty 5 and accord¬
ingly chaplets of it were worn both by the druids
and people in their religious ceremonies, the altars
were ftrewed with its leaves, and encircled with its
branches. The fruit of it, efpecially the miftetoe,
was thought to contain a divine virtue, and to be the
peculiar gift of heaven. It was therefore fought for
on the fixth day of the moon with the greateft earneft-
nefs and anxiety 3 and when found was hailed with
fuch raptures of joy, as almoft exceeds imagination
to conceive. As foon as the druids were informed of
this fortunate difeovery, they prepared every thing
ready for the facrifice under the oak, to which they
fattened two white bulls by the horns 3 then the arch¬
druid, attended by a prodigious number of people,
afeended the tree, drefled in white 3 and with a con-
fecrated golden knife, or pruning-hook, cropped the
mifletoe, which he received in his fagum or robe, arnidlt
the rapturous exclamations of the people. Having fe-
cured this facred plant, he defeended the tree 3 the
bulls were facrificed 3 and the Deity invoked to blefs
his own gift, and render it efficacious in thofe diftem-
pers in which it fhould be adminiftered.
The confecrated groves, in which they performed
their religious rites, weie fenced round with ftones, to •
prevent any perfon’s entering between the trees, ex¬
cept through the paffages left open for that purpofe,
and which were, guarded by fome inferior druids, to
prevent any ftranger from intruding into their myfte-
ries. Thefe groves were of different forms 3 fome
quite circular, others oblong, and more or lefs ca¬
pacious as the votaries in the diftrifts to which they
belonged were more or lefs numerous. The area in
v the:
D R U f 342 ] D R U
Druids, the centre of the grove was encompaffed with feveral
“~~v " “' rows of large oaks fet very clofe together. Within
this large circle were feveral fmaller ones furrounded
with large {tones 5 and near the centre of thefe fmaller
circles were {tones of a prodigious fize and conve¬
nient height, on which the victims were {lain and of¬
fered. Each of thefe being a kind of altar, was fur-
rounded with another row of {tones, the ufe of which
cannot now be known, unlefs they were intended as
cinctures to keep the people at a convenient diitance
from the officiating prieft.
Suetonius, in his life of Claudius, affures us the
druids facrificed men*, and Mercury is faid to be the
god to whom they offered thefe victims. Diod. Sicu¬
lus, lib. vi. obferves it was only upon extraordinary
occafions they made fuch offerings ; as, to confult
what meafures to take, to learn what fliould befal
them, &c. by the fall of the vidim, the tearing of his
members, and the manner of his blood guffiing out.
Auguftus condemned the cuftom, and "l iberius and
Claudius punifhed and aboliffied it.
We learn from Caefar, that the druids were the
judges and arbiters of all differences and difputes, both
public and private : they took cognizance of murders,
inheritances, boundaries, and limits ; and decieed re¬
wards and pumfhments. Such as dilobeyed their de-
cifions they excommunicated, which w'as their prin¬
cipal puniihmentthe criminal being hereby excluded
from all public affemblies, and avoided by all the world ;
fo that nobody durft fpeak to him for fear of being
polluted. Strabo obferves, they had fometimes intereft
and authority enough to (lop armies upon the point of
engaging, and accommodate their differences.
Their opi- It hath been difputed, whether the druids were
nions and themfelves the inventors of their opinions and fyftems
philofophy, 0f religion and philofophy, or received them from
whence de-otj,ers> Some have imagined, that the colony of Pho-
llVed‘ cians which left Greece and built Marfeilles in Gaul
about the 57th Olympiad, imported the firft principles
of learning and philofophy, and communicated them
to the Gauls and other nations in the weft of Europe.
It appears, indeed, that this famous colony contribut¬
ed not a little to the improvement of that part of
Gaul where it fettled, and to the civilization of its in¬
habitants. “ The Greek colony of Marfeilles (fays
Juftin) civilized the Gauls, and taught them to live
under laws; to build cities and enclofe them with wallsj
to raife corn ; to cultivate the vine and olive *, and, in
a word, made fo great a change both in the face of the
country and the manners of its inhabitants, that Gaul
feemed to be tranftated into Greece, rather than a few
Greeks tranfplanted into Gaul.” But though we may
allow that the druids of Gaul and Britain borrowed
fome bints and embelliffiments of their philofophy from
this Greek colony, and perhaps from other quarters,
we have reafon to believe that the fubftance of it was
their own. Others have fuggefted, that the druids
derived their philofophy from Pythagoras, who pub-
liffied his doftrines at Crotona in Italy *, where he lived
in the higheft reputation for his virtue, wifdom, and
learning, above 20 years. Phis conjeaure is very
much confirmed by this remarkable expreflion of Am-
m"fanus Marcellinus, “ That the druids were formed
into fraternities, as the authority of Pythagoras de¬
creed,” It hath been alfo obferved, that the philofo-
I
phy of the druids bore a much greater rcfemblance to Druids,
that of Pythagoras than to that of any of the other
fages of antiquity. But it feems probable, that Am-
mianus meant no more by the above expreffion than to
illuftrate the nature of the druidical fraternities, by
comparing them to tbofe of the Pythagoreans, which
were well known to the Romans ; and the refemblancc
between the Pythagorean and druidical philofophy
may perhaps be beft accounted for, by fuppofing, that
Pythagoras learned and adopted fome of the opinions
of the druids, as well as imparted to them fome of his
difcoveries. It is well known, that this philolbpher,
animated by the moft ardent love of knowledge, tra¬
velled into many countries in purfuit of it, and got
himfelf admitted into every fociety that was famous for
its learning. It is therefore highly probable in itfelf,
as well as dire£fly afferted by feveral authors, that Py¬
thagoras heard the druids of Gaul, and was initiated
into their philofophy. ^ ^
From the concurring teftimonies of feveral au-jviort par»
thors, it appears that phyfiology, or natural philo-ticular ac-
fophy, was the favourite ftudy of the druids of Gaul jCOl^nt; t*‘e
and Britain. Cicero tells us, that he w as perfonally
acquainted with one of the Gaulifti druids, Divitia-
cus the iEduan, a man of quality in his country,
who profeffed to have a thorough knowledge of the
laws of nature, or that fcience which the Greeks ^
call phyfics or phyfiology. According^ to Diodorus Phyf.cs, or
Siculus, Strabo, Csefar, Mela, Ammianus Marcel-natural phi.
linus, and others, they entered into many difqui-loloPhy*
fkions and deputations in their fchools, concerning
the form and magnitude of the univerfe in general, and
of this earth in particular, and even concerning the
moft fublime and hidden fecrets of nature. On tbefe
and the like fubjects they formed a variety of fyftems
and hypothefes ; which they delivered to their difciples
in verfe, that they might the more eafdy retain them
in their memories, fince they were not allowed to com¬
mit them to writing. Strabo hath preferved one of
the phyfiological opinions of the druids concerning the
univerfe; viz. that it was never to be entirely deftroyed
or annihilated; but was to undergo a fucceffion ot great
changes and revolutions, which were to be produced
fometimes by the power and predominacy of water,
and fometimes by that of fire. This opinion, he inti¬
mates, was not peculiar to them, but wTas entertained
alfo by the philofophers of other nations ; and Cicero
fpeaks of it as a truth univerfally acknowledged and un¬
deniable. “ It is impoffible for us (fays he) to attain a
glory that is eternal, or even of very long duration, on
account of tbefe deluges and conflagrations of the
earth which muft neceffarily happen at certain perioos.
This opinion, which was entertained by the moft an¬
cient philofophers of many different and very diftant
nations, was probably neither the refult of rational in¬
quiry in all thefe nations, nor communicated from one
of them to others ; but defeended to them all from
their common anceftors of the family of Noah by tra¬
dition, but comupted and mifunderftoed through length
of time. The agreement of the druids with the phi¬
lofophers of fo many other nations in this opinion
about the alternate diffolution and renovation of the
world, gives us reafon to believe, that they agreed with
them alfo in their opinion of its origin from two di-
ftinft principles; the one intelligent and omnipotent,
which
D R U [ 343 1 D R U
Druids, which was God ; the other inanimate and inadtive,
l“'—V'*—*' which wa* matter. We are toid, by Caefar, that they
had many difquifitions about the power of God ; and,
no doubt, amongft other particulars, about his creating
power. But whether they believed with fome that mat¬
ter was eternal, or with others that it was created; and
in what manner they endeavoured to account for the
difpofition of it into the prefent form of the univerfe,
we are entirely ignorant, though they certainly had
their fpeculations on thele fubje&s. We are only in¬
formed. that they did not exprefs their fentiments on
thefe and like heads in a plain and natural, but in
a dark, figurative, and enigmatical manner. This might
incline us to fufpe£t, that Pythagoras had borrowed
from them his doftrine about numbers, to whofe myfti-
cal energy he afcribes the formation of all things ; for
nothing can be more dark and enigmatical than that
doftrine. The druids difputed like wife about the mag¬
nitude and form of the world in general, and of the
earth in particular^ of which things they pretended to
have a perfedt knowledge. We know not what their
opinions w-ere about the dimenfions of the univerfe or
of the earth, but we have feveral reafons to make us
imagine that they believed both to be of a fpherical
form. This is vifibly the (hape and form of the fun,
moon, and liars, the moll confpicuous parts of the uni¬
verfe; from whence it wTas natural and eafy to infer,
that this w-as the form of the world and of the earth.
Accordingly this feems to have been the opinion of the
philofophers of all nations; and the circle was the fa¬
vourite figure of the druids, as appears from the form
both of their houfes and places of worlhip. Befides
thefe general fpeculations about the origin, diffolution,
magnitude, and form of the world and of the earth, the
druids engaged in particular inquiries into the natures
and properties of the different kind of fubllances. But
all their difcoveries in this moll ufeful and extenfive
branch of natural philofophy, whatever they wrere, are
S entirely loll.
Aftronomy. Allronomy alfo appears to have been one of the
chief lludies of the druids of Gaul and Britain.
“ The druids (fays Caefar) have many difquifitions
concerning the heavenly bodies and their motions, in
which they inllrucl their difciples.” Mela, fpeaking
of the fame philofophers, obferves, “ That they
profefs to have great knowledge of the motions of
the heavens and of the liars.” Some knowledge of
this Icience indeed was not only necelfary for meafu-
ring time in general, marking the duration of the dif¬
ferent feafons, regulating the operations of the huf-
bandman, direfling the courfe of the mariner, and for
many other perfons in civil life ; but it w’as efpecially
necelfary for fixing the times and regular returns of
their religious folemnities, of which the druids had the
foie direflion. Some of thefe folemnities were month¬
ly, and others annual. It was therefore necelfary for
them to know, wuth fome tolerable degree of exaflnefs,
the number of days in which the fun and moon per¬
formed their revolutions, that thefe folemnities might
be obferved at their proper feafons. This w7as the more
necelfary, as fome of thefe folemnities were attended
by perlons from different and very diltant countries,
who were all to meet at one place on one day ; who
mull have had lome rule to difcover the annual return
of that day.
The moll perceptible divifion of time by the two
great luminaries is into day and night; the former oc- —■^
cafioned by the prefence of the fun above the horizon, me_
the latter by his abfence, which is in fome meafure fup thod ot
plied by the moon and liars. The druids computed compuiing
their time by nights, and not by daysj a cullom wdrichume.
they bad received from their moll remote ancellors by
tradition, and in which they were confirmed by their
meafuring their time very much by the moon, the mi-
ftrefs and queen of night. As the changes in the
afpe£l of that luminary are moll conlpicuous, they en¬
gaged the attention of the moll ancient ailronomers of
all countries, and particularly of the druids, w’ho regu¬
lated all their great folemnities, both facred and civil,
by the age and afpefl of the moon. “ When no un-
expe&ed accident prevents it, they alfemble upon Ha¬
ted days, either at the time of the new7 or full moon ;
for they believe thefe to be the mod aufpicious times
for tranfadling all affairs of importance.” Their moll
augult ceremony of cutting the milletoe from the oak
by the arch-druid, was alw-ays performed on the fixtli
day of the moon. Nay, they even regulated their mi¬
litary operations very much by this luminary, and
avoided, as much as polfible, to engage in battle while
the moon wras on the wane. As the attention of the
druids was fo much fixed on this planet, it could not
be very long before they difcovered that flie palled
through all her various afpedls in about thirty days ;
and by degrees, and more accurate obfervations, they
would find, that the real time of her performing an
entire revolution was very nearly 294- days. This fur-
nilhed them with the divifion of their time into months,
or revolutions of the moon ; of which we know with
certainty they were polfelfed. But this period, though
of great ufe, was evidently too fhort for many pur-
pofes, and particularly for meafuring the feafons; which
they could not fail to perceive depended on the influ¬
ences of the fun. By continued obfervation they dif- -
covered, that about 12 revolutions of the moon inclu¬
ded all the variety of feafons, which begun again, and
revolved every 12 months. This fuggelled to them
that larger divifion of time called a year, confilting of
12 lunations, or 354 days, which was the moll ancient
meafure of the year in almolt all nations. That this was
for fome time at leall the form of the druidical year,
is both probable in itfelf, and from the following ex-
preflion of Pliny : “ That they began both \heir
months and years, not from the change, but from the
fixth day of the moon.” This is even a demonllration
that their years confilled of a certain number of lunar
revolutions, as they always commenced on the fame day
of the moon. But as this year of 12 lunar months
falls 11 days and nearly one-fourth of a day Ihort of a
real revolution of the fun, this error would foon be per¬
ceived, and call for reformation; though we are not
informed of the particular manner in which it was rec¬
tified. Various arguments might be collefted to make
it very probable that the Britons were acquainted with
a year exa£l enough for every purpofe of life, w hen
they were firll invaded by the Romans ; but it will be
lufficient to mention one, w7hich is taken from the time
and circumltances of that invafion. The learned Dr
Halley hath demonltrated that Csefar arrived in Britain,
in his firll year’s expedition, on the 26th day of Au-
Druids
D R U [ 344 ]
gufl : and Csefar himfelf informs us, tlrat at bis arrival of the Chnftian era
the harveft was finiibed, except in one field, which by
fome means or other was more backward than the reft
of the country. ’Phis is a proof that the Bntifh huf-
bandmen knew and ufed the moft proper leafons for
ploughing, lowing, and reaping. ine druids, as we
are told by Pliny, had alfo a cycle or period of 30 years,
which-they called an age, and which commenced like-
wife on the fixth day of the moon :: but that author
hath not acquainted us on what principles this cycle
was formed, nor to what purpofes it was app*ed. We
can hardly fuppofe that this was the cycle of the fun,
which confifts of 28 years, and regulates the dominical
letters. It is more probable, that while the druids
made ufe of the year of 1 2 lunar months, and had not
invented a method of adjufting it to the real revolution
of the fun, they obferved that the beginning of this
year had pafi’ed through all the feafons, and returned
to the point from whence it fet out, in a coui.e of
about 33 years} which they might therefore call an
age. Others may perhaps be of opinion, that this 30
years cycle of the druids is the fame with the great year
of the Pythagoreans, or a revolution of Saturn. Some
have imagined that the druids were alfo acquainted
with the cycle of 19 years, which is commonly called
the cycle of the moon. But the evidence of this de¬
pends entirely on the truth of that fuppofition, that
the Hyperborean ifland, which is defcribed by Diodo¬
rus Siculus, was Britain, or fome of the Bntifh ifles.
Among many other furprifing things, that author fays,
concerning the Hyperborean ifland, ‘‘ That its inhabi¬
tants believed that Apollo defcended into their illand at
.7
Their
the end of every 19 years', in which period of time the
fun and moon, having performed their various revolu¬
tions, return to the fame point, and begin to repeat the
fame revolutions. This is called by the Greeks the
great year, or the cycle of Melon. ,
j| We are told both by Caefar and Mela, that the
knowledge druJds ftudied the Bars as well as the fun and moon ;
of the ftars. ^ j that they profefied to know, and taught their
difciples, many things concerning the motions of theie
heavenly bodies. From tbefe tellimomes we may con¬
clude that the druids were acquainted with the pla¬
nets, diftinguifhed them from the fixed ftars, and care¬
fully obferved their motions and revolutions, if this
riifcovery was the refult of their own obferyations, it
would be gradual, and it would be a long time before
they found out all the planets. They might perhaps
have received fome afliftance and information from Py¬
thagoras, or from fome other quarter. But whether
this difcovery of the planets was their own or com¬
municated to them by others, it is highly probable that
they were acquainted with the precife number of theie
wandering ftars. Dio Caflius fays, that the cuftom of
giving the name of one of the planets to each of the
feven days of the week was an invention of the Egyp¬
tians, and from them was gradually communicated to
all the other nations of the world ; and that in his
time this cuftom was fo fiimly eftabl.Qied, not only
among the Romans, but among all the reft of man¬
kind, that in every country it appeared to be a native
inftitution. The knowledge of the planets, and per¬
haps the cuftom of giving their names to -the days ol
the week, was brought out of Egypt into Italy _ y
Pythagoras, more than 500 years before the beginnmg
D R U
   , and from thence it could not be Druids.
very long before it reached Gaul and Britain. Tut
though we have little or no reafon to doubt that the
druids knew the number and obferved the motion of
the planets, yet it may be queftioned whether they had
difcovered the times in which they performed their fe-
veral revolutions. Some of thefe ftars, as Jupiter and
Saturn, take fo great a number of years in revolving,
that it required a very extraordinary degree of patience
and attention to difcover the precife periods of tneir
revolutions. If we could be certain that the illand in
which the ancients imagined Saturn lay alleep, was
one of the Britilh ifles, as Plutarch intimates it was,
we might be inclined to think that the Britifh diuids
were not ignorant of the length of the period in which
the planet Saturn performs a revolution. For that fame
author, in another treatife, tells us, “ I hat the inha¬
bitants of that ifland kept every thirtieth year a folemn
feftival in honour of Saturn, when his flar entered into
the fign of Taurus.” .
If we could depend upon the above teftimony ot
Plutarch, we fliould have one pofitive proof that the
druids of the Biitifh ifles were acquainted with the
conftellations, and even with the figns of the zodiac ;
and that they meafured the revolutions of the fun and
planets, by obferving the length of time between
their departure from and return to one of thefe figns.
But we have no dire£t evidence of this remaining in
hiftory. . „ .
The druids of Gaul and Britain, _as well as the an¬
cient philofophers of other countries, had a general
plan or fvftem of the univerfe, and of the difpofition
pidil AViLV-m vyx w.v.  # l
and arrangement of its various parts, in which they in-
ftru£fed their difciples. This is both probable initfeP,
and is plainly intimated by feveral authors of the great-
eft authority. But we cannot be certain whether this
druidical fyftem of the world was of their own inven¬
tion, or was borrowed from others. If it was borrow-
en, it was moft probably from the Pythagoreans to
whom they were the neareft neighbours; and with whom
they had the greateft intercourfe. _
It hath been imagined, that the druids had inftru-
ments of fome kind or other, which anfwered the
fame purpofes with our telefcopes, in making obferya-
tions on the heavenly bodies. The only foundation
of this very improbable conje&ure is an expreflion 01
Diodorus Siculus, in bis defcriptlon of the famous Hy¬
perborean ifland. “ They fay further, that the moon
is feen from that ifland, as if flie was but at a little
diftance from the earth, and having hills or moun¬
tains like ours on her furface.” But no fuch inference
can be reafonably drawn from this expreflion, which m
reality merits little more regard than what Strabo re¬
ports was faid of fome of the inhabitants ot Spain :
“ That they heard the hiding noife of the tun every
evening when he fell into the weftern ocean.
The application of the druids to the ftudy of phi.o-
fophy and aftronomy amounts almoit to a demonltra-
tion that they applied alfo To the ftudy of arithmetic
and geometry. For fome knowledge of both thete
fciences is indifpenfably neceffary to the phyfiologift
and aftronomer, as well as of great and daily ufe in the
Common affairs of life.
If we were certain that Abaris, the iaroous y~
perborean philofopher, the friend and
D R U
T?tuids.
didiah)%
thagoras, was really a Britifh druid, as fome have ima
gined, we fliould be able to produce direft hidorical
evidence of their arithmetical knowledge. For 1am-
blicus, in the life of Pythagoras, fays, “ that he taught
Abaris to find out all truth by the fcience of arithme¬
tic.” It may be thought improbable that the druids
had made any confiderable progrefs in arithmetic, as
this may feem to be impolFible by the mere ftrength
of memory without the affiftance of figures and of
written rules. But it is very difficult to afcertain
what may be done by memory alone, when it hath
been long exercifed in this way. We have had an
ToSNe/'7,U-X'eXarnple in °Ur 0wn age’ a Perfon * who could per¬
form fome of the moft tedious and difficult operations
in arithmetic by the mere ftrength of his memory.
The want of written rules could be no great difad-
vantage to the druids, as the precepts of this, as well
as of the other fciences, were couched in verfe, which
would be eafily got by heart and long remembered.
Though the druids were unacquainted with the Ara¬
bic characters which are now in ufe, we have no rea-
Ibn to fuppofe that they were deftitute of marks or
characters of fome other kind, which, in fome mea-
fure, anfweredi the fame purpofes, both in making and
recording their calculations. In particular, we have
reafon to think, that they made ufe of the letters of
the Greek alphabet for both thefe purpofes. This
feems to be plainly intimated by Csefar in the follow-
ing expreffion concerning the druids of Gaul : “ In
almoft all other public tranfaCtions, and private ac¬
counts or computations, they make ufe of the Greek
letters.” This is further confirmed by what the fame
author fays of the Helvetii j a people of the fame ori¬
gin, language, and manners, with the Gauls and Bri-
tons. “ Tables were found in the camp of the Hel¬
vetii written in Greek letters, containing an account of
all the men capable of bearing arms, who had left their
native country, and alfo feparate accounts of the boys,
old men, and women.” There is hiftorical evidence’
of the druids being alfo well acquainted with geome¬
try. “ When any difputes arife (fays Caefar) about
their inheritances, or any controverfies about the li-
jnits of their fields, they are entirely referred to the
decifion of their druids.” But befides the knowledge
of menfuration which this implies, both Csefar and
IVTela plainly intimate that the druids were converfant
in tlm moft fublime fpeculations of geometry ; “ in
meafuring the magnitude of the earth, and even of
the world.”
There are ftill many monuments remaining in
Britain and the adjacent ifies, which cannot fo rea-
fonably be afcribed to any as to the ancient Britons,
and which give us caufe to think, that they had made’
great progrefs in this ufeful part of learning, and could
apply the mechanical powers fo as to produce very
aftoniffiing effefts. As thefe monuments appear to
have been defigned for religious purpofes, we may be
certain that they were erefted under the diredlion of
the druids. How many obelifks or pillars, of one
rough unpoliffied ftone each, are ftill to be feen in
Britain and its ifies ! Some of thefe pillars are both
very thick and lofty, erefted on the fummits of bar-
rows and of mountains ; and fome of them (as at Stone¬
henge) have ponderous blocks of ftone raifed aloft,
and refting on the tops of the upright pillars. We can
Vol. VII. Part I.
f 345 ]
D R U
dSkill in me
chanies.
hardly iuppofe that it was poffible to cut thefe prodi- Druids,
gious mailes of ftone (fome of them above 40 tons * :
in weight) without wedges, or to raife them out of
the quarry without levers. But it certainly required
ftill greater knowledge of the mechanical powers, and
of the method of applying them, to tranfport thofe
huge ftones from the quarry to the places of their
deftination j to erefl; the perpendicular pillars, and to
elevate the impofts to the tops of thefe pillars. If
that prodigious ftone in the parifh of Conftantine,
Cornwall, was really removed by art from its original
place, and fixed where it now ftands (as one of our
moft learned and diligent antiquaries thinks it was *), * ^tr-
it is a demonftration, that the druids could perform
the moft aftonilhing feats by their ikill in mechanics.
I hat. the Britilh druids were acquainted with the 17 ’ ’
principles and ufe of the balance, we have good reafon
to believe, not only from the great antiquity of that
difcovery in other parts of the world, but alfo from
fome druidical monuments which are ftill remaining
in this ifland. Thefe monuments are called Lagan
Stones, or rocking ftones j and each of them confifts of
one prodigious block of ftone, refting upon an upright
ftone or rock, and fo equally balanced, that a very
fmall force, fometimes even that of a child, can move it
up and down, though hardly any force is fufficient to
remove it from its ftation. Some of thefe ftones may
have fallen into this pofition by accident, but others of
them evidently appear to have been placed in it by
art. I hat the ancient Britons underftood the conftruc-
tion and ufe of wheels, the great number of their war-
chariots and other wheel-carriages is a fufficient proof j
and that they knew how to combine them together
and wdth the other mechanical powers, fo as to form
machines capable of raifing and tranfporting very heavy
weights, w?e have good reafon to believe. In a word,
if the Britifti druids were wholly ignorant of the prin¬
ciples and ufe of any of the mechanical powTers, it was
moft probably of the fcrew, though even of this we
cannot be certain.
In Germany and in the northern nations of Europe Medicine,
the healing art was chiefly committed to the old wo¬
men of every ftate } but in Gaul and Britain it was en-
trufted to the druids, who were the phyficians as well
as the priefts of thefe countries. Pliny fays exprefsly,
“ That Tiberius Cgefar deftroyed the druids of the
Gauls, who were the poets and phyficians of that na¬
tion j” and he might have added of the Britons. The
people of Gaul and Britain were probably induced to
devolve the care of their health on the druids, and to
apply to thefe priefts for the cure of their difeafes,
not only by the high efteem they had of their wifdom
and learning, but alfo by the opinion which they en¬
tertained, that a very intimate connexion fubfifted be¬
tween the arts of healing and the rites of religion, and
that the former were moft effeflual when they were ac¬
companied by the latter. It appears indeed to have
been the prevailing opinion of all the nations of anti¬
quity, that all internal difeafes proceeded immediately
from the anger of the gods ; and that the only way of
obtaining relief from thefe difeafes was by applying to
their priefts to appeafe their anger by religious rites and
facrifices. This was evidently the opinion and praflice
of the Gauls and Britons, who in fome dangerous cafes
facrificed one man as the moft effeftual means of curing
X x another.
D R U
[ 346 ]
D R U
Druids.
1 x
Botany.
another. “ They are much add'nfled (fays Caefar) to
fuperftition ; and for this caufe, thofe who are affli&ed
wTith a dangerous difeafe facrifice a man, or promife
that they will facrifice one, for their recovery. For
this purpofe they make ufe of the miniltry of the
druids ; becaufe they have declared, that the anger of
the immortal gods cannot be appeafed, fo as to fpare
the life ot one man, but by the life of another. This
way of thinking gave rife alfo to that great number of
magical rites and incantations with which the medical
practices of the druids, and indeed of all the phyficians
of antiquity, were attended. “ No body doubts (fays
Pliny) that magic derived its origin from medicine, and
that, by its flattering but delufive promifes, it came to
be efteemed the moll fublime and facred part of the
art of healing.”
That the druids made great ufe of herbs for medi¬
cinal purpofes, we have fufficient evidence. They not
only had a moft fuperftitious veneration for the miile-
toe of the oak, on a religious account, but they alio
entertained a very high opinion of its medical virtues,
and efteemed it a kind of panacea or remedy for all
difeafes. “ They call it (fays Pliny) by a name which
in their language fignifies All-heal, becaufe they have an
opinion that it cureth all difeafes.” I hey believed it
to be in particular a fpecific againft barrennefs, and a
fovereign antidote againft the fatal effedls of poilons
of all kinds. It was efteemed alfo an excellent emol¬
lient and difcutient for foftening and difcufling hard
tumours ; good for drying up icrophulous fores j for
curing ulcers and wounds ; and (provided it was not
fuffered to touch the earth after it was cut) it was
thought to be a very efficacious medicine in the epi-
lepfy or falling ficknefs. It hath been thought ufeful
in this laft calamitous difeafe by fome modern phyfi¬
cians. The pompous ceremonies with which the miile-
toe was gathered by the druids have been alieady de-
fcribed. The felago, a kind of hedge byffop refem-
bling favin, was another plant much admired by the
druids of Gaul and Britain for its fuppofed medicinal
virtues, particularly in all difeafes of the eyes. But ita
efticacy, according to them, depended very much upon
its being gathered exadlly in the following manner .
The perfon who gathered it was to be clothed in a
white robe 5 to have his feet bare, and waflied in pure
water ; to offer a facrifice of bread and wine before he
proceeded to cut it; which he was to do with his right
hand covered with the fkirt of his garment, and^with
a hook of fome more precious metal than iron.. When
it was cut, it was to be received into, and kept in a new
and very clean cloth. When it was gathered exaclly
according to this whimlical ritual, they affirmed that
it was not only an excellent medicine, but alio a
powerful charm and prefervative from misfortunes and
unhappy accidents of all kinds. They entertained a
hiah opinion alfo of the herb famolus or marfhwort,
for its fanative qualities ; and gave many direftions for
the gathering it, no lefs fanciful than thofe above men¬
tioned. The perfon who was to perform that office was
to do it falling, and with his left Viand ", he was on no
account to look behind him, nor to turn his face from
the herbs he was gathering. It would be tedious to
relate the extravagant notions they entertained of the
many virtues of the vervain, and to recount the ridi¬
culous mummeries which they praftifed in gathering
and preparing it, both for the purpofes of divination
and phyfic. Thefe things may be feen in Plin. Hift.
Nat. 1. 25. c. 9. from whence we have received all thefe
anecdotes of the botany of the druids. It is eafy to
fee that his information was very imperfea } and that,
like many of the othe»r Greek and Roman writers, he
defignedly reprefents the philofophers of Gaul and Bri¬
tain in an unfavourable light. The herb which was
called Britannica by the ancients, which fome think was
the great water-dock, and others the coohlearia or feur-
vy-grafs, was probably much ufed in this ifland for me¬
dical purpofes j as it derived its name from hence, and
was from hence exported to Rome and other parts.
Though thefe few imperfeft hints are all that .we can
now colleft of the botany of the Britifh druids, yet
we.have fome reafon to think that they were not con¬
temptible botanifts. Their circumftances were pecu¬
liarly favourable for the acquifition of this, kind of know¬
ledge. For as they fpent moft of their time in the
receffes of mountains, groves, and woods, the fponta-
neous vegetable produftions of the earth conftantl.y
prefented themfelves to their view, and courted their
attention. r r- 1
The opinions which, it is faid, the druids ot Gaul
and Britain entertained of their anguinum or ferpents
egg, both as a charm and as a medicine, are romantic
and extravagant in a very high degree. This extraor¬
dinary egg was formed, as they pretended, by a great
number of ferpents, interwoven and twined together j
and when it was formed, it was raifed up in ^ ^
by the biffing of thefe ferpents, and was to be catched
in a clean white cloth before it fell to the ground.
The perfon who catched it was obliged to mount a
fwift horfe, and to ride away at. full fpeed to elcape
from the ferpents, who purfued him with great rage,
until they were flopped by fome river. I he way ot
making trial of the genuinenefs of this egg was no leis
extraordinary. It was to be enchaled m gold, and
thrown into a river, and if it was genuine it
fwim againft the ftream. “ I have feen (lays Pliny)
that egg ; it is about the bignefs of a moderate apple,
its fhell is a cartilaginous incruftation, full of little ca¬
vities, fucb as are on the legs of the polypus j it is the
infignia or badge of diftinaion of the druids. 1 he
virtues which they aferibed to this egg were many
and wonderful. It was particularly efficacious to ren¬
der thofe who carried it about with them fuperior to
their adverfaries in all difputes, and to procure them
the favour and friendfhip of great men. Some have
thought that this whole affair of the ferpents egg was
a mere fraud, contrived by the druids, to excite the
admiration and pick the pockets of credulous people,
who purchafed thefe wonder-working eggs from them
at a high price. Others have imagined that this ftory
of the anguinum (of which there is an ancient monu¬
ment in the cathedral at Paris) was an emblematical
reprefentation of the doarine of the druids concerning
the creation of the world. The ferpents, fay they, re-
prefent the Divine wifdom forming the un.verfe, and
the egg is the emblem of the world formed by that
wifdom. It may be added, that the v.rtue afcr.bed to
the anguinum, of giving thofe who poffcffed it a iu-
periority over others, and endearing them to great men,
may perhaps be intended to reprefent the natural et-
fefts of learning and philofophy. But in fo doubt u
Druids.
Druids.
Rhetoric.
D R U [ 347 ] D R U
full liberty to form what gyrics, which the poet or bard pronounced. The ora- Druid
tors, by the force of their eloquence, had a powerful
afcendant over the greateft men in their time. For if
any orator did but afk the habit, arms, horfe, or any
other thing belonging to the greateft man in thefe
iilands, it was readily granted him 5 fometimes out of
refpeCt, and fometimes for fear of being exclaimed a-
gainft by a fatire, which in thofe days was reckoned a
great difhonour.” x-
If the Britilh druids, confidering the times in which Magic and
they lived, had made no contemptible proficiency in divination,
feveral parts of real and ufeful learning, it cannot be
denied that they were alfo great pretenders to fupe-
rior knowledge in certain vain fallacious fciences, by
which they excited the admiration, and took advan¬
tage of the ignorance and credulity of mankind. Thefe
were the fciences (if they may be fo called) of magic
a matter every one is at
' judgment he thinks proper.
As the influence and authority of the druids in their
country, depended very much upon the reputation of
their fuperior wifdom and learning, they wifely applied
to the ftudy of thofe fciences which moft dire&ly con¬
tributed to the fupport and advancement of that repu¬
tation. In this number, befides thofe already mention¬
ed, we may juftly reckon rhetoric, which was diligent¬
ly ftudied and taught by the druids of Gaul and Bri¬
tain -y who to the charms of their eloquence were in¬
debted for much of the admiration and authority which
they enjoyed. They had indeed many calls and oppor¬
tunities to difplay their eloquence, and to difcover its
great power and efficacy •, as, when they wrere teach¬
ing their pupils in their fchools $ when they difcourfed
in public to the people on religious and moral fubjefts;
when they pleaded caufes in the courts of juftice ; and
when they harangued in the great councils of the na¬
tion, and at the heads of armies ready to engage in
battle, fometimes with a view to inflame their cou¬
rage, and at other times with a defign to allay their
fury, and difpofe them to make peace. Though this
laft was certainly a very difficult talk among fierce and
warlike nations, yet fuch was the authority and elo¬
quence of the druids, that they frequently fucceeded
in it. “ They pay a great regard (fays Diodorus Si¬
culus) to their exhortations, not only in the affairs of
peace, but even of war, and thefe are refpedted both
by their friends and enemies. They fometimes ftep in
between two hoftile armies, who are ftanding with their
fwords drawn and their fpears extended, ready to en¬
gage ; and by their eloquence, as by an irrefiftible en¬
chantment, the)r prevent the effufion of blood, and
prevail upon them to (heath their fwords. So great
are the charms of eloquence and the power of wifdom
even amongft the moft fierce barbarians.” The Britifh
kings and chieftans who were educated by the druids,
were famous for their eloquence. This is evident from
the many noble fpeeches which are afcribed to them
by the Greek and Roman writers. For though thefe
ipeeches may not be genuine, yet they are a proof that
it was a well known fa<ft, that thefe princes were ac-
cuftomed to make harangues on thefe and the like oc-
cafions. This we are exprefsly told by Tacitus : 
“ The Britifti chieftans, before a battle, fly from rank
to rank, and addrefs their men with animating fpeech-
es, tending to inflame their courage, increafe their
hopes, and difpel their fears.” Thefe harangues were
called, in the ancient language of Britain, Brofnichiy
Kah, which is literally tranflated by Tacitus, lncita~
menta Be/li, “ incentives to war.” The genuine po-
fterity of the ancient Britons long retained their tafte
for eloquence, and their high efteem for thofe who ex¬
celled in that art. “ Orators (fays Mr Martin) were
in high efteem, both in thefe iflands (the /Ebudae) and
the continent, until within thefe forty years. They
fat always among the nobles or chiefs of families in
the ftreah or circle. Their houfes and little village?
were fan&uaries, as well as churches, and they took
place before dodors of phyfic. The orators, after the
druids were extinft, were brought in to preferve the
genealogy of families, and to repeat the fame at every
fucceffion of a chief; and upon the occafion of mar¬
riages and births, they made epithalamiums and pane-
and divination ; by which they pretended to work a
kind of miracles, and exhibit aftoniftiing appearances
in nature ; to penetrate into the counfels of heaven ;
to foretel future events, and to difcover the fuccefs or
miicarriage of public or private undertakings. Their
own countrymen not only believed that the druids of
Gaul and Britain were pofleffed of thefe powers, but
they were celebrated on this account by the philo-
fophers of Greece and Rome. “ In Britain (fays
Fliny) the magic arts are cultivated with fuch aftonifti¬
ing fuccefs, and fo many ceremonies, at this day, that
the Britons feem to be capable of inftrufting even the
Perfians themfelves in thefe arts. They pretend to
difcover the defigns and purpofes of the gods. The
I^ubates or Vates in particular inveftigate and difplay
the moft fublime fecrets of nature ; and, by aufpices
and facrifices, they foretel future events.” They were
fo famous for the fuppofed veracity of their predic¬
tions, that they were not only confulted on all import¬
ant occafions by their own princes and great men,
but even fometimes by the Roman emperors. Nor is
it very difficult to account for all this. The druids
finding that the reputation of their magical and pro¬
phetical powers contributed not a little to the ad¬
vancement of their wealth and influence, they endea¬
voured, no doubt, to ftrengthen and eftablilh it by all
their art and cunning. Their knowledge of natural
philofophy and mechanics enabled them to execute
fuch wotks, and to exhibit fuch appearances, or to
make the world believe that they did exhibit them, as
were fufficient to gain them the charafter of great
magicians. The truth is, that nothing is more eafy
than to acquire this chara&er in a dark age, and a-
mong an unenlightened people. When the minds of
men are haunted with dreams of charms and enchant¬
ments, they are apt to fancy that the moft common oc¬
currences in nature are the effefts of magical arts. The
following Orange ftory, which we meet with in Plu¬
tarch’s Treatife of the Ceffation of Oracles, was pro¬
bably occafioned by fomething of this kind. “ There
are many iflands which lie fcattered about the ifle of
Britain after the manner of our Sporades. They are
generally unpeopled, and fome of them are called the
IJlands of the Heroet. One Demetrius was fent by the
emperor (perhaps Claudius), to difcover thofe parts.
He arrived at one of thefe iflands (fuppofed by fome to
be Anglefey, but more probably one of the Ebuda;)
next adjoining to the ifle of Britain before mentioned,
X x 2 which
u [
a few Britons, who
D R
Druids, which was Inhabited by a few Britons, who were
Drain, efteemed facred and inviolable by their countrymen.
v ' Immediately after his arrival the air grew black and
troubled, and ftrange apparitions were feen ; the winds
rofe to a tempeft, and fiery fpouts and whirlwinds ap¬
peared dancing towards the earth.” This was pro¬
bably no more than a ftorm of wind, accompanied
with rain and lightning } a thing neither unnatural
nor uncommon : but Demetrius and his companions
having heard that the Britilh druids, by whom this
ifie was chiefly inhabited, were great magicians, they
imagined that it was raifed by them •, and fancied that
they faw many fixange and unnatural fights. The druids
did' not think proper to undeceive them ; for when
they inquired at them about the caufe of this ftorm,
they told them it was occafioned by the death of one
of thofe invifible beings or genii who frequented their
ifle. A wonderful and artful tale, very well calculat¬
ed to increafe the fuperftitious terrors of Demetrius
and his crew} and to determine them to abandon this
enchanted ifle, with a refolution never to return.
Stonehenge, and feveral other works of the druids,
were believed to have been executed by the arts of ma¬
gic and enchantment, for many ages after the deftruc-
tion of their whole order ; nor is it improbable that
they perfuaded the vulgar in their own times to enter¬
tain the fame opinion of thefe w’orks, by concealing
from them the real arts by which they are performed.
The natural and acquired fagacity of the druids,
their long experience, and great concern in the con-
dua of affairs, enabled them to form very probable
conjeaures about the events of enterprifes. Thefe
conieaures they pronounced as oracles, when they were
confulted ; and they pretended to derive them from the
infpeaion of the entrails of viftims, the obfervation
of the flight and feeding of certain birds, and many
other mummeries. By thefe, and the like arts, they
obtained and preferved the reputation of prophetic
forefight among an ignorant and credulous people.
But thefe pretenfions of the druids to magic and
divination, which contributed fo much to the ad¬
vancement of their fame and fortune in their own
times, have brought very heavy reproaches upon their
memory, and have made fome learned moderns declare
that they ought to be expunged out of the catalogue
348 ] D R U
by the means of fmall cords or Aiding knots. It is beat
upon with flicks. Drums are fometimes made of brafs,
but moft commonly they are of wood.—The drum is
by Le Clerc faid to have been an oriental invention,
and to have been brought by the Arabians, or perhaps
rather the Moors, into Spain.
Kettle-DRVMS, are two forts of large bafons of cop¬
per or brafs, rounded in the bottom, and covered with
vellum or goat fkin, which is kept fall by a circle of
iron round the body of the drum, with a number of
fcrews to fcrew up and down. They are much ufed
among the horfej as alfo in operas, oratorias, concerts,
&.C.
Drum, or Drummer, he that beats the drum •, of
whom each company of foot has one, and fometimes
two. Every regiment has a drum major, who has the
command over the other drums. They are diftin-
guiftied from the foldiers by clothes of a different fa-
(hion : their poft, when a battalion is drawn up, is
on the flanks, and on a march it is betwixt the di-
vifions.
Dkvm of the Ear, the fame with the tympanum, bee
Anatomy Index.
DRUMMOND, William, a Scotilh poet, was
born in 1585, and was the fon of Sir John Drummond,
who for ten or twelve years was ulher and afterwards
knight of the black rod to James VI. His family
became firft diftinguilhed by the marriage of Robert III.
whofe queen was After to William Drummond of Car-
nock their anceftor j as appears by the patent of that
king and James I. the one calling him “ our brother,
the other “ our uncle.”
Drummond was educated at Edinburgh, where he
took the degree of A. M. In 1606 he was fent by
his father to ftudy civil law at Bourges m France : but
having no tafte for the profeflion of a lawyer, he re¬
turned to Scotland, and retired to his agreeable feat
at Hawthornden •, where he applied himfelf with great
afliduity to claflical learning and poetry, and obliged
the world with feveral fine produftions. Here he
wrote his Cyprefs Grove, a piece of excellent prole,
after a dangerous fit of ficknefs •, and about the lame
time his Flowers of Sion in verfe. But an accident be-
fel him, which obliged him to quit his retirement-, and
that was the death of an amiable lady to whom he w-as
Drum,
Drum¬
mond.
of philofophers, and efteemed no better than mere
cheats and jugglers. This cenfure is evidently too
fevere, and might have been pronounced with equal
juftice upon all the ancient philofophers of Egypt, Al-
fyria, Perfia, Greece, and Rome; who were great
pretenders to magic and divination, as well as our
druids. “ I know of no nation in the world (fays Ci¬
cero) either fo polite and learned, or fo favage and
barbarous, as not to believe that future events are pre-
lignified to us, and may by fome men be difcovered
and foretold.” The only conclufron therefore that can
be fairly drawn, from the fuccefsful pretenfions of the
Britilh "druids to the arts of magic and divination, is
this That they had more knowledge than their coun¬
trymen and contemporaries ; but had not fo much vir¬
tue as to refill the temptation of impofing upon their
ignorance to their own advantage. .
DRUM,' is a martial mufical inftrument in form or
a cylinder,’hollow within, and covered at the two ends
with vellum, which is ftretched or flackened at plea-ur^.
iuft going to be married. This affefted him fo deeply,
that he went to Paris and Rome, between which two
places he refided eight years. He travelled alfo through
Germany, France, and Italy : where he vifited umver-
fities t converfed with learned men; and made a choice
colledlion of the ancient Greek, and of the modern
Spanilh, French, and Italian books. He then return¬
ed to his native country ; and fome time thereafter
married Margaret Logan, a grand-daughter of Sir Ro¬
bert Logan. Upon the appearance of a civil war, he
retired again ; and in this retirement is fuppoled to
have written his hiftory of the Five James’s lucceflive-
ly kings of Scotland, which was not publilhed till alter
his death. Having beer, grafted as it were on the
royal family of Scotland, and upheld by them, he was
fteadily attached to Charles I. ; but does not appear
ever to have armed for him. As he had always been
a laborious ftudent, and had applied himfelf equally to
hiftory and politics as to claflical learning, his lervices
were better rendered by occafional publications^ m
D R U
D R U t 349 3
Drum¬
mond.
• Curfory
Remarks on
fame of the
Englijh
JPoetsy 8 vo.
1789.
which he feveral times diftinguillied himfelf. In a
piece called Irenes he harangues the king, nobility,
and clergy, about their mutual miftakes, fears, andjea-
loufies ; and lays before them the confequences of a civil
war, from indifputable arguments and the hiftoiies of
paft times. The great marquis of Montrofe wrote a
letter to him, defiring him to print this Irene, as the
belt means to quiet the minds of a diftrafled people :
he likewife fent him a proteftion, dated Auguft 1645,
immediately after the battle of Kilfyth, with a letter,
in which he commends Mr Drummond’s learning and
loyalty. Mr Drummond w'rote other things alfo with
the fame view of promoting peace and union, of calm¬
ing the difturbed minds of the people, of reafoning the
better fort into moderation, and checking the grow'ing
evils which would be the confequence of their obftina-
cy. But his efforts wTere fruitlefs ; and his attachment
to the king and his caufe were fo ftrong, that when he
heard of the fentence being executed on him, he w^as
overwhelmed with grief, and lifted his head no more.
He died in the year 1649, leaving behind him feveral
children : the eldeft of whom, William, was knighted
by Charles II. He had a great intimacy and corre-
fpondence with the twm famous E-nglilh poets, Michael
Drayton and Ben Johnfon •, the latter of whom, at the
age of 45, travelled from London on foot, to vifit him
at Hawthornden. An edition of his works, with his
life prefixed, was printed in folio at Edinburgh, 1711.
Among all the writers, at the beginning of the laft
century, who flourilhed after the death of Shakefpeare,
an ingenious critic * obferves, there is not one whom
a general reader of the Englifh poetry of that age will
regard with fo much and fo deferved attention as Wil¬
liam Drummond. In a furvey of his poetry, two con-
fiderations muff be had, viz. the nation of which he
was, and the time when he wrote. Yet will thefe be
found not offered to extenuate faults, but to increafe
admiration. His thoughts are often, nay generally,
bold and highly poetical : he follows nature, and his
verfes are delicately harmonious. As his poems are not
eafily met with, and have perhaps by many readers ne¬
ver been heard of, a few extrafts may be excufed.
On the death of Henry prince of Wales in 1612,
Drummond wrote an elegy, entitled Tears on the Death
of Moeliades; a name which that prince had ufed in all
his challenges of martial fport, as the anagram of Miles
a Deo. In this poem are lines, according to Denham’s
terms, as ftrong, as deep, as gentle, and as full, as any
of his or Waller’s. The poet laments the fate of the
prince, that he died not in fome glorious caufe of war ;
u Againft the Turk (fays he) thou hadft ended thy life
and the Chriftian war together
Or, as brave Bourbon, thou hadft made old Rome,
Queen of the world, thy triumph and thy tombe.
Of the lamentation of the river Forth :
And as (lie rufti’d her Cyclades among,
She feem’d to plain that Heav’n had done her wrong.
Further : '
Tagus did court his love with golden ftreams,
Rhine with her towns, fair Seine with all (he claims:
But ah, poor lovers! death did them betray j
And unfufpe&ed, made their hopes his prey.
And concludes : Dmur-
mond.
The virgins to thy tomb will garlands bear ——-y—
Of fiow’rs, and with each flow’r let fall a tear.
Moeliades fweet courtly nymphs deplore,
From Thule to Hydafpes’ pearly (hore.
Perhaps there are no lines of Pope of which the eafy
flow may be more juftly admired than of thofe in his
third paftoral j
Not bubbling fountains to the thirfty fwain,
Not balmy deep to lab’rers faint with pain,
Not fhowers to larks, or funfhine to the bee,
Are half fo charming as thy fight to me.
When King James I. after his acceflion to the Eng-
lifli throne, returned to Scotland in 16x7, his arrival
was celebrated by every effort of poetical congratula¬
tion. Upon this occafion Drummond compofed a pa¬
negyric entitled The Wandering Mules, or the River
Forth feafting •, in which are found four lines apparent¬
ly imitated by Pope in the above paffage, and which
do not in point of harmony fall much (hort of that
imitation. He fays,
To virgins, flow’rs ; to fun-burnt earth, the rain j
To mariners, fair winds amidft the main j
Cool (hades, to pilgrims whom hot glances burn y
Are not fo pleafing as thy bleft return.
Of thefe two poems of Drummond, it is obfervable,
that the firft was written in 1612, the laft in 1617.
The earlieft piece of Waller is that to the king on his
navy in 1625. The piece in wdnch Sir John Denham’s
greateft force lies, Cooper’s Hill, was not written till
1640. The harmony of Drummond, therefore, at a
time when thofe who are ufually called the firft intro¬
ducers of a fmooth and polilhed verfification had not
yet begun to write, is an honour to him that (hould
never be forgotten. Nor is his excellence half enough
praifed or acknowledged.
Drummond and Petrarch had this in common, that
each lamented, firft the cruelty, and then the lofs of
his miftrefs ; fo that their fonnets are alike naturally
divided into two parts, thofe before and thofe after
their feveral miftreffes deaths. It may juftly be
doubted, that among all the fonneteers in the Engliftr
language any one is to be preferred to Drummond.
He has (hown in fome of thefe compofitions nearly
the fpirit of Petrarch himfelf. Of each period one is
here inferted j the firft, before the death of his mi¬
ftrefs :
Ah me, and am I now the man, whofe mufe
In happier times was w’ont to laugh at love,
In thofe who fuffered that blind boy abufe
The noble gifts were giv’n them from above !
What metamorphofe ftrange is this I prove ?
Myfelf I fcarce now find myfelf to be $
And think no fable Circe’s tyrannic.
And all the tales are told of changed Jove.
Virtue hath taught, with her philofophy
My mind into a better courfe to move.
Reafon may chide her full, and oft reprove
Affedlion’s power *, but what is that to me.
Who ever think, and never think on aught
But that bright cherubim which thralls my thought l
l From
D R U [
mood, From Part II. after her death, (Sonnet I.)
Drunken-
nefs. Of mortal glory, O foon darken’d ray !
’"“~v O winged joys of man, more fwift than wind !
O fond defires which in our fancies ftray !
O traiterous hopes which do our judgments blind !
Lo, in a flafh that light is gone away,
Which dazzle did each eye, delight each mind }
And with that fun from whence it came combin’d,
Now makes more radiant heav’n’s eternal day.
Let Beauty now bedew her cheeks with tears j
Let widow’d Mufic only roar and groan ;
Poor Virtue, get thee wings and mount the fpheres,
For dwelling-place on earth for thee is none :
Death hath thy temple raz’d, Love’s empire foil’d,
The wTorld of honour, worth, and fweetnefs fpoil’d.
The feventh fonnet of the firft part has much refem-
blance to Sir Henry Wotton’s elegant little poem on
the queen of Bohemia, “Ye meaner beauties,” &c.
Among Drummond’s Flowers of Sion, the poem which
begins “ Amidft the azure clear—of Jordan’s facred
Breams,” eminently diftinguilhes him, whether he be
confidered as a philofopher or a poet.
DRUNKENNESS, a well-known diforder in the
brain, occafioned by drinking too freely of fpirituous
liquors. Drunkennefs appears in different Ihapes in
different conftitutions : fome it makes gay, fome ful-
len, and fome furious. The mifehief of drunkennefs
confiffs in the following bad effe&s : I. It betrays moft
conftitutions either into extravagancies of anger, or
fins of lewdnefs. 2. It difqualifies men for the duties
of their ftation, both by the temporary diforder of
their faculties, and at length by a conftant incapacity
und ftupefa&ion. 3. It is attended with expences,
which can often be ill fpared. 4’ ^ fure occafion
uneafinefs to the family of the drunkard. 5. It (hortens
life. To thefe confequences of drunkennefs muft be add¬
ed the peculiar danger and mifehiet of the example.
“ Drunkennefs (Mr Paley obferves) is a focial feftive
vice. The drinker colle&s his circle ; the circle natur¬
ally fpreadsof thofe wdio are drawn within it, many
become the corrupters and centres of fets and circles of
their own ; every one countenancing, and perhaps emu¬
lating, the reft, till a whole neighbourhood be infe6ted
from the contagion of a fingle example. With this
obfervation upon the fpreading quality of drunkennefs,
may be connefted a remark which belongs to the feve-
ral evil effefts above recited. The confequences of a
vice, like the fymptoms of a difeafe, though they be all
enumerated in the defeription, feldom all meet in the
fame fubjeft. In the inftance under confideration, the
age and temperature of one drunkard may have little
to fear from inflammations of lull or anger ; the fortune
of a fecond may not be injured by the expence ; a third
may have no family to be difquieted by his irregulari¬
ties ; and a fourth may poffefs a conftitution fortified
againft the poifon of ftrong liquors. But if, as we
always ought to do, we comprehend within the confe¬
quences of our conduft the mifehief and tendency of
the example, the above circumltances, however fortu¬
nate for the individual, will be found to vary the guilt
of his intemperance lefs, probably, than he fuppofes.
Although the wafte of time and money may be of fmall
3Jo ] D R U
importance to you, it may be of the utmoft to fome one Drunken-
or other whom your fociety corrupts. Repeated or . re^’
long-continued exceffes, which hurt not your health, ‘ ’
may be fatal to your companion. Although you have
neither wife nor child, nor parent, to lament your ab*
fence from home, or expert your return to it with ter¬
ror j other families, whofe hulbands and fathers have
been invited to lhare in your ebriety, or encouraged to
imitate it, may juttly lay their mifery or ruin at your
door. This will hold good, whether the ptrfon feduced
be feduced immediately by you, or the vice be propa¬
gated from you to him through feveral intermediate
examples.”
The ancient Lacedemonians ufed to make their flaves
frequently drunk, to give their children an averfion and
horror for the fame. The Indians hold drunkennefs
a fpecies of madnefs j and in their language, the fame
term (rnnigam), that fignifies “ drunkard,” fignifies al-
fo a “ phrenetick.”
Drunkennefs is repeatedly forbidden by St Paul:
“ Be not drunk with wine, wherein is excels.” “ Let
us walk honeftly as in the day, not in rioting and drunk¬
ennefs.” “ Be not deceived : neither fornicators, nor
drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, fhall inherit
the kingdom of God,” Eph. vi. 18. Rom. xiii. 13.
I. Cor. vi. 9, IQ. The fame apoftle likewiie condemns
drunkennefs, as peculiarly inconfiftent with the Chriftian
profeflion : “ They that be drunken, are drunken in
the night •, but let us, who are of the day, be fober.”
I Theff. v. 7, 8.
Drunkennefs, by our laws, is looked upon as an ag¬
gravation rather than an excule for any criminal beha¬
viour. A drunkard, fays Sir Edward Coke, who is
voluntarius dtemon, hath no privilege thereby : but what
hurt or ill foever he doth, his drunkennefs doth aggra¬
vate it : nam omne crimen ebnetas et incendit et dtier git >
It hath been obferved that the real ule of ftrong li¬
quors, and the abufe of them by drinking to excefs,
depend much upon the temperature of the climate in
which we live. The fame indulgence which may be
neceffary to make the blood move in Norway, would
make an Italian mad. A German, therefore, fays the
prefident Montefquieu, drinks through cuftom founded
upon conftitutional neceffity; a Spaniard drinks through
choice, or out of the mere wantonnefs of luxury *, and
drunkennefs, he adds, ought to be more feverely pu-
niflied where it makes men mifehievous and mad, as
in Spain and Italy, than where it only renders them
ftupid and heavy, as in Germany and more northern
countries. And accordingly, in the warmer climate of
Greece, a law of Pittacus enafted, “ that he who
committed a crime when drunk fhould receive a double
punifhment j” one for the crime itfelf, and the other
for the ebriety which prompted him to commit it.
The Roman law indeed made great allowances for this
vice : per vinum delapfis capitahs peena remittitur. But
the law of England, confiderir.g how eafy it is to coun¬
terfeit this excufe, and how w'eak an excuie it is (though
real), will not fuffer any man thus to privilege one
crime by another.
For the offence of drunkennefs a man may be pu-
niflied in the ecclefiaftical court, as w’ell as by juftices
of peace by ftatute. And by 4 Jac. I. c. 5. ai d
21 Jac. I. c. 7. if any perfon fhall be cenvi&ed of
drunkennefs by the view of a juftice, oath of one wit-
nefs,
D R U [ 35i j D R U
Drunken- nefs, &c. he {hall forfeit 5s. for the firft offence, to
nets‘ be levied by diftrefs and fale of his goods; and for
want of a diftrefs, ftiall fit in the flocks fix hours : and
for the fecond offence, he is to be bound with two fure-
ties in xol. each, to be of good behaviour, or to be
committed. And he who is guilty of any crime
through his own voluntary drunkennefs, ftiall be punifti-
ed for it as ifhe had been fober. It has been held that
drunkennefs is a fufficient caufe to remove a magi-
ftrate •, and the profecution for this offence by the fta-
tute of 4 Jac. I. c. 5. was to be, and ftill may be, be¬
fore juftices of peace in their feflions by way of in-
di&ment, &c. Equity will not relieve againft a bond,
&.c. given by a man when drunk, unlefs the drunken¬
nefs is occafioned through the management or con¬
trivance of him to whom the bond is given.
The appetite for intoxicating liquors appears to be
altnoft always acquired. One proof of which is, that
it is apt to return only at particular times and places j
as after dinner, in the evening, on the market day, at
the market town, in fuch a company, at fuch a tavern.
And this may be the reafon, that if a habit of drunk¬
ennefs be ever overcome, it is upon fome change of
place, fituation, company, or profeflion. A man funk
deep in a habit of drunkennefs, will upon fuch occa-
fions as thefe, when he finds himfelf loofened from the
affociations which held him faft, fometimes make a
plunge, and get out. In a matter of fuch great im¬
portance, it is well worth while, where it is tolerably
convenient, to change our habitation and fociety, for
the fake of the experiment.
Habits of drunkennefs commonly take their rife
either from a fondnefs for, or connexion with, fome
company, or fome companion, already addifted to this
practice j which affords an almoft irrefiftible invi¬
tation to take a ftiare in the indulgencies which thofe
about us are enjoying with fo much apparent relifh
and delight ; or from want of regular employment,
which is fure to let in many fuperfluous cravings and
cuftoms, and often this amongft the reft ; or, laftly,
from grief or fatigue, both which ftrongly folicit that
relief which inebriating liquors adminifter for the pre-
fent, and furnifh a fpecious excufe for complying with
the inclination. But the habit, when once fet in, is
continued by different motives from thofe to which
it owes its origin. Perfons addicled to exceflive drink¬
ing fuffer, in the intervals of fobriety, and near the re¬
turn of their accuftomed indulgence, a faintnefs and
oppreflion about the prcecordia which it exceeds the
ordinary patience of human nature to endure. This
is ufiially relieved for a fhort time by a repetition of the
fame excefs: and to this relief, as to the removal of
every long-continued pain, they wdio have once expe¬
rienced it are urged almoft beyond the power of refift-
ance. This is not all : as the liquor lofes its ftimulus,
the dofe muft be increafed, to reach the fame pitch of
elevation or eafe which increafe proportionably acce¬
lerates the progrefs of all the maladies that drunken-
cefs brings on. Whoever refle<fts, therefore, upon the
violence of the craving in advanced ftages of the habit,
and the fatal termination to which the gratification of
it leads, will, the moment he perceives the leaft ten¬
dency in bimlelf of a growing inclination to intempe¬
rance, coiled! his refolution to this point; or (what
perhaps he will find his beft fecurity) arm himfelf with
fome peremptory rule, as to the times and quantity of Drupa,
his indulgencies. . I3u^cs-
DRUPA, or Druppa, in Botany, a fpecies of pe-
ticarpium or feed-veffel, which is lucculent or pulpy,
bias no valve or external opening like the capfule and
pod, and contains within its fubftance a ftone or nut.
The cherry, plum, peach, apricot, and all other ftone
fruit are of this kind.
The term, which is of great antiquity, is fynony-
mous to Tournefort’s fru&ns mollis ojjicu/o, “ foft fruit
wdth a ftone and to the prunus of other botanifts.
The ftone or nut, which in this fpecies of fruit is
furrounded by the foft pulpy flefh, is a kind of ligneous
or woody cup, which contains a Angle kernel or feed.
This definition, however, will not apply to every
feed-veffel denominated drvpa in the Genera Plantarum.
The almond is a drupa, fo is the feed-veffel of the elm
tree and the genus rumphia^ though far from being
pulpy or fucculent; the firft and third are of a fubftance
like leather, the fecond like parchment. The fame may
be faid of the walnut, piftachia nut, guettarda, quifqua¬
ils, jack-in-a-box, and fome others.
Again, the feeds of the elm, fchrebera, fiageUaria,
and the mango tree, are not contained in a ftone. The
feed-veffel of burr reed is dry, fhaped like a top, and
contains two angular ftones.
This fpecies of fruit, or more properly feed-veffe],
is commonly roundifh, and when feated below the ca¬
lyx or receptacle of the flower, is furnifhed, like the
apple, at the end oppofite to the footftalk, with a
fmall umbilicus or cavity, which is produced by the
fwTelling of the fruit before the falling off of the flower-
cup.
DRUSES, or Dhuzes, a remarkable nation in
Paleftine, inhabiting the environs of Mount Lebanon,
of whofe origin and hiftory we have the following de¬
tail by M. Volney.
Twenty-three years after the death of Mahomet, the
difputes between Ali his fon-in-law and Moaouia go¬
vernor of Syria, occafioned the firft fchifm in the em¬
pire of the Arabs, and the two fe<51s fubfift to this day :
but, in reality, this difference related only to power ;
and the Mahometans, however divided in opinion re-
fpedling the rightful fucceffor of the prophet, were
agreed with refpedl to their, dogmas. It was not un¬
til the following century that the perufal of Greek
books introduced among the Arabs a fpirit of difcuf-
fion and controverfy, to which till then they were ut¬
ter ftrangers. The confequence was, as might be ex¬
pelled, by reafoning on matters not fufceptible of de-
monftration, and guided by the abftradl principles of
an unintelligible logic, they divided into a multitude
of fedls and opinions. At this period, too, the civil
power loft its authority ; and religion, which frcm that
derives the means of preferving its unity, fhartd the
fame fate, and the Mahometans now experienced what
had before befallen the Chriftians. The nations which
had received the religion of Mahomet, mixed with it
their former abfurd notions; and the errors which had
anciently prevailed over Afia again made their appear¬
ance, though altered in their forms. The metempfy-
chofis, the dodfrine of a good and evil principle, and
the renovation after fix thoufand years, as it had been
taught by Zoroafter, were again revived among the
Mahometans. In this political and religious confufion
every
Diufes.
D R U [35
every entliuriaft became an apoille, and every apoftle
' the head of a fea. No lefs than fixty of thefe were
reckoned, remarkable for the numbers of their follow¬
ers, all differing in fome points of faith, and all dif-
nvowing herefy and error. Such was the date of thefe
countries when at the commencement of the lith cen¬
tury Egypt became the theatre of one of the moft ex¬
travagant fcenes of enthuflafm and abfurdity ever re¬
corded in hiflory. The following account is extra&ed
from the eaftern writers.
In the year of the Hegira 386 (A. D. 99^)» ^ie
third caliph of the race of the Fatimites, called Hakem-
b'amr- ell ah, fucceeded to the throne of Egypt at the age
of 11 years. He was one of the moft extraordinary
princes of whom hiftory has preferved the memory. He
caufed the firft caliphs, the companions of Mahomet, to
be curfed in the mofques, and afterwards revoked the
anathema : He compelled the Jews and Chriftians to
abjure their religion, and then permitted them to refume
it. He prohibited the making flippers for women, to
prevent them from coming out of their houfes. He
burnt one half of the city of Cairo for his diverfion,
while his foldiers pillaged the other. Not contented
with thefe extravagant a£lions, he forbade the pilgrimage
to Mecca, falling, and the five prayers ; and at length
carried his madnefs fo far as to defire to pafs for Ood
himfelf. He ordered a regifter of thofe who acknow¬
ledged him to be fo, and the number amounted to fix-
teen thoufand. This impious pretenfion was fupported
by a falfe prophet, who came from Perfia into Egypt *,
which impoftor, named Mohammed-bcn-Ifmad, taught
that it was not neceffary to fall or pray, to pra&ife cir-
cumcifion, to make the pilgrimage to Mecca, or obferve
fieftivals •, that the prohibition of pork and wine was ab-
furd } and that marriage between brotliers and lifters,
fathers and children, was lawful. 1 o ingratiate himfelf
with Hakem, he maintained that this caliph was God
himfelf incarnate *, and inftead of his name Hakem -b'amr-
eliah, which fignifies governing by the order of God, he
called him Hahem b'amr-eh, governing by his own order.
Unluckily for the prophet, his new god had notthe
power to protect him from the fury of his enemies, who
flew him in a tumult almoft in the arms of the caliph,,
who was hirafelf maffacred foon after on Mount Mo-
kattam, where he, as he laid,, had held converfation with
angels. t
The death of thefe two chiefs did not flop the pro-
grefs of their opinions : a difciple of Mohammed-ben-
Ifmael, named Ham%a-ben-Ahmud, propagated them
with an indefatigable zeal in Egypt, in Paleftine, and
along the coaft of Syria, as far as Sidon and Berytus,
His profelytes being perfecuted by the fe<ft in power,
they took refuge in the mountains of Lebanon, where
they were better able to defend themfelves ”, at leaf! it
is certain, that, fhortly after this era, we find them
eftablifhed there, and forming an independent fociety.
The difference of their opinions difpofes them to be
enemies ; but the urgent intereft of their common fafety
forces them to allow mutual toleration, and they have
always appeared united, and have jointly oppofed, at
different times, the Crufaders, the fultans of Aleppo,
the Mamelukes, and the Ottomans. _ The conqueft of
Syria by the latter made no change in their fituation.
Selim I. on his return from Egypt, meditating no lefs
than the conqueft of Europe, difdained to wafte his
2 1 D R U
time before the rocks of Lebanon. Soliman II. his Dmfes,
fucceffor, inceffantly engaged in important wars, either-\r—
with the knights of Rhodes, the Perfians, the kingdom
of Yemen, the Hungarians, the Germans, or the em¬
peror Charles V. had no time to think of the Drufes.
Emboldened by this inattention, and not content with
their independence, they frequently defcended from
their mountains to pillage the Turks. The pachas in
vain attempted to repel their inroads j their troops w’ere
invariably routed or repulfed. And it was not till the
year 1588 that Amurath III. wearied with the com¬
plaints made to him, refolved, at all events, to reduce
thefe rebels, and had the good fortune to fucceed.
His general Ibrahim Pacha marched from Cairo, and
attacked the Drufes and Maronites with fo much ad-
drefs and vigour as to force them into their ftrong holds,
the mountains. Diffenfion took place among their
chiefs, of which he availed himfelf to exaft a contri¬
bution of upwards of one million of piafters, and to
impofe a tribute which has continued to the prefent
time.
It appears that this expedition was the epoch of a
confiderable change in the conftitution of the Drufes.
Till then they had lived in a fort of anarchy, under
the command of different fheiks or lords. The na¬
tion was likewife divided into two fa61ions, fuch as
is to be found in all the Arab tribes, and which are
diftinguifhed into the party Kaifi and the party Ya-
mani. To Amplify the adminiftration, Ibrahim per¬
mitted them only one chief, who ftiould be refponfible
for the tribute, and execute the office of civil magif-
trate ; and this governor, from the nature of his fitua¬
tion, acquiring great authority, became almoft the king
of the republic ; but as he was always chofen from
among the Drufes, a confequence followed which the
Turks had not forefeen, and which was nearly fatal
to their power. For the chief thus chofen, having at
his difpofal the whole ftrength of the nation, was able
to give it unanimity and energy, and it naturally turn¬
ed againft the Turks ; fince the Drufes, by becoming
their fubje&s, had not ceafed to be their enemies. They
took care, however, that their attacks ffiould be in-
direft, fo as to fave appearances, and only engaged in
fecret hoftilities, more dangerous, perhaps, than open
war. .
About this time, that is, the beginning of the 17th
century, the power of the Drufes attained its greattft
height; which it owed to the talents and ambition of
the celebrated Faker-el-din, commonly called Fahardin.
No fooner was this prince advanced to be the chief of
that people than he turned his whole attention to hum¬
ble the Ottoman power, and aggrandize himfelf at its
expence. In this enterprife he difplayed an addrefs
feldom feen among the Turks. He firft gained the
confidence of the Porte, by every demonftration of loy¬
alty and fidelity ; and as the Arabs at that time infeft-
ed the plain ,of Balbec and the countries of Sour and
Acre, he made war upon them, freed the inhabitants
from their depredations, and thus rendered them defirous
of living under his government.
The city of Bairout was fituated adyantageoufiy
for his defigns, as it opened a communication with
foreign countries, and, among others, with the \ ene-
tians, the natural enemies of the l urks. Faker-el-din
availed himfelf of the mifcondua of the aga, expelL
ed
D R U
fe,,‘ , ^ riira, .eized on the city, and even had the art to
v paake a merit of this acl of hoftUity with the Divan,
by paying a more confiderable tribute. He proceeded
m the fame manner at Saide-, Ealbec, and Sour ; and
at length, about the year 1613, faw himfelf mafter of
all the country as far as Adjaloun and Safad. The
pachas of i ripoli and Damafcus could not fee thefe en¬
croachments with indifference ; fometimes they oppofed
him with open force, though ineffe&ually, and Ibme-
times endeavoured to ruin him at the Porte by fecret
infinuations ; but the emir, who maintained there In's
fpits and defenders, defeated every attempt.
At length, however, the Divan began to be alarmed
at the progrefs of the Drufes, and made preparations
ior an expedition capable of cruflung them. Whether
from policy or fear, Faker-el-din did not think pro¬
per to wait this ftorm. fie had formed connexions
m Italy, on. which he built great hopes, and deter¬
mined to go in perfon to folicit the fuccours they had
promifed him ; perfuaded that his prefence would in-
creafc tue zeal ot his Inends,, while his ablence might
appeafe the refentment of his enemies. He therefore
embarked at Bairout ; and after religning the admi-
mifiation to his. fon Ali, repaired to the court of the
Medici at Florence. The arrival of an Oriental prince
.n Italy did not fail to attradl: the public attention.
Inquiry w-as made into his nation, and the origin of
the Drufes became a popular topic of refearch. &Their
hiffory and religion were found to be fo little known, as
to leave it a matter of doubt whether they fhould 'be
claffed with the Mahometans or Chriilians. The Cru-
fades were called to mind ; and it was foon fuggefted,
that a people wffo had taken refuge in the mountains,
and were enemies to the natives, could be no other
than the offspring of the Crufaders.
Tins idle conceit was too favourable to Faker-el-din
for him to endeavour to difprove it: he was artful
enough, on the contrary, to pretend he was related
to the houfe of Loraine ; and the miflionaries and
merchants, who promifed themfelves a new opening
for converfion and commerce, encouraged his pre-
tenfions. When an opinion is in vogue, every one
difcovcrs new proofs of its certainty.0 The learn¬
ed in etymology, (Buck with the refemblance of the
names, infifted, that Drufes and Dreux, muff be the
fame word ; and on this foundation formed the fy-
iiem of a pretended colony of French Crufaders, who,
under the condud of a Comte de Dreux, had formed
a fettlement in Lebanon. This hypothefis, however,
was completely overthrown by the remark, that the’
name of the Drufes is to be found in the itinerary of
Benjamin of T udela, who travelled before the time of
the Crufades. Indeed the futility of it ought to have
been fufficiently apparent at firft, from the Angle con-
fideration, that had they been defcended from any na¬
tion of the Franks, they muft have retained at leaf!
the traces of fome European language ; for a people,
retired into a feparate diitria, and living diftina from
the natives of the country, do not lofe their language.
That of the Drufes, however, is very pure Arabic,
without, a Angle word of European origin. The
real derivation of the name of this people has been
long, in our pofTeflion, without our knowing it. It
originates from the founder of the fea of Mohammed-
ben-Ifmael, who was furnamed El-Dorzi. and not
VOL. VII. Part I.
[ 353 1
D R U
EI-Daran, as it is ufually printed : the confuAon of
thefe two words, fo different in our writing, arifes ^
from the figure of the two Arabic letters r ’and 55,
which have only this difference, that the 2; has a point
over it, frequently omitted or effaced in the manu-
fcripts.
After a Aay of nine years in Italy, Faker-el-din re¬
turned to relume the government of his country.
Dating his ablence, his fon Ali had repulfed the Tuiks,
appealed diicontents, and maintained affairs in tole¬
rable good order. Nothing remained for the emir,
mt to employ tlie knowledge he could not but have
acquired, in perfe&ing the internal adminiAraii'on of
government, and promoting the welfare of the nation j
but in (lead of the uleful and valuable arts, he wholly
abandoned himfelf to the frivolous and expenfive, for
which he had imbibed a paflion while in Italy. ’ He
built numerous villas, conftru&ed bathe, and planted
gardens : he even prefumed, without refpeCt to the pre¬
judices of his country, to employ the ornaments of
painting and fculpture, notwithifanding thefe are pro¬
hibited by the Koran.
The confequences of this conduct foon manifeft-
ed themfelves: the Drufes, who paid the fame tri¬
bute as in time of war, became diffatisfied. The
amani fa&ion were routed j the people murmured
at the expences of the prince ; and the luxury he
dilplayed renewed the jealoufy of the pachas. They
attempted to levy greater tribute: hoftilities again
commenced, and Faker-e 1-din repulfed the forces of
the pachas j who took occaAon, from this reAitance
to render.him fufpe<ff*d by the iultan himfelf. Amu-
rath III. incenfed that one of his fubjeas Ihould dare
to enter into a competition with him, refolved on
bis deftrudion j and the pacha of Damafcus received
orders to march, with all his forces, againfl Bair¬
out, the ufual reAdence of Faker-el-din'; while 40
galleys invefled it by fea, and cut off all communica¬
tion.
The emir, who depended on his good fortune and
iuccours from Italy, determined at Arft to brave the
uoim. His fon Ali, who commanded at Safad, was
ordered to oppofe the progrefs of the Turkilh army:
and in fad he bravely refilled them, notwithftandinc;
the great d.ifparity of his forces; but after two enb
gagements, in which he had the advantage, being-
11am in a third attack, the face of affairs was greatly
changed, and every thing went to ruin. Faker-el-din
terrified at the lofs of his troops, afflided at the death
of his Ion, and enfeebled by age and a voluptuous life,
loit both courage and prefence of mind. He no
longer favv any refource but in a peace, which he fent
his fecond fon to folicit of the Turkilh admiral
whom he attempted to feduce by prefents ; but the
admiral detaining both the prefents and envoy, de¬
clared he would have the prince himfelf. Faker-el-din
intimidated, took to flight, and was purfued by the
1 urks, now mailers of the country. Fie took refuge
on the lleep eminence of Niha, where they befleged
him ineffedually for a whole year, when they left him
at liberty; but fliortly after, the companions of his
adverflty, vyearied with their fufferings, betrayed and
delivered him up to the Turks. Faker-el-din, though
in the hands of his enemies,’ conceived hopes of pardon,
and fuffered himfelf to be carried to Conftantinople;
^ 7 where
Brufes...
D R U
{ 354 ]
D R U
where Amurath, pleafed to behold at his feet a prince
fo celebrated, at firft treated him with the benevolence
which arifes from the pride of ^ T
returning to his former jealouhes, yielded to.tlJe
gations of his courtiers, and, m one of his violent fits
of paffion, ordered him to be ifrangled, about the year
16After the death of Faker-el-din, the poftenty of
that prince ftill continued in poffeffion of the g0^™-
ment, though at the pleafure, and as vafials, of the
Turks This family failing in the male line at the
beginning of the laft century, the authority de-
vofved, by the eleftion of the (harks on the houfe of
Shelah, in which it ftill continues. The only emu: o
that houfe, whofe name detevves to be preferved, is the
emir Melhem, who reigned from i74o to 1759 ; m
which interval he retrieved the Ioffes °f Dru‘eS’
and redored them to that confequence which they had
loft by the defeat of Faker-el-din. Towards the end
of h'/life, about the year 1754, Melhem, wearied with
the cares of government, abdicated his authority, to
live in religious retirement, after the manner of the
Okkals • but the troubles that fucceeded occafioned
Sm once more to refume the reins of government,
which he held till 1759* when he died’ umverfally re'
6 He left three fons, minors ", the eldeft of whom
' oufht, according to the cuftom of the country, to
have fucceeded him j but being only 11 years of age,
the authority devolved on his uncle Manfour, agreeably
to a Hw -ry general in Afia, which wills the people
to be governed by a fovereign who has arrived at years
of maturity. The young prince was but little fitted
to maintain his pretenfions •, but a Maron.te named
Sad-el-Kouri, to whom Melhem had intrufted is e u-
cation, took this upon himfelf. Afpiring to fee us
pupil a powerful prince, that he might himfelf become
a powerful vifir, he made every exertion to advance
his fortune. He firft retired with him to Djebail,
in the Kefraouan, where the emir \ oufef poffeffed
large domains, and there undertook to conciliate the
Maronites, by embracing every 0PF°rLtun,tJ t0 ^
both individuals and the nation The g eat reve^
nues of his pupil, and the moderation of his expen
diture amplv furniftied him wuth the means,
farm of the Kefraouan vvat divided between feveral
flhiks with whom the Porte was not very well fa-
tisfied Sad treated for the whole with the pacha
of Tripoli, and Rot himfelf appointed foie receiver.
The Motoualis of .he valley of Balbec had for fome
years before made feveral encroachments ™ Lcb™™;
and the Maronites heRan to he alarmed at the near
approach of thefe intolerant Mahometans. Sad pur-
chafed of the pacha of Damafcus a pemulTion to
make war upon them; and in .763 diove them out
of the country. The Drufes were at that time di¬
vided into two faftions : Sad united his m.ereft with
who oppofed Manfour, and fecretly prepared the
*1°. which was .0 raife the nephew on the rum of the
UnCAt' this period the Arab Daher, who had made
himf If mailer of Galilee, and fined hi, rtf,deuce at
Acre difquieted the Porte by his progrtfs and pre-
tenfiors : lo oppofe him, the Divan had juft united
the pachalics of Damafcus, Sa.de, and Tripoli, m the
T’ J — • t
hands of Ofman and bis children j and it was evident 
that an open war was not very remote. Maniour,
who dreaded the Turks too much to refift them, made
ufe of the policy ufual on fuch occafions, pretending
a zeal for their fervice, while he fecretly favoured
their enemy. This was a fufficient motive for Sad to
purfue meafures direftly oppofite. He fupported the
Turks againft the faftion of Manfour, and manoeu¬
vred with fo much good fortune or addrefs as to depofe
that emir in 1770, and place Youfef m his govern-
In the following year All Bey declared war, and at¬
tacked Damafcus. Youfef, calkd on by the |urks,
took part in the quarrel, but without being able to
draw the Drufes from their mountains to enter into
the army of the Ottomans. Befides their natural re¬
pugnance, at all times, to make war out of their coun¬
try they were on this occafion too much divided at
home to quit their habitations, and they had reafon to
congratulate themfelves on the event. The battle ol Da¬
rn Jus enfued *, and the Turks, as we have already feen,
were completely routed. The pacha of Saide Heaping
from this defeat, and not thinking himlelf in Safety in
that town, fought an afylum even in the h°ufe of the
emir Youfef. The moment was unfavourable j but the
face of affairs foon changed by the flight of Mohammed
Bey. The emir, concluding that Ah Bey was dead
and not imagining that Daher was powerful enough
finely to maintain the quarrel,_ declared openly againft
him. Saide was threatened with a fiege, and he de-
tachcd . 500 men of his faflion to its defence; while
himfelf in perfon, prevailing on the Drufes and Ma¬
ronites to follow him, made an incurfion with 25 000
peafants into the valley of Bekaa •, and in the ablence
of the Motoualis, who had joined the army of Daher,
laid the whole country wafte with fire and fword from
Balbec to Tyre. ...
While the Drufes, proud of this exploit, were
marching in diforder towards the latter city, Mo¬
toualis, informed of what had happened dew from
Acre, inflamed with rage and defpair, and fell wit uc
impetuofity on their army as to give them a complete
overthrow. Such was the furpnie and confufion of
the Drufes, th<it, imagining themfelves attacked by
Daher himfelf, and betrayed by their companions, they
turned their fwords on each other as they fled. I he
deep declivities of Djezin, and the pme woods which
were in the route of the fugitives were flrewed wath
dead, but few of whom perifhed by the hands of the
^The emir Youfef, afliamed of this defeat, efcaped
to Dair-el-Kamar, and (hovtly after attempted to take
revenge ^ but being again defeated in the plain between
Saidegand Sour (Tyre), he was conflramed to refign
to his uncle Maniour the ring, which among the
Drufes is the fymbol of command. 1° *773 ewa
reftored by a new revolution •, but he could not upport
his power but at the expence of a civil war. In order
therefore, to prevent Bairout falling mto the hands of
the adverie faaion, he requeued the a®ft^nCeth®
Turks, and demanded of the pacha of Damafcus a
man of fufficient abilities to defend that city. T
choice fell on an adventurer, who from his fubfequent
fortune, merits to be made known.
This man, named Ahmad, was a native of Bofma,
Drufes.
«
D R U
t 3J5 1
D R U
Drures. and fpoke tke Sclavonian as his mother tongue, as the
“-v Rigufan captains, with whom he couveried in prefer¬
ence to thofe of every other nation, affert. It is faid,
that flying from his country at the age of 16, to efcape
the coniequences of an attempt to violate his fifter-in-
law, he repaired to Conftantinople, where, deftitute of
the means of procuring fubfiflence, he {old himfelf to
the Have merchants to be conveyed to Egypt", and, on
his arrival at Cairo, was purcliafed by Ali Bey, who
placed him among his Mamelukes.
Ahmad was not long in diilinguifliing himfelf by
his courage and addrefs. His patron employed him
on feveral occafions in dangerous coups de main, fuch
as the aflaflination of fuch beys and cachefs as he
fufpefted ; of which commiflions he acquitted him¬
felf fo well as to acquire the name of Djexz>ar, which
iignifies Cut-throat. With this claim to his triendfliip,
he enjoyed the favour of Ali until it was diflurbed by
an accident.
This jealous bey having profcribed one of his bene-
fa&ors called Saleh Bey, commanded Djezzar to cut
off his head. Either from humanity or fome fecret
friendfliip for the devoted vi61im, Djezzar hefitated,
and even remonftrated againft the order. But learning
the next day that Mohammed Bey had executed the
commiffion, and that AH had fpoken of him not very
favourably, he thought himfelf a loft man, and, to
avoid the fate of Saleh Bey, efcaped unobferved, and
reached Conftantinople. He there folicited employ¬
ment fuitable to his former rank \ but meeting, as is
ufual in capitals, with a great number of rivals, he pur-
fued another plan, and went to feek his foitune in Sy¬
ria as a private foldier. Chance conduced him among
the Drufes, where he was hofpitably entertained, even
in the houfe of the kiaya of the emir Youfef. From
thence he repaired to Damafcus, where he foon ob¬
tained the title of Aga, with a command of five pair of
colours, that is to fay, of 50 men •, and he was thus
fituated when fortune deftined him to the government
of Bairout.
Djezzar was no fooner eftablifhed there than he took
pofleflion of it for the Turks, Youfef was confounded
at this proceeding. He demanded juftice at Damaf¬
cus; but finding his complaints treated with contempt,
entered into a treaty with Daher, and concluded an
offenfive and defenfive alliance with him at Ras-el-aen,
near to Sour. No fooner was Daher united with the
Drufes than he laid fiege to Bairout by land, whilft
two Ruffian frigates, whofe fervice was purchafed by
600 purfes, cannonaded it by fea. Djezzar was com¬
pelled to fubmit to force, and, after a vigorous refift-
ance, gave up the city, and furrendered himfelf prifon-
er. Shaik Daher, charmed with his courage, and flat¬
tered with the preference he had given him in the fur-
fender, conduced him to Acre, and ftiowed him every
mark of kindnefs. He even ventured to truft him
with a fmall expedition into Paleftine ; but Djezzar,
on approaching Jerufalem, went over to the Turks,
and returned to Damafcus.
The war of Mohammed Bey breaking out, Djezzar
offered his fervice to the captain pacha, and gained his
Confidence. He accompanied him to the fiege of Acre ;
and that admiral having deftroyed Daher, and finding
no perfon more proper than Djezzar to accomplilh the
defigns of the Porte in that country, named him pacha
of Saide.
Being now, in confequence of this revolution, fu-
perior lord to the emir Youfef, Djezzar is mindful of
injuries in proportion as he has reaion to accufe him¬
felf of ingratitude. By a conduft truly Turkiih, feign¬
ing alternately gratitude and refentment, he is alter¬
nately on terms of difpute and reconciliation with him,
continually exafting money as the price of peace, or
an indemnity for war. His artifices have fucceeded fo
well, that within the fpace of five years he has extort¬
ed from the emir four millions of French money (above
160,000!.); a fum the more aftoniftring, as the farm
of the country of the Drufes did not then amount to
100,000 livres (4000I.)
In 1784, he made war on him, depofed him, and
befto > e<i the government on the emir of the country
of Hafbeya, named Ilmael. Youfef, having once more
purchafed his favour, returned towards the end of the
fame year to Dair-el Kamar, and even courted his con¬
fidence fo far as to wait on him at Acre, from whence
nobody expe&ed him to return ; but Djezzar is too
cunning to fired blood while there are any hopes of
getting money : he releafed the prince, and fent him
back with every mark of friendlhip. Since that pe¬
riod the Porte has named him pacha of Damafcus,
while he alfo retained the fovereignty of the pachalic
of Acre, and of the country of the Drufes.
As to the religion of the Drufes : What has been
already faid of the opinions of Mohammed-ben-Ifmael
may be regarded as the fubftance of it. 1 hey praftife
neither circumcifion, nor prayers, nor faffing; they
obferve neither feftivals nor prohibitions. They drink
wine, eat pork, and allow marriage between brothers
and fifters, though not between fathers and children.
From this we may conclude, with reafon, that the
Drufes have no religion ; yet one clafs of them muft
be excepted, whofe religious cuftoms are very peculiar.
Thofe who compofe it are to the reft of the nation
what the initiated were to the profane ; they affume
the name of Okkals, which means fpiritualifts, and be
flow on the vulgar the epithet of Djahel, or ignorant:
they have various degrees of initiation, the higheft or¬
ders of which require celibacy. Thefe are diftinguifh-
able by the white turban they affed to wear, as a fym-
bol of their purity ; and fo proud are they of this fup-
pofed purity, that they think themfelvts fullied by even
touching a profme perfon. If you eat out of their
plate, or drink out of their cup, they break them; and
hence the cuitom, fo general in this country, of ufing
vafes with a lort of cock, which may be drank out of
without touching them with the lips. All their prac¬
tices are enveloped in myfteriesi their oratories always
ftand alone, and are conftantly fituated on eminences :
in thefe they hold their fecret affemblies, to which wo¬
men are admitted. It is pretended they perform ce¬
remonies there in prefence of a fmall flatue refembling
an ox or a calf; whence fome have pretended to prove
that they are defeended from the Samaritans. But
befides that the faft is not well afeertained, the worfhip
of the ox may be deduced from other fources.
They have one or two books which they conceal
with the greateft care ; but chance has deceived their
jealoufy ; for in a civil war which happened 9 or 10
Y y 2 years
Di'iife*.
D R U
[ 356 ]
D R U
Drufes. vears ago, the emir Youfef, who is Djabcl or igno-
‘ runt, found one among the pillage of one of their ora¬
tories. M. Volney was allured, by perfons who had
read it, that it contains only a myllic jargon, the ob-
fcurity of which doubtlefs renders it valuable to adepts.
Hakem B’amr-ellah is there fpoken of, by whom they
mean God incarnated in the perlon of the caliph. It
likewife treats of another life, of a place of punifh-
ment, and a place of happinels where the Okkals fhall
of courfe be moft diilinguiihed. Several degrees of
perfection are mentioned, to which they arrive by fuc-
cefiive trials. In other refpe£Is, thefe feftaries have
all the infolence and all the fears of fuperftition : they
are not communicative, becaufe they are weak ; but it
is probable that, were they powerful, they would be
promulgators and intolerant.
The relt of the Drufes, ftrangers to this fpirit, are
wholly indifferent about religious matters. The Chri-
ftians who live in their country pretend that feveral of
them believe in the metempfychofis; that others wor-
fhip the fun, moon, and liars : all which is poffible ;
for, as among the Anfaria, every one, left to his own
fancy, follows the opinion that pleafes him moft ; and
thefe opinions are thofe which prefent themfelves moft
naturally to unenlightened minds. When among the
Turks, they affeft the exterior of Mahometans, fre¬
quent the mofques, and perform their ablutions and
prayers. Among the Maronites, they accompany them
to church, and, like them, make ufe of holy water.
Many of them, importuned by the miftionaries, fuffer
themfelves to be baptized ; and if lolicited by the
Turks, receive circumcifion, and conclude by dying
neither Chriftians nor Mahometans; but they are not
fo indifferent in matters of civil policy.
The Drufes may be divided into two claffes1, the com¬
mon people-, and the people of eminence and property,
tfiftinguilhed by the title of ihaiks and emirs, or defend¬
ants of princes. The greater part are cultivators, either
as farmers or proprietors-, every man lives on his inheri¬
tance, improving his mulberry trees andwineyards: in
fome diftri£ls the grow tobacco, cotton, and fome grain ;
but the quantity of thefe is inconfiderable. . It appears
that at fir ft all the lands were, as formerly in Lurope,
in the hands of a ftnall number of families. But to
render them produftive, the great proprietors were for¬
ced to fell part of them, and let leafes ; which fubdivi-
fion is become the chief fource of the power of the
ftate, by multiplying the number of perfons interefted
in the public weal: there ftill exifts, however, fome
traces of the original inequality, w-hich even ;at this
day produces pernicious effefts. 1 he great property
poffeffed by fome families gives them too much in¬
fluence in all the, meafures of the nation ; and their
private interefts have to© great weight in every pub¬
lic tranfa&ion. Their hiftory, for fome years back,
affords fufficient proofs of this ; fince all the civil or
foreign wars in which they have been engaged have
originated in the ambition and perfonal views of fome
of the principal families, fucn as the Lefbeks, the
Diambelats, the Ifmaels of Solyma, &c. The fhaiks
of thefe houfes, who alone poffefs one-tenth part of
the country, procured creatures by their money, and
at laft involved all the Drufes in their diffenfions.
It muft be owned, however, that poftrbly to this con¬
flict between contending parties the whole nation owes
the good fortune of never having been enflaved by its
chief.
This chief, called Hakem or governor, alfo Emir
or prince, is a fort of king-or general, who unites in
his own perfon the civil and military powers. His
dignity is fometimes tranfmitted from father to fon,
fometimes from one brother to another 5 and the fucr
ceflion is determined rather by force than any certain
laws. Females can in no cafe pretend to this inheri¬
tance. They are already excluded from fucceftion in
civil affairs, and confequently can ftill lefs expeft it
in political in general, the Afiatic governments are
too turbulent, and their adminilkation renders milita¬
ry talents too neceffary, to admit of the fovereignty of
women. Among the Drufes, the male line of any fa¬
mily being extinguilhed, the government devolves to
him who is in poffefiion of the greateft number of fuf-
frages and refources. But the firft ftep is to obtain
the^ approbation of the Turks, of whom he becomes
the vaffal and tributary. It even happens, that, not
unfrequently to affert their fupremacy, they name the
Hakem, contrary to the willies of the nation, as in the
cafe of Ifmael Hafbeya, raifed to that dignity by
Djezzar 5 but'this conftraint lafts no longer than it is
maintained by that violence which gave it birtn. a he
office of the governor is to watch over the good order
of the ftate, and to prevent the emirs, fhaiks, and
villages, from making war on each other : in cafe of
difobedience, he may employ force. He is alfo ^at
the head of the civil power, and names the cadis,
only always referving to himfelf the power of life and
death. He collefts the tribute, from which he an¬
nually pays to the pacha a ftated ium. d ins tiibute
varies in proportion as the nation rendeis itfelf more
or lefs formidable : at the beginning of this cen¬
tury, it amounted to 160 purfes, 8330k ; but Mel-
bem forced the Turks to reduce it to 6 — . In
Emir Youfef paid 80 and promifed qo. I ins tiiuuW,
which is called Miri, is impofed on the mulberry trees,
vineyards, cotton, and grain. All fown land pays in
proportion to its extent j every foot of mulberries is
taxed at three medins, or three fols nine deniers (not
quite twopence). A hundred feet ot vineyard pays
a piaftre or 40 medins ; and frefh meafurements are
often made to preferve a juft proportion. The ftiaiks
and emirs have no exemption in this refpedl ; and it
may be truly faid they contribute to the public flock
in proportion to their fortune. The colleftion is made
almoft without expence. Each man pays his contin¬
gent at Dair-el-Kamar, if he pleafes, or to the collect
tors of the prince, who make a circuit round the coun¬
try after the crop of filks. The. furplus of this tribute
is for the prince", fo that it is his intereft to reduce the
demands of the Turks, as it w-ould be likewife to aug¬
ment the impoft : but this meafure requires the fan&ion.
■ of the ffiaiks, who have the privilege of oppofing it.
Their confent is neceffary, likewife, for peace and var.
In thefe cafes, the emir muft convoke general affem-
blies, and lay before them the ftate of his affairs. There
everv Araik, and every peafant who has any reputation
for courage or underftanding, is entitled to give his
fuffrage ; fo that this government may be confidered as
a well-proportioned mixture of monarchy, ariftocracy,
and democracy. Every thing depends on circumftan-
ces: if the governor be a man of ability, he is abiolute ;
Brufes.
D R IT [ 357 ] D R U
Brufes. if wefak, a cypher. This proceeds from the want of
 ^ ' fixed laws ; a want cornmon to ail Alia, and the radi¬
cal caufe of all the diforders in the governments of the
Afiatic nations.
Neither the chief nor the individual emirs maintain
troops j they have only perfons attached to the domeftic
fervice of their houfes, and a few,black Haves. When the
nation makes war, every man, whether fhaik or peafant,
able to bear arms, is called upon to march. He takes
with him a little bag of dour, a mulket, fome bullets,
a fmall quantity of powder, made in his village, and re¬
pairs to the rendezvous appointed by the governor. If
it be a civil war, as fometimes happens, the fervants,
the farmers, and their friends, take up arms for their
patron, or the chief of their family, and repair to his
flandard. In fuch cafes, the parties irritated frequent¬
ly feem on the point of proceeding to the laft extremi¬
ties j but they feldom have recourfe to afts of violence,
or attempt the death of each other-, mediators always
interpofe, and the quarrel is appeafed the more readily
as each patron is obliged to provide his followers with
provifions and ammunition. This fyilem, which produ¬
ces happy effe&s in civil troubles, is attended with great
inconvenience in foreign wTars, as fufficiently appeared
in that of 1784. Djezzar, who knew that the whole
army lived at the expence of the emir Youfef, aimed at
nothing but delay, and the Drufes, who were not dif-
pleafed at being fed for doing nothing, prolonged the
operations; but the emir, wearied of paying, conclud¬
ed a treaty, the terms of which were not a little rigo¬
rous for him, and eventually for the wdrole nation, fince
nothing is more certain than that the inter^fts of a
prince and his fubjeds are always infeparable.
“ The ceremonies to which I have been a witnefs on
thefe occafions (fays M. Volney), bear a ftriking refem-
blunce to the curtoms of ancient times. When the emir
and the fhaiks had determined on war at D fir-el-Ka-
m ir, cryers in the evening afcended the fummits of the
mountain and there began to cry with a loud voice :
‘ To wTar, to war ; take your guns, take your piftols :
noble fivfiks, mount your horfes 5 arm yourfelves with
the lance and fabre ; rendezvous to-morrow at Dair-el
K-imar. Zeal of God ! zeal of combats !’ This fum-
mons, heard from the neighbouring villages, was re¬
peated there *, and as the w'hole country is nothing but
a chain of lofty mountains and deep valleys, the pro¬
clamation paired in a few hours to the frontiers,
Thefe voices, from the ftillnefs of the night, the long
refounding echoes, and the nature of the fubjed, had
fomething awful and terrible in their effed. Three
days after 15,000 armed men rendezvouzed at Dair-el-
Kamar, and operations might have been immediately
commenced.
“ We may eafily imagine that troops of this kind no
w-ay referable ouj European foldiers $ they have neither
uniform5!, nor difcipline, nor order. They are a crowd
of peafants with Ihort coats, naked legs, and mufkets
in their hands ; differing from the Turks and Mame¬
lukes in that they are all foot ; the lhaiks and emirs
alone having horfes, which are of little ufe from the
rugged nature of the country. War there can only
be a war of polls. The Drufes never rilk them-
felves in the plain ; and with reafon : for they would
be unable to Hand the fhock of cavalry, having no
bayonets to their mufkets. The whole art confills in
climbing rocks, creeping among the bullies and blocks
of done ; from whence their fire is the more dangerous,
as they are covered, fire at their eafe, and by hunting
and military fports have acquired the habit of hitting
a mark with great dexterity. They are accuflomed
to fudden inroads, attacks by night, ambufcades, and
all thofe coups de main which require to fall fuddenly
on, and come to clofe fight with the enemy. Ardent
in improving their fuccefs, eafily difpirited, and prompt
to refume their courage ; daring even to temerity, and
fometimes ferocious, they poffefs above all two quali¬
ties effential to the excellency of any troops ; they
flri£lly obey their leaders, and are endowed with a
tempeiance and vigour of health at this day unknown
to moft civilized nations. In the campaign of 1784,
they paffed three months in the open air without tents
or any other covering than a fheep fkin ; yet were
there not more deaths or maladies than if they had re¬
mained in their houfes. Their provifions confifted, as
at other times, of fmall loaves baked on the afhes or
on a brick, raw onions, cheefe, olives, fruits, and a
little wine. The table of the chiefs was almofl as fru¬
gal ; and we may affirm, that they fubfiiled ico days,
on what the fame number of Englifhmen or French¬
men would not have lived ten. They have no know¬
ledge of the fcience of fortification, the management
of artillery, or encampments, nor in a word, any thing
which conllitutes the art of war. But had they among
them a few perfons verfed in military fcience, they
would readily acquire its principles, and become a for¬
midable foldiery. This wrauld be the more eafily ef-
fedled, as their mulberry plantations and vineyards do
not occupy them all the year, and they could afford
much time for military exercifes.”
By the laft eftimates, according to M. Volney’s
information, the number of men able to bear arms
was 40,000, which fuppofes a' total population of
120,000 j no addition is to be made to this cal¬
culation, fince there are no Drufes in the cities or
on the coaft. As the whole country contains only
110 fquare leagues, there refults for every league
1090 perfons; which is equal to the population of our
richeft provinces. To render this more remarkable,
it mull be obferved that the foil is not fertile, that a
great many eminences remain uncultivated, that they
do not giow corn enough to fupport themfelves three
months in the year, that they have no manufiiflures,
and that all their exportations are confined to filks and
cottons, the balance of which exceeds very little the
importation of corn from the Hauran, the oils of Pale-
ftine, and the rice and coffee they procure from Bairout.
Whence arifes then fuch a number of inhabitants with¬
in fo fmall a fpace ? “ I can difeover no other caufe (fays
our author ), than that ray of liberty which glimmers in
this country. Unlike the Turks, every man lives in a
perfedl fecurity of his life and property. The peafant is
not richer than in other countries; but he is free. ‘ He
fears not,’ as I have often heard them fay, ‘ that the
Aga, the Kaimmakam, or the Pacha,.ftiould fend their
Djendis to pillage his houfe, carry off his family, or
give him the baftinado.’ Such eppreffipns are un¬
known among thefe mountains.' Security, therefore,
has been the original caufe of population, from that in¬
herent defire which all men have to multiply themfelves
wherever they fiud an eafy fubfiftence. The frugality of
. the
Dmfe#.
D R U [ 358
3Dmfes. the nation, which is content with little, has been a fecon-
“—dary, and not lefs powerful reafon *, and a third is the
emigration of a number ofChriftian families, who daily
defert the Turkifh provinces to fettle in Mount Leba¬
non, where they are received with open arms by the
Maronites from fimilarity of religion, and by the Drufes
from principles of toleration, and a convi£!ion how
much it is the intereft of every country to multiply the
number of its cultivators, confumers, and allies.
“ The comparifon which the Drufes often have an
opportunity of making between their fituation and
that of other fubje61s of the Turkifh government, has
given them an advantageous opinion of their fuperio-
rity, which, by a natural effeft, has an influence on
their perfonal charafter. Exempt from the violence
and infults of defpotifm, they confider themfelves as
more perfect than their neighbours, becaufe they have
the good fortune not to be equally debafed. Hence
they acquire a character more elevated, energetic, and
a&ive j in fhort, a genuine republican fpirit. They
are confidered throughout the Levant as reftlefs, en-
terprifing, hardy, and brave even to temerity. Only
300 of them have been feen to enter Damafcus in open
day, and fpread around them terror and carnage.
No people are more nice than they with refpeft to the
point of honour : any offence of that kind, or open
infult, is inflantly punifhed by blows of the kandjur
or the mufket } while among the inhabitants of the
towns it only excites injurious retorts. This delicacy
has occafioned in their manners and difcourfe a re-
ferve, or, if you will, a politenefs, which one is afto-
nifhed to difcover among peafants. It is carried even
© to diffimulation and falfehood, efpecially among the
chiefs, whofe greater interefts demand greater atten¬
tions. Circumfpeftion is neceffary to all, from the
formidable confequences of that retaliation of which
I have fpoken. Thefe cuftoms may appear barbarous
to us 5 but they have the merit of fupplying the de¬
ficiency of regular jullice, which is neceffirily tedious
and uncertain in thefe diforderly and almoft anarchical
governments.
“ The Drufes have another point of honour, that of
hofpitality. Whoever prefents himfelf at their door
in the quality of a fuppliant or paffenger, is fure of be¬
ing entertained wuth lodging and food in the mofl
generous and unaffe61ed manner. M. Volney often faw
the lowed peafants give the laft morfel of bread they
had in their houfes to the hungry traveller ; and when
it was obferved to them that they wanted prudence,
their anfwer was, ‘ God is liberal and great, and all
men are brethren.’ There are; therefore, no inns in
their country any more than in the reft of 1 urkey.
Wdien they have once contrafted with their gueft the
facred engagement of bread and fait, no fubfequent
event can make them violate it. Various inftances of
this are related, which do honour to their chara&er.
A few years ago, an aga of the janiffaries having
been engaged in a rebellion, fled from Damafcus and
retired am’ong the Drufes. The pacha was informed
of this, and demanded him of the emir, threatening to
make war on him in cafe of refufal. The emir demand¬
ed him of the fhaik Talhouk, who had received him •,
but the indignant fhaik replied, ‘ When have you knovyn
the Drufes deliver up their guefts ? Tel! the emir,
that as long as Talhouk fhall preleive his bea.d, not
1
] D R U
a hair of the head of his fuppliant ihall fall !’ The
emir threatened him with force j T alhouk armed his
family. The emir, dreading a revolt, adopted a me¬
thod pra&ifed as juridical in that country. He de¬
clared to the fhaik, that he would cut down 50 mul¬
berry trees a-day until he fhould give up the aga. He
proceeded as far as a thoufand, and 1 alhouk ftill re¬
mained inflexible. At length the. other fhaiks, enraged,
took up the quarrel ; and the commotion was about to
become general, when the aga, reproaching himfelf
with being the caufe of lo much xnifehief, made his
efcape without the knowledge even of 1'alhouk.
“ The Drufes have alfo the prejudices of the Be¬
douins rtfpefting birth j like them, they pay great
refpeft to the antiquity of families ; but this produces
no effential inconveniences. The nobility of the emirs
and fhaiks does not exempt them from paying tribute
in proportion to their revenues. It confers on them
no prerogatives, either in the attainment of landed
property or public employments. In this country,
no more than in all Turkey, are they acquainted with
game laws, or glebes, or feignorial or ecclefiaftical
tithes, franc fiefs or alienation fines •, every thing is
held in freehold : Every man, after paying his miri
and his rent, is mafter of his property. In fhort, by
a particular privilege, the Drufes pay no fine for
their fucceflion ■- nor does the emir, like the fultan,
arrogate to himfelf original and univerfal property:
there exifts, neverthelefs, in the law of inheritance,
an imperfeftion which produces difagreeable efleffs.
Fathers have, as in the Roman law, the power of
preferring fuch of their children as they think pro¬
per : hence it has happened in feveral families of the
fhaiks, that the w^hole property has centered in the
fame perfon, who has perverted it to the purpofe of
intriguing and caballing, while his relations remain, as
they wilfexprefs it, princes of olives and cheefe ; that is
to fay, poor as peafants.
In confequence of their prejudices, the Drufes do
not choofe to make alliances out of their own families.
They invariably prefer their relation, though poor, to
a rich ftranger ; and poor peafants have been known
to refute their daughters to merchants of Saide and
Bairout, who pbffeffed from twelve to fifteen thoufand
piaftres. They obterve alio, to a certain degree, the
cuftom of the Hebrews, which direfted that a brother
fliould efpoute his brother’s widow ; but this is not
peculiar to them, for they retain that, as well as feve-
ral other cuftoms of that ancient people, in common
with other inhabitants of Syria and all the Arab
tribes. -
“ In flrort, the proper and diftmctive character or
the Drutes is a fort of republican fpirit, which gives
them more energy than any other fubje6ts of the
Turkifh government ; and an indifference for religion,
which forms a flriking contrail with the zeai of the
Mahometans and Chriftians. In other refpeas, their
private life, their cuftoms and prejudices, are the
fame with other orientals. They may marry feveral
wives, and repudiate them when they choote ; but,
except by tbe emir and a few men of eminence, that
is rarely pra&ited. Occupied with their rural labours,
they experience neither artificial wants, nor thote in¬
ordinate paflions which are produced by the idlenefs
of the inhabitants of cities and towns. The veil, worn
by
Drufes
Y—.
D R U
[ 3S9 1
DRY
Dmfes, by tbeir women, is of itfelf a prefervative againft thofe
Drufius. defires which are the occafxon of fo many evils in fo-
ciety. No man knows the face of any other woman than
his wife, his mother, his lifter, and lifters-in-law. Every
man lives in the bofom of his own family, and goes
little abroad. The women, thofe even of the lhaiks,
make the bread, roaft the coffee, walh the linen,
cook the viftuals, and perform all domeftic oflices.
The men cultivate their lands and vineyards, and
dig canals for watering them. In the evening they
fometimes affemble in the court, the area, or houfe
of the chief of the village or family. There, feated
in a circle, with legs croffed, pipes in their mouths,
and poniards at their belts, they difcourfe of their va¬
rious labours, the fcarcity or plenty of their harvefts,
peace or war, the condudl of the emir, or the amount
of the taxes ; they relate part tranfaftions, dil'cufs
prefent interefts, and form conjettures on the future.
Their children, tired with play, come frequently to
liften •, and a ftranger is furprifed to hear them, at ten
or twelve years old, recounting, with a ferious air,
why Djezzar declared war againft the emir Youfef,
how many purfes it coft that prince, what augmenta¬
tion there will be of the miri, how many mulkets there
were in the camp, and wrho had the beft mare. This
is their only education. They are neither taught to
read the pfalms as among the Maronites, nor the Koran
like the Mahometans ; hardly do the ftraiks know how
to write a letter. But if their mind be deftitute of
ufeful or agreeable information, at leaft it is not pre¬
occupied by falfe and hurtful ideas ; and, without
doubt, fuch natural ignorance is well worth all our ar¬
tificial folly. This advantage refults from it, that their
underftandings being nearly on a level, the inequality
of conditions is lefs perceptible. For, in faft, we do
not perceive among the Drufes that great diftance
which, in moft other focieties, degrades the inferior,
without contributing to the advantage of the great.
All, whether ftraiks or peafants, treat each other with
that rational familiarity, which is equally remote from
rudenefs and fervility. The grand emir himfelf is
not a different man from the reft : he is a good coun-
try gentleman, who does not difdain admitting to his
table the meaneft farmer. In a word, their manners
are thofe of ancient times, and of that ruftic life which
marks the origin of every nation ; and prove, that the
people among whom they are (fill found are as yet only
in the infancy of the focial ftate.”
DRUSIUS, John, a Proteftant writer of great
learning, born at Oudenarde in Flanders in 1555* ■^‘e
was defigned for the ftudy of divinity j but his father
being outlawed, and deprived of his eftate, they both
retired to England, where the fon became profeffor of
the oriental languages at Oxford : but upon the paci¬
fication of Ghent, they returned to their own country,
where Drufius was alfo appointed profeffor of the ori¬
ental languages. From thence he removed to Frief-
land, where he was admitted Hebrew profeffor in the
univerfity of Franeker ; the funftions of which he dif
charged with great honour till his death in 1616. His
works (how him to have been well {killed in Hebrew ;
and the States General emploved him in 1600 to write
notes on the moft difficult paffages in the Old Tefta-
ment, with a penfion of 400 florins a-year : but being
frequently difturbed in this undertaking, it was not
publifhed till after his death. He held a vaft corre-
fpondence with the learned ; for befides letters in He¬
brew, Greek, and other languages, there were found
2300 Latin letters among his papers. He had a foil
John, who died in England at 21, and was a prodigy
for his early acquifition of learning *, he wrotes Notes
on the Proverbs of Solomon, with many letters and
verfes in Hebrew.
DRYADS, in the heathen theology, a fort of dei¬
ties, or nymphs, which the ancients thought inhabited
groves and woods. They differed from the Hamadry-
ades ; thefe latter being attached to fome particular
tree, with wffiich they were born, and with which they
died ; whereas the Dryades were goddeffes of trees and
woods in general. See Hamadryades.
DRY AS, in Botany ; a genus of plants belonging
to the icofandria clafs *, and in the natural method
ranking under the 35th order, Senticofce. See Botany
Index.
DRYDEN, John, one of the moft eminent Eng-
liffi poets of the 17th century, defoended of a genteel
family in Huntingdonffiire, wTas born in that county
at Oldwincle 1631, and educated at Weftminfter fchool-
under Dr Buftroy. From thence he was removed to
Cambridge in 1650, being ele&ed fcholar of Trinity-
college, of which he appears, by his Epithalatnia Can-
tabrigienf. 410, 1662, to have been afterwards a fellow.
Yet in his earlier days he gave no extraordinary indica¬
tion of genius •, for even the year before he quitted the
univerfity, he wrote a poem on the death of Lord Ha-
ftings, which was by no means a prefage of that amaz¬
ing perfedlion in poetical powers which he afterwards
poffeffed.
On the death of Oliver Cromwell he wrote fome he¬
roic ftanzas to his memory •, but on the Reftoration,
being defirous of ingratiating himfelf with the new
court, he wrote firft a poem entitled AJirea Redux, and
afterwards a panegyric to the king on his coronation.
In 1662, he addrefled a poem to the lord chancellor
Hyde, prefented on New Year’s day ; and in the fame
year a fatire on the Dutch. In 1668 appeared his
Annus Mirabilis, which was a hiftorical poem in cele¬
bration of the duke of York’s viRory over the Dutch.-
Thefe pieces at length obtained him the favour of the
crowm 5 and Sir William Davenant dying the fame
year, Mr Dryden was appointed to fucceed him as
poet laureat. About this time alfo his inclination to
write for the ftage feems firft to have fliown itfelf. For
befides his concern with Sir William Davenant in the
alteration of Shakefpeare’s Tempeft, in 1669 he pro¬
duced his Wild Gallants, a comedy. This met with
very indifferent fuccefs 5 yet the author, not being dif-
couraged by its failure, foon publilhed his Indian Em--
peror. This finding a more favourable reception, en¬
couraged him to proceed •, and that with fuch rapidity,
that in the key to the duke of Buckingham’s Rehear-
fal he is recorded to have engaged himfelf by contract
for the writing of four plays per year ; and, indeed, in
the years 1679 and 1680 he appears to have fulfilled
that contraft. To this unhappy neceflity that our au¬
thor lay under, are to be attributed all thofe irregulari¬
ties, thofe bombaftic flights, and fometimes even pue¬
rile exuberances, for which he has been fo feverely cri-
_ ticifed :
D Rr Y
[ 360 ]
DRY
Bpyclen ticifeJ and which, in the unavoidable hurry in which
'■"* '•/ ~ he wrote, it was impoflible he (hould find time either
for lopping away or correfting.
Li 1675, the earl of Rocheuer, whofe envious and
malevolent diipofition w’ould not permit him to lee
growing merit meet with its due reward, and was
therefore fincerely chagrined at the very juft applaufe
with which Mr Dryden’s dramatic pieces had been re¬
ceived, was determined if pollible to (hake his in-
tereft at court ; and fucceeded fo far as to recommend
Mr Cro.wne, an author by no means of equal merit,
and at that time of an obfcure reputation, to write a
mafk for the court, which certainly belonged to Mr
Dryden’s office as poet laureat.—Nor was this the only
attack, nor indeed the moft potent one, that Mr Dry¬
den’s juftly acquired fame drew on him. For, fome
years before, the duke of Buckingham, a man of not
much better charafter than Lord Rochefter, had moft
feverely ridiculed feveral of our author’s plays in his
admired piece called the Rehearfal. But though the
intrinfic wit which runs through that performance can¬
not even to this hour fail of exciting our laughter, yet
at the fame time it ought not to be the ftandard on
which we fhould fix Mr Dryden’s poetical reputation,
if we confider, that the pieces there ridiculed are not
any of thofe looked on as the chef d‘oeuvres of this au¬
thor 5 that the very paffages burlefqued are frequently,
in their original places, much lefs ridiculous than when
thus detached, like a rotten limb, from the body of
the work •, and expofed to view with additional diftor-
tions, and diverted of that connexion with the other
parts, which, while preferved, gave it not only fymrne-
try but beauty •, and laftly, that the various inimitable
beauties, which the critic has funk in oblivion, are in¬
finitely more numerous than the deformities which he
has thus induftrioujfly brought forth to our more im¬
mediate ir.fpe&ion.
Mr Dryden, however, did not fuffer thefe attacks
to pafs with impunity ; for in 1679 there came out
an Effay on Satire, faid to be written jointly by that
gentleman and the earl of Mulgrave, containing fome
very fevere reflexions on the earl of Rochefter and the
duchefs of Portfmoutb, who, it is not improbable,
might be a joint inftrument in the above-mentioned
affront (hown to Mr Dryden; and in 1681 he publifhed
his Abfalom and Achitophel, in which the well-known
charaXer of Zimri, drawn for the duke of Bucking¬
ham, is certainly fevere enouglFto repay all the ridi¬
cule thrown on him by that nobleman in the charaXer
of Bayes.—The refentment ffiown by the different peers
was very different. Lord Rochefter, wffio w'as a coward
as wTell as a man of the moft depraved morals, bafely
hired three ruffians to cudgel Dryden in a coffeehoufe :
but the duke of Buckingham, as we are told, in a more
open manner, took the tafk upon himfelf: and at the
fame time prefented him with a purfe containing no
very trifling fum of money ; telling him, that he gave
him the beating as a punifhment for his impudence, but
beftowed that gold on him as a reward for his wflt.
In 1680 w’as publifhed a tranflation of Ovid’s Epiftles
in Englifh verfe by feveral hands, two of which, to¬
gether with the preface, were by Mr Dryden ; and in
1682 came out \\\s Religio Laid, defigned as a defence
of revealed religion, againft Delfts, Papifts, &c. Soon
after the acceffion of King James II. our author chan-
2
ged his religion for that of the church of Rome, and Drydep,
wrote two pieces in vindication of the Romifh tenets ;
viz. A Defence of the Papers written by the late king,
found in his ftrqng box ; and the celebrated poem, af¬
terwards anfwered by Lord Halifax, entitled. The Hind
and the Panther.—By this extraordinary itep he not
only engaged himfelf in controverfy, and incurred
much cenfure and ridicule from his cotemporary wits;
but on the completion of the Revolution, being, on
account of his new ly-chofen religion, disqualified from
bearing any oflice under the government, he was ftrip-
ped of the laurel, which, to his Hill greater mortifica¬
tion, was beftow’td on Richard Fiecknoe, a man to
whom he had a inoft fettled averfion. This circum-
ftance occafioned his writing the very fevere poem
called Mac Fiecknoe.
Mr Dryden’s circumftances had never been affluent;
but now7 being deprived of this little fupport, he found
himfelf reduced to the neceffity of writing for mere
bread. We confequently find him from this period
engaged in w orks of labour as w ell as genius, viz. in
tranilating the works of others ; and to this neceffity
perhaps our nation flands indebted for fome of the beft
tranflations extant. In the year he loft the laurel, he
published the life of St Francis Xavier from the French.
In 1693 came out a tranflation of Juvenal and Per-
fius ; in the firft of which he had a confiderable hand,
and of the latter the entire execution. In 1695 was
publifhed his profe verfion of Frefnoy’s Art of Painting;
and the year 1697 gave the world that tranflation of
Virgil’s w7orks entire, which full does, and perhaps ever
will, ftand foremoft among the attempts made on that
author. The petite pieces of this eminent writer, fuch
as prologues, epilogues, epitaphs, elegies, fongs, &c.
are too numerous to fpecify here, and too much difperf-
ed to direX the reader to. The greateft part of them,
however, are to be found in a colleXion of mifcellanies
in 6 vols izmo. His laft work is what is called his
Fables, which confifts of many of the moft interefting
ftories in Homer, Ovid, Boccace, and Chaucer, tranf-
lated or modernized in the moft elegant and poetical
manner ; together w7ith fome original pieces, among
which is that amazing ode on St Cecilia’s day, which,
though written in the very decline of the author’s life,
and at a period when old age and diftrefs confpired as
it were to damp his poetic ardour, and clip the wings
of fancy, yet poffefs fo much of both, as would be fuf-
ficient to have rendered him immortal had he never
written a Angle line befides.
Dryden married the lady Elizabeth Howard, After
to the earl of Berkffiire, who furvived him eight years;
though for the laft four of them flie w as a lunatic, hav¬
ing been deprived of her fenfes by a nervous fever.—
By this lady he had three fons ; Charles, John, and
Henry. Of the eldeft of thefe there is a circumftance
related by Charles Wilfon, Efq. in his life of Con¬
greve, which feems fo well attefted, and is itfelf of fo
very extraordinary a nature, that we cannot avoid giv¬
ing it a place here.—Dryden, with all his underftand-
ing, was weak enough to be fond of judicial aftrology,
and ufed to calculate the nativity of his children.
When his lady was in labour with his fon Charles, he
being told it was decent to withdraw7, laid his watch
on the table, begging one of the ladies then prefent,
in a moft folemn manner, to take exaX notice of the
very
DRY [ 361 1 DRY
Bryden. very minute that the child was born; which fhe did,
^ and acquainted him with it. About a week after, when
his lady was pretty well recovered, Mr Dryden took
■occafion to tell her that he had been calculating the
child’s nativity j and obferved, with grief, that he was
born in an evil hour : for Jupiter, Venus, and the Sun,
were all under the earth, and the lord of his afcendant
afflicfed with a hateful fquare of Mars and Saturn.
“ If he lives to arrive at the 8th year,” fays he, “ he
will go near to die a violent death on his very birth¬
day ; but if he ihould efcape, as I fee but Imall hopes,
he will in the 23d year be under the very fame evil di-
redlion j and if he fhould efcape that alfo, the 33d or
34th year is, I fear”—. Here he was interrupted by
the immoderate grief of his lady, who could no longer
hear calamity prophefied to befal her Ion. The time
at laft came, and Auguft was the inaufpicious month
in which young Hryden was to enter into the eighth
year of his age. The court being in progrefs, and Mr
Hryden at leifure, he was invited to the country feat
of the earl of Berkfhire, his brother-in-law, to keep
the long vacation with him at Charlton in Wilts 5 his
lady wras invited to her uncle Mordaunt’s to pafs the
remainder of the fummer. When they came to divide
the children. Lady Elizabeth would have him take
John, and fuffer her to take Charles : but Mr Dryden
was too abfolute, and they parted in anger ; he took
Charles with him, and fhe was obliged to be content
with John. When the fatal day came, the anxiety of
the lady’s fpirits occafioned fuch an agitation, as
thretv her into a violent fever, and her life wras de-
fpaired of, till a letter came from Mr Dryden, reprov¬
ing her for her womanilh credulity, and affuring her
that her child was well *, which recovered her fpirits,
and in fix weeks after fhe received an eclairciffement
of the w7hole affair. Mr Dryden, either through fear
of being reckoned fuperflitious, or thinking it a fcience
beneath his ftudy, was extremely cautious of letting
any one know that he w'as a dealer in aflrology •, there¬
fore could not excufe his abfence, on his fon’s anniver-
fary, from a general hunting match which Lord Berk-
fhire had made, to which all the adjacent gentlemen
were invited. When he went out, he took care to fet
the boy a double exercife in the Latin tongue, which
he taught his children himfelf,. with a ftrifl charge not
to flir out of the room till his return ; well knowing
the talk he had fet him would take up longer time.
Charles was performing his duty, in obedience to his
father j but, as ill fate wrould have it, the flag made
towards the houfe ; and the noife alarming the fervants,
they haftened out to fee the fport. One of them took
young Dryden by the hand, and led him out to fee it
alfo ; when, juft as they came to the gate, the flag
being at bay with the dogs, made a bold pufti, and
leaped over the court wall, which was very low and
very old *, and the dogs following, threw down a part
of the wall 10 yards in length, under which Charles
Dryden lay buried. He rvas immediately dug out ;
and after fix weeks languifliing in a dangerous way,
he recovered. So far Dryden’s prediffion was fulfil¬
led. In the 23d year of his age, Charles fell from the
top of an old tower belonging to the Vatican at Rome,
occafioned by a fwimming in bis head with which he
was feized, the heat of the day being excefiive. He
again recovered, but was ever after in a languiftiing
Vol. VII. Part I.
fickly ftate. In the 33d year of his age, being return¬
ed to England, he was unhappily drowned at Wind-
for. He had with another gentleman fwam twice over
the Thames ; but returning a third time, it was fup-
pofed he was taken with the cramp, becaufe he called
out tor help, though too late. Thus the father’s cal¬
culation proved but too prophetical.
At laft, after a long life, haralled with the moft la¬
borious of all fatigues, viz. that of the mind, and con¬
tinually made anxious by diftiefs and difficulty, our
author departed this life on the fiift of May 1701.—
The day after Mr Dryden’s death, the dean or Weft-
minfter fent word to Mr Dryden’s widow, that he
would make a prefent of the ground and all other
abbey fees for the funeral : the lord Halifax likenife
fent to the lady Elizabeth, and to Mr Charles Dryden,
offering to defray the expences of our poet’s funeral,
and afterwards to bellow 500I. on a monument in the
abbey 5 which generous offer was accepted. Accord¬
ingly, on Sunday following, the company being affem-
bled, the corpfe was put into a velvet herfe, attended
by 18 mourning coaches. When they were juft ready
to move. Lord Jeffreys, fon of Lord Chancellor Jef¬
freys, a name dedicated to infamy, with lome of his
rakilh companions, riding by, afked wbofe funeral it
was ; and being told it was Mr D.ryden’s, he protefted
he ftiould not be buried in that private manner ; that
he would himfelf, with the lady Elizabeth’s leave, have
the honour of the interment, and would bellow’ i ccol.
on a monument in the abbey for him. This put a flop
to their proceflion j and the lord Jeffreys, with feveral
of the gentlemen who had alighted from their coaches,
went up flairs to the lady, who was fick in bed. His
lordlhip repeated the purport of what he had faid be¬
low j but the lady Elizabeth refufing her corrfent, he
fell on his knees, vowing never to rife till his requeft
was granted. The lady under a hidden furprife faint¬
ed away : and Lord Jeffreys, pretending to have ob¬
tained her confent, ordered the body to be carried to
Mr Ruffel’s an undertaker in-Cheapfide, and to be left
there till further orders. In the mean time the abbey
w’as lighted up, the ground opened, the choir attend¬
ing, and the Liftiop waiting fome hours to no purpofe
for the corpfe. The next day Mr Charles Dryden
waited on the lord Halifax and the biftiop ; and en¬
deavoured to excufe his mother, by relating the truth.
Three days after the undertaker, having received no
orders, waited on the lord Jeffreys ; vs ho pretended
that it w’as a drunken frolic, that he remembered no¬
thing of the matter, and he might do what he pleafed
with the body. Upon this the undertaker waited
upon the lady Elizabeth, who defired a day’s refpite,
which was granted. Mr Charles Dryden immediately
wrote to the lord Jeffreys, who returned for anfvver,
that he knew nothing of the matter, and would be
troubled no more about it. Mr Dryden hereupon
applied again to Lord Halifax and the biftiop of Ro-
chefter, who abfolutely refufed to do any thing in the
affair.
In this diftrefs, Dr Garth, who had been Mr Dry¬
den’s intimate friend, fent for the corpfe to the college
of phyficians, and propofed a fubfeription ; which fuc-
ceeding, about three wreeks after Mr Dryden’s deceafe,
Dr Garth pronounced a fine Latin oration over the
body, which was conveyed from the college, attended
Z z by
dry
[ 362 ]
DUB
Dryden. by a numerous train of coaches, to Weftminfter abbey,
“•—“V""*' but in very great diforder. At laft the corpfe arrived
at the abbey, which was all unlighted. No organ play¬
ed, no anthem fung : only two of the finging boys
preceded the corpfe, who fung an ode of Horace,
with each a fmall candle in their hand. When the fu¬
neral was over, Mr Charles Dryden fent a challenge to
Lord Jeffreys: who refufing to anfwer it, he fent fe-
veral others, and went often himfelf j but could neither
get a letter delivered, nor admittance to fpeak to him :
which fo incenfed him, that finding his lordfhip refu-
fed to anfwer him like a gentleman, he refolved to
watch an opportunity, and brave him to fight, though
with all the rules of honour ; which his lordfhip hear-
ing, quitted the town, and Mr Charles never had an
opportunity to meet him, though he fought it to his
death with the utmoft application.
Mr Dryden had no monument ere&ed to him for
feveral years j to which Mr Pope alludes in his epitaph
intended for Mr Rowe, in this line,
Beneath a rude and namelefs ftone he lies.
In a note upon which we are informed that the tomb
of Mr Dryden was ere&ed upon this hint by Sheffield
duke of Buckingham, to which was originally intended
this epitaph :
This Sheffield rais’d—The facred duft below
Was Dryden once ; the reft, who does not know ?
Which was fince changed into the plain infcription
now upon it, viz.
J. DRYDEN,
Natus Aug. 9. 1631.
Mortuus Mail I. 1701*
'Johannes Sheffield, dux Buckinghamienjis fecit.
Mr Dryden’s chara&er has been very differently
drawn by different hands, fome of which have exalted
it to the higheft degree of commendation, and others
debafed it by the fevereft cenfure.—The latter, how¬
ever, we muft charge to that ftrong fpirit of party
which prevailed during great part of Dryden’s time,
and ought therefore to be taken with great allowances.
Were we indeed to form a judgment of the author
from fome of his dramatic writings, we fhouM perhaps
be apt to conclude him a man of the moft licentious
morals; many of his comedies containing a great ftiare
of loofenefs, even extending to obfcenity : But if we
confider, that, as the poet tells us,
Thofe who live to pleafe, muft pleafe to live;
if we then look back to the fcandalous licenfe of the
age he lived in, the indigence which at times he un¬
derwent, and the neceffity he confequently lay under
of complying with the public tafte however depraved •,
we (hall furely not refufe our pardon to the compelled
writer, nor our credit to thofe of his contemporaries
who were intimately acquainted with him, and who
have affured us there was nothing remarkably vicious
in his perfonal charafter.
From fome parts of his hiftory he appears unfteady,
and to have too readily temporized with the feveral re¬
volutions in church and ftate. This however might in
fome meafure have been owing to that natural timi¬
dity and diffidence in his difoofition, which almoft all
the writers feem to agree in his poffefling. Congreve,
whofe authority cannot be fufpefted, has given us fuch
an account of him, as makes him appear no lefs amiable
in his private character as a man, than he was illuftri-
ous in his public one as a poet. In the former light,
according to that gentleman, he was humane, com-
paffionate, forgiving, and fincerely friendly : of an
extenfive reading, a tenacious memory, and a ready
communication : gentle in the corre&ion of the writ¬
ings of others, and patient under the reprehenfion of
his own deficiencies : eafy of accefs himfelf, but flow
and diffident in his advances to others j and of all men
the moft modeft and the moft eafy to be difcountenan-
ced in his approaches either to his fuperiors or his
equals. As to his writings, he is perhaps the happieft
in the harmony of his numbers, of any poet who ever
lived either before or fince his time, not even Mr
Pope himfelf excepted. His imagination is ever warm,
his images noble, his defcriptions beautiful, and his
fentiments juft and becoming. In his profe he is poe¬
tical without bombaft, concife without pedantry, and
clear without prolixity. His dramatic have, perhaps,
the leaft merit of all his writings. Yet there are many
of them which are truly excellent •, though he himfelf
tells us that he never wrote any thing in that way to
pleafe himfelf but his All for Love. This laft, indeed,
and his Spanijh Friar, may be reckoned two of the beft
plays in our language.
DRY PIS, a genus of plants belonging to the pent-
andria clafs; and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 2 2d order, Caryophyllei. See Botany Index.
DUBLIN, the metropolis of Ireland, the fecond
city in his majefty’s dominions, and efteemed the fifth
for magnitude in Europe, is fituated in the province
of Leinfter, in the county of Dublin, at the bottom of
a large bay. The river Liffey, which here falls into
the ocean, divides the town into two nearly equal parts.
Formerly the city of Dublin was confined to the fouth
fide of the river. It was a place of great antiquity.
Ptolemy, who flourifhed in the reign of Antoninus Pius,
about the year 140, fays, it was anciently called Afch-
cled. In 155, Alpinus, whofe daughter Auliana was
drowned in the Liffey, changed the name from Afchcled
to Auliana. It was afterwards named Dublana, and
Ptolemy calls it Eblana. Dublana, whence comes Dub-
linum and Dublin, is evidently derived from Dub-leana,
the place of the black harbour or lake,” or rather
“ the lake of the fea,” the bay of Dublin being fre¬
quently fo called. This city has had a variety of names.
The Irifti call it Drom-choll-coil, “ the brow of a hazel
wood and in 181, Eogan king of Munfter being on
a royal tour, paid a vifit to this place, which was then
called Atha Cliath Duhh-Line, “ the paffage of the ford
of hurdles over the black pool the harbour of Dub¬
lin w'as likewife known by the name of Lean-Cliath,
or Leam-Cliath, from Lean or Leant, “ a harbour j”
and from Cliath or Cliabb, which literally fignifies “ a
hurdle or any thing made of wicker work j” it alfo fig-
nified certain wears formed with hurdles, and placed in
rivers and bays by the ancient Irifti for the purpoie of ta¬
king fifti: whence any river, or bay wheicm thefe wears
were fixed had the name of Chath or CUab, annexed
to it, to fignify the eftablifhment of a fifhery. Dublin,
therefore, being originally built on or near one of thefe
Drypis,
Dublin.
Dublin.
DUB [ 3^3 ] DUB
harbours, was anciently called Baly-lean-Cliath, that
is, “ the town on the fifhing harbour.” It is defcribed at
the prefent day in the Irifh language by the appella¬
tions of Ath-Cliatk) “ the ford of hurdles,” and Bally-
ath-Cliath) “ the town of the ford of hurdles,” the in¬
habitants having formerly had accefs to the river by
hurdles laid on the low marlhy grounds adjoining the
water : and this name was alfo extended to the north
fide of the river, from a temporary bridge of hurdles
thrown over the Anna Liffey, a corruption of Auin
Louiffa, or “ the fwift river,” fo termed from the ra¬
pidity of the mountain floods. This fide was enlarged
by Mac Turkill the Daniflr prince, who, notwithftand-
ing, fixed his habitation on the fouth fide, and aban¬
doned the northern town j which, from the original
country of the invaders, was called Eq/imantown, fince
corrupted to Oxmantown. King Edgar, in the pre¬
face to his charter dated 964, mentions Ireland with
its moft noble city [nobilijjima civitas) of Dublin. By
the Fingalians it is called Divelin, and by the Welch
Dinas Dulin, or the city of Dulin.
In 448, Alpin Mac Eachard, king of Dublin, and
all his fubje&s, were converted to Chriftianity by St
Patrick.
In the year 498, the Oftmen or Danes having en¬
tered the Liffey with a fleet of 60 fail, madethemfelves
mafters of Dublin and the adjacent country, and foon
after environed the city with walls. About 1170
Dermot Mac Murrough, king of Leinfter, having
quarrelled with the other princes of the kingdom, a
confederacy was formed againft him by Roderick
O’Conor, monarch of Ireland. Dermot applied to
Henry II. king of England, who fent over a number
of Englilh adventurers, by wdiofe afliftance he was re-
inftated in his dominions; and in the year 1171, the
defcendants of the Danes ftill continuing to hold pof-
feflion of Dublin, it was befieged and taken by a power¬
ful party of the Englilh under Raymond le Gros.
Mac Turkill the Danifli king efcaped to his {hipping :
he returned, however, foon after with a ftrong fleet to
recover the city, but was killed in the attempt, and in
him ended the race of eafterling princes in Ireland.
In 1172, Henry II. landed at Waterford, and ob¬
tained from Richard earl Strongbow (who married
the daughter of Dermot Mac Murrough, and by com-
pa6f was his fucceffor) a furrender of the city of Dub¬
lin, where he built a pavilion of wicker work near
St Andrew’s church, then fituated where Cafllemarket
lately flood, and there entertained feveral Irifh princes,
who voluntarily fubmitted to him on condition of be-
ing governed by the fame laws as the people of Eng¬
land. Henry alfo held a parliament here. In 1173
he granted his firft charter to Dublin, and by divers
privileges encouraged a colony from Briftol to fettle
here.
In I2IO, upwards of 20 Irifti princes fwore alle¬
giance to King John at Dublin ■, engaging to eftablifti
the Englifh laws and cuftoms in the kingdom ; and in
the fame year courts of judicature were inftituted. In
1216, magna charta was granted to the Irifh by Hen¬
ry III. an entry of which was made in the red book of
the exchequer at Dublin. In 1217, the city was
granted to the citizens in fee-farm at 200 marks per
annum 5 and in 1227 the above monarch ordained that
the charter granted by King John fhould be kept in¬
violably. In 1404, the ftatutes of Kilkenny and Dub- Dubiitu
lin were confirmed in a parliament held at this city ~v~~’
under the earl of Ormond. The charter of the city of
Dublin was renewed in 1609 by James I.
The civil government of the city was anciently un¬
der the management of a provoft and bailiffs; in 1308,
John le Decer was appointed the firfl provoft, and
Richard de St Olave and John Stakebold bailiffs. In
1409, the title of the chief magiftrate was changed to
that of mayor, when Thomas Cufack was appointed
to the office, Richard Bove and Thomas Shortall be¬
ing bailiffs: the office of bailiffs was changed to (he-
riffs in 1547. In 1660, Charles II. gave a collar of
SS. and a company of foot guards to the mayor j
and in 1665, this monarch conferred the title of lord
mayor on the chief magiftrate, to whom he alfo
granted 500I. per annum in lieu of the foot company.
Sir Daniel Bellingham was the firft lord mayor of
Dublin ; Charles Lovet and John Quelfti were (heriffs
the fame year. In 1672, Arthur earl of Effex intro¬
duced new rules for the better government of the city;
and in 1683 the Tholfel was built, for the purpofe of
the magiftrates meeting to hold their courts, affem-
blies, &c.
In the 10th century, after the fortifications of Dub¬
lin were repaired by the Oftmen, the walls of the city,
including thofe of the caftle, did not occupy more than
an Irifti mile *, they extended from Winetavern gate to
Audeon’s arch, and were continued from thence to
where Newgate formerly flood j and from a plan pub-
lifhed by John Speed in 1610, it appears that they
were continued to Ormond’s gate, or, as it has been fince
called, Wormwood gate \ from thence to the Old bridge,
and along the banks of the river to a very large portal
called Newman's tower, nearly in the prefent fite of the
fouth entrance of Effex bridge •, and from Newman’s
tower in an angular direction to Dame’s gate, at the
weft end of Dame’s ftreet. From the gate at the fouth-
weft angle of the caftle the wall ran to Nicholas gate,
and was continued from thence to Newgate. The
principal ftreets without the walls were, on the weft,
New row, Francis ftreet, Thomas ftreet, and James’s
ftreet ; on the fouth were Patrick ftreet, Bride ftreet,
and Ship ftreet j and on the eaft, Dame ftreet, George’s
lane, and Stephen ftreet. That fpace of ground now
occupied bv Crane lane, Temple bar, Fleet ftreet, La¬
zar’s hill, or as it is now called South Townfend ftreet,
Crampton, Afton’s, George’s, and Sir John Roger-
fon’s quays, 8tc. was then overflowed by the Liffey.
On the north fide of the river there were only Church
flreet, Mary’s lane, Hammond lane, and Pill lane, then
built but on one fide as far as Mary’s abbey, which
terminated the extent of that part of the town to the
eaft ward ; Grange Gorman, Stoney-batter, now called
ManorJlreet, and Glaffmanogue, were then villages at
fome diftance from the city \ and at the latter the ftie-
riffs have held their courts in times of the plague, as
being remote from the ftage of infection. In 1664,
the inhabitants being numbered amounted to 2565
men, and 2986 women Proteftants ; and 1202 men
and 1406 women, Roman Catholics, making in the
whole 8159.
By comparing this account of the ancient ftate and
boundaries of the metropolis with the following de-
fcription of its prefent extent, population, and mag-
Z z 2 nificcnce.
DUB
t 364 ]
DUB
Dublin, nificence, an Idea will be readily formed of tire ama-
’“■'"v 1 zing increafe and improvement it has experienced with¬
in the courfe of a century.
Dublin is feated in view of the fea on the eafl,
and a fine country which fwells into gently-riling emi¬
nences on the north and weft, while it towers boldly
up in lofty mountains that bound the horizon on the
fouth. The city itfelf cannot be feen to full advan¬
tage on entering the harbour : but the approach to it
from thence exhibits a fine profpeft of the country for
improvement and cultivation, interfperfed with nume¬
rous villas, that have a moft agreeable efFe£l to enliven
this delightful fcene, which, beginning at the water’s
edge, is continued all over the coaft to the northward
of the bay as far as the eye can reach, and is finely
contrafted by a diftant view of the Wicklow moun¬
tains to the fouth, where the conical hills, called the
Sugar Loaves, contribute not a little, by the fingularity
of their appearance, to embellilli the landfcape, lo ex-
tcnlive and pnfturefque as not to be equalled by any
natural feenery in Europe, but the entrance of the
bay of Naples, to which it bears a very finking reiem-
blance.
The form of Dublin is nearly fquare, a figure that
includes the largeft area proportioned to its circum¬
ference. From the royal hofpital at Kilmainham, at
the weftern extremity of the town, to the eaft end of
Townfend ftreet, the length is two miles arid a half,
and its greateft breadth is computed to be of the fame
extent : hence the city is about 1 o miles in circum¬
ference. Its increafe within the laft twenty years has
been amazing ; it now contains about 22,000 houfes,
whofe inhabitants are eftimated at 156,000.
Dublin, with refpeft to its ftreets, bears a near re-
femblance to London. Some of the old {fleets were
formerly narrow : but this defeft L now in a great
meafure remedied by an acl of parliament, paffed in
1*774, for opening the public avenues, taking dowm
fign polls, palifades, pent houfes, &c, new paving the
ftreets, and flagging the foot paflages : and, in 1785,
another aft paffed for the better paving, deanfmg,
and lighting the city j in confequen.ee of which an ad¬
ditional number of globes with double burners were
put up at the diftance of 36 feet from each other.
Thefe neceffary improvements contribute exceedingly
to the beauty and convenience of the metropolis : the
new* ftreets are wide and commodious, the houfes lofty,
uniform, and elegant ; nor are feveral of the old flreets
totally deficient in thefe refpe&s 5 Sackville ftreet, or
the Mall, which, though built upwards of 40 years
ago, has been included in the number of our new* ftreets
by all the late geographers (a felf-evident proof that
thefe writers had not even feen the city), is a noble
avenue, with a gravel walk in the centre, enclofed by
a wall of about three feet high ; this walk is 36 feet
and a half broad, and the diftance between it and the
palifades fronting the houfes, on either fide, is 42 feet
and a half: when the new cuffomhoufe is completed,
this ftreet will be then a moft definable fituation for
wholelale merchants, not only on account of its proxi¬
mity to that building, but its great depth in the rear.
Some years ago, it was efleemed one of the fineft pub¬
lic avenues in Europe : many of the new ftreets, how¬
ever, in this city are now much fuperior to it in the
magnificence and uniformity of the houfes. Among
thefe, on the north fide of the river, in the fame quar- Bublis.
ter with Sackville ftreet, are Gardiner’s row’, North’ v
Great George’s ftreet, Granby row; Cavendiflr rowq
and Palace row : the laft three form a fuperb fquare,
having the garden of the lying-in hofpital in the
centre : the old wall that encompaffed the garden has
been lately taken down *, there is now a full view of
this delightful fpot furrounded with iron palifades, and
upwards of 100 globes with double burners difpofed
at equal diftances, which added to the globes from
the lurrounding houfes, have a molt brilliant effedf.
This fquare, which for its fize, is not perhaps to be
equalled, has lately received the name of Rutland,
fquare, in compliment to his grace the prefent duke of
Rutland, who contributed munificently towards the
improvements in the enclofure of the new garden, and
the eredting an elegant edifice for a ball and lupper
rooms, now nearly finilhed, fituated to the eaft of the
hofpital. ,
Among the new ftreets and buildings on the louth
fide of the river, thofe wherein perfons of diftindlion
refide, lie chiefly to the eaftward of the college and
Stephen’s green *, which laft, though it does not rank
with the new buildings, poffeffes much grandeur and
elegance, being one of the largeft fquares in Europe :
it is an Englilh mile in circumference, furrounded by.a
gravel walk planted on each fide with trees ; within
this walk is a Imooth level meadow, having in the
centre an equeftrian ftatue of the late king : there aie
feveral fine edifices, though almoft all differing in the
ftile of their archite&ure ; this variety, however, is
elteemed by many rather a beauty than a defedf : but,
befides the other'ftreets and buildings in this quarter,
there is a new fquare which will be nearly as extenfive
as Stephen’s green, called Merion Jquare ; it was laid
out feme years ago by the late Lord Fitzwilliam ; the
buildings are now confiderably advanced, and great
encouragement has been given by the pie.fent nobie
proprietor : the houfes on the north fide, which is quite
finifhed, are uniform and lofty } meft of them being
carried up with hewn ftone to the firft ftory, gives
the whole an air of ftrength, beauty, and magnificence.
At the fouth-weft angle of Stephen’s green, a new
ftreet has been alfo opened, called HarcourtJlreet, in
which are feveral elegant ftruaures that merit notice,
particularly the town refidence of the right honourable
lord Earlsford. r o u 7
The principal entrance to the walks of Stephen s
green is on the w’eft fide oppofite the end of Yoik-
ftreet (hvhich may properly be claffed among the new
ftreets), as all the old houfes have been pulled down
and modern buildings erefted in their room. Thole
parts of the city inhabited by merchants and traders
begin to wear a new face *, and amongft this number
the new buildings of Dame ftreet on the fouth fide,
exhibit an extenfive, uniform, and beautiful range of
houfes all of an equal height ; the (hop doors and win¬
dows are formed by arches, exaftly fimilar in their
conftruftion and ornaments, which are Amply elegant j
when the other fide of this ftreet {hall be rebuilt, it
may be iuftly pronounced one of the firft trading ftreets
in Europe ; and Parliament ftreet, which was built fome
years ago, is now nearly equal to any trading ftreet in
The river Liffev, being banked in through the
whole
DUB
Dublin.
whole length of the town, exhibits fpacious and beau-
tiful quays, where veffels below the bridges Ibad and
unload before the merchants doors and warehoufes :
it is navigable as far as a bridge near the weft end of
the new cuftom-houle. This bridge which is a very
elegant ftriidfture, was built fince the year 1790. Effex
bridge was firft built in i68t, and took its name from
the unfortunate earl of Effex, then viceroy of Ireland.
It was taken down in 1753, and rebuilt in an elegant
form, after the model of Weftminfter bridge, but much
better proportioned, and on a more lecure foundation.
It has five arches, the buttreffes between which fupport
femicircular niches that projett from the parapet; there
are baluftrades between thefe niches, and continued to
the ends of the bridge, which is commodioufly flagged
for foot paflengers ; the whole conftrucled with hewn
ftone in a very fine tafte. There are four bridges befides
the turn already mentioned; three of which have nothing
to recommend them, further than the antiquity of the
Old Bridge, which was erected in this city at a very
early period, when it had the name of Dublin Bridge ;
it was rebuilt in 1428, fince which time it received its
prefent title. Bloody bridge, built in 1671, was ori¬
ginally conftrudted with wood, and derives its prefent
harih appellation from an attempt to break it down,
wherein four perfons were killed. Ormond bridge
was built in 1684, during the Ormond adminiftration.
Arran bridge, now called Queen's bridge, was ere&ed
in the fame year ; but, being deftroyed by the floods
in 1763, was rebuilt of hewn ftone, and finilhed in
1768. It confifts of three arches, with flagged foot
paflages, ftone baluftrades and ornamental decora¬
tions, in a handfome light ftyle, which has been much
admired.
This city has 2 cathedrals, 18 pariflr churches,
2 chapels of eafe, 15 Roman Catholic chapels, 6 meet¬
ing houfes for Prefbyterians, 1 for Anabaptifts, 4 for
MethodiiT, 2 for Quakers, a church for French Calvi-
nifts, a Danifli and a Dutch church, and a Jewilh fy-
nagogue.
Thrift church, or the Holy Trinity, built in 1038
by Donat biftiop of Dublin, to whom Sitricus the
fon of Amlave king of the Oilmen of Dublin granted
the fite for that purpofe, {lands on the fummit of the
riling ground at the head of Winetavern ftreet. It is
a venerable Gothic pile ; and its prefent appearance
evinces its antiquity. St Patrick’s cathedral, firft
built by Archbifhop Comyn in 1190, and decorated
by Archbilhop Minot in 1370 with a fteeple, on which
a lofty fpire was ereded in 1750, is alio a fine Go¬
thic ftrudure ; it Hands on the call fide of Patrick’s
ftreet ; the monuments here are more numerous than
in Chrift church ; and the fteeple is the highell in the
city.
St Werburgh’s church was originally built in a
very early age. In 1301, when a great part of the
city was confumed by an accidental fire, this church
fuffered in the conflagration : it rvas burnt a fecond
time in 1754, and repaired in its prefent beautiful
form in 1759* Fhe front and fteeple are admired for
their elegance, lightnefs, and fymmetry : the fpire is a
fine odlagon fupported by eight pillars ; and a gilt ball
terminates the whole, being 160 feet from the ground.
Catherine’s church, firft built in 1105, and re-edified
in its prefent form in 1769, is fituated on the fouth
f 365 ]
DUB
fide of rbomas’s ftreet. St Thomas’s church is the Dublin.
lateft foundation of the kind in this city, having been  
begun in the year 1758, and finilhed and confecrated
in 1762. It is fituated on the weft fide of Marlborough
ftreet, oppofite Gloucefter ftreet, to which it forms an
elegant termination. The other churches in this city
are ; on the north fide of the river, Mary’s, Michan’s,.
and Paul’s; on the fouth fide, James’s, Luke’s, Ke¬
vin’s, Peter’s, Bride’s, Nicholas within, Audeon’s,
Michael’s, Mark’s, Anne’s, John’s, and Andrew’s:
this laft is called alto the Bound church, from its form
being exa&ly circular : nioft, if not all the others were
built in an early age: many, however, have been fince re-
edified, and affumed a more modern form ; fome of thefe
are not totally devoid of elegance, particularly Anne’s.
St John’s in luftiamble lireet was rebuilt in 1773, and
has now a handlome front of hewn ftone decorated with
columns fupporting a pediment. Befides thefe church¬
es, Dublin is adorned with feveral other public build¬
ings ; the moft remarkable of which are the. following :
The caftle, the refidence of the chief governor, built in
1213 by Henry de Londres, was formerly moated and
flanked with towers; but the ditch has been long fince
filled up, and the old buildings razed, the chapel and
wardrobe tower excepted, which iiill remain : plir-
mingham tower was rebuilt in 1777, and is now called
Harcourt tower. The caftle at prefent confifts of two
courts, the principal of which is an oblong fquare form¬
ed by four ranges of building : within a few years, in
the middle of the fouth range, a handfome edifice call¬
ed Bedford tower has been erefted ; the front is deco¬
rated with a fmall arcade of three arches, over which
is a colonnade fupporting a pediment, from whence
rHes an oftagon fteeple crowned with a fmall cupola and
gilt ball in a light pleafing ftyle. This tower, which
fronts the entrance to the viceroy’s apartments, is con-
nefled with the buildings on each fide by two fine
gates ; over that on the right hand is a ftatue of Forti¬
tude ; and over the left gate, which is the grand portal
to the upper court, is the ftatue of Juftice. In the W-
er court are the treafury and other offices, with military
ftores, an arfenal and armory for 40,000 men, and a
barrack in which a captain’s detachment of infantry are
ftationed. Between this barrack and the arfenal is the
caftle garden ; oppofite to which, at the rear of the
lord lieutenant’s apartments, is- a range of building
called the Garden front, erefted about the year 1740,
finiffied in mountain ftone, ornamented by femicolumns
of the Ionic order,, and the windows embellithed with
cornices and architraves, in a fine tafte. The hall room
is now titled St Patrick's Hall. The viceroy’s body
guard confifts of a captain, two fubalterns, and fixty pri¬
vate men, with a fubaltern’s guard of horfe. The parlia¬
ment houfe, a moft; fuperb ftrudture, is fituated on the
north fide of .College green ; it was begun in 1729, fi¬
nilhed in 10 years, and colt 40,000!. It is built with
Portland ftone, and the front formed by a grand por¬
tico of Ionic columns in the moft finiftied ftyle of ar-
chitedftural elegance : the internal parts correfpond
with its outward magnificence ; and the manner
in which the infide is lighted is univerfally admired.
The houfe of commons is an oflagon, covered with a
dome fupported by columns of the Ionic order, that
rife from an amphitheatrical gallery baluftraded with
iron fcroll-work; this room is admirably well adapted
to >
Dublin.
DUB [ 366 1 D U B , w -i
«o Us purpofe. The houfe of loedsU -blongroo. fpa- ^alMn the --f ^ t
X judfcioufly adap0tendTornthee deception of the au^uft do™6, which fhTmidX thaTX
i r C "Rtr orHpr of
Dublis.
battle of the Boyne and fiege of Derry. By order of
both houfes of parliament, a grand new front has been
erefted on the eaft fide of this magnificent pile j and
preparations are making ( 1790) to front the north and
weft fidesin a fimilar manner, from a defign of Mr
Gandon’s: thus infulated, the whole will form a luite ot
fenatorial apartments matchlefs in elegance and conve-
' ^The college founded by Queen Elizabeth in 1591
is fituated at the eaft end of College green.^ It is a moft
beautiful fttu&ure, confifting of two fpacious fquares,
the firft of which contains the refeftory, the old hall
and chapel, and the new theatre for leftures and exa¬
minations •, the front of this laft building is finely deco¬
rated with Corinthian columns fupporting a pediment;
* and over the front of the old hall, on the eaft fide ot
this fquare, a handfome fteeple rifes crowned with a cu¬
pola. In the other fquare, which confifts partly ot
brick buildings for the ftudents, there is a fuperb li¬
brary, extending through its whole length on the fouth
fide: behind this fquare there is a fine park. I he
weft fide of the firft fquare, which is built with Portland
ftone, forms the grand front, upwards of 300 teet m
length, ornamented with Corinthian pillars and other
decorations in a very fine tafte. At a fmall diftance to
the fouth fide of this front is an elegant edifice in which
the provoft refides. The printing office is a neat hand¬
fome ftru&ure on the north fide of the park 5 and oppo-
fite to it is the anatomy houfe, in which are to be leen
the celebrated wax models of the human figure^execut¬
ed at Paris by M. Douane, purchafed by the right ho¬
nourable the earl of Shelburne, and prefented to this
univerfity. The college of Dublin is an univerfity m
itfelf, confifting of a provoft, vice proyoft, 7 fenior and
1 e iunior fellows, and 17 fcholars of the houfe ; the
number of ftudents is generally about ^oo : it has al o
profeffors in divinity, common and civft law, phyiic,
Greek, modern languages,mathematics, oriental tongues,
hiftoiy and oratory, modern hiftory natural philo-
fophy, anatomy and furgery, chemiftry and botany.
His'royal highnefs the duke of Gloucefter is chan¬
cellor, and his grace the lord primate of Ireland vice
chancellor ; the vifitors are the chancellor (or, in his
abfence, the vice chancellor) and the archbilhop ot
^ The Royal Exchange, fituated on Cprk hill, was
begun in 1769, and opened for bufinefs in 1779 ; t e
expence, amounting to 4°,oool. being defrayed by
lottery fchemes, condufted by the merchants of Dub in
with an integrity that did them honour. The build¬
ing is nearly a fquare, having three fronts of P°.rtla"d
ftone in the Corinthian order, and crowned m the
midft with a fine dome, which is fupported on the in-
fide by 12 Compofite fluted pillars that form a circular
trance, in the circular walk, is a ft^tp6 of his prefent
maiefty George III. in a Roman military habit j it is
executed in bronze by Van Noft, and elevated on a
white marble pedeftal j in a niche on the ftaircafe lead¬
ing to the coffee room is a white marble ftapp® oi
late Dr Charles Lucas, executed by Smith. The north
front, which commands a fine view of Parliament ftreet
and Effex bridge, is embelliffied by a range of fix co¬
lumns and their correfpondent pilafters, fupporting a
grand pediment with a baluftrade on each fide : a flight
of ftone fteps leads from the ftieet to the entrance,
which is by three fine iron-railed gates : the weft front
varies but little from the north, except in the want of a
pediment, and having only three fteps afcend.ng to the
entrance, the ground on that fide being nearly on a
level •, this front is oppofite the eaft end of Caftle ftreet,
near the principal entrance to the caftle.
The hofpital for lying-in women, founded by iJr
Bartholomew Moffe, and opened in 1757, ftands on the
north fide of Great-Britain ftreet. The building is ex¬
tremely light and elegant; a beautiful fteeple rifes m the
centre, and the wings are formed by femicircular colon¬
nades on each fide. Adjoining the eaft colonnade is
the Rotunda, where balls and affembhes are held, and
concerts performed, for the benefit of the charity : clofe
to it are now erefting the grand fuit of apartments be¬
fore mentioned. The garden at the rear of the hofpi¬
tal is laid out in a good tafte. - .
The Blue-coat hofpital was founded on the weft fide
of Queen ftreet by Charles II. in 1670, for educating the
children of reduced freemen of the city : but the origi¬
nal building being greatly decayed, was taken down,
and the new Blue-coat hofpital, fituated m Oxman-
town green, was begun in 1773. The front is enr‘c -
ed by four Ionic columns, fupporting a pediment in
the centre, over which the fteeple rifes, embelliffied
with Corinthian and Compofite columns in an admir¬
ed tafte. Connefted with the front by circular walls
ornamented with baluftrades and niches are the
fchool on one fide and the church on the other . thele
form two well proportioned wings j they are ot a
fimilar conftruftion *, and each is crowned with a fmall
fteeple or turret, correfpondmg with the reft m uni¬
form harmony and beauty. , , ., .
The Barracks, the foundation of which was laid m
1704, are efteemed the largeft and moft commodious
in Europe. They confift of four fquares, fituate a
the weft end of the town, on the north fide of the
river. The royal fquare in the centre, with the horle
barrack and the little fquare on each fide, form a ipa-
cious and extenfive front to the fouth : the palatine,
now called the new fquare, is oppofite to Oxmantown
green •, it has been lately rebuilt with hewn ftone in a
very elegant manner. The
/*1 Since the union of Ireland with Greet Britain, this building being no
ing for the Ir(h legiflative body, now incorporated in the imperial parlum
for the national bank..
longer neceffary as a place of meet-
, is to be converted into apartments
D U
Dublin. The royal hofpital at
"" * of invalids of the Irifh army was founded by King
Charles II. on a plan fimilar to that of Chelfea in
England. The building was completed in 1683, and
coft upwards of 23,500!. It is fituated at the weft
end of the town on a rifing ground near the fouth fide
of the river, from whence there is an eafy afcent to it
through feveral tows of tall trees. This edifice is of
a quadrangular form, enclofing a fpacious area hand*
fomely laid out in grafs plots and gravelled walks: an
arcade is carried along the lower ftory in each fquare
to the entrance of the hall and chapel, which are both
curioufty decorated ; in the former are feveral whole-
length portraits of royal perfonages and other diftin-
guilhed chara&ers.
Dr Stevens’s Hofpital, the foundation of which was
laid in 1720, is a neat quadrangular building, pleafant-
ly fituated on the banks of the river near the weft end
of James’s ftreet, from whence a gravelled walk leads
by a gentle defcent to the entrance of the hofpital, and
is continued from thence to the water’s edge.
The Linen Hall, at the north end of Linen-Hall
ftreet, which was opened at the public expence in 1728,
for the reception of linen cloths brought to the Dublin
market, is a handfome building, lately enlarged with
treble its number of former rooms, which furnilh a Hew
proof of commercial profperity.
The New Prifon in Green ftreet, the firft ftone of
which was laid in 1773* 3 large quadrangular ftruc-
ture, defigned and executed under the direction of the
late Mr Cooley. The eaft front confifts of a centre
break of mountain ftone rufticated and crowned by a
pediment, with a plain facade of black limeftone on
each fide j and at the external angles of the building
are four round towers.
There are many other public edifices in this city and
its environs which merit particular notice. The Hof¬
pital for Lunatics in Weft Bow lane, founded by Dean
Swift, and opened in 175? 5 t^le Hibernian School in
the Phoenix Park, and the Marine School on Sir John
Rogerfon’s Quay, the firft for educating the poor chil¬
dren of foldiers, and the other for bringing up to the
fea fervice the fons of deceafed or difabled feamen; the
Hofpital for Incurables in South Towmfend ftreet ;
Mercer’s Hofpital in Stephen ftreet; the Meath Hof¬
pital on the Coombe $ and Simpfon’s Hofpital in
Great-Britain ftreet, the laft of which was eftabliftied
for the reception of blind and gouty men ; are all
handfome edifices conftrufted of hewn ftone in the
modern ftyle.
To thefe public buildings may be added St Nicho¬
las’s Hofpital in Francis ftreet; the Infirmary for fick
and wounded foldiers of the army, and the Foundling
Hofpital in James’s ftreet; the Magdalen Afylum in
Leefon ftreet 5 and the Houfe of Induftry in Channel
row $ the halls for corporations (particularly the Wea¬
vers Hall on the Coombe, over the entrance of which
is a ftatue of his late majefty George II.); the Thol-
fel, the old Four Courts ; the old Cuftomhoufe ; and
feveral others. The Charitable Infirmary, which was
firft opened in 1728 and rebuilt in 1741, ftood on the
Inn’s Quay, but has lately been pulled down, together
with moft of the houfes on that quay, where the
new courts of juftice are to be eredled ; and the bene¬
fits of this humane inftitution are now difpenfed to the
B [ 367 ] d u B
Kilmainham for the fupport public at a houfe taken for that purpofe in Jervis ftreet.
The new courts of juftice, on the north fide of the
river, form a principal ornament to the metropolis,
and are from a defign of Mr Gandon’s, as well as the
new cuftomhoufe on the north wall. The front of the
latter extends 375 feet, enriched with arcades and
columns of the Doric order, crowned with an enta¬
blature : the centre has a portico finilhed with a pedi¬
ment, in which is a bas relief of emblematical figures
alluding to commerce : over the pediment is an attic
ftory ; and a magnificent dome finifties the centre,
whereon is a pedeftal fupporting a ftatue of Commerce:
the key ftones over the entrances and in the centre of
the pavilions are decorated with emblematical heads re-
prefenting the produce of the principal rivers of Ire¬
land : the fouth or front to the river, with the arms of
Ireland over each pavilion, is of Portland ftone : the
whole, being formed of large and ftriking parts, adds
much to the pi&urefque fcene of the river, and will re¬
main a lafting monument of reputation to the feveral
artifts employed in this fuperb building.
The playhoufes, confidered as public buildings, have
nothing to recommend them to notice. One only,
viz. the old houfe, now the theatre-royal, in Smock-
alley, is kept open by Mr Daly ; who, in confequence
of a bill paffed in the Irilh parliament for the re¬
gulation of the ftage, enjoys the exclufive privilege of
managing and dire&ing the theatrical exhibitions in
this metropolis. The playhoufe in Crow ftreet, which
formerly ppfleffed the diftin&ion of theatre-royal, has
been ftiut up thefe feveral years part.
But a minute defcription of every public edifice
would occupy more room than this publication admits,
not to mention the feveral private houfes, juftly ad¬
mired for their elegance. Among thefe are,
Leinfter Houfe, the town refidence of his grace the
duke of Leinfter. The entrance to this princely man-
lion is from Kildare ftreet, through a grand gateway
of ruftic ftone work, into a fpacious court which forms
a fegment of a circle before the principal front. The
infide of this magnificent ftruflure is equal to its ex¬
terior appearance ; the hall lofty and noble ; and the
apartments decorated and furnilhed in a fplendid tafte,
and enriched with feveral very valuable paintings. The
garden front, plain yet bold, poffefles a pleafing fim-
plicity ; the garden is fpacious and elegant, with a
beautiful lawn in the centre. The whole of this build¬
ing is inferior to few private edifices in the Britilh do¬
minions.
The earl of Cbarlemont’s houfe is finely fituated
in the middle of Palace row, on an eminence exaftly
fronting the centre of the garden at the rear of the
lying-in hofpital. The front is built with hewn ftone
brought from Arklow, fuperior to that of Portland.
The infide of this houfe is fuperb and convenient; the
hall ceiling is fupported by columns ; fome of the apart¬
ments are decorated with a feleft but choice collec¬
tion of paintings of the beft mafters ; among which are
one of Rembrandt’s fineft pictures, reprefenting Judas,
repenting and calling the filver pieces on the ground ;
a portrait of Cmfar Borgia, by Titian ; and the Lady’s
Laft Stake by Hogarth, &c. &c. The library is
efteemed one of the fineft apartments in Dublin, and
contains a very valuable colleftion of the beft authors;.
At one end of it is an antichamber, with a fine ftatue
1 in
Dublin,
DUB [ 368
Dublin, in wliitt mbriile of the Venus de Medicis, by Wilton ;
’and at the other end are two Ml rooms, one a cabinet
of piaures and antiquities, the other of medals! U is
fituated at the rear of the boofe, and connetfed with-it
bv a corridore, in which are tome handfome llatues
and Egyptian curiofities. .\l j" -
Dublin, which is the feat of government and of the
chief courts of juftice, has received many charters and
ample privileges from the kings of England fume the
re'mn of Henry II. who introduced the Enghfh laws
into this kingdom. Richard II. erefled ,t mto a mar-
quifate in favour of Robert de Vere earl of Oxford,
whom he alfo created duke of Ireland. It is an
-archiepifcopal fee, and returns with the umverfity and
the countv fix members to parliament. The civil go¬
vernment of Dublin is executed by a lord mayor, ie-
corder, two Iherififs, twenty-four aldermeu, and a com¬
mon council formed of reprefentatives from the twenty-
five corporations. Every third year the lord mayor,
in conformity with an old charter, perambulates he
bounds of the city and its liberties; and formerly the
freemen ofthefeveral corporations, armed ^d mount¬
ed oh horfeback, were aceufiomed to attend the c ne
magifirate on this occafion, which was titled rid,ng the
franchifes : but as this cuftom was productive of idle-
nefs, intoxication, and riots, among the lower orders
of the people, it has been of late years very properly
laid slide. Betides the filk, woollen, and *°rftedma-
nufaflures carried on in that quarter of the fuburbs
called the Earl of Meath’s Liberty, and which have
been confiderably improved within tbefe fewyefer^o^
branches of ufeful tnanufaaure are eftabhlhirtg in d.flFer-
ent parts of the metropolis; and though the trade of
Dublin has heretofore confided chiefly in the importa¬
tion of foreign commodities, yet, now that the leftnc-
lions on their woollens and moft of then other goods
are removed, it is hoped the daily enlargement of their
export trade will caufe a proportionable increafe ol na¬
tional opulence. n • r
Dublin would have had a commodious ftation tor
fiiipping, were it not that the harbour is choked up
Uh two banks of fand, called the North and South
Bulls, which prevent velfels of large burden from
coming over the bar. This, however is in fome mea-
fure remedied by a prodigious work of ftone, and Hles
of wood extending fome miles tnto tbe bay omthe fou J
fide at the end of wEich there is a lighthoufe, beauti¬
fully conftruCled, after a defign of the late Mr Smith s.
But the port of Dublin is capable of much greater
improvement; particularly by turning the courfe of
the river Dodder, building a mole from the north wall
10 Ringfend, and clearing the harbour fo as to form a
..rand bafon on the foutb fide for the reception of vef-
fcls of all burthens. This work is to be immediate y
carried into execution, and will no doubt meet every
poflible encouragement, from that fpint for promoting
the national welfare which now prevails throughout
this kingdom, and is remarkably conspicuous in ;
capital, where, among others, are the following public
^ TheTo'ard of truftees for promoting the linen and
hempen mamMur*,, eftablilhed by aft of parliament
The Dublin Society, incorporated by charter m the
rC,n for improving hufbandry and other ufeful
■ Roval College of Phyficians, efiablifhed in
2
j ] D U B
the year 1679 for promoting medical knowledge
Royal College of Surgeons, inftituted in the year
1781;. The Royal Irifh Academy, for the advancement
of fcience, polite literature, and antiquities, incorporat¬
ed by letters patent the 28th of January 1786: ILs
maieftv is patron, and the chief governor for the time
being 'is vifitor. The Hibernian Society, for main¬
taining, educating, and apprenticing, the orphans and
childien of loldiers in Ireland. The Hibernian Ma¬
rine Society, for maintaining, educating, and appren¬
ticing, the orphans and children of decayed lea men m
his majeftv’s navy and the merchants fervice; alio incor¬
porated by royal charter. , H. , r , "C, '
But among thefe public inftitutions, that or the Bank
of Ireland muft not be omitted : it was eftablifiied by
aft of parliament in 1783 ; and by facilitating the cir¬
culation of fpecie, gives life and vigour to manufactures
and commerce. It is condufted under the management
of a governor, deputyTOvernor> and fi.fteen duefters,
chofen annually from among the fubfcribers ; with this
reftriftion, that five new direftorsat Raft muft be choiefi
every vear. This bank is kept in Mary’s abbey. There
are four other banks in the city under the following
firms, viz. Right Honourable David La Touche and
Co. and Sir William Glendowe Newcomen, Bart, and
Co. both in Caftle ftreet ; John Dawfon Coats, Lfq;
Thomas ftreet : and John Finlay and Co. Upper Or¬
mond quay. The houfesha which the firft three
The BuhliiT.
are
mono quay. 1 uc   ------
kept are ftrnftures worthy of notice, particularly that
of Sir William Glendowe Newcomen’s, which has been
rebuilt with hewn ftone, in a good tafte, after a defign
of the late Mr Ivory’s. _ . , , . „
To thefe public inftitutions may be added the Gene¬
ral Poft Office of Ireland, eftablilhed by aft of parlia¬
ment in 1784, previous to which time the poll office ot
this kingdom was only confidered a branch of the Eng-
lilh one. The building erefted for this purpofe is on
the fouth fide of College green : it is a fine lofty exten-
five ftrufture, and the offices of clerks, &.c. are extremely
well adapted. There are two poftmafters-geneial, a
fecretary, treafurer, accountant-general, refident lur-
veyor, and comptroller. There is alfo ^ penny-joft un¬
der the direftion of the fame officers, eftablifiied lor the
conveyance of letters to all parts throughout the city
and its environs. • 1 n n r 1
Dublin is remarkably well fupphed with fifth, fowl,
and fiffi, the latter in much greater perfeftion than any
other capital in Europe. It is fupphed with coals
chiefly from Cumberland and Scotland ; and water 1
conveyed to the city on the north fide from the river
Liffey, by machines curioufly conftrufted for the pur¬
pofe 7at an outlet called JJland bridge:#* fouth fide
isfupplied with that neceffary article from a fine re-
fervoir or bafon, grounded with a wall and a hand¬
fome grafs walk enclofed on each fide by a thick-fet
hedgelnd trees planted at equal d.ftances. From one
end of it there is a view of the canal for the conve¬
nience of inland water carriage, now completed as tar
as Monaftereven, between which and the canal harbour
in Lmes’s ftreet, paffage boats ply daily ; they are
well appointed and accommodated with all neMary
refreshments. At a Ml diftanoe from the bafon
there is a bridge of a fingle arch thrown over the ca¬
nal the elegance and'aichitefture of which are mue
admired: the Cdes ef the carral for fome m.les rn.o
DUC [ 369 ] DUO
Dublin the country are planted with elm trees, which renders
!l j its banks in fairweather a delightful place of exercife for
M uca ' the citizens j who alfo refort for recreation to his ma-
jeily’s Phoenix park, a fine extenfive enclofure at the weft
end of the town, and on the fide of the river oppofite
to the canal, diverfified with woodland, campaign,
and rifing ground, and well flocked with deer. It is
feven miles in circuit; and befides the Hibernian fchool,
is adorned with the viceroy’s beautiful villa and fome
handfome lodges belonging to the rangers; in this park
are alfo a magazine for powder and a battery that
commands the city. In 1747, a fluted pillar 30 feet
high, with a phoenix on the top, was erefted in the
centre of a ring in this park by the celebrated earl of
Chefterfield when lord lieutenant of Ireland.
The circular road which furrounds the city, begin¬
ning on one fide of the river, at the eaft end of the
town, and terminating on the oppofite fhore, is carried
through the park. This road forms a very agreeable
ride, and is much frequented. It is the boundary of
the jurifdi£lion of the new police, inftituted for the
better prefervation of the peace and good order of the
city and the perfonal fecurity of its inhabitants. This
inftitution, lately eftablilhed by a£l of parliament, is
under the direction of a chief commiffioner, three af-
fiftant commiflioners, and four divifional juftices, who
are all aldermen of the city ; which is therefore pro¬
perly termed the diftriSi of the metropolis, and divided
into four wards. The police guard confifts of 40
horfemen and 400 foot, well armed, and in regular
uniform : they are taught military difeipline, and fta-
tioned at night time in the feveral watchhoufes ; from
whence parties are conftantly patrolling the ftreets,
and centinels are placed at different ftands. This in¬
ftitution is found by experience to be a much more
cffeflual prevention of robberies, riots, and nofturnal
outrages, than the parifh watches; and to this fecuri¬
ty which the well-difpofed working manufacturers en¬
joy, may in a great meafure be attributed that increaf-
ing fpirit of induftry and peaceable behaviour now fo
prevalent among this ufeful clafs of the community,
which cannot fail to be productive of the moft falutary
confequences to the future welfare of the metropolis
and the kingdom in general.
DUBOS, John Baptist, a learned and ingenious
French author, born at Beauvais in 1670. He finiftied
his ftudies at Paris, and at length was intrufted with
the management of feveral important affairs in Italy,
England, and Holland. At his return to Paris, he
had a prebendary given him ; afterwards he had a pen-
lion of two thoufand livres, and the abbey of Notre
Dame at Reffons, near Beauvais. He died at Paris,
when perpetual fecretary of the French academy, on
the 23d of March 1742. His principal works are,
I. Critical Reflections on Poetry and Painting, in three
Volumes duodecimo. 2. A Critical Hiftory of the
French Monarchy in Gaul, two volumes 4to.
DUBRIS in Ardent Geography, a town of Britain ;
now Dover, fiom Dovoria of the lower age. A port
town in Kent, oppofite to Calais.
DUCAL, in general, fomething belonging to a
duke. See Duke.
The letters patent granted by the fenate of Venice
are called ducal: fo alfo are the letters wrote, in the
name of the fenate, to foreign princes. The ftenomi-
Vol. VII. Part I.
nation of ducal is deriv'-d hence ; that, at the begin- Ducas
ning of fuch patents, the name of the duke or doge Ku(j],na
is wrrote in capitals, thus, iV— Dei Gratia Dux Vene- r;us
tiorum, &c. rFhe date of ducals is ufually in Latin, y—■
but the body is in Italian. A courier was defpatched
with a ducal to the emperor, returning him thanks for
reneiving the treaty of alliance in 1716, againft the
Turks, with the republic of Venice.
DUCAS, a learned Greek, who wrote a hiftory of
what paffed under the lalt emperors of Conrtantinople,
till the ruin of that city. This wotk, which is efteem-
ed, was printed at the Louvre in 1649, with the Latin
tranflation and notes of Boillaud.
DUCAT, a foreign coin, either of gold or fil-
ver, ftruck in the dominions of a duke ; being about
the fame value with a Suanifti piece of eight, or a
French crown ; or four (hillings and fixpence (lerling
when of filver, and twice as much when of gold.
See Coin.
The origin of ducats is referred to one Longinus,
governor of Italy ; who revolting againft the emperor
Juftin the Younger, made himfelf duke of Ravenna,
and called himfelf Exarcha, i. e. without lord or rider ;
and, to (how his independence, ftruck pieces of money
of very pure gold in his own name, and with his own
ftamp, which were called ducati, ducats; as Procopius
relates the ftory.
After him, the firft who ftruck ducats were the Ve¬
netians, who called them T.ecchini or fequins, from
Zecca, the place where they firft were ftruck. This
was about the year 1280 in the time of John Dan-
duli ; but we have pretty good evidence, that Roger
king of Sicily had coined ducats as early as 1240.
And Du Cange fcruples not to affirm, that the firft
ducats were ftruck in the duchy of Apulia in Cala¬
bria. The chief gold ducats now current are, the
(ingle and double ducats of Venice, Florence, Ge¬
noa, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Den¬
mark, Flanders, Holland, and Zurich. The heavieft
of them weighs 5 pennyweights 17 grains, and the
lighted 5 pennyweights 10 grains $ which is to be un-
derrtood of the double ducats, and of the fingle in pro¬
portion.
The Spaniards have no ducats of gold ; but, in
lieu thereof, they make ufe of the filver one ; which,
with them, is no real fpecies, but only a money of ac¬
count like our pound. It is equivalent to 1 1 rials.
See Rial. The filver ducats of Florence ferve there
for crowns.
DUCATOON, a filver coin, ftruck chiefly in Ita¬
ly ; particularly at Milan, Venice, Florence, Genoa,
Lucca, Mmtua, and Parma ; though there are alfo
Dutch and Flemilh ducatoons. They are all nearly on
the fame footing J and being a little both finer and
heavier than the piece of eight, are valued at twopence
or threepence more ; viz. at about four (hillings and
eightpence fterling.
There is alfo a gold ducatoon, ftruck and current
chiefly in Holland : it is equivalent to twenty florins,
on the footing of one (hilling and elevenpence half¬
penny the florin.
DUCENARIUS, in antiquity, an officer in the Ro¬
man army, who had the command of 2000 men.
The emperors had alfo ducenarii among their procu¬
rators or intendantSj called procurators ducenarii. Some
3 A ^y,
DUG [ 37° 1 DUG
Ducente- fay, that thefe were fuch whofe falary was two hun-
fima dret} fefterces j as in the games of the circus, horfes
Duck hired ^or two hundred fefterces were called ducenarii.
~ ^ Others hold, that ducenarii were thofe who levied the
two hundredth penny, the officers appointed to infpeft
the railing of that tribute. In the infcriptions at Pal¬
myra, the word ducenarius, in Greek occurs
very often.
DUCENTESIMA, in antiquity, a tax of the two
hundredth penny, exa&ed by the Romans.
DUCHAL, James, D. D. a late pious and learned
diffenting minifter, was born in Ireland, and finiffied
his ftudies at the univerlity of Glafgow j which after¬
wards, from a regard to his merit, conferred on him
the degree of doftor of divinity. He refided loor II
years at Cambridge, as the pallor of a fmall congre¬
gation there j where he enjoyed his beloved retirement,
the advantage of books and of learned converfation,
tvhich he improved with the greateft diligence. On
Mr Abernethy’s removal from Antrim, he fucceeded
him there j and on that gentleman’s death, he fucceed¬
ed him as minifter of a dilTenting meeting-houfe in
Wood-ftreet, Dublin. In this fituation he continued
till his death, which happened on the 4th of May 1761,
when he had completed his 64th year. He publiffied
a volume of excellent difcourfes on the prefumptive ar¬
guments in favour of the Chriftian religion, and many
occafional tradls j and after his death was publilhed a
number of his fermons, in three volumes 8vo.
DUCHY, in Geography^ an appellation given to the
dominions of a duke.
Duchy Court, a court where all matters belonging to
the duchy or county palatine of Lancafter are decided
by decree of the chancellor of that court.
The origin of this court was in Henry IV’s time,
who obtained the crown by the depofition of Richard
II. and having the duchy of Lancafter by defcent, in
right of his mother, became feized thereof as king, not
as duke : So that all the liberties, franchifes, and ju-
rifdi&ions of the faid county paffed from the king by
his great feal, and not by livery or attornment, as the
earldom of March, and other pofieflions, which de-
fcended to him by other anceftors than the king’s did.
Henry IV. by authority of parliament, fevered the
poffeffions, liberties, &c. of the faid duchy from the
crowrn , but Edward IV. reftoredthem to their foimer
nature.
The officers belonging to this court are, a chancel¬
lor, attorney general, receiver general, clerk of the
court, and meffenger j befide the affiftants, as an at¬
torney in the exchequer, another in chancery, and four
counlellors.
DUCK. See Anas, Ornithology Index.
This fowl is furniffied with a peculiar ftrufture of
veffels about the heart, which enables it to live a con-
iiderable time under water, as is neceffary for it in div¬
ing. This made Mr Boyle think it a more proper
fubjeft for experiments with the air-pump, than any
other bird. A full-grown duck, being put into the
receiver of an air-pump, ol which (lie filled one-third
part, and the air exhaufted, the creature feemed to bear
it better for the firft moments than a hen or other fuch
fowl; but, after about a minute, fhe (bowed great figns
of uneafinefs, and in lefs than two minutes her head
fell down, and fhe appeared dying, till revived by the
admiffion of the air. Thus, whatever facility of diving Duck,
this and other water fowl may have, it does not ap- Ducking,
pear that they can fubfift, without air for refpiration,
any longer than other animals. A young callow duck
was afterwards tried in the fame manner, and with the
fame fuccefs, being reduced very near death in lefs than
two minutes. But it is obfervable, that both birds
fw elled very much in pumping out the air, fo that they
appeared greatly larger to the fpeftators, efpecially
about the crop : it not being intended that any water
fowl ffiould live in an exceeding rarefied air, but only
be able to continue occafionally fome time under water.
Nature, though (lie has provided them with the means
of this, hath done nothing for them in regard to the
other.
The ftrongeft inftance of thefe creatures being cal¬
culated to live almoft in any fituation, we have in the
accounts of the blind ducks in the Zirchnitzer lake in
Carniola. It is fuppofed that this lake communicates
with another lake under ground in the mountain Sa-
vornic, and fills or empties itfelf according to the ful-
nefs or emptinefs of that lake j the water of the upper
lake running off, and that in vaft quantities, by holes
in the bottom. The ducks which are here always in
great numbers, are often carried down along with the
water, and forced into the fubterraneous lake to which
it retires. In this unnatural habitation many of thefe
creatures undoubtedly perifti, but fome remain alive.
Thefe become blind, and lofe all their feathers j and
in the next filling of the lake, both they and vaft num¬
bers of fifti are thrown up with the water. At this
time they are fat, but make a ftrange appearance in
their naked (late, and are eafily caught, by reafon of
their want of fight. In about a fortnight they recover
their fight and feathers j and are then of the fize of a
common wild duck, but of a black colour, with a
white fpot on their forehead. When opened, on being
taken at their firft coming up in their blind date, their
ftomachs are found full of fmall fifties, and fomewhat
refembling weeds. From this it feems that they can¬
not be abfolutely blind : but that the degree of light
to which they have been accuftomed in their fubterra¬
neous habitation, is fufficient to enable them to pro¬
cure food for themfelves •, and their blindnefs, on com-
ing again to open day light, is no other than that of
a man who has been long in the dark, on having in an
inftant a large blaze of candles fet under his eyes.
Duck Stephen, originally a thraffier in a barn, was
born about the beginning of the 18th century. By
his poetical talents, he firft attrafted the notice of
fome gentlemen at Oxford j and being recommended
to Queen Caroline, he, under her patronage, took or¬
ders, and was preferred to the living of Byfleet in Surry.
His abilities were, however, much more confpicuous in
his primitive ftation than in his advancement j though,
it is faid, he was not difliked as a preacher. Falling
at length into a low-fpirited melancholy way, probably
ow'ing to his change of life and ceffation fiom his ufual
labour, he in a fit of lunacy flung himfelf into the
Thames, in 1756.
DUCKING, plunging in water, a diverfion an¬
ciently praflifed among the Goths by way of exercifej
but among the Celtae, Franks, and ancient Germans,
it was a fort of punifliment for perfons of fcandalous
lives.—At Marfeilles and Bourbon their men and wo¬
men
DUG [ 37i 1 DUD
Ducking men of fcandalous life are condemned to the cale, as
T> rtTt t^ie^ ca^ ^ ’s’ to ^lut UP na^ec^ to t^e
UL y~. in an iron cage fattened to the yard of a (hallop, and
ducked feveral times in the river. The fame has been
done at Thouloufe to blafphemers.
Ducking, a fort of marine punittiment, inflifted
by the French, on thofe who have been convi&ed of
defertion, blafphemy, or exciting fedition. It is per¬
formed as follows: The criminal is placed aftride of a
ftiort thick batten, fattened at the end of a rope, which
paffes through a block hanging at one of the yard-arms.
Thus fixed, he is hoifted fuddenly up to the yard, and
the rope being flackened at once, he is plunged into
the fea. This chaftifement is repeated feveral times
conformable to the purport of the fentence pronounced
againft the culprit, who has at that time feveral can¬
non Ihot fattened to his feet during the puniftiment j
which is rendered public by the firing of a gun, to ad-
vertife the other {hips of the fleet thereof, that their
crews may become fpeftators.
Ducking is alfo a penalty which veteran failors pre¬
tend to inflift on thofe who, for the firft time, pafs the
tropic of Cancer, the equator, or the ftraits of Gib¬
raltar, in confequence of their refufal or incapacity to
pay the ufual fine levied on this occafion.
DvcKiNG-Stool. See CastiGATORY.
DUCKUP, at fea, is a term ufed by the fteerfman,
when the main-fail, fore-fail, or fprit-fail, hinders his
feeing to fleer by a land mark : upon which he calls
out, Duckup the clew-lines of thefe fails ; that is, haul
the fails out of the way. Alfo when a (hot is made
by a chafe piece, if the clew of the fprit-fail hinders
the fight, they call out, Duchup, &c.
DUCT, in general, denotes any tube or canal. It
is a term much ufed by anatomifts.
DUCTILITY, in Phy/ics, a property poffetted by
certain folid bodies, which confifts in their yielding to
percuflion or preffure, and in receiving different forms
without breaking.
Some bodies are du&ile both when they are hot and
when they are cold, and in all circumftances. Such
are metals, particularly gold and filver. Other bodies
are du&ile only when heated to a fufficient degree ;
fuch as wax and other fubftances of that kind, and
glafs. Other bodies, particularly fome kinds of iron,
called by the workmen redfhorty brafs, and fome other
metallic mixtures, are dudtile only when cold, and brittle
when hot. The degrees of heat requifite to produce
du&ility in bodies of the firfl kind, vary according to
their different natures. In general, the heat of the
body mutt be fuch as is fufficient to reduce it to a
middle ftate betwixt folidity and perfeft fufion. As
wax, for inftance, is fufible with a very fmall heat, it
may be rendered duftile by a {fill fmaller one } and
glafs, which requires a moft violent heat for its perfect
fufion, cannot acquire its greateft dudfility until it is
made perfe&ly red hot, and almoft ready to fufe. Laft-
ly, Some bodies are made duffile by the abforption of
a fluid. Such are certain earths, particularly clay.
When thefe earths have abforbed a fufficient quantity
of water to bring them into a middle ftate betwixt fo¬
lidity and fluidity, that is, to the confidence of a con-
fiderably firm pafte, they have then acquired their
greateft duffility. Water has precifely the fame effedt
upon them in this refpeft that fire has upon the bodies Dudley-
above mentioned. ——y—
DUDLEY, Edmund, an eminent lawyer and able
ftatefmen in the reign of Henry VII. 5 wffio with Sir
Richard Empfon, another lawyer of the fame com¬
plexion, affifted in filling that rapacious monarch’s cof¬
fers by arbitrary profecutions of the people on old pe¬
nal ftatutes. They w'ere beheaded on the acceffion of
Henry VIII. to pacify the clamours of the people for
juftice.
Dudley, John, duke of Northumberland, fon of
the above, a iiateiman ; memorable in the Englifh hi-
ftory for his unluccefsful attempt to place the crown
on the head of his daughter-in-law, Lady Jane Grey,
who fell a vi£fim to his ambition ; was born in 1 ;o2,
and beheaded in 1553. See (Hi/lory of) England.
Ambrofe his elrlelt Ion w>as a brave general and able
ftatefman under Queen Elibabeth j and received the ap¬
pellation of the good earl of Warwick. Henry, the
duke’s fecond fon, was killed at the liege of St Quin-
tin. Robert, the third fon, a man of bad charaffer,
wa« created earl of Leicefter; and was one of Queen
Elizabeth’s favourites. His fourth fon w'as the unfortu¬
nate Lord Guildtord Dudley, whofe only crime w as his
being the hufband of Lady Jane Grey, for which he
was beheaded in 1554.
Dudley, Sir Robert, as he was called in England,
and, as he was ftyled abroad, earl of Warwick and
duke of Northumberland, was the fon of Robert above
mentioned, by the lady Douglas Sheffield $ and was
born at Sheen in Surry in 1573* where he was care¬
fully concealed, to prevent the queen’s knowledge of
the earl’s engagements wdth his mother. He ftudied
at Oxford ; when his futher dying, left him the bulk
of his eftate. He was at this time one of the fineft
gentlemen in England 5 and having a particular turn
to navigation, fitted out a fmall fquadron at his owm
expence, with which he failed to the river Oroonoque,
and took and deftroyed nine fail of Spanifli {hips. In
1595, he attended the earl of Effex, and the lord high
admiral of England, in their expedition againft the
Spaniards; wrhen, for his gallant behaviour at the ta¬
king of Cadiz, he received the honour of knighthood.
He now endeavoured to prove the legitimacy of his
birth, in order to be entitled to his hereditary honours.
But being overpowered by the intereft of the countefs
dowager of Leicefter, he applied for a licenfe to tra¬
vel ; and being well received at the court of Florence,
refolved to continue there, notwithttanding his receiv¬
ing a letter of recal ; on which his wffiole eflate was
feized by King James I. and vetted in the crown. He
difeovered at the court of Cofmo II. great duke of
Tufcany, thofe great abilities for which he had been
admired in England, and was at length made cham¬
berlain to his ferene highnefs’s confort. He there
contrived feveral methods of improving {hipping j in¬
troduced new manufaftures} and by other fervices ob¬
tained fo high a reputation, that at the defire of the
archduchefs, the emperor Ferdinand, in 1620, created
him a duke of the holy Roman empire. He after-
wrards drained a vaft traU of morafs between Pifa and
the fea; and raifed Leghorn, which wras then a mean,
pitiful place, into a Lrge and beautiful town, improv¬
ing the haven by a mole, wffich rendered it both fafe
3 A 2 an4
DUE [ 372 ] DUE
Buel. and commodious; and having engaged his highnefs to
declare it a free port, he, by his influence and corre-
fpondence, drew many Englilh merchants to fettle and
fet up houfes there, which was of very great fervice
to his native country, - as well as to the Spaniards.
He was alfo the patron of learned men, and held a
high place himfelf in the republic of letters. His moft
celebrated work is his £)e/ Arcano del Mare, in two
volumes folio.
DUEL, a Angle combat, at a time and place ap¬
pointed, in confequence of a challenge. This cuftom
came originally from the northern nations, among whom
it was ufual to decide all their controverfles by arms.
Both the accufer and accufed gave pledges to the
judges on their refpe£live behalf j and the cuftom pre¬
vailed fo far amongft the Germans, Danes, and Franks,
that none were excufed from it but women, Ack peo¬
ple, cripples, and fuch as were under 21 years of age
or above 60. Even eccleAaftics, priefts, and monks,
were obliged to And champions to Aght in their Head.
The punifhment of the vanquifhed was either death,
by hanging or beheading ; or mutilation of members,
according to the circumftances of the cafe. Duels
were at flrft admitted not only on criminal occaAons,
but on fome civil ones for the maintenance of rights
to eftates, and the like : in latter times, however, be¬
fore they were entirely abolifhed, they were reftrained
to thefe four cafes. I. That the crime fhould be ca¬
pital. 2. That it fhould be certain the crime was per¬
petrated. 3. The accufed muft by common fame be
fuppofed guilty. And, 4. The matter not capable of
proof by witnefles.
Duel, at prefent, is ufed for Angle combat on fome
private quarrel ; and muff be premeditated, otherrvife
it is called a rencounter. If a perfon is killed in a duel,
both the principals and feconds are guilty, whether the
feconds engage or not. (See the article Murder.) It
is alfo a very high offence to challenge a perfon either
by word or letter, or to be the meffenger of a challenge.
(See Law Index.)
The general practice of duelling, in this laft: fenfe,
took its rife in the year 1527, at the breaking up of a
treaty between the emperor Charles V. and Francis I.
The former deAred Francis’s herald to acquaint his fo-
vereign, that he would henceforth conAder him not
only as a bafe violator of public faith, but as a ftranger
to the honour and integrity becoming a gentleman.
Francis, too high-fpirited to bear fuch an imputation,
had recourfe to an uncommon expedient to vindicate
his charatfer. He inftantly fent back the herald with
a cartel of deflance, in which he gave the emperor the
lie in form, challenged him to Angle combat, requiring
him to name the time and place of the encounter, and
the weapons with w7hich he chofe to flght. Charles,
as he was not inferior to his rival in fpirit or bravery,
readily accepted the challenge ; but after feveral mef-
fages concerning the arrangement of all the circum¬
ftances relative to the combat, accompanied with mu¬
tual reproaches bordering on the moft indecent fcurri-
lity, all thoughts of this duel, more becoming the he¬
roes of romance than the twTo greateft monarchs of
their age, were entirely laid aAde.
The example of two perfonages fo illuftrious, drew
fuch general attention, and carried with it fo much
authority, that it had conflderable influence in intro¬
ducing an important change in manners all over Eu- Duel,
rope. Duels, as has already been obferved, had been
long permitted by the laws of all the European na¬
tions j and, forming a part of their jurifprudence,
were authorized by the magiftrate on many occaAons,
as the moft proper method of terminating queftions
with regard to property, or of deciding in thofe which
regarded crimes. But Angle combats being conAder-
ed as folemn appeals to the omnifcience and juftice of
the Supreme Being, they were allow’ed only in pub¬
lic caufes, according to the prefcription of law, and
carried on in a judicial form f. Men accuftomed to f Seethe
this manner of deciAon in courts of juftice, were na-article
turally led to apply it to perfonal and private quarrels.
Duels, which at Arft could be appointed by the civil
judge alone, were fought without the interpoAtion of
his authority, and in cafes to which the laws did not
extend. The tranfaftions between Charles and Fran¬
cis ftrongly countenanced this practice. Upon every
affront or injury w hich feemed to touch his honour, a
gentleman thowght himielf entitled to draw his fword,
and to call on his adverfary to make reparation. Such
an opinion, introduced among men of Aerce courage,
of high fpirit, and of rude manners, where offence
was often given, and revenge was always prompt, pro¬
duced moft fatal confequences. Much of the beft
blood in Chriftendom w-as ftied) many ufeful lives were
loft ; and, at fome periods, war itfelf hath hardly
been more deftruftive than thefe contefts of honour.
So powerful, however, is the dominion of falhion,
that neither the terror of penal law's, nor reverence
for religion, have been able entirely to abolilh a pra&ice
unknown among the ancients, and not juftiAable by any
principle of reafon : though at the lame time w’e muft
afcribe to it, in fome degree, that extraordinary gentle-
nefs and complaifance of modern manners, and that re-
fpe&ful attention of one man to another, which at pre¬
fent render the focial intercourfes of life far more
agreeable and decent than among the moft civilized na¬
tions of antiquity.
Public opinion is not eafrly controlled by civil infti-
tutions; for which reafon it may be queftioned whe¬
ther any regulations can be contrived of lufficient force
to fupprefs or change the rule of honour which ftig-
matizes all fcruples about duelling with the reproach
of cowardice.
The inadequate redrefs which the law' of the land
affords for thole injuries w’hich chiefly affe£! a man in
his fenftbility and reputation, tempts many to redrefs
themfelves. Profecutions for fuch offences, by the
trifling damages that are recovered, ferve only to make
the fufterer more ridiculous.——This ought to be reme¬
died.
For the army, where the point of honour is culti¬
vated with exquiflte attention and reftnement, there
might be eftabliftied a court of honour, with a power
of awarding thofe fubmiflions and acknowdedgments
which it is generally the objeft of a challenge to obtain j
and it might grow' into a falhion with perfons of rank
of all profeflions to refer their quarrels to the fame tri¬
bunal.
Duelling, as the law now Hands, can feldom be over¬
taken by legal punilhment. The challenge, appoint¬
ment, and other previous circumftances, which indicate
the intention with which the combatants met, being
fuppreffed,
D U K [' 373 1 D U K
Duero fupprefled, nothing appears to a court of juftice but the
Duke a(^ual rencounter ; and if a perfon be. flain when a£iu-
* . ally fighting with his adverfary, the law deems his death
nothing more than manflaughter.
DUERO, or Duro, a large river, which, rifing in
Old Caftile in Spain, runs from eaft to w’eft, croffes the
province of Leon, and after dividing Portugal from
Spain by a foutherly courfe, turns weftward, croffes
Portugal, and falls into the Atlantic ocean at Porto-
Port.
DUGDALE, Sir William, an eminent Englifh
hiftorian, antiquarian, and herald, born in Warwick-
Ihire in 1605. He was introduced into the herald’s
office by Sir Chriftopher Hatton and afcended gra¬
dually through all the degrees, until he became Garter
principal king at arms. His chief work is the Mona-
Jlicon Ang/icanum, in three vols. folio; containing the
charters and defcriptions of all the Engliffi monafteries,
adorned with engravings : in the former part of which
work he was affifted by Mr Roger Dodfworth. Nor are
his antiquities of Warwickfhire lefs eiteemed. He wrote
likewife, among other things of lefs note, the Hillory
of St Paul’s Cathedral j a Hiltory of Embanking and
Draining; a Baronage of England ; and completed the
fecond volume of Sir Henry Spelman’s Councils, with a
fecond part of his Gloffary. He died in 1686. His
fon, Sir John, was Norroy king at arms, and publiffied
a Catalogue of Engliffi Nobility. His daughter Eli¬
zabeth married the famous Elias Affimole.
DUILLJA lex, was enabled by M. Duillius, a tri¬
bune, in the year of Rome 304. It made it a capital
crime to leave the Roman people without its tribunes,
or to create any new magiitrate without a fufficient
caufe. Another iii 392, to regulate what intereft ought
to be paid for money lent.
DUILLIUS needs, C. a Roman conful, the firft
who obtained a vfi&ory over the naval power of Car¬
thage in the year of Rome 492. He took fifty of the
enemy’s (hips, and was honoured with a naval triumph,
the firft that ever appeared at Rome. The fenate re¬
warded his valour by permitting him to have mufic
playing and torches lighted at the public expence
every day while he was at tapper. There were tame
medals ftruck in commemoration of this vidfory ; and
there exiils a column at Rome which was eredted on
the occafion.
DUKE, (Dux), a fovereign prince, without the title
or quality of king. Such are the dukes of Lorrain,
of Holftein, of Savoy, of Parma, &c. The woid is bor¬
rowed from the modern Greeks, who call doucas what
the Latins call dux.
There are alio two tavereigns who bear the title of
grand duke: as the grand duke of Tufcany, and the
grand duke of Mufcovy, now called the cxar or em¬
peror of Ruffia. The title of great duke belongs to the
apparent heir of Ruffia ; and the title of archduke is
given to all the tans of the houfe of Auftria, as that of
archdvchefs to all the daughters.
Duke, (Dux), is alfo a title of honour or nobility,
the next below princes.
The dukedom or dignity of duke is a Roman dig¬
nity, denominated d ducendo, “ leading” or “ com¬
manding.” Accordingly, the firft dukes, duces, were
the duflores exercituum, “ commanders of armies.” Un¬
der the later emperors, the governors of provinces in
war time were entitled duces. In after times the fame Duke
denomination was alfo given to the governors of pro- '"““V
vinces in time of peace. The firft governor under
the name of duke was a duke of the Marchia Rhaetica,
or Grifons, whereof mention is made in Caffiodorus ;
and there were afterwards thirteen dukes in the eaftern
empire, and twelve in the weftern. The Goths and
Vandals, upon their overrunning the provinces of the
weftern empire, aboliftred the Roman dignities where-
ever they fettled. But the Franks, &c. to pleafe the
Gauls, who had long been ufed to that form of go¬
vernment, made it a point of politics not to change
any thing therein : and accordingly they divided all
Gaul into duchies and counties; and gave the names
tametimes of dukes, and fometimes of counts, comitesf
to the governors thereof.
In England, during the Saxon times, Camden ob-
ferves, the officers and commanders of armies were
called dukes, duces, after the ancient Roman manner,
without any addition. After the Conqueror came in,
the title lay dormant till the reign of Edw’ard III. who
created his fon Edward, firft called the Black Prince,
duke of Cornwall; which hath ever fince been the pe¬
culiar inheritance of the king’s eldeft fon during the life
of his father; fo that he is dux natu± non creatus. After
whom there were more made, in luch manner as that
their titles defcended to their pofterity. 1'hey were
created with much folemnity,/w cinEluram gladii, cap-
pceque, et circuh aurei in capita impojitionem. However,
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, A. D. 1572, the whole
order became utterly extimft ; but it was revived about
50 years afterwards by her fucceffor, in the perfon of
George Villiers duke of Buckingham.
Though the French retained the names and forms of
the ducal government, yet under their fecond race of
kings there were Icarce any fuch thing as dukes : but
all the great lords were called counts, peers, or barons ;
excepting, however, the dukes of Burgundy and Aqui-
tain ; and the duke of France, which was a dignity
Hugh Capet himfelf held, correfponding to the modern
dignity of maire de palais, or the king’s lieutenant.
By the weaknefs of the kings, the dukes or governors
fometimes made themfelves fovereigns of the provinces
trufted to their adminiftration. This change happened
chiefly about the time of Hugh Capet; when the great
lords began to diimember the kingdom, fo that that
prince found more competitors among them than tab-
jeifts. It was even with a great deal of difficulty they
could be brought to own him their taperior, or to hold
of him by faith and homage. By degrees, what wdth
force, and what by marriages, thefe provinces, both
duchies and counties, which had been rent from the
crown, were again united to it. But the title duke was
no longer given to the governors of provinces. From
that time duke became a mere title of dignity, annexed
to a perfon and his heirs male, without giving him any
domain, territory, or jurifdi£lion over the place where¬
of he was duke. All the advantages thereof now con-
fift in the name, and the precedence it gives.
The dukes of our days retain nothing of their an¬
cient fplendour but the coronet on their elcutcheon,
which is the only mark of their departed fovereignty.
They are created by patent, cin&ure of the fword,
mantle of ftate, impofition of a cap and coronet of gold
on the head, and a verge or rod of gold in their hand.
l Thej
D U M [SHI D U M
‘Duke The eldeft fons of dukes are by the courtefy of Eng-
II land ftyled marquifes, though they are ufually diltin-
Dumbnefs. gUjfliecj their father’s fecond title, whether it be
that of Warquis or earl : and the younger fons lords,
with the addition of their Chrillian name, as Lord
James, Lord Thomas, &c. and they take place of vif-
counts, though not fo privileged by the laws of the
land.
A duke has the title of grace; and being writ to, he
is ftyled, in the herald’s language, mojl high, potent, and
noble prince. Dukes of the blood royal are ftyled mojl
high, mojl mighty, and illujlriotis princes.
Duke, among Hebrew grammarians, is an appella-
tio ngiven to a fpecies of accents anfwering to our
comma. See Accent.
DuKE-Duke, a quality given in Spain to a grandee
of the houfe of Sylva, on account of his having feveral
duchies from the uniting of two confiderable houfes in
his perfon. Don Roderigo de Sylva, eldeft fon of Don
Ruy Gomez de Sylva, and heir of his duchies and
principalities, married the eldeft: daughter of the duke
de 1’Infantado ; in virtue of which marriage, the pre-
fent duke de Paftrana, who is defcended therefrom,
and is grandfon of Don Roderigo de Sylva, has added
to his other great titles that of duke-duke, to diftin-
guifti himfelf from the other dukes *, fome whereof
may enjoy feveral duchies, but none fo confiderable
ones, nor the titles of fuch eminent families.
DULCIFYING, in Chemiftry, is the fweetening
any matter impregnated with falls, by frequently walh-
ing it in pure water.
DULL, in the manege. The marks of a dull horfe,
called by the French marques de ladre, are W’hite fpots
round the eye and on the tip of the nofe, upon any
general colour whatfoever. Though the vulgar take
thefe fpots for figns of ftupidity, it is certain they are
great marks of the goodnefs of a horfe ; and the horfes
'that have them are very fenfible and quick upon the
fpur.
DULLART, Heiman, a Dutch painter and poet.
He was a pupil to Rembrandt, for whofe works the
few' he left are often miftaken. He died in 1684.
DUMBARTON. See Dunbarton.
DUMBNESS, the privation of the faculty of fpeech.
The moft general, or rather the foie caufe of dumbnefs,
is the want of the fenfe of hearing. The ufe of lan¬
guage is originally acquired by imitating articulate
founds. From this fource of intelligence, deaf people
are entirely excluded : they cannot acquire articulate
founds by the ear : unlefs, therefore, articulation be
communicated to them by fome other medium, thefe
unhappy people muft for ever be deprived of the ufe of
language } and as language is the principal fource of
knowledge, whoever has the misfortune to want the
fenfe of bearing, muft remain in a ftate little fuperior
to that of the brute creation. Deafnefs has in all
ages been confidered as fuch a total obftru&ion to
fpeech or written language, that an attempt to teach
the deaf to fpeak or read has been uniformly regarded
as imnrafficable, till Dr Wallis and fome others have
of late (hown, that although deaf people cannot learn
to fpeak or read by the dire£lion of the ear, there are
other fources of imitation, by which the fame effeft
may be produced. The organs of hearing and of
fpeech have little or no connexion. Perfons deprived
of the former generally poffefs the latter in fuch per- Dumbneft-
fe<ftion, that nothing further is neceffary, in order to —v 1
make them articulate, than to teach them how to ufe
thefe organs. This indeed is no eafy talk $ but expe¬
rience Ihows that it is prafticable. Mr Thomas
Braidwood, late of Edinburgh, was perhaps the tirft
who ever brought this furprifing art to any degree of
perfeftion. He began with a fingle pupil in 1764;
and fince that period has taught great numbers of
people born deaf to fpeak diftinftly ; to read, to wnite,
to underftand figures, the principles of religion and
morality, &c. At the time w’e firft converfed with
him, being a few years after the commencement of his
practice, he had a confiderable number of deaf pupils,
fome of them above 20 years of age, all making a ra¬
pid and amazing progrefs in thofe ufeful branches of
education.
Mr Braidwood’s principal difficulty, after he had
difcovered this art, was to make people believe in the
practicability of it. He advertifed in the public pa¬
pers •, he exhibited his pupils to many noblemen and
gentlemen ; ftill he found the generality of mankind
unwilling to believe him. A remarkable inftance of
this incredulity occurred fome years ago. A gentle¬
man in England fent a deaf girl of his to Mr Braid-
wood’s care. A year or two afterwards, Mr Braid-
wood wTrote to the father, that his daughter could
fpeak, read, and write diftindtly. The father returned
an anfwer, begging Mr Braidwood’s excufe, as he could
not believe it: however, he defired a friend of his,
who was occafionally going to Edinburgh, to call at
Mr Braidwood, and inquire into the truth of what he
had wrote him : he did fo $ converfed with Mr Braid-
wrood, faw the young lady, heard her read, fpeak, and
anfwer any queftion he put to her. On his return, he
told the father the furprifing progrefs his child had
made j but ftill the father thought the whole an im-
pofition j the girl herfelf wrote to her father, but he
looked upon the letter as a forgery. About this time
the father died ; and the mother fent an uncle and
coufin of the deaf lady’s from Shrewfbury, in order to
be fatisfied of the truth. When they arrived, Mr Braid-
wood told the girl her uncle and coufin were in the
parlour j and defired her to go and afk them how they
did, and how her mother and other friends did. The
friends were aftoniftied, and could hardly credit their
owm ears and eyes.
When we converfed with Mr Braidwood concerning
the nature and method of teaching this wonderful art,
he feemed to be very defirous of communicating and
tranfmitting his difcovery to pofterity ; but obferved,
and from the nature of the thing we believe it to be true,
that he could not communicate it fo fully in writing as
to enable any other perfon to teach it. The firft thing
in the method is, to teach the pupil to pronounce the
fimple founds of the vow'els and confonants. We have
even feen him performing this operation ; but are un¬
able to give a clear idea of it. He pronounces the
found of a ilowly, pointing out the figure of the let¬
ter at the fame time ; makes his pupil obferve the mo¬
tion of his mouth and throat ; he then puts his finger
into the pupil’s mouth, deprefles or elevates the tongue,
and makes him keep the parts in that pofition ; then
he lays hold of the outfide of the w’indpipe, and gives'
it lome kind of iqueeze, which it is impoflible to de-
fcribe :
D U M
Dumbnefs.
* Nouv.
JMem. de
V Academic
Royale, &.C,
de Berlin,
i785'
(Mon. Re7,
vol. Ixxx.
p. 651).
fcribe : all the while he is pronouncing a, the pupil is
anxioufly imitating him, but at firft Teems not to un-
derftand what he would have him to do. In this man¬
ner he proceeds, till the pupil has learned to pronounce
the founds of the letters. He goes on in the fame
manner to join a vowel and a confonant, till at length
the pupil is enabled both to fpeak and read.
This his pupils were taught not only the mere pro*
nunciation, but alfo to underftand the meaning of what
they read, was eafily afcertained by a converfation with
any of them. Of this Mr Pennant gives a remarkable
inftance in a young lady of about 13 years of age, who
had been Tome time under the care of Mr Braid wood.
“ She readily apprehended (fays he) all I faid, and re¬
turned me anfwers with the utmoft facility. She read ;
ftxe wrote well. Her reading was not by rote. She
could clothe the fame thoughts in a new fet of words,
and never vary from the original fenfe. I have for¬
got the book (he took up, or the fentences Ihe made a
new verfion of: but the effedl was as follows.
“ Original pajfage. Lord Bacon has divided the
whole of human knowledge into hiftory, poetry, and
philofophy; which are referred to the three powers of
the mind, memory, imagination, and reafon.
“ Verjion. A nobleman has parted the total or all
of man’s ftudy or underftanding into, An account of
the life, manners, religion or culloms of any people or
country ; verfe or metre ; moral or natural knowledge :
which are pointed to the three faculties of the foul or
fpirit j the faculty of remembering what is pall, thought
or conception, and right judgment.”
Mr Braidwood’s fuccefs fince he went to fettle in
London is univerfally known. Several other perfons
have fince attempted the fame art with variotfs degrees
of ability. But a new and different method, equally
laborious and fuccefsful we underfland, is pradlifed by
the abbe de 1’Epee of Berlin. We are informed *
that he begins his infirudlions not by endeavouring to
form the organs of fpeech to articulate founds, but by
communicating ideas to the mind by means of figns
and dharadters : to effedl this, he writes the names of
things j and, by a regular fyflem of figns, eftablifhes a
connexion between thefe words and the ideas to be
excited by them. After he has thus furniflied his
pupils with ideas, and a medium of communication,
he teaches them to articulate and pronounce, and ren¬
ders them not only grammarians but logicians. In
this manner he has enabled one of his pupils to deliver
a Latin oration in public, and another to defend a the-
fis againft the objedlions of one of his fellpw pupils in
a fcholaftic difputation ; in which the arguments of
each were communicated to the other, but whether by
figns or in writing is not faid $ for it does not appear
that the abbe teaches his pupils to difcern what is
fpoken, by obferving the motion of the organs of
fpeech, w’hich thofe infirudted by Meffrs Braidwoods
are able to do with aitonifhing readinefs.
There is perhaps no word, fays the abbe, more dif¬
ficult to explain by figns than the verb croire, “ to be¬
lieve.” To do this, he writes the verb with its figni-
fications in the following manner :
ye dis oui par /’ efpnt, Je penfe qui aui.
Je dis oui par le coeur, J^aime a penfer que oui.
Je dis oui par la bouche.
. ye ne vois pas des yeux.
[ 375 1
D U M
ye crois <
After teaching thefe four fignifications, which he does Dumbnef?,
by as many figns, he connedls them with the verb, and —w——
adds other figns, to exprefs the number, perfon, tenfe,
and mood, in which it is ufed. If to the four figns,
correfponding with the lines above mentioned, be added
that of a fubftantive, the pupil will write the word foi,
“ faith ;” but, if a fign, indicating a participle ufed
fubftantively, be adjoined, he will exprefs la croyance,
“ belief”; to make him write croyable, “ credible,”
the four figns of the verb muft be accompanied with
one that indicates an adjedfive terminating in able;
all thefe figns are rapidly made, and immediately com¬
prehended.
M. Linguet, a member of the Royal Academy,
having aflerted that perfons thus inftrufted could be
confidered as little more than automata, the abbe in¬
vited him to be prefent at his leffons, and expreffed his
aftonilhment that M. Linguet fnould be fo prejudiced
in favour of the medium by which he had received the
firft rudiments of knowledge, as to conclude that they
could not be imparted by any other j defiring him, at
the fame time to refledt, that the connexion between
ideas, and the articulate founds by which they are ex¬
cited in the mind, is not lefs arbitrary than that be¬
tween thefe ideas and the written charadlers which are
made to reprefent them to the eye. M. Linguet
complied with the invitation 3 and the abbe having
defired him to fix on fome abftradt term which he
would by figns communicate to his pupils, he chofe
the word unintelligibility ; which, to his aftonilhment,
was almoft inftantly written by one of them. The
abbe informed him, that to communicate this word
he had ufed five figns, which, though fcarcely per¬
ceivable to him, were immediately and diftindlly ap¬
prehended by his fcholars : the firft of thefe figns in¬
dicated an internal adlion 3 the fecond reprefented the
aft of a mind that reads internally, or, in other words,
comprehends what is propefed to it ; a third fignified
that fuch a difpofition is poffible 3 thefe, taken toge¬
ther, form the word intelligible: a fourth fign tranf-
forms the adjeftive int® the fubftantive 3 and a fifth,
exprefling negation, completes the word required. M.
Linguet afterwards propofed this queftion, What do
you underf.andby metaphyjicalideas ? which being com¬
mitted to writing, a young lady immediately anfwered
on paper in the following terms : “ I underftand the
ideas of things which are independent of our fenfes,
which are beyond the reach of our fenfes, which make
no impreflion on our fenfes, which cannot be perceived
by our fenfes.” On reading this, we cannot help ex¬
claiming with the Labor omnia vincit hnprobus !
a maxim by none more forcibly illuftrated than by the
abbe de I’Epee.
Periodical Dumbnkss. In the Ephemerides of the
Curious, we have an account of a periodical dumbnefs,
which had continued for more than 15 years, and had
not gone off at the time the account was wrote. The
perfon was fon to an innkeeper at Jefing in the duchy
of Wirtemberg in Germany. He was one night taken
fo ill after fupper, that he could neither Hand nor fit.
He continued, for about an hour, oppreffed with fick-
nefs to fuch a degree as to be in danger of fuffocation.
At the expiration of this time he grew better 3 but,
during three months, he was much dejefted, melan¬
choly, and, at times, fearful. He was then fuddenly
ftruck
D U M [ 376 ]
D U M
DKmfcrm- (truck dumb, and became unable to pronounce the lead
liae, vvord, or form the lead found, though he could fpeak
.es very art;cu]ately before. The lofs of fpeech was at
fird indantaneous, and continued only a few minutes :
but the duration of it began to lengthen every day ; fo
that it foon amounted to half an hour, two hours, three
hours, and at lad to 23 hours, yet without any order.
At lad the return of fpeech kept fo condant and regu¬
lar an order, that, for 14 years together, he could not
fpeak except from noon, during the fpace of one entire
hour, to the precife moment of one o’clock. Every
time he lod his fpeech, he felt fomething rife from his
ftomach to his throat. Excepting this lofs of fpeech,
he was afflicted with no other diforder of any animal
function. Both his internal and external fenfes conti¬
nued found : he heard always perfe&ly well, and an-
fwered the quedions propofed to him by gedures or
writing. All fufpicion of deceit was removed by his
keeping exaftly the fame hour, though he had no ac-
cefs to any indruments by which time can be mea-
fured.
DUMFERMLINE, a royal borough of Scotland,
(ituated in the county of Fife, 15 miles north-wed of
Edinburgh. W. Long. 30. 20. N. Lat. 56. 15* Here
was formerly a magnificent abbey and palace of the
kings of Scotland, in which the princefs Elizabeth,
daughter of King James VI. and mother of the prin¬
cefs Sophia, from whom the prefent royal family are
defcended, was born. In the inn of this town, it is faid,
is the marriage bed of James VI. and his queen : it is
dill entire, and ufed by dranyers who lodge here. This
place is noted for a manufactory of figured linen cloth
caUed diaper. The town gave title of earl to a baro¬
net of the Seton family, which was forfeited in the year
1690.
DUMFRIES, a county in the fouth of Scotland,
comprehending the (hire of Nithfdale, the dewarty of
Annandale, and the lordfhip of Elkdale, extends in
length from north-wed to fouth-ead about 60 miles,
and is about 30 miles in breadth where broaded. It
is bounded on the fouth-wed by Galloway and part of
Kvle } on the north-ead by the counties of Roxburgh,
Selkirk, and Peebles j on the north-wed by Clydef-
dalc ; and on the fouth-ead by Solway Frith and the
marches between Scotland and England. A great
part of the country is mountainous and overfpread with
heath, well docked with game of all kinds : but the
valleys, through which the Elk, the Annan, the Nith,
and other fmaller rivers run, are extremely pleafant j
and fome of them well cultivated and very fertile, and
produce oats, barley, and wheat in abundance, both
for maintaining the inhabitants and for exportation $
while the mountainous parts afford padure for innu¬
merable flocks of iheep and herds of black cattle, many
thoufands of which are annually exported to England.
In the valleys are feveral natural woods, and fome ex-
tenfive plantations of d fferent kinds of timber. In
the dwifion called Nithfdale. are the rich lead mines of
Wanlockhead, the coal mines of Sanquhar and Caun-
burn, the inexhaudible lime quarries of Clofeburn and
B wjag, and freedone in almod every parilh. Annan¬
dale has the rich lime quarries of Kellhead and Com-
longan, with olenty of freedone near the towns of An¬
nan and Lochmaben : and in the lower part of Elkdale
ure limedone tnd coal in abundance.
The following is a view' of the population of this Dumfries,
county, with the number of fouls in each parifti, taken v~
at two different periods, and extrafted from the Statif-
tical Hidory of Scotland.
Parifhe
Annan
Applegirth
Caerlaverock
Cannobie
Clofeburn
Cummertrees
Dalton
Dor nock
Dryfdale
Dumfries
Dunfcore
Durrifdeer
Efkdalemuir
Ew'es
Glencairn
Gratney
Hoddam
Holywood
Hutton
1 Johndon
Keir
Kirkconnell
Kirkmahoe
Kirkmichael
Kirkpatrick Fleming
Kirkpatrick Juxta
Langholm
Lochmaben
Middlebie
> Moffat
Morton
Moufewald
Penpont
Ruthwell
; St Mungo
Sanquhar
Tlnwald
Torthorw’ald
Tundergarth
3 Tynron
Wamphray
2 Wederkirk
Population
in 1755-
J498
897
784
*733
999
631
45i
716
1097
4517
651
1019
675
392
1794
1051
1393
596
993
494
495
899
1098
894
1147
794
1833
1395
991
1612
435
553
838
599
481
1998
795
584
625
464
458
544
4I>9I3
Population in
1790—1798.
25CO
741
95$
2725
1490
icc6
615
738
1600
5600
IG33
1031
619
320
1700
1810
1198
736
583
565
520
1000
1200
950
1542
617
2582
3000
1404
1600
908
628
800
1061
640
2600
850
660
510
coo
487
655
52>3?9
4I'9I3
Increafe, 10,416
Dumfries, the capital of the above mentioned
county, a handfome tou n, fituated on a ridge orrifing
ground on the north-ead fide of the river Nith, about
10 miles above where it falls into Solway Frith, in N.
Lat. 5 ?. 8. 30. Long. W. of Greenwich Obfervatory,
3. 56. Its ancient name, it is faid by fome of the
Scotch hidorians, was Cotiac; but on what authority
we cannot tell. Its prelent name appears to have been
detived partly from its fituation, and partly from the
monadery of Gray Friars that formerly dood near the
head
/
D U M
[ 377 1
D U N-
Bumfrie*. head of the ftreet called the Friar vertnal, the kitchen
h"' v ' 11 ‘.qf which is all that now remains •, being only a corrup¬
tion of Drum friarsy or “ the eminence of the fiiary
and accordingly, till within thefe 40 or 50 years, it
was always fpelt Drumfries, and not Dumfries, as it is
now for the lake of greater loftnefs. Befides the plea-
fantnefs of its fituation on the fide of a beautiful wind¬
ing river, it is furrounded on all fides with one of the
fineft and belt cultivated iheets of dale country that
one can anywhere meet with, and the profpeft from it
terminated, at the dillance of a few miles, by a conti¬
nued chain of hills, forming altogether one of the
grandefl natural amphitheatres perhaps in Britain.
There was anciently a ftrong caftle at the fouth end of
the town belonging to the Cummings, lords of Badc-
noch, of W’hich there are now no remains. Another
caflle was afterwards built at the north-weft end, which
was taken down about 76 years ago. On the north-
eaft fide of it, at fome little diftance, are the ruins of a
chapel built by King Robert Bruce, and endowed for
a number of priefts to fay mafs for the repofe of the foul
of Sir Chriitopher Seaton his brother-in-law, who was
taken prifoner by Edward I. at Loch Urr, and hang¬
ed at this place. It is now only employed as a bury-
ing-place for filicides. It is not certain at W'hat pe¬
riod Dumfries was erefted into a royal borough ; but
it muft have been before the middle of the eleventh
century, as a grave-ftone was difcovered fome time ago
bearing the date of 1079, and mentioning the perfon
buried under it to have been a merchant and burgefs
of the town j and that it was a place of confequence in
the beginning of the fourteenth century, is evident
from this circumftance, that Edward IE called the
tftates of Scotland to meet there in the year 1307. In
the above-mentioned monaftery too, King Robert Bruce
killed his rival Gumming lord of Badenoch, with the
ailiftance of James Lindfay and Roger Kirkpatrick, on
the 5th of February 1305. As to the prefent ftate of
the town, the houfes are well built and commodious,
the ilreets fpacious, open, and neatly paved. It has
two very elegant churches, an Epifcopal chapel with a
fine little organ, befides three meeting houfes belong¬
ing to different defcriptions of fe£laries •, a tolbooth ;
a council chamber ; a trades hall j a meal market ) a
ftrong prifon ; a corredion houfe ; a large hofpital }
an infirmary, with apartments for infane patients ; a
narrow bridge of nine aiches over the river, faid to have
been built by one of the three daughters and co-
heirefles of Alan Lord Galloway. A large village,
called the Bridge-end, ftands on the oppofite fide, and
is within the ftewarty of Kircudbright. The aflizes for
the county, and for the fture of Galloway and ftewar-
ty of Kircudbright, are held in the town twice a-
year. It is alfo the place for holding the ftieriff and
commiffary courts, the quarter-fefiions of the peace,
and the courts of the commiftioners of fupply. It is
governed by a provoft, three bailies, a dean of guild,
and a town council, compofed of merchants and the
convener and deacons of the incorporated trades, of
which there are feven, viz. fquare-men, fmiths, Wea¬
vers, tailors, fhoemakers, fkinners, and butchers ; all
of whom are chofen into their refpeftive offices at Mi¬
chaelmas annually. The trades got from King James
VI. in one of his journeys to England, a fmall filver
tube, like a piftol barrel, called the fiver gun, with
Vql, VIL Part I.
Dun.
his roy-al licenfe to fhoot for it every year. At that Dmnont
feftival they all appear in arms, and march out of the
town under their refpecfive colours, to fome convent- ^
ent place, where they ftioot at a mark ; and the per¬
fon that hits or flioots neareft to it, returns to town,
marching at the convener’s right hand, with the filver
gun tied to his hat with ribbons after which they
conclude the day with a focial entertainment. The
town has a weekly market on Wednefday, with two
annual fairs, the firft. on the Wednefday on or next af¬
ter the 13th of February, and the other on the Wed¬
nefday on or next after the 25th of September. At
th^fe fairs vaft numbers of horlys and black cattle are
fold } and no town in Scotland is better provided with
all forts of butcher meat in their feafon. But though
well fituated for fuel at a cheap rate, it has only two
manufa&ures, one for ftockings and the other for cot¬
tons 5 but the latter only in its infancy. Its foreign
trade for many years has only confifted in timber, iron,
and other articles for home confumption. It gives the
title of earl to the chief of the family of Crichton j and
is the feat of a prefbytery and provincial fynqd. It con¬
tains about 6000 inhabitants.
DUMON T, Francis, a Frenchman ; compiler of
a general colledfion of treaties of commerce, alliance,
and peace, between the powers of Europe. This col-
leftion, with Barbeyrac’s, containing the treaties B. C.
makes 16 vols folio, very uieful for hiftorical writers.
Dumont retired to Holland in 1720. The time of his
death is uncertain.
DUMOSiE (from dutnus, “ a bufh),” an order of
plants in the Fragmenta methodi natura/is of Linnaeus,
containing the following genera, viz. Viburnum, Tinus,
Opulus, Sambucus, Rondeletia, Bellonia, CaJJbie, Ilex,
Fornax, &c.
DUN, or Burgh, the name of an ancient fpecies
of buildings, of a circular form, common in the Ork¬
ney and Shetland illands, the Hebrides, and northern
parts of Scotland. The latter term points out the
founders, wdio at the fame time beflowed on them their
natal name of borg, “ a defence or caftle,” a Sueo-Go-
thic word ; and the Highlanders univerfally apply to
thefe places the Celtic name dun, fignifying a hill de¬
fended by a tower, w'hich plainly points out their ufe.
They are confined to the countries once fubjefl to the
crown of Norway. With few exceptions, they are
built within fight of the fea, and one or more within
fight of the other 5 fo that on a fignal by fire, by flag,
or by trumpet, they could give notice of approaching
danger, and yield a mutual fuccour. In the Shetland
and Orkney iflands, they are moft frequently called
wart or ward hills, which fhows that they were gar-
rifoned. 'They had their wardmadher, or watchman,
a fort of centinel, who flood on the top, and chal¬
lenged all who came in fight. The gackman was an
officer of the fame kind, who not only was On the
watch againft furprife, but was to give notice if he
faw any fhips in diftrefs. He was allowed a large horn
of generous liquor, which he had always by him, to
keep up his fpirits. Along the Orkney and Shetland
flrores, they almoft form a chain \ and by that means
not only kept the natives in fubjeftion, but were fi¬
tuated commodioufly for covering the landing of their
countrymen, who were perpetually roving on piratical
expeditions. Thefe towers wei.e even made ufe of as
3 B ftate
D U N [ 378 ] DUN
lOunbar, ftate prifons j for we learn from Torfaeus, that after
Dunbarton. Sueno had furprifed Paul, count of Caithnefs, he car-
* v ried him into Sutherland, and confined him there in a
Norwegian tower. Out of our own kingdom, no build¬
ings fimilar to thefe are to be found, except in Scandi¬
navia. On the mountain Swalberg in Norway is one 5
the Stir-bifkop, at Upfal in Sweden, is another ; and
Umfeborg, in the fame kingdom, is a third.
Thefe towers vary in their inner ftrufruie j but ex¬
ternally are univerfally the fame 5 yet lome have an
addition of ftrength on the outfide. The burgh of
Culfwick in Shetland, notwithllanding it is built on
the top of a hill, is furrounded with a dry ditch 13
feet broad •, that of Snaburgh in Unft, has both a wet
and a dry ditch •, the firft cut, with great labour,
through the live rock. The burgh of Moura is fur-
rounded by a wall, now reduced to a heap of flones,
and the infide is cylindrical, not taper, as is ufual with
others. The burgh of Hogs£ler, upon an ifle in a
loch of the fame name, has alfo its addition of a rvall j
a peculiarity in a caufeway, to join it to the main land,
and a fingular internal flrufture. Numbers of little
, burghs, with fingle cells, are fcattered about thefe
iflands, in the neighbourhood of the greater j and
which probably were built by the poorer fort of people,
in order to enjoy their protettion. A multitude of
places in thefe illands have the addition of burgh to
their names, notwithftanding there is not a veftige of a
tower near them j the materials having long fince been
carried away, and applied to various ufes.
DUNBAR, a royal borough of Scotland, in the
(hire of Eaft Lothian, once remarkable for a ftrong
caitle, the key of Scotland from the eaft, and which
gave (helter to Edward II. of England in his flight
from Bannockburn, but of which fcarce a veftige now
remains. Here are ftill preferved fome of the Scotifh
pikes, fix ells long, and formed both for offence and
defence. This town has now a tolerable trade in the
fiflieries, and is remarkable for making good malt.
Dunbar has given titles of honour to different families,
who are all now extindf.
DUNBARTON, the county town of Lenox or
Dunbarton {hire, in Scotland, fituated in W. Long.
4. 32. N. Lat. 56. 30. is a royal borough, and one of
the moft ancient towuvs of Scotland. It is faid to have
been once the capital of a kingdom of the Britons,
eftabliftied in the vale of the Clyde, and to have been
one of the feats of Fin gal, called in the poems of Of-
fian, the tower of Ba/clutha. Alcluid was indeed the
name of this ancient capital of the Strathclydenies j but
whether it was fituated on the feat of the prefent town,
or confined within the precin&s of the caftle, cannot
be exaftly afcertained. Dunbarton is built upon the
eaftern bank of the Leven, which almoft encircles ft.
The greater part of the buildings are old, and the
principal ftreet has an air of decayed grandeur. It
was erefted into a roj'al borough by Alexander II. in
the year 1221, and declared to he free of all impofts
and borough taxes 5 but, notwithftanding this material
advantage, and the excellent harbour it poffeffes, it is
bv no means in a fiourifhing Hate. There is here a
eonfiderable glafs-houfe, which employs about 130
hands 5 and fome idea may be conceived of the extent
t>f this manufacture, from the amount of the duties to
government, which aie on an average 3800I. ftetling
per annum. 1'his place is exceedingly well adapted Dunbartorv
for manufa&ures, both on account of its fituation on
the Clyde, and from its being well fupplied with fuel .
at a cheap rate. Dunbarton anciently gave title of
earl to a branch of the family of Douglas. It contains
about 1900 inhabitants. The parifti is nearly circular,
having a diameter of about two and a half miles : the
furface is flat, and the foil fertile, but {hallow, inclin¬
ing to gravel. The Clyde walhes it on the fouth, and
the Leven on the weft, both of which contain ex¬
cellent trout and falmon. The caftle of Dunbarton
lies at a fmall diftance from the town, on the point of
land formed by the junClion of the Clyde and Leven $
it is fituated on the top of a rock, which prefents a
piCIurefque objeCI : the rock divides about the middle,
and foims two lummits : the fides are craggy, and the
buildings upon ft, though not of themfelves beautiful,
have a good effeCl, and, as Mr Gilpin obferves “ ferve
to give it an air of confequence.” The fortrefs is en¬
tered by a gate at the bottom j and within the rampart,
which defends the entrance, is the guard-houfe, and
lodgings for the officers ; from hence the afcent is by
a long flight of ftone fttps to the part where the rock
divides : here is a ftrong battery, barracks for the gar-
rifon, and a refetvoir always filled with water j above
thefe, on the lower fummit, are feveral batteries, which
command a moft extenfive range. According to Pen¬
nant, the Britons, in very early times, made this rock
a fortrefs, it being ufual for them, after the departure
of the Romans, to retire to the tops of craggy inac-
cefiible mountains, to forefts, and to rocks on the fides
of rivers, or the {bores of the fea. Boethius, however,
afferts, that it w^as poffeffed by the Caledonians long
before the Britons, and that it refilled all the efforts
of Agricola to reduce it. The venerable Bede informs
us, that it was the ftrongeft fortification in the king¬
dom in his time, and deemed almoft impregnable ; it
was reduced by famine in the year 756, by Egbert
king of Northumberland, and taken by efcalade in the
year 1551. The rock feems to have been anciently a
volcano : the fides are compofed of rude bafaltic co¬
lumns, of which huge maffes have been broken off,
and fallen to the bottom, by the injuries of time. Ma¬
ny parts of the lock are ftrongly magnetic, caufing
the compafs to vary at a confiderable diftance : this
civcumftance was long fince noticed by Buchannan,
(Scot. Hi ft. lib. xx. left. 28.) As the caftle of Dun¬
barton commands the navigation of the Clyde, and is
the key of the w'eftern Highlands, the fortifications
are generally kept in repair. It is garrifoned by a go¬
vernor, lieutenant-governor, a fort-major, fubaltern of¬
ficers, and a company of invalids. The government is
faid to be worth 7col. per annum.
DUNBARTONSHIRE, or, as it was anciently
called, the {hire of Lennox, extends in length about
40 miles, and in breadth about 23. It is bounded on
the north by Argyllfhire 5 on the eaft by the counties
of Perth and Stirling ; on the fouth by the river Clyde,
and part of Lanarkshire ; and on the weft by an arm
of the fea, called Loch Long. The greater part of the
county is covered with heathy hills, which are now
afluming a more luxuriant appearance, fmce the intro-
dmftion of fheep. Many of the mountains are elevated
to a great height, Benlomond meafuring 3158 feet
above the level of the fea. The ridge, of which Ben¬
lomond
DUN t 379 ] DUN
©unbarton-lomond is a part, is the beginning of that extenfive
fliire ridge which croffes the country from this place to the
Buncombe ca^ coa^ at Aberdeen, called the Grampians. The
w—y—— lower grounds, which lie on the banks of Loch Lo¬
mond, the river Clyde and the Leven, are not fo fer¬
tile as the correfponding parts of fome of the neigh¬
bouring counties ; notwithftanding which, it is agree¬
ably diverfified, and wre11 inhabited. The banks of the
Leven, in particular, are covered with numerous
bleachfields, printfields, and cotton-works, giving em¬
ployment to thoufands ; while the villages erefted for
the accommodation of the w'orkmen, the hamlets, and
elegant feats, cannot fail to imprefs the mind with high
ideas of the wealth, the induftry, the public fpirit, and
the happinefs of the inhabitants. Agriculture in this
county has been rather neglefted, and little attention
has been paid to it till within thefe few years $ but the
public fpirit has of late been roufed to this moft ufeful
and important occupation ; and the county of Dunbar¬
ton, w’hich is capable of much improvement, is faft ad¬
vancing in agricultural progrefs. The farmers here,
indeed, poffefs numerous advantages : being near a fea-
port town, where every article bears the higheft price,
they find a ready market for their corn ; and the nu¬
merous inhabitants in the immediate neighbourhood re¬
quire fupplies of other neceflaries from the farmer. Up¬
wards of 12,000 acres are covered with natural wood,
and there are many fine lakes or lochs, of which Loch
Lomond is the chief. Dunbartonlhire contains one
royal borough, Dunbarton, feveral thriving manufac¬
turing villages-, and is divided into 12 parifhes, con¬
taining in all 18,408 inhabitants.
Population of this County at two different periodsy from
Stati/l. H{/1. of Scotland.
Parijhes.
! Arroquhar
Bonhill
Cardrofs
Cumbernauld
5 Dunbarton
Kilmaronock
Kilpatrick, New
Kilpatrick, Old
Kirkintilloch
10 Lufs
Rofeneath
» 2 Row
Population
in !75S-
466
901
795
2303
1480
1193
1390
1281
1696
978
521
8?3
Population in
1790—179S.
379
2310
2194
160O
2003
8 20
T70©
2452
2639
917
394
1000
13^57
Increafe 4551
18,408
DUNC ANNON, a fort in the county of Wexford,
3and province of Leinfler, in Ireland, feated on the ri¬
ver Rofs. It commands the river, infomuch that no
ftrip can pafs to Waterford or Rofs without its permif-
fion. Here are barracks for three companies of foot.
W. Long. 6. 30. N. Lat. 52. 10.
DUNCARDS, Dunkers, or Tankers. See Tun-
li.ERS.
DUNCOMBE, William, younger fon of John
Duncombe, Efq. of Stocks in Hertfordlhire, in 17 22
publilhed a tranflation of Racine’s Athaliah $ which
was well received by the public, and has gone through
three editions. In 1724 he was editor of the works
of Mr Needier ; in 1735, of the poems of his deceafed
brother-in-law Mr Hughes, 2 vols izmoj in 1737*
of the mifcellanies of his younger brother Mr Jabez
Hughes, for the benefit of his widow7, in one volume
8vo ; and in 1745, of the works of the Rev. Mr Sa¬
muel Say, in one volume 410. In 1726 he married
the only filler of John Hughes, Efq. whom he long
furvived. In 1734 his tragedy of Lucius Junius Bru¬
tus was a£!ed at Drury Lane theatre. It was publifh-
ed in 1735, and again in 1747- The works of Ho¬
race, in Englifh verfe, by feveral hands, were pub-
lifhed by him in two vols 8vo, with notes, &c. in 1757.
A fecond edition, in 4 vols i2mo, with many imita¬
tions, was publifhed in 1762. In 1763 he colledted
and republifhed “ Seven fermons by Archbifhop Her¬
ring, on public occafions, with a biographical preface.”
He died Feb. 26. 1769, aged 80.
DUNDALK, a town of Ireland, in the county of
Louth, about 40 miles from Dublin. It is a large,
ancient, and thriving town, with a wide ilreet, near a
mile long, and a very fine market-houfe, near the en¬
trance from Dublin. In the reign of Edward II. it
was a royal city, and the laft we read of where a mo¬
narch of all Ireland was a&ually crowned and refided.
It was formerly very ftrong, and had many towers and
fmall caftles in it. It is very advantageoufly fituated
for a moft extenfive inland trade, and the port is very
fafe for (hipping. The bay has good moorings at all
times, in four to upwards of eight fathoms water, with
very good land-marks, either for bringing up to, or
making the harbour ; and in crofting the bar at high
water, or ordinary neap tides, there is from 15 to 18
feet water. The only cambric manufaflure in Ireland
is carried on in this town.
DUNDEE, a parliament town of Scotland, in the
{hire of Forfar or Angus, is feated on the north fide
of the river Tay, about 12 meafured miles from its
mouth, 40 meafured miles north of Edinburgh, and
22 eaft from Perth, in W. Long. 2. 48. N. Lat. 56.
26. Its fituation for commerce is very advantageous.
Trading veffels of the largeft burden can get into the
harbour ; and on the quay there are three very conve¬
nient and handfome warehoufes built in 1756, as well
as good room for (liipbuilding, which is carried on to
a large extent. The houfes are built of ftone, gene¬
rally three or four ftories high. The market-place or
high ftreet in the middle of the town is a very fpacious
oblong fquare, 360 feet long and 100 feet broad j
from whence branch out the four principal fireets,
which with a number of leffer ones are all paved in the
beft manner. On the fouth fide of the market-place
ftands the townhoufe, an elegant ftruclure, with a very
handfome front, piazzas below-, and a neat fpire over it
140 feet high. This building was finifhed in the year
1734, and contains the guildhall, the court-room, a
very neat mafon lodge, the bank, vaulted repofitories
for the records, and the common prifon, which is in
the upper ftory, and does honour to the tafte and hu¬
manity of the magiftrates, under whofe aufpices it w-as
conftruefed, being well aired commodious rooms, at
the fame time very ftrong and fecure. Each prifon is
3 B 2 20
Dundalk,
Dundee.
DUN [38
20 feet by 12, and feet high, well arched above
and below.
The meal market and fhambles, which were former¬
ly on the high llreet, and eiteemed a nuilance, were
removed feme years ago ; and in the place of the fham¬
bles there is novv eredfed by the incorporated trades,
on the caff end of the above large fquare, a grand build¬
ing, wuth a large and elegant cupola : in the ground
flat of which is a very neat coffee room, and feveral
merchants (hops $ and in the upper dories public rooms
for each trade, and a common hall occalionally ufed
as a theatre. This hall is 50 feet long, 30 feet broad,
and 25 feet high ; having its front to the fquare deco¬
rated wuth Ionic columns.
The opulence of the corporations, nine in number,
may be inferred from this, that they had, along with
the kirk leffion, but very lately finiihed a moft elegant
church when they fet about building the hall. Ibis
church, which is called Si Andrew's Church, Hands on
a riling ground a little north from the Covvgate ftreet ;
and has an elegant fpire 130 feet high, W'itH a peal of
bells much admired. There is a neat entry to the
church by a broad gravel walk, with grab plots on
every fide ; and the whole policies around it are laid
out with excellent tafte, and in a fuperb ffyle, as com¬
plete and well executed as any in Scotland.
Dundee, befide St Andrew’s church, has four o-
ther churches, and five miniflers on the legal eflablifh-
ment. The old church, in which were originally four
places of worfhip, when entire, had been a very mag¬
nificent building, with a large Iquare Gothic tower or
ffeeple 186 feet high, on the weft end of thechurch. This
building was in the form of a crofs, erected by David
earl of Huntingdon, brother to William I. of Scot¬
land (furnamed the Lion), and was dedicated to the
virgin Mary. This he did on his return from the third
crufade (in which with 500 of his countrymen he had
accompanied Richard I. of England) anno 1189, in gra¬
titude for his deliverance from feveral imminent dan¬
gers, and particularly from ftiipwreck, by which he
had nearly periihed when in fight of this town. At the
fame time he changed the name of the town from A/-
JeBum to .Dei Donum, whence itsprefentname is thought
by many to be derived ; while others maintain that its
name was Duntay, or “ the hill of Tay.” The word
AlleBuni in the Gaelic fignifies “ beautiful,” and har¬
monizes very well with the Scripture fenfe of the hill
of God. The wmrd Duntay has the very fame fignifi-
cation, “ the Hill of God and both agree with the
delightful fituation of Dundee, and unite in giving it
with propriety the name of Bonny Dundee, The hill
rifes on the north of the town to a great height, and
is called Ihe Law of Dundee ; law being a Saxon word
for a round hill fuch as it is. On its top there are evi¬
dently the remains of a camp, laid to have been firft
c-reifted by Edw’ard I. of England, and laftly repaired
by General Monk. Where the meal market flood is
now erefted an elegant Epifcopal meetirtg-houfe, with
handfome (hops below.
Dundee had an old caftle which was demolifhed by
the famous Scots governor Sir William Wallace, who
was educated in this town. The caftle had proved
very ufeful to Edward I. when he put a garrifon into
it to awe the inhabitants ; but Wallace getting pof-
feffion, ordered it to ,bc deftroyed, left it fhould again
> ] DUN
fall into the hands of the Engliftr. This treatment fo Dundee,
exafperated Edw'ard, that, taking the towm by ftorm, 1 v™“
he let fire to the churches 5 and a number of the inha¬
bitants having taken fan£luary there with their moft
valuable effeifts, were all burnt along with them. At
that time he burnt alfo a great part of the town. The
defolation he brought on the church has continued ever
fince, till the year 1787, when a noble edifice began
to be built on the file of the one that was burnt down,
and is now finifhing ; in which the ancient Gothic of
the outfide is excellently united with internal modern
architeblure, making one of the largeft and neateft
churches in the kingdom, and again completing the
fupeib fuperftrubture as ereblcd at fiift by the earl of
Huntingdon.
This town fuffered greatly laft century during the
troubles of Charles II. and the ufurpation of Oliver
Cromwell-, being fometimes under the command of
one party, and at others in the mercy of another. In
1645 the marquis of Montrofe took it by florm 5 and
in 1651, under the command of its provoft Major Ge¬
neral Lumfden, it vigoroufty oppofed General Monk,
who carried it by ftorm the I ft of September, and put
all in arms to the fword. And fo great were the riches
of Dundee, all the neighbouring gentleman having re¬
tired to it w ith their belt effects as a place* of fafety,
that every private foidier in General Monk’s army had
near 60I. fterling to his (hare of the plunder •, there
being above 60 merchant veffels in the harbour at that
time, and the like number of veffels failed for England
loaded with the fpoils of the unfortunate inhabitants.
By thefe and other invafions, the w hole ancient records
of the town were deftroyed, except a deed of Queen
Mary, figned by herfelf, conferring the prefent bury-
ing ground ; and fome charters of the Charles’s, con¬
firming the ancient rights and privileges as difponed
by the Alexanders and other kings of Scotland.
This burying ground is the only place in Scotland
we know of called The Hof, a Dutch word bearing-all
the fenfes of the Englifh word court, having been for¬
merly the burying-ground of one of the many religious
houfes that were in this town previous to the Refor¬
mation.
Dundee at prefent has I 13 veffels belonging to the
port, of above 8200 tons burden, and near loop fea-
men. Of thefe veffels four went laft feafon to Green-
land, a trade of long Handing here. , And befide the
three public warehoufes on the fhore, there are above
twenty large private warehoufes belonging to the mer¬
chants. The magiftrates have been lately and ft ill are at
great expence in enlarging and fitting up the harbour,
fo as to render it of eafy accefs, fafe, and commodious^
and have now made the paffage over the Tay, where
there is a great refort, fo convenient, that travellers
with their horfes can get over at any time of tide, and
a lufficient number of good boats properly manned are
always ready. The river Tay'oppofite Dundee is about
three miles broad ; and being ftreltered by high lanjjs
on both fides, is a fafe road for (hips of the greateft
burden : the piers are extenfive, broad, and well adapt¬
ed for the purpofes of loading and difeharging veffel? ;
and when the harbour is completed on the plan they
are prefently engaged in, there will not be one fuperior
to it in Scotland.
To enable, the town to repair the damage done by
Cromwell’s
DUN [3
Dundee. Cromwell’s army, and alfo their harbour and other
——\ ■public works, Charles II. granted them a fmall impoft
of one-fixth of a penny fterling, for 25 years, on the
pint of ale brewed or brought into the town for iale *,
which grant has been frequently renewed by fubfequent
parliaments ; and the fund ariling therefrom is molt
properly beftowed by the magiftrates in improving the
town, and making it more convenient and healthy. For
thefe purpofes, feveral new ftreets have been made, the
old ones have been widened, and a large convenient one
at a confrderable expence, carried down from the mar¬
ket place to join a fine walk, lhaded very neatly with
trees, that leads to the (bore. This new ftreet makes
the accefs eafy and commodious, which was formerly
much confined and fteep.
Till the year 1745, the town had only draw wells ;
but fince that period it is mod amply fupplied from a
large fine fountain of excellent water, conveyed through
the town in lead pipes, and difcharged by good wells
at proper diilances. Thefe, with a fine well in the
town’s meadows, and a dream of water that runs through
the ward and the meadows (twm large beautiful greens
on the north of the town), make it as wTell watered as
any town in Scotland ; and thefe greens, jud at hand,
ferve all the inhabitants mod commodioufly for the ne-
ceffary labours of wadiing and bleaching.
The number of inhabitants in Dundee has increafed
above 4000 fince 1780. There was then an accurate
lid of them taken, when they amounted to near 16,000;
and lately they were reckoned and found within a few
of 20,000; and fince the year 1760 they are fully
doubled. Befide the edablifhed churches, there are
three Epifcopal meeting-houfes, two of Seceders, one
of Methodids, two of Independents, one Berean, and
two Anabaptids. One of the Independents is of the
Gladite denomination. Mr John Glafs, from whom
they take that name, refided here ; and his principles,
though fpread far and wide, have always had the great-
ed following in Dundee.
The trade in the town has increafed amazingly
of late. Its daple is undoubtedly the linen manu-
faidure : for which in dimmer 1788 they imported
from the Baltic 32 cargoes of flax, hemp, &c. (near
3000 tons), befide feveral quantities from London,
Leith, and other places ; and on an average the brown
linen damped for the two preceding feafons at the
damp office here amounted to about four millions of
yards, in value about 115,0001. flerling. The flax
is wrought up into coarfe linens, chiefly Ofnaburgs,
fheetings, foldiers fliirtings, &c. which is fold part¬
ly bleached (feveral fine large bleachfields being well
employed in the neighbourhood) and partly h1'0"’11*
Thefe linens are fent principally to London, Glafgowq
and Liverpool, and from thence exported. Seven or
eight vcffels are conflantly employed in the trade be¬
tween Dundee and London, one of wffiich fails every
ten or twelve days. The making failcloth has been
long eflabiilhed here, and is carried on to a good ex¬
tent. Two rope works have fucceeded well, and a
buckram work has alfo been eflabliflied for feveral years.
The Dundee coloured threads have been long juflly
efteemed, and give bread to a great number of people ;
indeed it was here that coloured threads firft made a
figure among the articles of trade in Scotland. Their
fugar houfe, a large undertaking, and tan works, are
81 ] • D U. N
of eftabiiihed reputation. There has been lately creeled Dnndee
a large glafs work at a great expence, and a plumbery
and foundery are alfo now carried on to advantage. v«~-y——-
No doubt the trade of the place has been greatly pro¬
moted by the Bank ; which is carried forward on the
fureft and moft fteady footing, and has always mana¬
ged the bufinefs of the town and neighbourhood in
fuch a way as to keep any other eftabliflunent of that
kind from taking place. Of late the cotton manu-
fadhory has been introduced ; a number of jennies be¬
ing employed in fpinning, and feveral looms in weaving
it. A large mSchine for fpinning fliorts or backens in--
to candlewdck, the firft of the kind in Scotland, is
alfo begun to work here, and promifes to do well. A
fpirit for literature and education has greatly prevailed
of late years in Dundee : for befide the public gram¬
mar fchool, which has an able redlor and two good
mafters ; the public Englilh and writing fchool, where
are three very proper mailers; there is alfo lately efta-
blifhed, and much encouraged, an academy for mathe¬
matics, French, Italian, and the polite arts, with ma¬
fters fuitable for the different branches, and a large ap¬
paratus for natural philofophy.
The falmon filhing in Tay is of much confequence ;
and the town is generally well fupplied with fifh of va¬
rious kinds, though like every other article of living
much raifed in price of late years. Their other mar¬
kets are alfo well fupplied. An excellent nurfery at
the weft end of the town has been much encouraged ;
and its neighbourhood is now adorned with many neat
and elegant villas, fhowing the wrealth and tafte of the
inhabitants.
Dundee is the birth-place of the celebrated and learn¬
ed Hedftor Boethius, whofe Hiftory of Scotland has
been long in much reputation with many. It, wfith
Perth, Forfar, St Andrew’s, and Cupar, returns one
member to the Evitifti parliament.
DUNFERMLINE. See Dunfermline.
DUNG, in Hujbandry. See Agriculture Index.
Dung-Bird. See Upupa, Ornithology Index.
DuNG-Mcers, in Hujbandry, places where foils and
dungs are mixed and digefted together. Ihefe confift
of pits, prepared at the bottom with ftone and clay,
that they may hold water, or the moifture of the dung :
and ought to be fo fituated, that the finks and drips of
the houfes and barns may run into them. Into thefe pits
they caft refufe, fodder, litter, dung, weeds, &c. where
they lie and rot together, till the farmer have occafion
for them.
DuNG-Worms, a fpecies of fly worms, of a fliort and
fomewhat flat body, found in great plenty among cow-
dung in the month's of September and October.
DUNGANNON, the chief town of the county of
Tyrone, in the province of Ulfler in Ireland. It is
feated on a hill, and is a place of feme ftrengTh.
DUNG.ARVON, a town of Ireland, in the county
of Waterford. It ftands on A bay of the fame name,
has a commodious harbour for (Lips, and is a will¬
ed town, with a caflle. W. Long. 7. 55, N. Lat.
5I-57-
DUNIPACE.. See Carron.
DUNKELD, a town of Scotland, in the {bird
of Perth, feated on the north fide of the river Tay,
in a fituation truly romantic, among very high
and almoft inacceffible crags, part naked and part
woodad>
Dankers,
Dr ’:lrk.
DUN r 3S2 1 DUN
wooded. It is the chief market town of the Highlands,
and has been greatly improved with buildings by the
dukes of Athol.
The place is of great antiquity. It was the capital
of ancient Caledonia. About the dawn of Chriftianity,
a fhctifh king made it the feat of religion, by ere&ing
a monatlery of Culdees there •, which King David I.
in 1130 converted into a cathedral, and it ranked as
the firft in Scotland. The entire {hell of the cathedral
Hill remains, the call end ferving for a kirk, on the
north fide of which is the burial place of the dukes of
Athol. The ftyle of architedlure is fimple and elegant,
the pillars round. The monument of one of its bifhops
remains on the fouth aide of the nave, as alfo that of
Alexander Stuart earl of Buchan, third fon of Ro¬
bert II. called for his cruelty The Wolf of Badenoch,
who died 1394. The tower at the weft end, with a
fingular crack down one of its fides, adds to the pi&u-
refque appearance which the whole makes among the
venerable pines at the end of the duke’s garden. His
Grace’s feat is a modern building, and not large, with
pleafant walks and plantations, and a fine cafcade on the
water of Bran, which in its way from the weftern hills
forms an aftonilhing fall of 150 feet, called the Rum¬
bling Brig, from a narrow bridge made by the fall of
two rocks acrofs the ftream. The pencil of Rofa never
formed a more horrid fcene. The ftream has a fecond
fall, which, without feeing the other, would be deemed
capital. Sir James Galloway, mailer of requefts to
James VI. and Charles I. was created Lord Dunkeld
1645, whofe grandfon James was attainted at the Re¬
volution, and dying at the beginning of this centary,
the title became extinft.
DUNKERS, Duncards, or Tankers. See Tun-
kers.
DUNKIRK, a maritime town of the French Ne¬
therlands, fituated in E. Long. 2. 28. N. Lat. 51. io.
and is the moft eafterly harbour on the fide of France
which is next to Great Britain.-—It was originally a
mean hamlet, confiding only of a few fidrermen’s
huts : but a church being built there, it was from
that, and from its fituation, which is a fandy emi¬
nence, called/.)««£/?•£; dun fignifying, in the old Gal¬
lic language, a hill; and kirk being the old Flemifti
name for church.
About the year 960, Baldwin earl of Flanders,
thinking the fituation convenient, enlarged it into a
kind of town, and furrounded it wuth a wall. In the
year 1322, Robert of Flanders, who held it as an ap¬
pendage, built a caftle for its defence; which was after¬
wards demolidied by the revolters of Flanders. Robert
of Bar erefted a fortification round it, the remains of
which are vifible on the fide next the harbour. The
emperor Charles V. who held it as part of Flanders,
built another caftle to defend the harbour j but this was
all'o demolifhed foon afterwards. In 1558, the French,
under Marlhal de Thermes, took Dunkirk by ftorm,
and almoft ruined the place *, the Spaniards recovered
it again in about a fortnight, and put all the French
to the fword.
Luring a peace procured for the Dunkirkers by
Philip II. of Spain, they rebuilt their town with
greater fplendour than before, and the inhabitants for
a long time iubfifted by privateers fitted out againft
the Dutch ; and at length, growing rich by thefe Dtitifeirfc.
hoftilities, they fortified their town and harbour, and v~~'
fitted out no lefs than 15 {hips of war at their own
charge.
In 1634, the Dunlyirkers agreed with the inhabi¬
tants of Bergues to dig a canal, at their joint expence,
for a communication between the two towns j which
was fome time afterwards effected. By this time
Dunkirk was become the beft harbour the Spaniards
pofleffed in Flanders, w’hich induced many foreigners to
fettle there j and it being neceflary to enlarge the town
for their accommodation, a new fortified wall w'as built
at a confiderable diftance from the former. In 1646*
it was befieged and taken by the prince of Condc. In
1652 it was retaken by the archduke Leopold, then
governor of the Netherlands. France entering into a
treaty with England in 1655, the Dunkirkers, with
views of pecuniary advantage, fitted out privateers
againft both thofe powrers : the confequence of which
wras, that the French, aftifted by Cromwell, attacked
and took it ; and it w’as put into the hands of the Eng-
lifh, in confequence of a treaty between them and the
French. To the Englilh it was even then of very great
importance ; for, during the war in which it was taken
the Dunkirkers had made prizes of no lefs than 250 of
their {hips, many of which w'ere of great value. They
therefore improved the fortifications, and built a cita¬
del ; yet they kept it only four years ; for in 1662,
two years after the Reftoration, Charles II. fold this
valuable accquifition to France, for the paltry fum of
500,0001. In confequence of this fale, the town was
raken poffeflion offer the French king Louis XIV. by
the Count d’Eftrades, on the 29th of November 1662.
Louis having acquainted the celebrated engineer Mon-
fieur VaUban, that he intended to make Dunkirk one
of the ftrongeft places in Europe, Vauban drew up a
plan with that view, W’hich was gradually executed.
An arfenal was erefted, large enough to contain all the
ftore neceffary for fitting out and maintaining a large
fleet of men of w’ar •, the fortifications on the land fide
were conftrufted in a manner that was thought to ren¬
der them impregnable; and, towards the fea, the en¬
trance of the harbour being properly formed, it was
fortified by the jetties, and the two forts called Green
Fort and the Fort of Good Hope at their extremities *, the
famous rifbank was alfo eredfted on the fide of the jet¬
ties, and Fort Galliard on the other, to fccure the town.
Thefe w’orks were all completed in 1683 j and in 1685,
the whole circumference of the bafen was faced wfith
mafonry, and the keys completely formed : at the fame
time care was taken to build at the entrance of this
bafon a fiuice, almoft 45 feet wide, that the {hips within
might be conftantly afloat. In 1689, the fort called
the Cornichon, and fome other works, were completed.
But though 30 years had been now’ employed in im¬
proving the fortifications of Dunkirk, it v’as not yet in
the ftate in which Louis intended to put it; and there¬
fore, in 1701, he caufed a new rifbank to be built,
called Fort Blanc.
At the treaty of Utrecht, it having been made ap¬
pear, that the privateers of Dunkirk had, during the
war then doling, taken from the Englilh no lefs than
1614 prizes valued at I,334>375^' herling, it was
ftipulated, that the fortifications of the city and
DUN [ 383 ] . DUN
Duns.
Dunkirk part of Dunkirk ihould be entirely demolifhed, and
the harbour filled up, fo as never to be a harbour
again.
The treaty of which this demolition of Dunkirk
was an article, was figned on the 28th of April 1713 ;
but the demolition did not take place till the Septem¬
ber following, when the queen deputed Colonel Arm-
ftrong and Colonel Clayton to overfee the execution
of the treaty as far as concerned the works and har¬
bour of Dunkirk.
Under the infpe£lion of thefe gentlemen, the places
of arms were broken down, the ditches filled up, and
the derai-lunes, baftions, and covered way, totally de-
ftroyed ; the citadel was razed, and the harbour and
bafon filled up; the jetties were alfo levelled with the
ftrand, and all the forts which defended the entrance
into the harbour w’ere demolilhed. A large dam, or
bar, was alfo built acrofs the mouth of the harbour be¬
tween the jetties and the town, by which all communi¬
cation between the harbour and the canal, which form¬
ed its entrance, w^as entirely cut oft’. The Unices were
alfo broken up, and the materials of them broken to
pieces.
But this was no fooner done, than Louis XIV. or¬
dered 30,000 men to wmrk inceflantly upon a new ca¬
nal, the canal of Mardick, which in a fhort time they
accomplifhed ; by w'hich the harbour was rendered al-
moft as commodious as ever; but in 1717 this likewife
was rendered unferviceable.
In the year 1720, during a great ftorm, the fea
broke up the bar or dam, and reftored to the Dun-
kirkers the ufe of the harbour in a very confiderable
degree.
In the year 1740, when Great Britain was engaged
in a war with Spain, Louis XV. fet about improving
the advantage which Dunkirk had derived from the
ftorm in 1720, by reftoring the works, and repairing
the harbour. He rebuilt the jetties, and erected new
forts in the place of thofe which had been deftroyed ;
and foon afterwards he efpoufed the caufe of Spain,
and became a principal in the war againft us.
But at the peace of Aix-la-Cbapelle in 1748, it was
ftipulated, that all the works towards the fea ihould be
deftroyed a fecond time ; yet, before the declaration
of the laft war, the place was in as good a ftate of
defence towards the fea as it was at any time during
the war which wras concluded by the treaty of Aix-la-
Chapelle.
DUNSE, a market town of Scotland, in the {hire
of Mers, fituated in W. Long. 2. [5. N. Lat. 55. 42.
It is feated on a rifing ground in the middle of the
ihire, and has a weekly maiket for cattle. It is by
fome reputed the birth-place of the famous John Duns
Scotus. A mile fouth of the town is a wTell of mineral
water, of great nfe as a deobftruent and antifcorbutic,
firft difcovered in 1747 by Dr Thomas Simpfon W'ho
praclifed there.
DUNS scotus, John, a Francifcan friar, common¬
ly called DoElor Subti/is, was born in the year 1274;
but w'hether in England, Scotland, or Ireland, hath
long been a matter of difpute among the learned of
each nation. Dempfter, Mackenzie, and other Scot-
tifh writers, aftert pofitively that he was born at Dunfe,
a towm in Scotland, about 15 miles from Berwuck;
and, to fecure him more effe&ually, Mackenzie makes
him defcended from the Dunfes in the Mers. Mac- Duns,
caghwell, an Irifti author, who wrote the life of this Dunftable.
Scotus, proves him to have been born at Down in the V~ "J"
province of Ulfter in Ireland : but Leland, Bale, Cam¬
den and Pits, affure us, that he was born at Dunftone
in the parsfti of Emildune, near Alnwick in Northum¬
berland ; and this opinion is rendered probable by the
following conclufion of his manufcript wmrks in the
library of Merton college in Oxford.—“ Here end the
writings of that fubtile doftor of the univerfity of
Paris, John Duns, who was born in a certain village,
in the parilh of Emildune, called Duvjlon, in the coun¬
ty of Northumberland.” We are told, that when a
boy, he became accidentally known to two Francifcan
friars ; who, finding him to be a youth of very extra¬
ordinary capacity, took him to their convent at New-
caille, and afterwards perfuaded him to become one of
their fraternity. From thence he was fent to Oxford,
where he was made fellow of Merton college and pro-
fefibr of divinity; and Mackenzie fays, that not lefs
than 30,000 ftudents came to Oxford to hear his lec¬
tures. His fame was now become fo univerfal, that
the general of his order commanded him to go to Pa¬
ris, that the ftudents of that univerfity might alio pro¬
fit from his leftures. He went to Paris in the year
1304, where he was honoured firft with the degree of
bachelor, then of dodlor of divinity, and in 1307 was
appointed regent of the divinity fchools : during his
refidence here, the famous controverly about the Im¬
maculate conception of the virgin Mary arofe. Albertus
Magnus maintained that Ihe was born in original fin.
Scotus advanced 200 arguments in fupport of the con¬
trary opinion, and convinced the univerfity of Paris
that fhe was really conceived immaculate. This im¬
portant nonfenfe, however, continued to be difputed till
the year 1496, after the council of Bafil, when the
univerfity of Paris made a decree, that no ftudent, who
did not believe the immaculate conception, fhould be ad¬
mitted to a degree. Our author had not been above
a year at Paris, when the fame general of the Francif-
cans ordered him to remove to Cologne ; where he was
received with great pomp and ceremony by the magi-
ftrates and nobles of that city, and where he died of
an apoplexy foon after his arrival, in the year 1308,
in the 34th year of his age. Some writers have re¬
ported, that Scotus was buried in an epileptic fit ; and
that, upon removing his bones, he appeared to have
turned himfelf in his coffin. This Dofior Subtilis was
doubtlefs one of the firft wranglers of his time, admi¬
rably well verfed in fcholaftic divinity, and a moil in¬
defatigable fcribbler ; but the misfortune is, that all his
huge volumes do not contain a Angle page worth the
perufal of a rational being. He was the author of a
new7 fe6I of fchoolmen called Scoti/ls ; who oppofed the
opinions of the Thomifts, fo called from St Thomas
Aquinas. The reader will find a more particular ac¬
count of Scotus in the Francifcan Martyrology, pub-
liihed at Paris in 1638.—He was a moft voluminous
writer ; his works making 1 2 vols folio, as publifiied
at Lyons by Luke Wadding, 1639.
DUNSTABLE, a town in Bedfordffiire, with a
market on Wednefdays-. It is feated on a chalky hill;
and has ponds in the ftreets, which are never dry though
only fupplied with rain-water. It is remarkable for
feveral good inns, it being a great thoroughfare on the
L northern
BUN [ 3^4 ] BUN
DunftalT- northern road. It confifts of four ftreets, interfering
_nage, each other at right angles j and in the centre flood one
■ t|10^e i3eaut'1fu| crcfles of Queen Eleanor, which was
deflroyed by the enthufiafls in the time of the civil
wars. W. Long. o. 29. N. Lat. 51. 50.
DUNSTAFFNAGE. See Lorne.
DUNST'AN, a famous faint, and archbilliop of
Canterbury : of whom the monkifti hiftorians give us
the following account, lie was dcfcended from a noble
family in Wefiex, and educated in the abbey of Gla-
flonbury. Here he ftudied fo hard, that it threw him
into a violent fever which brought him to the very
point of death. When the whole family were hand¬
ing about his bed, dilTolved in tears, and expecting
every moment to fee him expire, an angel came from
heaven in a dreadful ftorm, and gave him a medicine
which reftored him to perfect health in a moment.
Dunftan immediately ftarted from his bed, and run with
all his fpeed towards the church to return thanks for
his recovery ; but the devil met him by the way, fur-
rounded by a great multitude of black dogs, and en¬
deavoured to obflruft his paffage. This would have
frightened fome boys ; but it had no fuch effecl upon
Dunftan ; w’ho pronouncing a facred name, and bran-
difliing his flick, put the devil and all his dogs to flight.
The church doors being ftmt, an angel took him in
his arms, conveyed him through an opening in the
roof, and fet him foftly down on the floor, where he
performed his devotions. After his recovery, he pur-
fued his ftudies with the greateft ardour, and foon be¬
came a perfeft mafter in philofophy, divinity, mufic,
painting, writing, fculpture, working in gold, filver,
brafs, and iron, &c. When he was ftill very young
he entered into holy orders, and was introduced by his
uncle Athelm archbifhop of Canterbury to King Atbel-
ftan •, who, charmed with his perfon and accompldh-
ments, retained him in his court, and employed him
in many great affairs. At leifure hours he ufed to en¬
tertain the king and his courtiers wuth playing on his
harp, or fome other mufical inftrument ; and now^ and
then he wrought a miracle, which gained him great
admiration. His old enemy the devil was much of¬
fended at this, and prompted feme envious courtiers to
perfuade the king that his favourite was a magician,
which that prince too readily believed. Dunftan dif-
covering by the kin-g’s countenance that he had loft
his favour, and refolving to refign rather than be turn¬
ed out, retired from court to another uncle, who w'as
bithop of Winchefter. This good prelate prevailed
upon his nephew7 to forfake the world and become a
monk ; after which he retired to a little cell, built
againft the church wall of Glaftonbury. Here he flept,
ftudied, prayed, meditated, and fometimes amufed him-
felf with forging feveral ufeful things in brafs and iron.
One evening, as he was working very bufily at his
forge, the devil, putting on the appearance of a man,
thruft his head in at the window of his cell, and alked
him to make fomething or other for him. Dunftan
was fo intent upon his work that he made no anfwer ;
on which the devil began to fwear and talk obfeenely,
which betrayed the lurking fiend. The holy black-
fmith, putting up a fecret ejaculation, pulled his tongs,
which were red hot, out of the fire, feized the devil
with them by the nofe, and fqueezed him with all his
ftrength} which made his infernal majefty roar and
2
1'cold at fuch a rate, that he awakened and terrified all Dunftau.
the people for many miles mound. Thus far the le-' 
gend.
Ridiculous as were thefe fiflions, they ferved, in
thofe times of ignorance, to procure Dunftan a repu¬
tation which has been confirmed by the authority of
feveral fucceeding hiftorians. It appears that this
extraordinary perfon was called to court by King Ed¬
mund, A. D. 94.1 ) who beftowed upon him the rich
abbey of Glaftonbury, which for his fake he ho¬
noured with many peculiar privileges. He enjoyed a
very high degree of the favour of this prince during
his fhort reign of fix years j but he flood much higher
in the favour of his brother and fucceffor King Edred,
to whom he was confeffor, chief confidant, and prime
minifter. He employed all his influence during this
period of court favour in promoting the intereft of the
monks of the Benedicline order, to which he belong¬
ed, and of which he was a moft aflive and Zealous pa¬
tron. Having the treafures of thefe two princes, efpe-
cially of the laft, Very much at his command, he la-
vilhed them away in building and endowing monafte-
ries for thefe monks, becaufe almoft all the old mona-
fteries were in the poffeffion of fecular canons. Not
contented with this, he perfuaded Edred (who was a
bigotted valetudinary) to beftow fuch immenfe treafures
on the churches and monafteries by his laft will, that
the crown was ftripped of its moft valuable poffef-
fions, and left in a ftate of indigence. This coudud
of Dunftan, while he was in power, rendered him
very odious to Edwi, who fucceeded his uncle Edred
A. D. 95'5 ; and his rude behaviour to himfelf, and
his beloved Queen Elgiva, railed the refentment of
that prince fo high, that he deprived him of all his
preferments, and drove him into exile *. The ba- * See
nifliment of Dunftan, the great patron, or (as Malmf-N°i7.
bury calls him) the prince of monks, was a fevere blow
to that order, who were expelled from feveral monafte¬
ries $ which were made the impure ftables (according
to the fame author) of the married clergy. But their
fufferings were not of long continuance. For Edgar
the younger brother of Edwi, having railed a fuccefs-
ful rebellion againft his unhappy brother, and ufurped
all his dominions on the north fide of the river Thames,
recalled Dunftan, and gave him the bilhopric of Wor-
cefter, A. D. 957. From this moment he was the chief
confidant and prime minifter of King Edgar, who be¬
came foie .monarch of England A. D. 959, by the
death of his elder brother Edwi. In the following
year Dunftan was raifed to be archbilhop of Canter¬
bury j and being thus poffeffed of the primacy, and af-
fured of the royal fupport and afliftance, he prepared
to execute the grand defign which he had long medi¬
tated, of compelling the fecular canons to put away
their wives and become monks j or of driving them
out and introducing Benediftine monks in their room.
With this view he procured the promotion of Ofwald
to the fee of Worcefter, and of Ethelwald to that of
Winchefter $ two prelates who were monks themfelves,
and animated with the moft ardent zeal for the ad¬
vancement of their order. And thefe three great cham¬
pions of the order found means, by their arts and in¬
trigues, in the courfe of a few years, to fill no fewer
than 48 monafteries with Benedidlines. But on the
death of Edgar in 975 they received a check. The
fufferings
r
DUN
Dtiuftan.
__ fufterings of the perfecuted canons had excited much
v compaflion j and many of the nobility, who had been
overawed, by the power and zeal of the late king, now
eipoufed their caufe and promoted their reftoration.
JiUerc duke of Metcia drove the monks by force out
ol all the monaderies in that extenfive province, and
brought back the canons, with their wives and chil¬
dren ; while Elfwin duke of Eaft Anglia, and Brith-
not duke of Ertex, raifed their troops to protect the
monks in thefe countries. To allay thefe commotions,
feveral councils w^ere held : in which Dunftan was fo
hard partied by the fecular canons and their friends,
that he was obliged to praftife fome of his holy llra-
tagems; and finally, by dint of miracles, overcame all
* See Eng- oppofition *.
fatiJ,No 64. St Dunrtan died A. D. 988, in the 64th year of
his age, having held the biihopric of London, toge¬
ther with the archbirtiopric of Canterbury, about 27
years. As this prelate was the great reftorer and pro¬
moter of the monaftic inftitutions, the grateful monks,
who w^ere almort: the only hiftorians of thofe dark ages,
have loaded him with the mold extravagant praifes, and
reprefented him as the greateft wonder-worker and
higheft favourite of heaven that ever lived. To fay
nothing of his many conflifts with the devil, in which
he often belaboured that enemy of mankind moft fevere-
ly, the following Ihort Itory, which is told with great
exultation by his biographer Ofbern, will give the read¬
er fome idea of the aftonirtiing impiety and impudence
of thofe monks, and of the no lefs aftonirtiing blindnefs
and credulity of thofe unhappy times. “ The moft ad¬
mirable, the moft ineftimable Father Dunftan (fays
that author), whofe perfections exceeded all human
imagination, w'as admitted to behold the mother of
God and his owm mother in eternal glory ; for before
his death he w-as carried up into heaven, to be prefent
at the nuptials of his own mother with the Eternal
King, which were celebrated by the angels with the
molt fweet and joyous longs. When the angels re¬
proached him for his lilence on this great occafion, fo
honourable to his mother, he excufed himfelf on ac¬
count of his being unacquainted with thofe fweet and
heavenly ftrains ; but being a little inflruCted by the
angels, he broke out into this melodious fong, O King
and Ruler of nations,” &c. It is unneceffary to make
any comment on this moft (hocking ftory.
The violent and too fuccefsful zeal of Dunftan and
his aflbciates, in promoting the building and endowing
fo great a number of houles for the entertainment of
ufelefs monks and nuns, wras very fatal to their coun¬
try : for by this means a fpirit of irrational unmanly
fuperftition w'as diffufed amongft the people, which
debafed their minds, and diverted them from nobler
purfuits ; and a very great proportion of the lands of
England being put into hands who contributed no¬
thing to its defence, rendered it an eafy prey, firft to
the infulting Danes, and afterwards to the victorious
Normans.
DUNUM, a Celtic term, denoting a hill or emi¬
nence, and which often concurs to form the names of
towns, to fignify their high fituation, places of ftrength
or citadels, hills or eminences, being adapted to fuch
ilruCtures. See Dun.
Dunum (Ptolemy), a town of Ireland ; now thought
Vol. VII. Part I.
[ 38* ]
D U P
to be Down or Down-Datrick, in the county of Down.
W. Long. 5. 57. N. Lat. 54. 23.
DUO, in Mi'Jic, a fong or compofition, to be perform¬
ed on two parts only, one fung, the other played on
an inftrument, or by twro voices.
Duo is alfo when two voices fing different parts, as
accompanied with a third, which is a thorough bafs.
It is feldom that unifons and oCtaves are ufed in duos,
except at the beginning and end.
DUODECIMA, in Mujic, is the twelfth or the fifth
doubled.
DUODENUM. See Anatomy Index.
DUPIN, Lewis Ellis, a learned doCIor of the
Sorbonne, and one of the greateft critics of his time,
efpecially in ecclefiaftical matters, w^as born at Paris in
I^57* When he publiftied the firft volume of his Bi-
bliotheque Univerfel/e des Auteurs EcclefiaJUqucs, in
1686, the liberty with which he treated fome eecle-
fiaftical writers, gave fuch offence, that M. de Harlay,
archbifhop of Paris, obliged Dupm to retraCI many
propofitions, and fupprefled the w'ork. He was never-
thelefs fuffered to continue it, by altering the title
from Bibliotheque Univei'felle to Bibllotheque Nouvelle.
Jhis great undertaking, continued in feveral fucceflive
volumes, though fufficient to occupy the life of an or¬
dinary man, did not hinder M, Dupin from obliging
the world with feveral other works. He was a man
of prodigious reading j and had an eafy happy way of
writing, with an uncommon talent at analyzing the
works of an author; which makes his Ecclefiaftical
Bibliotheque fo valuable. M. Dupin was profeffor of
philofophy in the royal college; but was banilhed fome
time from the chair to Chatelherault, on account of the
famous Cas de Confcience; but was reftored, and died
in 1719.
DUPLE, among mathematicians, denotes the ratio
of 2 to 1. I hus the ratio of 8 to 4 is duple, or as 2
to 1.
Sub-DuPLE Ratio, is juft the reverfe of the former, or
as 1 to 2. Such is 4 to 8, or 6 to 12.
DUPLICATE, among lawyers, denotes a copy of
any deed, writing, or account. It is alfo ufed for the
fecond letters-patent, granted by the lord chancellor
in a cafe wherein he had before done the fame. Alfo
a fecond letter written and fent to the fame party and
purpofe as a former, for fear of the firft’s mifcarrying,
is called a Duplicate.
Duplicate Proportion or Ratio. See Ratio.
DUPLICATION, in general, fignifies the doub¬
ling of any thing, or multiplying of it by 2 : alfo the
folding of any thing back again on itfelf.
DUPLICAT URE. among anatomifts, a term ufed
to denote the folds of any membrane or veffel : thus
we fay, the duplicatures of the intefmes, pcritonceum,
&c.
DUPONDIUS, in antiquity, a weight of two
pounds, or money of the value of two affes. See As.
As the as at firrt weighed a juft pondo or libra, the
dupondius then weighed two; and hence the name.
And though the weight of the as was afterwards
diminirtied, and of confequence that of the dupondius
alfo, yet they ftill retained the denomination. See
Pound and Libra.
DUPPA, Brian, a learned Englifli bilhop, born in
3C ,589
D U R
[ 386 ]
D U R
Durer
«—Y—
■Burandus 1589 at Lewiftiatn in Kent, of which place his father
was then vicar. In 1634, he was inftituted chancellor
of the church at Sarum, and foon after made chaplain
to Charles I. He was appointed tutor to Charles
prince of Wales, and his brother James duke of York j
was made bifliop of Chichefter $ and in 1641 tranflated
to Salifbury, though the confufions that followed de¬
prived him of all benefit from his promotion. Charles I.
held him in high efteem, and he is faid to have affifted
the king in compofing the Eikoti Bajihke. On the Re¬
iteration he was made bifhop of Winchefter, and lord
high almoner-, but died in 1662. He bequeathed large
fums to charitable purpofes and publilhed a few fer-
mons, with other religious pieces.
DURANDUS, William, born at Puimoiffion in
Provence, in the 13th century, was one of the moft
knowing lawyers of his time. Pope Martin made him
one of his nuncios, and then bifhop of Mende and Lan¬
guedoc. His Speculum Juris gave him the name of
Speculator; his fecond piece was Rationale divtnorum
qfficiorum, containing eight books. Pie wrote feveral
others.
DURANTA, in Botany, a genys of plants, be¬
longing to the didynamia clafs, and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 40th order, Perfonatce. See
Botany Index.
DURATION, an idea we get by attending to the
fleeting and perpetual perifhing parts of fucceflion. See
Metaphysics.
Duration, as marked by certain periods and
meafures. is what we mod properly call time. See Time.
Duration of ABion, according to Ariftotle, is con¬
fined to a natural day in tragedy 5 but the epopea, ac¬
cording to the fame critic, has no fixed time. See
Poetry.
DURER, Albert, defeended of an Hungarian
family, and born at Nuremberg in 1471, was one of
the beft engravers and painters of his age. He was at
the fame time a man of letters and a philofopher} and
he was an intimate friend of Erafmus, who revifed fome
of the pieces which he publifhed. He was a man of
bufinefs alfo, and for many years the leading magiftrate
of Nuremberg. Though not the inventor, he was one
of the firft improvers of the art of engraving and he
bethought himfelf of working alfo in wood, for expe¬
dition, having an inexhauftible fund of defigns. In
many of thofe prints which he executed on copper, the
engraving is elegant to a great degree. His Hell-Scene
particularly, which was engraved in the year 1513,
is as highly finifhed a print as ever was engraved, and
as happily executed. In his wooden prints too we are
furprifed to fee fo much meaning in fo early a mailer ;
the heads fo well marked, and every part fo well exe-
cuted. This artift feems to have underftood the prin¬
ciples of defign. His compofition, too, is often pleaf-
ing 5 and his drawing generally good. But he knou-s
very little of the management of light*, and Hill lefs of
grace : and yet his ideas are purer and more elegant
than we could have fuppofed from the awkward arche¬
types which his country and education afforded. In a
word, he was certainly a man of a very extenfive geni¬
us-, and, as Vafari remarks, would have been an ex¬
traordinary artift, if he had had an Italian inftead of
a German education. His prints are very numerous.
They were much admired in his own lifetime, and
eagerly bought upj which put his wife who was a leaf¬
ing woman, upon urging him to fpend more time upon
engraving than he was inclined to do. He was rich $
and chofe rather to pra&ife his art as an amufement
than as a bufinefs. He died in the year 1527.
DURESSE, hardship, in Law, is where a perfon
is kept in prifon or reftrained of his liberty, contrary
to order of lawj or is threatened to be killed, maimed,
or beaten. In which cafe, if a perfon fo in prifon,
or in fear of fuch threats, make any fpeciality or ob¬
ligation, by reafon of fuch imprifonment or threats,
fuch deed is void in law $ and in an aftion brought on
fuch fpecialty, the party may plead, that it was brought
by dureffe.
D’URFEY, Thomas, an eminent Englilh fatirift
and fongfter, whofe name, though as well known as
that of any writer extant, yet there are very few parti¬
culars of his life to be collefled. He was born in
Devonlhire ; but when, where, or of what family, are
all uncertain. He was bred to the law, which he for-
fook for the more agreeable employment of writing
plays and fongs; and the latter he had fo happy a ta¬
lent both of writing and finging, that he received many
favours from perfons of quality on that account. Even
crowned heads did not difdain his company. The
writer of the Guardian, N° 67. tells us, he remem¬
bered to have feen Charles II. leaning on Tom D’Ur-
fey’s Ihoulder more than once, humming over a long
with him. This indeed was not extraordinary in fo
merry a monarch -, but even the phlegmatic King Wil¬
liam could relax his mufcles on hearing him fing. He
was certainly by all accounts a cheerful, honeft, good-
natured man ; but as this character does not include
prudence, D’Urfey grew poor as he grew old : and
prevailing on the managers of the playhoufe to aft his
comedy of the Plotting Sijlers for his benefit, Mr Ad-
difon wrote the above-mentioned paper in the Guardian
with another, N8 82. reprefenting him in a good-hu¬
moured light, to procure him a full houfe. He died
very old, in 1723.
DURHAM, Bishopric of, one of the counties of
England. Before the arrival of the Romans it was
included in the Britilh principality of the Brigantes,
and after their arrival made part of the province of
Maxima Csefarienfis. During the Heptarchy it made
part of the kingdom of Northumberland, the 5th efta-
blilhed, which began 10547, aud ended in 827, having
been governed by 31 kings. It was not mentioned
by Alfred in his divifion of counties, being at that
time confidered as a part of Yorkfhire. At prefent it
is included in the northern circuit, in the province of
York ; and is a diocefe and principality under the go¬
vernment of its own bilhop, being a county palatine,
the fecond in rank, and the richeft in England. It is
bounded on the north by Northumberland, on the fouth
by Yorkftiire, on the eaft by the North fea, and on the
weft by Cumberland. It is 39 miles long, 35 broad,
and 107 in circumference j containing 410,000 iquare
acres, or 758 fquare miles ; with 97,000 inhabitants,
80 parilhes, 21 vicarages, one city (Durham), and 9
market towns, viz. Stockton, Sunderland, Barnard-
Caftle, Darlington, Stanhope, Hartlepool, Aukland,
Staindrop, and Marwood j befides 223 villages.^ It is
divided
DureflSr
Durham.
D U R [ 387 ] D U R
Durham, divided into 4 wards, fends 4 members to parliament,
i.im — pays three portions of the land tax, and provides 400
of the national militia. It has 21 parks, 4 caftles, and
20 bridges, with the rivers Tees, Tine, Were, Tame,
Lune, Darwent, Gauntlefs, Skern, &c. and the Lune
and Teefdale forefts. Its principal products are lead,
coals, iron, corn, muftard, fait, glafs, fine ale, with
excellent butter and falmon. The foil is various ;
the fouth is rich, but the weftern parts rocky and
moorifh.
Durham, as already obferved, is a county pala¬
tine, governed by the bifhop, who had formerly great
prerogatives. He had power to create barons, ap¬
point judges, convoke parliaments, raife taxes, and
coin money. The courts of juftice were kept in his
name ; and he granted pardons for trefpaffes, aliena¬
tions, rapes, murders, and felonies of every denomi¬
nation. He erefted corporations, granted markets
and fairs, created officers by patent, was lord admiral
of the feas and waters within the county palatine :
great part of the lands were held of the fee in capite.
In a word, he exercifed all the power and jur.fdidiion
©f a fovereign prince. How and at what period
thefe prerogatives were obtained, it is not eafy to
determine. Malmlbury fays, the lands were granted
by King Alfred, wholikewife made the church a fanc-
tuary for criminals. This fee was anciently called
the patrimony of St Cuthbert^ who had been bifhop of
JLandisfarne or Holy Ifland near Berwick. His bones
being transferred to Durham, were long efteemed as
precious relics $ and the people of the county confi-
dered themfelves as Halwerk men, exempted from all
other but holy work, that is, the defence of St Cuth-
bert’s body. Certain it is, they pretended to hold
their lands by this tenure; and refufed to ferve out
of the county either for the king or bifhop : but King
Edward I. broke through thefe privileges, and cur¬
tailed the prerogatives of the bifhops, which were flill
further abridged by Henry VIII. Neverthelefs, the
bifhop is ftill earl of Sadberg, a place in this county
which he holds by barony. He is fheriflf paramount,
and appoints his own deputy, who makes up his audit
to him, inflead of accounting to the exchequer. He
has all the forfeitures upon outlawries: and he and
his temporal chancellor aft as juflices of the peace
for the county palatine, which comprehends Creke
in Yorkfhire, Bedlington, Northam, and Holy Ifland,
in Northumberland ; the inhabitants of thefe places
having the benefit of the courts at Durham. The
judges of aflize, and all the officers of the court, have
ftill their ancient falaries from the bifhop j and he con-
ftitutes the ftanding officers by his letters patent. He
has the power of prefiding in perfon in any of the
courts of judicature. Even when judgment of blood
is given, this prelate may fit in court in his purple
robes, though the canons forbid any clergyman to be
prefent in fuch cafes : hence the old faying, Solum
Dunclmenfe Jlola jus dicet et enfe. It was not till the
reign of Charles II. that the bifhopric fent reprefenta-
tives to parliament.
Durham, the capital of the above-mentioned county,
is fituated in W. Long. 1. 14. N. Lat. 54. 50. It
ftands on a hill almoft furrounded by the river Were ;
and is confiderable for its extent and the number of its
inhabitants, as well as for being the fee or feat of
the bifliop, who is lord paramount. It ftands about Durham.
280 miles north from London j being remarkable for ' ■
the falubrity of its air, and the abundance and cheap-
nefs of its provifions. Thefe circumftances have indu¬
ced a great deal of good company to take up their re-
fidence at Durham, which is ftill further animated by
the prefence and court of the bifliop and his clergy.
The town is faid to have been built about 70 years
before the Roman conqueft, on occafion of bringing
hither the body of St Cuthbert. It was firfl: incor¬
porated by King Richard I. but Queen Elizabeth ex¬
tended its privileges. At length, in the year 1684, it
obtained a charter; in confequence of which, it is now
governed by a mayor, 12 alderman, 12 common coun¬
cil men, with a recorder and inferior officers. Thefe
can hold a court leet and court baron within the city ;
but under the ftyle of the biffiop, who, as count pala¬
tine, appoints a judge, fteward, fheriffs, and other in¬
ferior magiftrates. The mayor and alderman alfo keep
a pie pouldres court at their fairs, and pay a yearly toll
to the bilhop. They have a weekly market on Saturday,
and three annual fairs. Durham is about half a mile
in length, and has been by fome compared to the fi¬
gure of a crab, the market place exhibiting the body,
and the claws being reprefented by the ftreets, which
bend according to the courfe of the river, which almoft
furrounds one part of the city. They are, moreover,
dark and narrow ; and fome of them lying on the ac¬
clivity of a fteep hill, are very difficult and dangerous
to wheel carriages. The houfes are in general ftrong
built, but neither light nor elegant. The moft remark¬
able edifices are the cathedral, with fix other churches,
three ftanding in the city, and as many in the fuburbs;
the college ; the caftle, or biffiop’s palace ; the tolbooth
near St Nicholas’s church 5 the crofs and conduit in the
market place ; with two bridges over the Were. The
cathedral was begun by Biffiop Carilepho in the nth
century. It is a large, magnificent, Gothic ftruc-
ture, 411 feet long, and 80 in breadth, having a crofs
aifle in the middle 170 feet in length, and two fmaller
aifles at each end. On the fouth fide is a fine cloifter j
on the eaft, the old library, the chapter houfe and
part of the deanery ; bn the weft, the dormitory, under
which is the treafury and chantry ; and on the weft
fide is the new library, an elegant building begun by
Dean Sudbury about 70 years ago, on the fpot where
ftood the old refeftory of the convent. The middle
tower of the cathedral is 212 feet high. The whole
building is arched and fupported by huge pillars. Se¬
veral of the windows are curioufly painted j and there
is a handfome fereen at the entrance into the choir.
Sixteen bifhops are interred in the chapter houfe, which
is 75 feet long, and 33 broad, arched overhead, with a
magnificent feat at the upper end for the inftalment of
the bifhops. The confiftory is kept in the chapel of
weft aifle called Galilee, which was built by Bifliop Pub-
fey, and had formerly 16 altars for waimen, as they
were not allowed to advance farther than the line of
marble by the fide of the font j here likewife are de-
pofited the bones of the venerable Bede, whofe eulogium
is written on an old parchment fcroll that hangs over
his tomb. The long crofs aifle at the extremity of the
church was formerly diftinguiflied by nine altars, four
to the north, and four to the fouth, and the mofl mag¬
nificent in the middle dedicated to the patron St Cuth-
3 C 2 bert,
D IT R [ 388 1 D U R
Durham, bert, wbofe rich flirine was in this quarter, formerly
v~" much frequented by pilgrims. The church is pofleffed
of fome old records relating to the affairs of Scotland,
the kings oi which were great benefa<5!ors to this ca¬
thedral. The ornaments here ufed for adminidering
the divine offices, are faid to be richer than thofe of
any other cathedral in England. BeforetheReformation,
it was clidinguifhcd by the name Ecclejia fan Site Maria
et fanBt Cuthberti; but it obtained the appellation of
TLcclefa cathedrahs Chrijli et be at a Maria, in the reign
of Henry VIII. who endowed the deanery with 12
prebendaries, 12 minor canons, a deacon, fubdeacon,
16 lay tinging men, a fchoolmafter and uffier, a ma¬
iler of the choir, a divinity reader, eight almfmen, 18
fchol ars, 10 chorifters, two vergers, two porters, two
cooks, two butlers, and two facriftans. On the fouth
fide of the cathedral is the college ; a fpacious court
formed by the houfes of the prebendaries, who are
richly endowed and extremely well lodged. Above
the college gate, at the ealf end, is the exchequer
and at the weft, a large hall for entertaining ftrangers,
with the granary and other offices of the convent. The
college fchool, with the mafter’s houfe, ftands on the
north fide of the cathedral. Between the churchyard
and caftle is an open area called thegreen ; at
the weft end of which ftands the (hire hall, where the
aflizes and feffions are held for the county. Hard by
is the library built by Bilhop Cofin ; together with the
exchequer railed by Bilhop Nevil, in which are kept
the offices belonging to the county palatine court.
There is an hofpital on the eaft, endowed by Biftrop
Cofin, and at each end of it are two fchools founded
by Bilhop Langley. On the north, is the caftle built
by William the Conqueror, and afterwards converted
into the biflrop’s palace, the outward gate of which is
at prefent the county gaol.
The city conlifts of three manors j the biffiop’s ma¬
nor, containing the city liberties and the bailey, held
of him by the fervice of caftle guard; the manor of the
dean and chapter, confifting of the Elvet’s crofs-gate,
fouth-gate ftreet; and the manor of Gilligate, former¬
ly belonging to the diffolved hofpital of Kepyar in this
neighbourhood, but granted by Edward VI. to John
Cockburn, lord of Ormiftoun, and late in the poffeffion
of John Tempeft, Efq.
The bilhopric of Durham is deemed the richeft bi-
Ihopric in the kingdom ; and the prebends are fre¬
quently ftyled the Golden Prebends of Durham. The
diocefe contains the whole counties of Durham and
Northumberland, except the jurifdirftion of Hexham in
the latter. <Jt hath alfo one parilh in the county of Cum¬
berland : making in the whole 135 parithes, whereof
87 are impropriate. The fee is valued in the king’s
books at 2821I. is. 5^d. but is faid to be worth about
ten times that fum annually. The clergy’s tenths a-
mount to 385k 5s. 6J;d. It has two archdeacons, viz.
of Durham and Northumberland. This fee hath given
to the church of Rome eight faints and one cardinal ;
and to the Englifti nation one lord chief juftice, five
lord chancellors, three lord treafurers, one principal fe-
cretary of ftate, one chancellor to the univerfity of Ox¬
ford, and two mafters of the rolls.
In the neighbourhood of this city is Nevil’s crofs,
famous for the battle fought in the year 1346, againft
David II. king of Scotland, who was defeated and
taken prifoner.
DURIO, a genus of plants belonging to the poly-
adelphia clafs. See Botany Index.
DURN1UM, or Durnovaria, a town of the Du-
rotriges in Britain ; now Dorchefer, the capital of
Dorfetffiire, on the Frome.
DUROBRIViE, in Ancient Geography, a town of
the Catyeuchlani in Britain. Now in ruins, which lie
on the Nen, between Cafter and Dornford, in North-
amptonffiire, on the borders of Huntingdon.
Durobriv^e, or Durocobrivee, a town of the Trino-
bantes, in Britain ; w'hofe ruins are fituated between
Flamftead and Redburn, in Hertfordffiire.
DUROBRIVES, 25 miles to the weft of Durover-
num, or Canterbury ; from which it appears to be
Rochefter town : confirmed by the charter of founda¬
tion of the church, in which it is called Durobrevis.
DUROCASES, Durocassium, Duroc'ass.*, and
Durocasses, a town of the Carnutes in Gallia Celtica ;
now' Dreux. See Druidas.
DUROCORNOVIUM, in Ancient Geography, a
towm of Britain ; now Cirencefer in Gloucefterihire
(Camden), called Corinium by Ptolemy.
DUROCORTORUM, or Duricortora, a town
of the Rhemi in Belgica ; now Rheims in Champagne.
E. Long. 4. 8. N. Lat. 49. 20.
DUROIA, in Botany; a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the hexandria clafs of plants. See Botany
Index.
DUROLENUM, a town of the Cantii in Britain;
novf Lenham, in Kent (Camden); Charing (Talbot).
DUROLITUM, a town of the Trinobantes; now
Leiton, on the Ley, in Effex (Camden).
DUROTRIGES, an ancient Britifti nation, feated
in that part of the country which is nowr called Dor-
fetfhire. Their name is derived from the two Britifh
words Dur, “ w’ater,” and Hrigo, “ to dwell ;” and it is
no lefs evident that they got their name from the fi-
tuation of their country, which lies along the fea coaft.
It is not very certain whether the Durotriges formed
an independent ftate, under a prince of their own, or
were united with their neighbours the Danmonii ; as
they wTere reduced by Vefpafian under the dominion
of the Romans, at the fame time, and with the fame
eafe, and never revolted. The peaceable difpofition of
the inhabitants was probably the reafon that the Ro¬
mans had fo few towns, forts, and garrifons, in this
pleafant country. Dorchefter, its prefent capital, feems
to have been a Roman city of fome confideration,
though our antiquaries are not agreed about its Roman
name. It is moft probable, that it was the Durno¬
varia in the 12th Iter of Antoninus. Many R.oman
coins have been found at Dorchefter; the military
way, called Jeeningfreet, paffed through it; and fome
veftiges of the ancient ftone wall with which it wras
furrounded, and of the amphitheatre with w hich it was
adorned, are ftill vifible. The country of the Duro¬
triges wras included in the Roman province called Fia-
via Ccefarienfs, and governed by the prefident of that
province, as long as the Romans kept any footing in
thefe parts.
DURY, John, a Scots divine, who travelled much,
and laboured with great zeal to reunite the Lutherans
with.
Bufky
D U U [389
with the Calvinifts. His difcouragernents in this fcheme
ftarted another ftill more impracticable •, and this was
to reunite all Chriflians by means of a new explication
of the Apocalypfe, which he publilhed at Francfort in
1675. He enjoyed then a comfortable retreat in the
country of HeiTe ; but the time of his death is un¬
known : his letter to Peter du Moulin concerning the
ftate of the churches of England, Scotland, and Ire¬
land, was printed at London in 1658, by the care of
du Moulin, and is efteemed to be curious.
DUSKY bay, a bay of the illand of New Zea¬
land in the Southern Pacific ocean. The country around
is mountainous, and the hills near the fea fide are co¬
vered with thick forefts. It is in S. Lat. 45. 47. and
in E. Long. 166. 18.
DUSSELDOR-F, a city of Weftphalia in Germa¬
ny, and capital of the duchy of Berg. It is fituated at
the conflux of the river Duffel with the Rhine, in
E. Long. 6. 52. N. Lat. 51. 12. It was formerly
the refidence of the eledtor palatine, contiguous to
whofe palace is a celebrated gallery of paintings.
Carlftadt, a new town, is nearly completed. It is di¬
vided into fix regular quarters which open into an ex-
tenfive fquare } and from the uniformity of the build¬
ings, exclufive of the new palace and the academy of
painting, forms a beautiful addition to the old city.
Duffeldorf was taken by the French in 1795. It con¬
tains, including the garrifon, 18,000 inhabitants.
DUTCHY. See Duchy.
DUTY, in general, denotes any thing that one is
obliged to perform.
Duty, in a moral fenfe. See Moral Philofophy.
Duty, in polity and commerce, fignifies the impoft
laid on merchandifes, at importation or exportation,
commonly called the duties of cuftoms ; alfo the taxes
of excife, ftamp duties, &c. See Customs, Excise,
&c.
The principles on which all duties and cuftoms flrould
be laid on foreign merchandifes which are imported
into thefe kingdoms, are fuch as tend to cement a mu¬
tual friendlhip and traffic between one nation and an¬
other and therefore due care ffiould be taken in the
laying of them, that they may anfwer fo good an end,
and be reciprocal in both countries ■, they ftrould be fo
laid as to make the exports of this nation at leaft equal
to our imports from thofe nations wherewith we trade,
fo that a balance in money ftiould not be iffued out of
Great Britain, to pay for the goods and merchandifes
of other countries : to the end that no greater number
of our landholders and manufacturers ftiould be deprived
of their revenues arifing from the produCt of the lands,
and the labour of the people, by foreign importations,
than are maintained by exportations to fuch coun¬
tries. Thefe are the national principles on which all
our treaties of commerce with other countries ought to
be grounded.
Duty, in the military art, is the exercife of thofe
funftions that belong to a foldier: with this diftinCtion,
that mounting guard and the like, where there is no
enemy direCtly to be engaged, is called duty; but their
marching to meet and fight an enemy is called going
on fervice.
DUUMVIRATE, the office or dignity of the duum¬
viri. See the next article.
] D W A
The duumvirate lafted till the year of Rome 3S8,
when it was changed into a decemvirate.
DUUMVIRI, in Roman antiquity, a general ap- _
pellation given to magiftrates, commiffioners, and offi¬
cers, wffiere two were joined together in the iame func¬
tions.
Duumviri Capitahs were the judges in criminal
caufes : from their fentence it was lawful to appeal to
the people, who only had the power of condemning a
citizen to death. Thele judges were taken from the
body of the decuriones ; they had great power and au¬
thority, were members of the public council, and had
two liClors to walk before them.
Duumviri Municipales^ were two magiftrates in fome
cities of the empire, anfwering to what the confuls were
at Rome : they were chofen out of the body of the
decuriones; their office lafted commonly five years,
upon which account they were frequently termed
quinquinales magijlratus. Their jurifdiCtion was of
great extent : they had officers who walked before
them, carrying a fraall fwitch in their hands ; and
fome of them affumed the privilege of having li&ors,
carrying axes, and the fafces or bundles of rods, be¬
fore them.
Duumviri Navales, were the commiffaries of the
fleet, fir ft created at the requeft of M. Decius, tribune
of the people, in the time of the war with the Samnites.
The duty of their office confifted in giving orders for
the fitting of ftiips, and giving their commiflions to
the marine officers, &c.
Duumviri Sacrorumt were magiftrates created by
Tarquinius Superbus, for the performance of the fa-
crifices, and keeping of the fibyls books. They were
chofen from among the patricians, and held their office
for life; they were exempted from ferving in the wars,
and fiom the offices impofed on the other citizens,
and without them the oracles of the fibyls could not
be confulted.
DUYVELAND, or Diveland, one of the iflands
of Zealand, in the United Provinces, lying eaftward of
Schonen, from which it is only feparated by a narrow
channel.
DWAL, in Heraldry, the herb nightfhade, ufed by
fuch as blazon with flowers and herbs, inftead of metals
and colours, for fable or black.
DWARF, in general, an appellation given to things
greatly inferior in fize to that which is ufual in their
feveral kinds: thus there are dwarfs of the human fpe-
cies, dwarf dogs, dwarf trees, &c.
The Romans were paflionately fond of dwarfs, whom
they called nani ox nance, infomuch that they often ufed
artificial methods to prevent the growth of boys de-
figned for dwarfs, by enclofing them in boxes, or by
the ufe of tight bandages. Auguftus’s niece, Julia,
was extremely fond of a dwarf called Sonopas, who
was only two feet and a handbreadth high. We
have many other accounts of human dwarfs, but moll
of them deformed in fome way or other befides the
fmallnefs of their fize. Many relations alfo concerning
dwarfs we muft neceffarily look upon to be fabulous,
as well as thofe concerning giants. The following
hiftory, however, which we have reafon to look upon
as authentic, is too remarkable not to be acceptable
to the generality of our readers.
Jeffery
Duumviri
II
Dwarf.
*
D W A
Dwarf.
Jeffery Hudfon, the famous Englifh dwarf, was born
“"at Oakham in Rutlandshire in 1619 j and about the
age of feven or eight, being then but 18 inches high,
was retained in the fervice of the duke of Buckingham,
who refided at Burleigh on the Hill. Soon after the
marriage of Charles I. the king and queen being en¬
tertained at Burleigh, little Jeffery was ferved up to
table in a cold pye, and prefented by the duchefs to the
queen, who kept him as her dwarf. From 7 years of
age till 30, he never grew taller ; but after 30, he fliot
up to three feet nine inches, and there fixed, Jeffery
became a confiderable part of the entertainment of the
court. Sir William Davenant wrote a poem called
Jeffreidos, on a battle between him and a turkey cockj
and in 1638, was publifhed a very fmall book, called
the New Tear's Gift, prefented at court by the lady
Parvula to the lord Minimus (commonly called Little
Jeffery) her majefty’s fervant, &c. written by Micro-
philus, with a little print of Jeffery prefixed. Before
this period, Jeffery was employed on a negotiation of
great importance : he was fent to France to fetch a
midwife for the queen ; and on his return with this
gentlewoman, and her majefly’s dancing mafter, and
many rich prefents to the queen from her mother Mary
de Medicis, he was taken by the Dunkirkers. Jeffery,
thus made of confequence, grew to think himfelf really
fo. He had borne with little temper the leafing of the
courtiers and domeflics, and had many Squabbles with
the king’s gigaivtic porter. At laft, being provoked by
Mr Crofts, a young gentleman of family, a challenge
enfued: and Mr Crofts coming to the rendezvous armed
only with a fquirt, the little creature was fo enraged,
that a real duel enfued ; and the appointment being on
horfeback with piftols, to put them more on a level,
Jeffery, with the firft fire, fhot his antagonift dead.
This happened in France, whither he had attended his
miftrefs in the troubles. He w'as again taken prifoner
by a Turkifh rover, and fold into Barbary. He pro¬
bably did not remain long in flavery : for at the be¬
ginning of the civil war, he was made a captain in the
royal army ; and in 1644 attended the queen to France,
where he remained till the Reftoratim. At laft, upon
fufpicion of his being privy to the Popifh plot, he was
taken up in 1682, and confined in the Gatehoufe,
Weftminfter, where he ended his life, in the 63d year
of his age.
In the Memoirs of the Roval Academy of Sci¬
ences, a relation is given by the count de Treffau,
of a dwarf called Bebe, kept by the late Staniflaus
king of Poland, and who died in 1764 at the age of
23, when he meafured only 33 inches. At the time
of his birth, he meafured only between eight and nine
inches. Diminutive as were his dimenfions, his rea-
fonmg faculties were not lefs fcanty ; appearing indeed
not to have been fuperior to thofe of a well-taught
pointer : but that the fize and ftrength of the intel-
leiftual powers are not affe&ed by the diminutivenefs
or tenuity of the corporeal organs, is evident from a
ftill more ftriking inftance of littlenefs, given us by the
fame nobleman, in the perfon of Monfieur Borulawfki,
a Polifh gentleman, whom he faw at Luneville, who
has fince been at Paris, and wftio at the age of 22
meafured only 28 inches. This miniature of a man,
confidering him only as to his bodily dimenfions, appears
a giant with regard to his mental powers and attain-
390 ]
ments.
D W A
He is defcribed by the com as poflfefling all
the graces of wit, united W’ith a found judgment and
an excellent memory ; fo that we may with juftice fay
of M. Borulawlki, in the wmrds of Seneca, and nearly
in the order in which he has ufed them, “ Pq/fe inge-
nium fortijjimum ac beatijjimum fub quohbet corpufculo
latere:' Epift. 66. J
Count Borulawfki was the fon of a Polifh noble¬
man attached to the fortunes of King Staniflaus, who
loft his property in confequence of that attachment,
and who had fix children, three dwarfs, and three well
grown. What is lingular enough, they were born al¬
ternately, a big one and a little one, though both pa¬
rents were of the common fize. The little count’s
youngeft filler was much lefs than him, but died at
the age of 23. The count continued to grow7 till he
was about 30, and has at prefent attained his 51ft
year, and the height of three feet two inches. He
never experienced any ficknefs, but lived in a polite
and affluent manner under the patronage of a lady, a
friend of the family, till love at the age of 41 intruded
into his little peaceful bofom, and involved him in ma¬
trimony, care, and perplexity. The lady he chofe
was of his own country, but of French extraflion, and
the middle fize. They have three children, all girls,
and none of them likely to be dwarfs. To provide
for a family now7 became an obje£l big with difficulty,
requiring all the exertion of his powers (which could
promife but little) and his talents, of which mufic
alone afforded any view of profit. He plays extremely
well upon the guitar j and by having concerts in fe-
veral of the principal cities in Germany, he raifed
temporary fupplies. At Vienna he was perfuaded to
turn his thoughts to England, w’bere it was believed
the public curiofity might in a little time benefit him
fufficiently to enable him to live independent in fo
cheap a country as Poland. He was furnifhed by very
refpe&able friends with recommendations to feveral of
the moft diftinguifhed charadlers in this kingdom, as
the duchefs of Devonfhire, Rutland, &c. &c. whofc
kind patronage he is not backward to acknowledge.
He w7as advifed to let himfelf be feen as a curiofity,
and the price of admiffion w7as fixed at a guinea.
Fhe number of his vifitors, of courfe, was not very
great. After a pretty long flay in London he went
to Bath and Briftol j vifited Dublin and feme other
parts of Ireland j whence he returned by way of Li¬
verpool, Manchefter, and Birmingham, to London.
He alfo vifited Edinburgh and fome other towns of
Scotland. In every place he acquired a number of
friends. In reality, the eafe and politenefs of his man¬
ners and addrefs pleafe no lefs, than the diminutive, yet
elegant, proportions of his figure aftonifh thofe who
vifit him. His perfon is pleafing and graceful, and his
look manly and noble. He fpeaks French fluently,
and Engliih tolerably. He is remarkably lively and
cheerful, though fitted for the moft ferious and ration¬
al converfation. Such is this wonderful little man—
an objeft of curiofity really worthy the attention of
the philofopher, the man of tafte, and the anatomift.
His life has been publiffled, written by himfelf.
DWINA, the name of two large rivers j one of
which rifes in Lithuania, and, dividing Livonia from
Courland, falls into the Baltic fea a little 1 elow Riga :
the other gives name to the province of Dwina in Ruftla.
It
Dwarf,
Rwina.
Dyck
ii
Dyer.
D Y E [ 39
It runs from fouth to north, and difcharges itfelf into
the White fea a little below Archangel.
DYCK. See Vandyck.
DYE, in ArchiteBure, any fquare body, as the trunk
or notched part of a pedeftal: or it is the middle of
the pedeftal, or that part included between the bafe
and the corniche *, fo called becaufe it is often made in
the form of a cube or dye. See Architecture, N° 6i .
DYER, a perfon who profeffes the art of dyeing all
manner of colours. See Dyeing.
Dyer, Sir James, an eminent Englifh lawyer, chief
judge of the court of common pleas in the reign of
Queen Elizabeth. He died in 1581 ; and about 20
years after was publifhed his large colleftion of Re¬
ports, which have been highly efteemed for their fuc-
cinftnefs and folidity. He alfo left other writings be¬
hind him relative to his profeflion.
Dyer, John, the fon of Robert Dyer, Efq. a Welfti
folicitor of great capacity, was born in 1700. He
paffed through Weftminfter fchool under the care of
Dr Freind, and was then called home to be inftrufted
in his father’s profeflion. His genius, however, led
him a different way ; for befides his early tafte for
poetry, having a paflion no lefs ftrong for the arts of
defign, he determined to make painting his profeflion.
With this view, having ftudied a while under his mafter,
he became, as he tells his friend, an itinerant painter,
and wandered about South Wales, and the parts adja¬
cent *, and about 1727 printed Grongar Hill. Being
probably unfatisfied with his own proficiency, he made
the tour of Italy ; where, befides the ufual ftudy of
the remains of antiquity, and the tvorks of the great
matters, he frequently fpent rvhole days in the country
about Rome and Florence, fketching thofe pifturefque
profpefls with facility and fpirit. Images from hence
naturally transferred themfelves into his poetical com-
pofitions : the principal beauties of The Ruins of Rome
are perhaps of this kind ; and the various landfcapes in
The Fleece have been particularly admired. On his re¬
turn to England, he publifhed The Ruins of Rome,
1740 •, but foon found that he could not relifh a town
life, nor fubmit to the afliduity required in his pro¬
feflion. As his turn of mind was rather ferious, and
his conduft and behaviour always irreproachable, he
i ] DYE
was advifed by his friends to enter into holy orders $ Dyer,
and it is prefumed, though his education had not been
regular, that he found no difficulty in obtaining them.
He was ordained by the bifhop of Lincoln, and had a
law degree conferred on him.
About the fame time he married a lady of Colefttill
named Enfor $ “ whofe grandmother (fays he) was a
Shakefpeare, defeended from a brother of every body’s
Shakefpeare.” His ecclefiaftical provifion was a long
time but flender. His firft patron, Mr Harper, gave
him, in 1741, Calthorp in Leicefterfhire, of Sol. a-
year, on which he lived ten years j and in April 1751
exchanged it for Belchford in Lincolnfhire, of 75I.
which was given him by Lord-chancellor Hardwicke,
on the recommendation of a friend to virtue and the
mufes. His condition now began to mend. In 1752*
Sir John Heathcote gave him Coningfby, of 140I. a-
year; and in 1756, when he was LL. B. without any
felicitation of his own, obtained for him from the
chancellor Kirby-on-Bane, of nol. In 1757* he
publiffied The Fleece, his greateft poetical work ; of
which Dr Johnfon relates this ludicrous ftory. Dod-
fley the bookfeller was one day mentioning it to a cri¬
tical vifitor, with more expeftation of fuccefs than the
other could eafily admit. In the converfation the
author’s age was alked : and being reprefented as ad¬
vanced in life, “He will (faid the critic) be buried
in woollen.” He did not indeed long outlive that
publication, nor long enjoy the increafe of his prefer¬
ments ; for a confumptive diforder, with which he had
long ftruggled, carried him off at length in 175S.
Mr Dyer’s charafter as a writer has been fixed by
three poems, Grongar Hill, The Ruins of Rome, and
The Fleece j wherein a poetical imagination perfectly
original, a natural fimplicity connefled with and often
produ£tive of the true fublime, and the warmeft fenti-
ments of benevolence and virtue, have been univerfally
obferved and admired. Thefe pieces were put out fe-
parately in his lifetime : but after his death they were
collefled and publiffied in one volume 8vo, 1761 j with
a ffiort account of himfelf prefixed.
Dyer's Weed. See Reseda, Botany and Dyeing
Index.
DYEING.
Definition. 1. T'\YEING is the art of communicating a permanent
-L' colour to any fubftance ; but it is generally em¬
ployed in a more limited fenfe, and is applied to the
art of giving colours to wool, filk, cotton or flax, or
to thread or cloth fabricated of thefe fubftances. To
this more limited fenfe we propofe to confine it in the
following treatife ; and for the dyeing or ftaining of
other fubftances, as paper, wood, bone, leather, marble,
the reader is referred to thefe articles.
■Origin of 2. Among the arts of life there are fome which are
arts: effential to man even in the earlieft period of his hi-
ftory ; while others derive their origin from chance,
and ow’e their improvement and perfedlion to the pro-
grefs of refinement and luxury. Thofe arts which
are conne&ed with the means of providing food or
Ihelter are neceffary even in the rudeft ftate of man,
and are pra£tifed w'ith more or lefs dexterity and fuc¬
cefs according to the abundance or fcantinefs of the
fupply wdth which he is furniffied, and the varieties of
climate which he inhabits. But thofe arts which have
been diftinguiffied by the name of Jine arts can only
flouriffi and arrive at a high degree of perfedlion in
the more luxurious ages of refined fociety. To this
account of the origin and progrefs of the arts among
mankind the art of dyeing forms a remarkable excep¬
tion. Totally unconnefted with the means of provid¬
ing food to fatisfy the urgent calls of hunger, of pre¬
paring raiment to fecure the body from cold, or of pro¬
curing ffielter from the ftorm, this art might at firft
fight be confidered as one of thofe which exclufively
belong
392 DYE
, ,0rigi«- belong to an age of luxury. But tbe hiftory of man-
^ kind affigns to Its origin a very different period. The
art of dyeing feems to be almoff co-eval with man.
In the rudett ftate of his exiftence, his fimple and
fcanty clothing is frequently coloured ; and even the
naked favage, while he is yet a houfelefs wanderer in
the woods, has difcovered the means of ftaining his
body w ith different colours. And yet the art of dye¬
ing in no refpefi: contributes to relieve the real and
primary wants of man. It renders not his raiment
warmer, and it ferves not to make his lodging more
comfort-able.
Of dyeing. g. Whence then is the origin of this art ? It de¬
pends not like others on the neceffities of man, and it
exifts long before he is acquainted with refinement and
luxury. It muff therefore be traced to a different
fource.
We fee that the defire of diftin&ion is one of the moft
a&ive principles in the human mind. This principle
operates equally in the bread of the favage in the midft
of his naked companions, and in that of the fage and the
foldier in polifiied fociety. But man rarely refts fatis-
fied with the folid, but frequently lefs obvious pre-emi¬
nence, which fuperior ftrength, genius, or learning con¬
fers. The proofs of this fuperiority, can be but feldom
exhibited ; they are often not generally underftood or
acknowledged, and therefore cannot always be fairly
eftimated. He who poffeffes any of thofe talents which
give him a fuperiority to others, naturally willies to be
dilfinguilhed by certain marks by which he may more
uniformly and more dire<Sfly excite admiration and
command refpett. He feeks, therefore, for fome ad¬
ventitious circumftances which may be regarded as a
kind of fymbolical reprefentation of powrer and great-
nefs ; and as they are conftantly prefent to the fenfes,
they make a deeper impreflion, and keep alive thofe feel¬
ings of admiration which are fo gratifying to the vain
and ambitious. Drefs and its ornaments have been
ufually employed as external marks of dillindlion.
Hence it is, that the chief or the wTarrior among rude
nations is clothed with a finer and more beautiful Ikin;
his head is decorated with flowers or feathers j or the
leaves of the oak, or the laurel, fimply adorn his brow.
And in the progrefs of civilization and refinement, the
diadem of gold, and the robe of purple or of fcarlet,
fupplant thefe fimpler decorations as charafteriftics of
dignity and power. To increafe ftill more the beauty
and variety of thofe fubftances which are employed as
clothing or as the ornaments of drefs, the aid of co¬
lours has been called in; and accordingly we find that
coloured clothing has been held in high eftimation in
all ages. This principle, therefore, the defire of di-
ftin&ion, feems to be the natural origin of the art of dye¬
ing. Nature, however, furnilhes the model, and may be
regarded as the antetype of the art, in the gay plumage
with w'hich Ihe has clothed the feathered tribes, and in
the fplendid colours and infinite variety of lhades which
are exhibited in her vegetable productions.
Hiltory 4. But without indulging farther in thefe fpecula-
tions, which are to be confidered as fubjeds of curious
inveftigation, rather than as topics of pradical utility,
let us now take a fhort view of the hirtory and progrefs
of this art.
and pro- We have endeavoured to lhew that the beauty of
grefs; brilliant colours is one of the means of attracting at-
2
I N G.
tention, and of acquiring difiinflion, which mankind in Hiftory.
every period of fociety have employed. Even before “*^~v **-
the ufe of clothing has been introduced, the rude inha¬
bitants of favage nations applied them firft to their
ikins. This praCtice exified among the Britons in the
time of Crefar ; and the women of Gaul about the
fame period Itained themfelves of a brown olive colour.
At this day, it is ftill the praCtice of many of the la¬
vage tribes of America, as well as of the natives of the
South fea iftands. But when mankind had made fome
progrefs in arts and civilization, and had begun
to wear clothing, the colours which they admired
were afterwards communicated to their garments.
The art of dyeing, therefore, though in a rude and im-
perfeCt ftate, is indifputably of great antiquity ; and in¬
deed, confidering its nature and origin, this might have
been expeCted.
5. India, the nuifery of the arts and fciences, which in India ;
were afterwards improved and brought to perfeClion
among other nations, feems to have given birth to the
art of dyeing ; and it would appear that the know¬
ledge of dyeing cotton had advanced as far in the time
of Alexander the Great as at the prefent time, fo
ftationary have the arts become in that country. The
beautiful colours of the Indian linens would naturally
lead to the fuppofition that the art had reached a very
high degree of perfeClion ; but it is known that the In¬
dian proceffes are fo tedious, complicated and imperfeCl,
that they wrould be totally impraClicable in any other
country.
6. It was not till the time of Alexander the Great among the
that the art of dyeing cotton and linen, which had
gradually fpread from the eaft to the weft, was known
in Europe. The Greeks,however, as appears from many
paffages in the Iliad and Odyffey, were acquainted with
the art of dyeing purple in the time of Homer. And
it is fuppofed that they derived their knowledge of it
from the Phenicians, a people who were very early ce¬
lebrated for the art of dyeing. But their art feems to
have been confined to wool ; filk, indeed, was at that
time unknown, and linen was ufually wrorn white.
7. Dyeing and coloured fluffs are frequently men-the Jews,
tloned in the facred writings. It would appear that
the art had made confiderable progrefs in the time of
the patriarchs, from what is mentioned in the book of
Genefis. The dyed fluffs which are defcribed in the
book of Exodus were purchafed by the Jews from the
Phenicians.
8. The Egyptians according to Pliny, praClifed atheEgyp-
kind of topical dyeing or calico-printing, which from tians.
his general defcription feems to have been fimilar to
that which was found many ages after to exift in differ¬
ent parts of India, and was from thence introduced in¬
to the different countries of Europe. He fays, the
Egyptians began by painting on white cloths, which
were no doubt of linen or cotton, with certain drugs
which were themfelves colourlefs, but poffeffed the
property of abforbing colouring fubftances. Thefe
cloths were afterwards immerfed in a heated dyeing
liquor which was of one uniform colour, and although
they were formerly colourlefs, yet when they were
taken out, they were found to be dyed of different
colours, according to the different qualities of the fub¬
ftances which had been applied to their different parts;
and thefe colours could not afterwards be difcharged
by
DYE
, fliftory- , by wafhing *. This art was probably borrowed from
the natives of India.
25. 9. The Tyrian purple, fo celebrated among the an-
The Tyrian p*erits5 was probably from the name difcovered at
purple. Tyre, and perhaps contributed not a little to the opu¬
lence of that city. The liquor which was employed
in dyeing the purple was extra&ed from two kinds of
fhell-fifh, one of which, the larger, was called the pur¬
ple, and the other was a fpecies of whelk. Each of
thefe fpecies was fubdivided into different varieties, and
were otherwife diftinguilhed, according to the places
where they were found, and as they yielded more or
lefs of a beautiful colour. It is in a veifel in the throat
of the fifh that the colouring liquor is found. Each
Preparation filh only afforded a lingle drop. When a certain
of the li- quantity of the liquor had been obtained, it was mix-
^uor‘ ed with a proportion of common fait, macerated to¬
gether for three days, and five times the quantity of
water was added. The mixture being kept in a mo¬
derate heat, the animal parts which happened to be
mixed with It, feparated and rofe to the furface. At
the end of ten days, when thefe operations were finilh-
ed, a piece of white wool was immerfed, by which
means they afcertained whether the liquor had acquir¬
ed the proper lhade.
©f the fluff. Various proceffes were followed to prepare the fluff
to receive the dye. By fome it was immerfed in lime
water, and by others it was prepared with a kind of
fucus, which afled as a mordant to give it a more
fixed colour. Alkanet was ufed by fome for the fame
purpofe.
The liquor of the whelk did not alone yield a du¬
rable colour. The liquor from the other Ihell-fifli
ferved to increafe its brightnefs j and thus two operations
were in ufe to communicate this colour. A firft dye
was given by the liquor of the purple, and a fecond by
that of the whelk 5 from which it was called by Pliny
purpura dibapha, or purple twice dipped.
10. Some kinds of purple have been found to poffefs
great durability. Plutarch, in his life of Alexander
the Great, mentions that the Greeks difcovered in the
treafury of the king of Perfia a great quantity of pur¬
ple which was 190 years old, and ffill retained all its
beauty.
High price. H- The fmall quantity of liquor which could be ob¬
tained from each fliell-filh, and the tedious procefs in
its preparation and application to the fluffs, raifed the
price of purple fo high, that in the time of Auguftus
a pound of wool of the Tyrian purple dye, could not
be purchafed for one thoufand denarii, equal to about
36I. fterling.
12. The purple, which has been almott everywhere
a mark of diftin&ion attached to high birth and digni-
mans. was Worn by thofe who held the firft offices in
Rome. The emperors at laft referved to themfelves
the right of wearing it, and prohibited all others from
ufing it on pain of death.
13. The fubftances which have been difcovered and
ufed in dyeing by the moderns, and the fuperiority
which they have obtained in many colours, have fu-
perfeded the ufe of the purple of the ancients. The
fliell-filh from which the liquor is extra&ed, is fuppof-
'‘Still uted in ed to be now as abundant as ever. Similar Ihell-fifh
dyeing. have been found near Nicoya, a fmall Spanifti town in
South America, and they are at prefent ufed for dye-
Vol. VII, Part I.
Perma¬
nency.
Worn by
the Ro-
I N G.
ing cotton on the coafts of Guaiaquil and Guati-
mala.
393
Hiftory.
14. In the year 1683, Mr Cole of Briftol difeover-The fliell
ed, on the coaft of England, the ftiell-fifh whichfoun!^
yields the purple liquor. The liquor was contained in ^'^{5 0f
a white vein, lying tranfverfely in a little furrow or England
cleft, next to the head of the fiftr. He found by ex*
periment, that letters or marks, made with this white
liquor, appeared when firft expofed to the air of a
green colour. When expofed to the fun, it became
of a deeper green, afterwards of a purplifh red, and,
by the continued aftion of the fun’s rays, of a deep
purple red. Mr Cole fent fome of the firft linen marked
with this liquor to Dr Plot, one of the fecretaries of
the Royal Society, in the year 1684. It was foon
after fhown to King Charles II. who greatly admired
it, and defired that fome of the fhell-fifti might be col-
le&ed and brought to town, that he might have an op¬
portunity of feeing the liquor applied, and the fuccef-
five changes of colour through which it paffed.
A Ipecies of this ftiell-fifh was alfo found by Plumier at
the Antilles j and Reaumur made a number of experi¬
ments on whelks, which were colle&ed on the coaft of
Poitou. Duhamel found the fame ftrell-fifti in great and of
abundance on the coaft of Provence. The experi-France•
ments of thefe philofophers on this liquor afforded the
fame refult as thofe of Mr Cole. They obferved that,
although at firft white, it becomes by the aftion of
light, of a yellowifh green, then deepens to a kind of
blue, which is afterwards changed to a red. In lefs
than five minutes, the latter is converted into a fine
deep purple, having all the chara&ers of the purple of
the ancients.
Eudocia Macrembolitiffa, daughter of the emperor
Conftantine VIII. who lived in the 1 ith century, while
the knowledge and praftice of dyeing that colour for
the ufe and at the expence of the Greek emperors ftill
fubfifted, has given a minute account of the mode of
catching the ftiell-fifh which produced the purple. Of
this operation Ihe herfelf, it would appear, was an eye-
witnefs. As it was applied at that time, it did not ac¬
quire its full luftre and perfe&ion of colour, till it had
been expofed to the aftion of the fun’s rays.
15. A liquor which yields the fame colour, and has Purple U.
otherwife fimilar properties, is found in different parts Huor f?uncl
of the world. Abundance of purple fnails, it is faid,in fnails'
are found in the iflands oppofite to Batavia. They
are boiled and eaten by the Chinefe, who polilh
the (hells, and pick out of the middle of the fnail a
purple-coloured fubftance, which they ufe in colouring
and making red ink. Dr Peyfonnel deferibes what he
calls the naked fnail, which is found in the feas of the
Antilles, and affords a liquor of a beautiful purple
colour. This liquor is thrown out by the animal when
it is difturbed, in the fame way as the cuttle-fifti dif-
charges the ink. The liquor of the fnail is naturally
of a purple colour, without the application of light *. * Pin,
Two (hell-fifties, which yield a fimilar colouring li- Tran/,
quor, are deferibed by Dr Brown in his hiftory of Ja-vo1,1*
maica. The one, he (ays, is frequent in the Ame¬
rican feas, and emits on being touched a conliderable
quantity of vifeid purple liquor, which thickens and
colours water. The other is called the purple ocean
Jhell, and yields a beautiful purple liquor, which feems
to referable the former. But inveftigations concern-
3 ^ i«g
394
Hiftory.
The arts
loft.
Arc revi¬
ved in
Italy*
Dj'eing re
vived in
Italy.
DYE
ing tlie nature and application of the purple dye from
fhell-fifli are now to be confidered merely as fubje&s of
curiofity 5 becaufe the colours which are obtained by
the procefles of the moderns are more beautiful, and
far lefs expenfive.
16. In the 5th century, during the irruption of the
northern barbarians, the arts, which had been encou¬
raged and protedled by the Romans, were loft amidft
the devaftations of the weftern empire. A few, in¬
deed, were preferved in Italy, but they were in a ftate
of decay and otherwife no traces remained of know¬
ledge, induftry, or humanity. A manufcript of the
8th century is quoted by Muratori, which contains
a defcription of fome dyes, principally for fkins,
as well as fome proceffes connefted with other arts ;
but from the barbarous Latin, in which it is writ¬
ten, no diftimfl notion can be formed of the nature
of thefe procefles. The arts met with a better fate in
the Eaft, where they were protefted and encouraged.
So late as the 12th century, articles of luxury were
procured by fome of the great from eaftern countries.
17. During the time of the crufades, Venice and
other cities of Italy became rich and powerful, firft by
fupplying with provifions the Europeans who engaged in
thefe frantic and deftruflive expeditions, and afterwards
by eftabliftiing an intercourfe with the Grecian empire.
By thefe means the arts, which had been preferved a-
mong the Greeks, were eftabliftred in Italy. In the
year 1338, the city of Florence contained 200 manu-
fafturers, who are faid to have produced from 70,000
to 80,000 pieces of cloth. In the year 1300, archil
was accidentally difcovered by a Florentine merchant.
Obferving that urine produced a fine colour on certain
fpecies of mofs, he made experiments, and from thefe
learned the mode of preparing this fubftance. The
difcovery was long kept fecret. His pofterity, a branch
of which, it is faid, ftill exifts, have retained the ap¬
pellation of Ruceflai, from the Spanifti word, which
fignifies that kind of mofs.
18. The arts, after being revived in Italy, continued
for a long time to be cultivated and improved with in-
creafing fuccefs. Along with thefe, the art of dyeing
made confiderable progrefs. The firft colle&ion of
the procelfes employed in this art appeared at Venice
in the year 1429. It was entitled Manegola del'' arte
de i tentori. To render this defcription more ufeful
and extenfive, a perfon of the name of Giovanni Ven¬
tura Rofetti, travelled through different parts of Italy
and the neighbouring countries, where the arts had
begun to flouriih, that he might acquire a knowledge
of the proceffes which were employed by different
dyers. Thefe were colle&ed and publiftred in 1548,
under the title of P/ictho. This treatife has been by
fome confidered as the leading ftep towards the per-
fe&ion which the art of dyeing has attained 5 for it is
the firft in which the different procefles are collefled.
No mention is made, either of cochineal or of indi¬
go, fo that it wTould appear, thefe dyes wTere either
not known, or not employed in Italy previous to the
time in which it wTas written.
19. Italy, but efpecially Venice, for a long time
almoft exclufively poffeffed the art of dyeing, and this
feems to have contributed greatly to the profperity of
the manufa&ures and commerce which the Italian ftates
long enjoyed. By degrees it was introduced into
1 N G.
France, Holland, and Britain. The procefs for dye- Hiftory.
ing the true fcarlet had been communicated to a perfon A J
of the name of Gobelin, who eftablilhed a manufac- U"
tory near Paris, which ftill bears his name. At the France,
time, this was confidered fo raftr an enterprife, that it &c.
received the name of Gobelin's folly; but fuch w'as
his fuccefs, and fuch the ignorance of the times, that
it wras fuppofed he derived his knowledge of the pro*
ceffes he employed, from the devil !
20. The difcovery of America brought the know¬
ledge of the cochineal infe£! into Europe. The Spa¬
niards obferving that the Mexicans employed it in
painting their houfes, and in dyeing cotton, tranfmit-
ted an account of the beauty of that colour to their
government, rvhofe attention was afterwards direfted to
encourage and promote the increafe of the valuable in-
fe£t from which it is obtained. The difcovery of cochi¬
neal w'as foon followed by that of the procefs for dye¬
ing fcarlet, by means of a folution of tin. For this
difcovery we are indebted to a German chemift of the
name of Kufter, or Kufler, who carried the fecret to
London in the year 1643. Gluck or Kloeck, a Fle-
mifh painter, having obtained poffeflion of this fecret,
communicated it to Gobelin, and afterwards the know¬
ledge of it fpread throughout all Europe. The ufe ofxncjig0
indigo, which was a great acquifition to the art ofufed.
dyeing, was more flowly eftabliftied than that of co¬
chineal. In the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the ufe of
this fubftance, as well as of logwood, was ftriftly
prohibited in England, and if found in any manufac¬
tory, was ordered to be burned. This, as muft ap¬
pear at the prefent time, very ftrange prohibition, was
not withdrawn till the reign of Charles II. It met
with the fame fate in Saxony. In the edift in which
the ufe of it is forbidden, it is faid to be a corrofive
colour, and called food for the devil!!
21. In France alfo, fome prejudice was entertained
againft it, and although it was not entirely prohibited,
the ufe of it was limited to a certain proportion. The
realons on which this prejudice was founded, on a nar¬
row' view of the principles of political economy, might
even in the prefent day be admitted as fpecious, if
not fatisfa&ory. It wms held out by thofe who dyed
blue, and were accuftomed to ufe paftil and woad,
that the introduftion of indigo would fuperfede the
ufe of thefe fubftances *, and it w'as reprefented that
their confumption wmuld be deftroyed, and the en¬
couragement for the produftions of the country di¬
mini (lied.
22. Previous to the adminiftration of the celebra-Dyeing en-
ted Colbert, the induftry and arts of France long re- couraged
mained in a ftate of languor and decay. By the wife m Dance,
meafures which were adopted by this minifter, fhe
foon rofe to diftin&ion among the nations of Europe,
and in a Ihoit time faw her commerce and manu-
fa£lures greatly extended. He invited the moft fkil-
ful artifts, encouraged and rewarded their talents, and
thus eftablifhed many arts and manufattures. Among
thefe, the art of dyeing received its (hare of attention.
In the year 1672, he publiftied a table of inftruftions
for dyeing, which, although it contains many ufelefs
and improper reftridlions, is on many accounts worthy
of attention, and particularly the reafons w hich he has
given for confidering it as an objeft of confequence.
As a proof of this, we may refer to the following ex-
tra£l
DYE
Hiftory.
Reftric-
tions.
traift from the inftru^lions: “ If, it is faid, the manu-
fattories of lilk, wool, and thread, are to be reckoned
among thofe which moft contribute to the fuppprt of
commerce j dyeing, which gives them that ftriking va¬
riety of colour, by which they refemble what is moft
beautiful in nature, may be confidered as the foul of
them, without which a body could fcarcely exift.
“ Wool and filk, the natural colour of which ra¬
ther indicates the rudenefs of former ages, than the
genius and improvement of the prefent, would be in
no great requeft, if the art of dyeing did not furnilh
attradions which recommend them, even to the moft
barbarous nations. All vifible objeds are diftinguiftied
and recommended by colours j but for the purpofes of
commerce, it is not only neceflary that they (hould be
beautiful, but that they (hould be good, and that their
duration {hould equal that of the materials which they
adorn.”
23. But notwithftanding thefe juft and liberal view's,
and many ufeful regulations, which were publilhed for
inftrudion in the art of dyeing, the reftridions impo-
fed upon it, as we have already obferved, w'ere, from
miftaken views improper and injurious, becaufe in this,
as in every other art, thefe reftraints infallibly operate
as checks on induftry and improvement. The effeds
of thefe prohibitions, however, were moderated by
the facility with which they might be eluded, and by
the rewards beftowed on thofe w hofe experiments pro¬
moted the progrefs of the art, and whofe difcoveries
being afterwards publiftied, ferved to modify the exiftr
ing regulations. The effeds of thefe prohibitions,
too, were in a great meafure obviated, by the ju¬
dicious appointment of men of fcience, to whom the
fuperintendence of arts and manufadures was en-
trufted. By their prudent exertions, and by the ftill
more efficacious means of the diffufion of knowledge,
this art, as well as others, has been encouraged and
improved.
24. The French government continued to dired its at¬
tention to promote the plan which was thus begun by
Colbert, and many eminent chemifts have been em¬
ployed to fuperintend and improve the proceffes of the
art of dyeing. Dufay, Hellot, Macquer, and Berthol-
let, have been fucceflively charged with the care of
this department; and to their labours and exertions
we are indebted for many valuable acquifttions which
have been made in the art of dyeing, during the 18th
century. Dufay was the firft who entertained juft views
of the nature of colouring matters, and the powers by
which they adhere. In the examination of certain pro¬
ceffes he difcovered great fagacity, and eftabliftied the
fureft means w'hich the ftate of knowledge at the
time afforded, to afcertain the durability of a colour.
Under his diredion a new table of inftrudions, which
fuperfeded that of Colbert, w’as publiftied in 1737.
Hellot, who fucceeded him, publiftied in 1740 a me¬
thodical defcription of the proceffes for dyeing wool;
and this treatife may be confidered, even at the pre¬
fent day, as one of the beft fyftems on the fubjed.
Macquer in 1763 publiftied a treatife on dyeing filk,
in which he has given an accurate defcription of the
proceffes, has diicovered the combinations of the co¬
louring principle of Prufiian blue, and has endeavour¬
ed to make an application of it to the art of dyeing.
Macquer died in 1784, and was fucceeded in that de-
I N G.
395
partment by the celebrated Berthollet, to whom was lUftory.
intruded the fuperintendence of the arts conneded '-"“■'v*'-’’’”
with chemiftry, and particularly that of dyeing. To
his being placed in this department, w'e are probably
indebted for the excellent wmrk which he has publifti¬
ed on this fubjed, and for different memoirs which
have appeared in different periodical works. To thefe
we muft acknowledge ourfelves greatly indebted for
much of the information both of the theory and prac¬
tice of this art, which we propofe to lay before our
readers in the following treatife. He has endeavour¬
ed, he obferves, to bring into one point of view the
proceffes of induftry, and the operations of nature ; to
take his fituation between the philofepher and the ar-
tift. To the firft he has fhown, where it is that the
phenomena of the art of dyeing and thofe of nature
meet, and what are the principles which their difco¬
veries have eftabliftied. When thefe comprehenfive
views, we may add, are completed, the art of dyeing
may be confidered as perfeft.
25. The art of dyeing has been long fuccefsfully State of, in
pra<51ifed in Britain, although little has been done to- Britain,
wards the inveftigation of the theory on which it
depends. At an early period of the Royal Society,
it attra&ed the attention of fome of its members 5
but nothing was publiftied on the fubjeft. Many
years afterwards, fome ufeful obfervations on dyeing
wmre publiftied by Dr Lewis, but thefe were limited to
a very few proceffes. The only wrork with which the
Britifti dyers were acquainted, till within thefe few
years, was a tranflation of the treatife of Hellot, men¬
tioned above.
26. But fince the progrefs of chemical fcience has Improved
opened fo wide a field of inveftigation j and fince allchenn.
the effential proceffes in the art of dyeing are to be ry’
confidered as purely chemical, the attention of philofo-
phers has been greatly occupied with its inveftigation
and improvement. By their experiments and oblerva-
tions a great deal of new information has been accu¬
mulated, and much aew light has been thrown upon
the art.
27. The only treatife which has appeared in Sweden Authorson
on this fubjefl, is that of Scheffer, accompanied withdyein8*
notes by the celebrated Bergman. In Germany, experi¬
ments in different proceffes of dyeing have been publiftied
by Beckmann, Poerner, Vogler, and Francheville. The
authors of the different treatifes in France on this fub-
je<51, which have greatly contributed to the improve¬
ment of the art, are D’Ambourney, D’Apligny,
Hauffmann, Chaptal, and Berthollet, whofe works we
have already mentioned. In Britain, two very valu¬
able effays by Delaval and Henry have appeared j and
to thefe we may add, the excellent treatife on the Phi-
lofophy of Permanent Colours, by Dr Bancroft.
In the following treatife, we propofe to give a
pretty full view, both of the theory and pra&ice
of dyeing. This fubjeft naturally divides itfelf in¬
to two parts. In the firft, we (hall treat of dyeing
in general, or of thofe departments of phyfical fcience,
the knowledge and application of which may be con¬
fidered as conftituting the theory of the art. In the
fecond part, we (hall take a view of the different prov
ceffes which are employed in communicating colours
to different (luffs, or, in general terms, the pra&ice
of dyeing.
3D 2
PART I.
396
DYEING,
Parti.
PART I. OF DYEING IN GENERAL.
Of Colours, UNDER this head we propofe to take a general
view of what may be regarded as the theory of dye-
v ing ; and inveftigate thofe principles of phyfical fcience
which are immediately connefted with the art, and
by the application of which the phenomena of the art
can only be accounted for, or fatisfaftorily explained.
With this view we fhall treat the fubjefls which come
under this part in the four following chapters. In the
firfl, we {hall confider the nature of colours and co¬
louring matters •, in the fecond, we (hall treat of the
nature and operation of mordants; the third will in¬
clude an account of the properties of the fubftances
to w’hich colours are communicated •, and, in the fourth,
we (hall add fome general obfervations on the opera¬
tions of dyeing.
Chap. I. Of Colours and Colouring Matters.
28. The phyfical theory of light and vifion proper¬
ly belongs to optics, and the changes produced by the
aflion of light on different fubftances, are detailed
under chemiftry. In this place, therefore, we (hall
only make a few obfervations on the nature of light
and colours, which are more immediately connected
with the fubjeft under confideration. For our know¬
ledge of light and vifion we are indebted to Sir Ifaac
Newton. It wTas firft demonftrated by that fagacious
philofopher, that the light of the fun is compofed of
feven rays which have different powers of refrangibility.
Nature of The colours of thefe feven rays are red, orange, yel-
Ught- low, green, blue, indigo, violet. When thefe rays are
feparated by the prifm, as they run gradually into each
other, according to their different degrees of refrangi¬
bility, they produce every various (hade of colour.
The violet ray is the moft refrafted, the indigo, next,
and fo on to the red, which is the leaft refrafted of all
the rays. The fame rays of light alfo differ in their
degrees of reflexibility. All known colours, and their
different {hades, are produced by mixing together the
different rays. Thus, for inftance, by mixing to¬
gether red and yellow, an orange colour is obtained ;
yellow and blue give a green colour ; and blue and
red, according to their different proportions, produce
a violet, purple, &c. and thus, as Sir Ifaac Newton
has obferved, the variety of colours depends on the
compofition of light •, for if the fun’s light confifted
but of one fort of rays, there would be but one colour.
Nature of 29. Colours in an objeft, the fame philofopher
colours. farther obferves, are nothing but a difpofition to re-
fleft this or that fort of rays more copioufly than the
reft in the rays they are nothing but their difpofitions
to propagate this or that motion into the fenforium ;
and in the fenforium they are fenfations of thofe mo¬
tions under the forms of colours. In their po"cr of
reflefting light, bodies, it is well known, differ greatly
from each other. Some bodies refleft it in fuch quan¬
tities, that the eye cannot bear it. Such, for inftance,
are metallic fubftances highly polilhed. Others again,
as dark-coloured or black fubftances, refleft it very
feebly. It is found in general, that the quantity of
light refle&ed from a body depends greatly on the Of Colours,
fmoothnefs of its furface. On this account bodies &c.
which have the fmootheft furface, or are moft highly
polilhed, are the brighteft: that is, they refleft the
greateft quantity of light. But there is alfo a very
great difference among bodies, in the nature or quality
of the rays of light which they have the power of re-
flefting. When all the rays of light are equally re-
flefted by any body, that body is faid to be white 5
but when a very few rays only are reflected from a
body, that body is faid to be black, becaufe the greater
number of the rays being abforbed by the body, the
few that are reflefted make a very faint impreflion on
the organ of vifion. A body which has the power of
reflefting the red rays only, is faid to be red 5 a body
which reflects the blue rays, is faid to be blue ; the
body reflecting only the yellow rays, is yellow : but
when any two of thefe rays are refleCled in combina¬
tion with each other, a different colour is produced ;
as for inftance, the red and the yellow rays afford an
orange colour; and as w7e have already obferved, the
various {hades of colour exhibited by different bodies,
depend on the different combinations of rays refledfed
from their furface. Thus it appears, that colour in
bodies is to be afcribed to'their difpofition of abforbing
certain rays, and reflecting the reft. In opaque bodies,
it is owing to their difpofition to abforb fome rays, and
to refleCt the reft. In tranfparent bodies, it is owing
to their difpofition to abforb certain rays, and to tranf-
mit the reft.
30. Newton has demonftrated, that tranfparent Caufe of
bodies refleCt the rays of one colour, and tranfmit thofe col°uls
of another, according to the difference of their thick-ve
nefs or denfity. He obferves that tranfparent fub¬
ftances, fuch as glafs, w^ater, air, &c. when made very
thin by being blown into bubbles, or otherwife formed
into plates, exhibit various colours, according to their
various thinnefs j although at a greater thicknefs they
appear very clear and colourlefs. His method of con¬
ducting thefe experiments wras the following. He took
two objed-glaffes, the one a plano-convex for a 14
feet telefcope, and the other a large, double convex,
for one of about 50 feet ; and upon this laying the
other with its plain fide downwards, he preffed them
{lowly together, to make the colours fucceflively
emerge in the middle of the circles, and then {lowly
lifted the upper glafs from the lower, to make them
fucceflively vanifti again, in the fame place. The
colour which, by prefling the glaffes together, emer¬
ged laft in the middle of the other colours, would, upon
its firft appearance, look like a circle of a colour al-
moft uniform from the circumference to the centre *,
and by comprefling the glaffes ftill more, grow conti¬
nually broader, until a new colour emerged in its cen¬
tre, and thereby it became a ring, encompafling that
new colour *, and by comprefling the glaffes ftill more,
the diameter of this ring would increafe, until another
new colour emerged in the centre of the laft, and fo
on, until a third, a fourth, a fifth, and other follow¬
ing new colours fucceflively emerged there, and be¬
came
Part I.
DYE
Of Colours, came rings, encompafling the innermoft colour, the
laft of which was the black fpot. And on the con-
* trary, by lifting up the upper glafs from the lower, the
diameter of the rings would decreafe, and the breadth
of their orbit increafe, until their colours reached fuc-
ceffively to the centre, and then, as they were of con-
fiderable breadth, he could more eafily difcern their
fpecies than before. By proceeding in this manner,
he produced 25 diffefent-coloured, circular rings,
which he divided into feven orders, becaufe the fame
colour was always repeated. They are reckoned from
the central colour, which was always black, in the
following order :
1. Blue, white, yellow, and red.
2. Violet, blue, green, yellow, red.
3. Purple, blue, green, yellow, red.
4. Green, red.
5. Greenifh blue, and red.
6. Greenifh blue, and pale red.
7. Greenifh blue and reddifh white.
But in the three laft orders the colours were very
indiftinft, and terminated in perfect whitenefs.
31. Thefe colours were occaftoned by the thin
films of air which were included between the two
glaffes. For he found, he obferves, by looking
through the two objeft-glaffes, that the interjacent air
exhibited rings of different colours, as well by tranf-
mitting light, as by reflefling it. The film of air
varies in thicknefs from the centre of the glaffes to the
circumference. In the centre where the film is thin-
neft the colour is black ; and the other colours from
the centre to the circumference are produced in their
order by the gradual increafe of the thicknefs of the
film.
32. Thefe experiments were repeated on films of
water and alfo of glafs j and it was found that the
thicknefs of the films in thefe cafes, reflefting any par¬
ticular colour, was diminifhed, and this diminution ap¬
peared to be proportional to the denfity of the refleft-
ing film. As there is no method of meafuring the
diftance between the two glaffes where the black fpot
appears, it is impoffible to afcertain the abfolute thick¬
nefs of the films ; but it certainly does not exceed the
1000th part of an inch. Newton, however, endeavour¬
ed by a mathematical inveftigation to meafure the rela¬
tive thicknefs of air, water, and glafs, at which the feve-
ral orders of colour appear. The following table exhi¬
bits the relative thicknefs of air which produced the co¬
loured circles.
1. Black
blue
white
yellow
red
2. Violet
blue
green
yellow
red
3. Purple
blue
T
2r
5*
7?
84
114
H
164
184
21
23t
6.
green
yellow
red
Green
red
Green-blue
red
Green-blue
red
Green-blue
reddifh-white
25f
27t
31
35
4°t
46
524
58*
$5
7i
77
Newton’s
theory.
33. The conclufion which Newton drew from thefe
experiments was, that the power or difpofition of the
1 N G. 397
particles of bodies to refleft ortranfmit particular rays, Of Colours,
depended on the fize and denfity of thefe particles j. ^c'
and proceeding on this theory he attempted to mea¬
fure the fize, or at leaft the thicknefs, of the particles
of bodies, from the colours which they refle&ed or
tranfmitted.
34. This fubje& was ftill farther inveftigated by Mr Supported
Delaval. In the year 1765, he publifhed, in the Phi-hy Delaval,
lofophicalTranfaftions, an account of his “ Experiments
and Obfervations on the agreement between the fpeci-
fic gravities of the feveral metals, and their colours,
when united to glafs, as well as of their other prepara¬
tions”. In this paper, Mr Delaval treats of the differ¬
ence of denfity, and of the colours produced by that
caufe ; and yet he confiders colours as arifing from a
difference of the fize of the colouring particles. For
fince the particles of a coloured fubftance being fepa-
rated they are removed to a greater diftance from each
other, and thus occupy a greater fpace, that fubftance
muft undergo a diminution of its fpecific gravity, while
at the fame time the fize of its particles is fmaller.
According to Sir Ifaac Newton, the refradlive and re¬
flexive powers of bodies are nearly proportional to
their denfities, and the leaft refrangible rays require the
greateft power to refleX them. From this, Mr Delaval
fuppofed, that denfer fubftances, by their greater re-
fleXive power, ought in fimilar circumftances to refleX
the lefs refrangible rays ; and that fubftances of lefs
denfity (hould refleX rays proportionably more refran¬
gible, and therefore appear of feveral colours in the or¬
der of their denfity. The denfeft bodies, he fuppofes,
are the red 5 the next in denfity are the orange j the
next are the yellow ; and fo on, according to the order
of the refrangibility of the different rays. Mr Delaval
fome time after extended his refearches to animal and
vegetable fubftances, and endeavoured to eftablilh the
theory of Newton by a great number of experiments,
an account of which he publilhed in an effay entitled,
an Experimental Inquiry into the caufe of the Perma¬
nent Colours of Opaque Bodies f. f ManJie*
35. According to the theory of Newton, with X.\\cjjer Mem,
exception of combuftible bodies which follow a differ-11 I31,
ent law ; colour depends folely upon the fize of the in¬
tegrant particles cf bodies, in which the denfity is the
fame ; and upon the fize and denfity of all bodies taken
together. But the evidence for the truth of this theory
can only be derived from experiment. Newton ad¬
duced but a fmall number of experiments in fupport of
it. The experiments of Mr Delaval were more nu¬
merous and more varied ; but they were made long be¬
fore the important faXs in chemical fcience, which have
completely changed the views and opinions of philo-
fophers, with regard to the nature and aXion of the
conftituent principles of bodies, were difeoveredj fo that
it is now univerfally acknowledged that they proceed¬
ed on a falfe hypothefis. It was fuppofed that alka¬
lies enlarge, and that acids diminifti, the fize of the
particles of bodies on which they aX, without inducing
any other change. This opinion, in the prefent
ftate of chemical knowledge, will not readily find
a place.
36. But if this theory ■were true, every change in Is imper-
the fize of the integrant particles of bodies would oc-te,ft‘
cafion a different colour in thefe particles j and in all
thefe changes, if they correfpond with the theory,
‘ * the
398
Of Colour?,
&c.
Inconfiftent
with the
fads.
DYEING.
The fame
colours re-
fleded in
different
orders,
f Phil, of
Perm. Col.
7-
Colours of
metals in¬
dependent
of denfity.
Chemical
charges af-
fed the co¬
lour.
the colour produced muft be precifely that colour
which is the refult of a diminution or increafe of
fize.
37. But there is no fuch coincidence with the faffs.
The magnitude of the integrant particles of bodies can¬
not be afcertained j and there is no method by which
the increafe or diminution of the particles in the chan¬
ges which they undergo can be meafured $ but the ad¬
dition or abltraflion of matter to particles can in many
cafes be diflinffly determined. In the change which
takes place on gold by the procefs of oxidation, that is,
by combining with oxygen, an integrant particle of the
oxide is larger than an integrant particle of gold in the
metallic ftate; for it has united with one particle at leaft
of oxygen. But if the theory were true, there faould
be a difference of colour between the oxide and the
gold, which is not the cafe ; for they are both yellow.
In the amalgam of filver, a compound of filver and
mercury, the colour is white, which is the colour of
both metals *, and yet an integrant particle of the com¬
pound muft be larger than aa integrant particle of ei¬
ther the mercury or the filver,
38. But the fame colour, it may be faid, is refle£Ied in
the different orders of colours, in which the particles
are of very different fizes. This circumftance, as Dr
Bancroft f juftly obferves, proves inconteftably, that al¬
though thicknefs or fize of the particles may be one,
it cannot he the only caufe of the repeated variation of
colour. It follows, therefore, that there muff be fome
other caufe. But befides, the moft common colour re¬
maining after an increafe of the fize of the integrant
particles of bodies is white ; and yet this colour does
not appear in any of the orders except the firft ;
its permanency, therefore, cannot be accounted for in
any way which is at all compatible with this theory.
39. And in the changes of colour which are obferved
to follow the increafe or diminution of the fizes of the
particles of bodies, the order of thefe changes is not
fuch as will correfpond with the theory. It is obvious
that the colours of metallic fubftances do not depend
on their denfity. The colour of platina, the denfeft
body known, is not red, as it fliould be, according to the
theory, but white j in this refpecl refembling tin, one
of the metals which has the leaft derfity, and little more
than one third that of the former.
40. The fize of the particles of the green oxide of
iron muft be' increafed when they enter into combina¬
tion with the pruflic acid. But the colour of the com¬
pound is white j and, according to the theory, it ftiould
be accompanied with a diminution of the fize of the
particles, which is not the cafe. The colour of indigo
is naturally green. The addition of oxygen, which
muft increafe the fize of the particles, converts it to a
blue colour. This, then, is another cafe incompatible
with the Newtonian theory. And from thefe fa&s it
muft appear, that this theory is deficient in accounting
for the refleftion or tranfmiflion of particular rays, and
the abforption of the reft. It is not fufficient for the
explanation of the cauies of colour. The fmallnefs and
the denfity of particles are not the only circumftances
which ought to be taken into the account, in explain¬
ing the caule of colour in bodies. It appears, from
Newton’s own experiments, that we muft have recourfe
to the chemical properties of bodies, which have a con-
fiderable influence on their colour. It cannot be fup-
Part L
pofed, that a force which a&s powerfully in refra&ing Of Colours,
the rays, will not alfo have great influence in their re- Sic-
fieflion. w
41. Numerous faffs tend to prove that bodies have Affinity of
a particular affinity for the rays of light j and indeed bodies for
it is entirely upon thefe affinities that the phenomena cer^a*^e
of light depend. Coloured bodies have a certain affi-^hfeof
nity for feme of the rays of light. Thofe rays for colour
which any body has a ftrong affinity, are abforbed by
it, and retained ; while the other rays, for which it has
no affinity, are either refleffed or tranfmitted, accord¬
ing to the nature of the body, as it may be opaque or
tranfparent, and according to the direffion of the inci¬
dent ray. A red body, for inftance, reflefls only the
red rays, becaufe it has an affinity for all the other
rays, excepting the red. It therefore abforbs them, if
it be an opaque body, or tranfmits them if it be tranf¬
parent. A green body abfoibs all the rays excepting
the green ; a black body has a ftrong affinity for all
the rays, and therefore they are all ablorbed } while a
white body, which has little affinity for any of the
rays, if it be opaque, reflects, or if tranfparent, tranf¬
mits them all.
42. The differences which exift between the parti-Changes of
cles of bodies, may be conceived to be differences in col?ur
fize, denfity, and figure ; and changes in thefe cir-
cumftances may account for all the varieties of affinity. jn fize, &c.l
If then affinity depends upon thefe .circumftances, and of the par.
if the colour of bodies is to be aferibed to the affinity hcles,
between their particles and the different rays of light,
the caufe of the colour of bodies, it feems obvious, is
capable of being accounted for from the fize, denfity,
and figure of their particles. It cannot be accounted
for, according to the theories of Newton and Delaval,
folely on the variations in fize and denfity.
43. If then the colour of bodies depends upon their
affinity for light, and every body have fome colour
in confequence of the abforption of particular rays
which it retains, and the refle&ion or tranfmiffion of all
the reft, it is obvious, that it muft continue of its firft
colour without fuffering any change, till it is either fa-
turated with the particular rays which it abforbs, or
till the particles of the body have undergone fome ard to ne«
change by decompofition or combination with new fub- combma-
ftances. As many fubftances have been long expofed Uo*s‘
to the a£lion of light without their colours being
changed, there is no certain evidence that the changes
in the colours of bodies are to be aferibed to the firft
caufe. The light which is abforbed either efcapes un¬
changed or under fome unknown form. But the ac¬
tion of the fecond caufe which has been mentioned,
may be traced in almoft all cafes where alterations of
the colours of bodies have been obferved. We may
take as an example of this change of colour the green
oxide of iron, which readily combines wdth oxygen, and
is converted into the red oxide. The latter oxide, in
combination with the gallic acid, affumes a black co¬
lour, and wdth pruffxc acid a blue colour. In thefe
cafes, where there is a change in the compofition of the
body, accompanied with a change of colour, the caufe
of this change is obvious •, becaufe every change in the
compofition of a body produces fome change in the af¬
finity, and therefore in the fize, denfity, and figure of
the particles j and it is not improbable in all of thefe
circumftances together. But if the aftinity of any bo¬
dy
Part I.
Of Colours,
&c.
Coloured
matters do
not refledl
light.
* Optics,
book i.
part ii.
prop. 5.
DYE
dy for otTier fubftances lias undergone a change, it is
natural to fuppofe that its affinity for light is alfo in
fotne degree altered. This, however, although it hap¬
pens in many inftances, is not conftant and uniform ;
becaufe it may happen, that the changes in the fize,
denfity, or figure of the particles of the body, are fuch
as to render it capable of combining with, or refle&ing,
the fame rays of light as before it fuffered any chemical
change. Thus it mult appear, that in molt cafes, the
permanency of the colours of bodies will depend greatly
on the permanency of their compofition, and on the force
of the affinities which they have for other bodies, to
whofe a6tion they may be expofed.
44. In the ingenious experiments of Mr Delaval,
which we have already alluded to, he has Ihown that
coloured matters do not refleft any light. “ Reflec¬
tive media, (he obferves), a£t indifcriminately on all
the different rays. It does not appear from the opti¬
cal phenomena which have hitherto been obferved,
that nature affords any kind of matter endowed with a
power of reflefting one fort of rays more copioufly
than the other forts ; confequently no refledlive fub-
ftances are capable of feparating the differently refran¬
gible rays, and thereby producing colours. There
are feveral experiments and obfervations in Sir Ifaac
Newton’s optics, from which it might have been in¬
ferred, that coloured light is not refledled from co¬
loured matter, but from white or colourlefs matter
only. Although that great philofopher fuppofes that
all coloured bodies refledl the rays of their own co¬
lours more copioufly than the reft, yet he obferves
that they do not refledl the light of their own colours
fo copioufly as white bodies do. If red-lead, for in-
ftance, and white paper, be placed in the red light of
the coloured fpedtrum, made in a dark chamber by
the refradlion of a prifm, the paper will appear more
lucid than the red lead, and therefore refledts the red-
making rays more copioufly than red lead doth *.
“ If it be fuppofed that the red particles of the mi¬
nium refledl the red rays more ftrongly than the reft,
■what reafon can be affigned why minium fliould not
exhibit the red rays as vividly as white paper, which
adls indifferently on all the rays ? But if it be confi-
dered that in opaque coloured bodies, the rays which
are refledled from white refledlive matter pafs back
through the tranfparent coloured media with which
the refledlive matter is covered, it will evidently ap¬
pear why the coloured light refledled from white pa¬
per is more copious and bright than that which is ex¬
hibited by red lead.
“ A confiderable part of the incident light is loft in
pafting through tranfparent coloured media ; therefore
the light refledled immediately from the white paper,
muft be more copious and lucid than that which has
I N G.
undergone a diminution in its paffage to and from the Of Colours,
refledlive particles of the opaque coloured body, . &'c-
through the tranfparent coloured medium. " ^
“ When a fmall portion of colouring matter is mix¬
ed with a colourlefs medium, the mafs appears tinged
with colour ; but when a great quantity of colouring
matter is added, the mafs exhibits no colour, but ap¬
pears black ; therefore, to attribute to colouring mat¬
ter a refledlive power, is to advance an inexplicable
and contradidlory propofition ; for it is afferting that
in proportion as more refledlive colouring matter is op-
pofed to the incident light, lefs colour is refledled $
and that when the quantity of colouring matter is very
great, no colour at all is refledled, but blacknefs is
thereby produced.”
45. “ From thefe arguments it might have beenP™-^*
ftiewn, that the refledlive power does not exift in co¬
louring matter, but in opaque white fubftances only.
Neverthelefs, in this difquifition, I have not entirely
relied on arguments drawn from a few known and ob¬
vious appearances, but have endeavoured, by numerous
experiments, to afeertain the caule of the colours of
natural, as well as artificial bodies, and the manner in
which they are produced.
46. “ M. Euler obferved, that the colours of bodies
are not produced by reflection. He fuppofes that the
coloured rays are emitted by the colorific particles.
This hypothefis, however, is not agreeable to experi¬
ment ; for as the colouring matter adls upon light by
tranfmiffion only, it is evident that bodies do not ap¬
pear coloured, either by refledling or emitting the
rays. I have not attended to any other hypothefes
which are unfupported by experiments. Sir Ifaac New¬
ton, and I believe all later philofophers, except M.
Euler, have attributed to colouring matter a refledlive
power j and the artifts whofe works depend upon the
preparation and ufe of colouring materials, feem in
general to have adopted the fame theory. As an in-
ftance of this agreement, I have cited, from M. Hel-
lot, one of the moft Ikilful and intelligent authors,
who have treated of the art of dyeing, a paffage which
comprifes his opinion refpedling the adlion of the tin¬
ging particles on the rays of light (a). All the
other writers on the fame fubjedl, appear to agree in
that eftablilhed opinion ; but they feem rather to have
yielded to the authority of Sir Ifaac Newton and other
theorifts, than to have appealed to the operations of
their own art, from which the real caufe and origin of
colours is obvioufly deducible.”f \ ManchtJ!>
47. “ The art of dyeing confifts principally in co- Mem- ‘h
vering white fubftances, from which light is ftronglyp> 131‘
refledled, with tranfparent coloured media, which, ac¬
cording to their feveral colours, tranfmit more or lefs
copioufly the feveral rays refledled from the white fub¬
ftances.
(a) The paffage from Hellot is the following. “ At prefent we know only of two plants which afford a
blue colour after their preparation. The one is the or otherwife called/w/SW or wW. In the
preparation of thefe plants, the fermentation is continued till the putrefsdlive procefs of all the parts of the
plant, the root excepted, has been induced •, confequently there takes place a feparation of all their principles
with a new^ combination and arrangement of thefe fame principles, from which refults an affemblage of particles
greatly divided, which being applied to any fubftance, refledl the light in a very different manner from what
they did when thole particles wTere combined with the other parts of the plant, previous to fermentation.”
de ia Tainture dcs Laities, p. 117.
4°°
Of Colours,
&.C.
Coloured
matters ap¬
pear black
bv incident
light.
DYEING.
Part I.
Shewn by
experiment,
EfteS: of
colours on
white bo*
dies.
* Ibii.
{lances. The tranfparent coloured media themfelves
refleft no light \ and it is evident that, if they yielded
their colours by refle6ling inftead of tranfmitting the
rays, the whitenefs or colour of the ground on which
they are applied would not anywife alter or affeft the
colours which they exhibit. Such an erroneous con¬
ception of the principles of the art cannot fail
greatly to obftruft its progrefs and improvement.
All colouring matter is black when viewed by in¬
cident light, and all fubftances inclined to blackncfs,
in proportion as they are copioufly ilored with tinging
particles.
48. As a farther illuflration of this fubjeft, we {hall
make another extrafl from the fame author. “ For
the purpofe,” he obferves, “ of procuring maffes made
up of colouring particles, I reduced feveral tranfpa¬
rent coloured liquors to a folid confiftence by evapora¬
tion. When a gentle heat is employed in this opera¬
tion, the colouring matter, which is thus concentrated,
remains unimpaired, and capable of again imparting
its colour unaltered, to other liquors. In this ftate
the colouring particles reflect no colour } and as no
light is tranfmitted through them, they are black
Among the liquors which I evaporated, were the tine
tures and infufions of the colouring particles of red
purple, blue, and yellow flowersj of logwood, Brazil
wood, fuftic, turmeric, red fanders, alkanet, fap-green
kermes, and other tranfparent coloured liquors, which
are capable of being reduced to a folid confiflence
without undergoing iuch changes during their evapora
tion, as to render them opaque.
49. “ Wdiite paper and linen may be tinged by dip
ping them in the infufions of flowers of different co
lours; and by fpreading upon thofe white grounds the
expreffed juices of fuch flowers, their colours may be
communicated to the paper and the linen. Thefe
means of tinging are fomewhat fimilar to the applica¬
tion of vegetable dyes to linen, and of tranlparent wa¬
ter colours to paper, many of which confift of the co¬
louring matter of plants, fuch as indigo, litmus, gam¬
boge, &c.
£0. The confideration of thefe white fubftances af¬
fords much infight into the manner in which the natu¬
ral colours of vegetables are produced. WFen the co¬
louring matter of plants is extrafled from them, the
folid fibrous parts, thus divefted of their covering,
difplay that whitenefs which is their diftinguiftu'ng cha¬
racter. White paper and linen are formed of fuch fi¬
brous vegetable matter, which is bleached by diffol-
ving and detaching the heterogeneous coloured parti¬
cles’. When thefe are dyed or painted with vegetable
colours, it is evident that they do not differ in their
manner of aClmg on the rays of light, from natural
vegetable bodies, both yielding their colours, by tranf¬
mitting through the tranfparent coloured matter the
light which is refle&ed from the white ground ; for it
appears, that no refle&ive power refides in any of their
component parts, except in their white matter only
51. Thus then it appears, that the colouring parti¬
cles with which fluffs are dyed, being tranfparent, the
refleCled light muft proceed entirely from the fibres of
the cloth or fluff which are covered with the tranfpa¬
rent colouring matter. If the fluff be already of a
black colour, no other colour can be communicated to
it) becaufe it has not the power of refleaing any co¬
lour, and therefore it cannot tranfmit any. And ifOf Colours,
the fluff were of a red, blue, or yellow colour, it could , ^
not be dyed of any other colour excepting black 5 be¬
caufe the red, blue, or yellow rays only being reflefl-
ed, no other rays could be tranfmitted. But thefe ob-
fervations will ftriaiy apply only when the whole of
the furface of the cloth is of one uniform colour. Stuffs to be
They point out alfo the importance of the cloth being dyed lhoul4
of a pure white colour before it is dyed, efpecially ^?^re
when it is to be dyed any bright colour $ for then
the rays are copiouily reflefted ; fo that any colour
may be given by combining with it any colouring mat¬
ter which has the power of tranfmitting only particu¬
lar rays.
5 2. As it is by the force of affinity that the colour-Colouring
ing matter enters into combination with the fluffsmattcr ap-
which are dyed, that this chemical aflion be complete, P1^
it is neceffary that the matter be in a ft ate of minute be mjnutclj.
divifion. No permanent colour could be produced by divided,
merely covering the furface of the fibres of the fluffs
with the colouring fubftance *, for unlefs it adhere fo
ftrongly that it cannot be feparated by mechanical ac¬
tion, or by means of any of the proceffes to which
dyed fluffs muft be fubje&ed, it muft appear to be of
little value, and the objeft in view is not obtained.
To allow the chemical adlion to take place between
the colouring matter and the fluffs, the former is dif-
folved in fome liquid, for which it has a weaker at-
tra&ion than for the fluffs j fo that when they are im-
merfed in the folution, the colouring matter, in confe-
quence of the ftronger attraftion which it has for the
fluffs than for the folvent, combines with them, and
thus they are dyed •, and the facility with which this
combination takes place, muft obvioufly depend on the
affinity between the colouring matter and the liquid
holding it in folution, and the affinity between the
cloth and the colouring matter. When thefe two affi¬
nities balance each other, no change takes place *, but
when the affinity between the fluff and the colouring
matter prevails, the combination is effefted, and the
procefs proceeds more or lefs rapidly according to the
force of this affinity.
53. Coloured bodies are compounds; and feveral^o!oure^
fubftances enter into their compofition. In all colour-poui^01”*
ed bodies fome of the component parts have a ftrong
affinity for oxygen, which they attrafl from the at-
mofphere. The permanency of a colour confifts in its
power of refilling the aftion of all fubftances to which
it is expofed. This power varies greatly according to
the nature of the colour and the kind of fluff. The
durability of the fame colours on animal and vegetable
matters is very different. But before the colour of a
body can be permanent, all its component parts muft
be combined together by fuch ftrong affinities, that the
fubftances which come in contafl with them fhall not be
able to unite with any of thefe parts, and thus form a
new compound. Should fuch a decompofition take place,^
the colour of the body cannot be permanent ; and it
the decompofition be fuddenly effe&ed, the colour is
immediately deftroyed. If the new combination pro¬
ceeds flowly, the decay of the colour is alfo flow' and
Rradual. . , r ^ C0H%,
54. The combination of oxygen with fome of the^nat^n ot J
component parts of a coloured body, is one of the^
principal caufes of the change of colours. The aflion change of
Y-
